02-10-2021||India||Burj Khalifa honours Mahatma Gandhi on his 152nd birth anniversary||On the occasion of the 152nd birth anniversary of the 'Father of the Nation' Mahatma Gandhi, UAE's Burj Khalifa was illuminated with his image on Saturday.Gandhi's birth anniversary is being celebrated worldwide as the International Day of Non-Violence. Various world leaders including global organisations are remembering his message of non-violence and tolerance.
02-10-2021||India||Next round of LAC row talks soon: Army chief||NEW DELHIThe next round of talks with the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) to cool tensions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh could take place in the second week of October, Indian Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said on Saturday.The situation on the contested LAC was under control and outstanding problems with the Chinese army could be resolved through talks, Naravane told reporters in Leh, Ladakh’s capital. The dialogue will be held at the level of brigade commanders, division commanders and corps commanders, he said.Naravane was in Ladakh for a security review. His itinerary included visits to forward areas. The Indian and Chinese armies have been locked in a border standoff for almost 17 months. Both sides are negotiating to reduce tensions.The two armies have so far carried out 12 rounds of talks to resolve the border row that erupted in May 2020. “The 13th round of talks will take place soon,” the Indian army chief said. “Things move forward with every round of talks and gradually problems can be resolved through talks.”Outstanding problems at Hot Springs, or Patrolling Point-15, which is one of the flashpoints on the LAC, could be taken up during the 13th round of talks, officials familiar with the development said, asking not to be named.“Engagement is always good for future course of action, and whenever there is a dialogue, the outcome will be embedded with a certain amount of reconciliation to move forward,” said former Northern Army Commander Lieutenant General BS Jaswal (retd).The rival armies carried out the second round of disengagement in early August, when the two sides pulled back their forward deployed troops from Gogra, or Patrolling Point-17A, with the breakthrough coming after the 12th round of talks.Earlier, India and China wrapped up the disengagement process in Pangong Tso area in mid-February, with their armies pulling back forward-deployed troops, tanks, infantry combat vehicles and artillery guns from strategic heights where rival soldiers last year fired shots for the first time at LAC after 45 years. The previous recorded incident when bullets were fired at the LAC was in October 1975, when PLA ambushed an Indian patrol in Arunachal Pradesh’s Tulung La sector and shot four soldiers dead.Naravane said PLA has built a lot of infrastructure on the Chinese side of LAC to accommodate more troops and the Indian army was monitoring the developments and taking countermeasures, including the induction of modern weapons such as the K9 Vajra-T self-propelled guns, artillery guns. Private defence firm Larsen & Toubro and South Korea’s Hanwha Techwin (HTW) have built the mobile guns in India. The guns were meant to be deployed in the plains, but the army has carried out some minor changes to deploy them in high-altitude areas. The problems at Hot Springs and Depsang are yet to be resolved. To be sure, the problems at Depsang predate the current border standoff. Even after the disengagement from Pangong Tso and Gogra, the two sides still have 50,000 to 60,000 troops each in the Ladakh area. A day before he left for the Ladakh visit on Friday, Naravane said in Delhi that developments along LAC in Ladakh added to challenges faced by the Indian military on the “active and disputed borders” in the western and eastern fronts. The “unprecedented” military standoff with China required an immediate response and large-scale mobilisation of resources at a time when the country was grappling with the Covid-19 pandemic, he had said. Naravane’s Ladakh visit also came a month after multiple PLA patrols consisting of around 100 soldiers crossed LAC in the central sector in Uttarakhand on August 30 and damaged a foot bridge before they went back. The area in which the intrusion took place is manned by the Indo-Tibetan Border Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/next-round-of-lac-row-talks-soon-army-chief-101633198182025.html
02-10-2021||India||Jal Jeevan is ‘women-driven’ plan of decentralisation: PM||New Delhi: The mass participation of women is crucial to the success of the government’s aim to provide tap water in every household in the country, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday. He launched the Jal Jeevan Mission app on the occasion of the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. The app is expected to boost awareness and increase transparency and accountability of the government’s water and sanitation schemes. “This (Jal Jeevan Mission) is a village-driven, women-driven movement. Its main base is a mass movement and public participation,” Modi said. “It has been my constant effort that this thinking of gram swaraj (village republic) should move forward towards accomplishment.”From India’s Independence in 1947 to 2019, only 30 million households had access to tap water, he said. “Since the launch of Jal Jeevan Mission in 2019, 5 crore households have been connected with water connections,” Modi said. “Today, water is reaching every household in about 1.25 lakh villages in about 80 districts of the country. In the aspirational districts, the number of tap connections have increased from 31 lakh to 1.16 crore.” Modi also launched the Rashtriya Jal Jeevan Kosh, a government charitable trust. “Any individual, institution, corporation, or philanthropist, be it in India or abroad, can contribute to help provide tap water connection in every rural household, school, anganwadi (day care) centre, ashram shala, and other public institutions,” the government said in a statement. The Prime Minister spoke with members of village councils and water committees from across the country to assess the issues they face to make clean water available. Girijakant Tiwari of Umaree village in Banda district of Uttar Pradesh said safe and clean water is now available in his village, which has improved the lives of women.Sudha from Vellery in Tamil Nadu told Modi that all houses in her area have received a piped water connection. The availability of water improved their lives, giving them time for other productive activities, including construction of check dams and ponds, she told the Prime Minister.Modi also stressed on the need for cleanliness, highlighting the government’s flagship scheme, Swachh Bharat Mission 2.0, which was launched earlier this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jal-jeevan-is-women-driven-plan-of-decentralisation-pm-101633198180580.html
02-10-2021||India||'UAE companies feel process to invest in India has become clean, honest, seamless': Piyush Goyal||Noting that companies in the UAE now feel that the process to invest in India has become seamless and clean, Union Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal on Saturday said that they appreciate the mindset of the political leadership and are looking to engage in a much bigger way.The minister, who earlier in the day co-chaired a meeting of UAE-India High-Level Joint Task Force, said investors in UAE had conveyed that they do not have to worry about extraneous considerations while doing business in India."I am gratified to see the confidence that the UAE government and investors have in the political leadership in India, the confidence they have in PM Modi's approach to problem-solving, approach to promoting country and approach to systemic resolution and policy-driven resolution of issues that come up in a very transparent and honest manner," he said."Two-three big investors whom I met deeply appreciated the fact that now doing business in India is clean and honest. They said that now they don't have to worry about extraneous considerations. That is the biggest attraction, they said. One company said I want to invest in 25 locations in India to set up operations. I asked how do you find it when you are working in India. He said that the best part of working it is absolutely clean," the minister said.Goyal said the investor told him that he had set up a big project in Lucknow and "had no problem at all, seamless implementation".The minister said investors in India have a lot of positivity about the country's future."I would like to express my gratitude to the investors in India who have let bygone be bygones but have a lot of positivity about the future. They have appreciated the role of bureaucracy in India, whose mindset has also changed significantly," he said."Many investors spoke about at dinner last night and during my bilaterals. This new India that they are seeing I think is a source of inspiration for them to look at engaging with India in a much bigger way," he added.The ninth meeting of the UAE-India High-Level Joint Task Force on Investments on Saturday discussed ongoing efforts to amend the longstanding Bilateral Investment Treaty and noted the importance of concluding the negotiation process as soon as possible.The meeting was co-chaired by Sheikh Hamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Member of the Executive Council of the Emirate of Abu Dhabi.Senior officials representing government authorities and various investment entities from both countries took part in the meeting.Piyush Goyal on Friday inaugurated the Indian Pavilion at Dubai Expo 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uae-companies-feel-process-to-invest-in-india-has-become-clean-honest-seamless-piyush-goyal-101633197516902.html
02-10-2021||India||Congress appoints Bhupesh Baghel as senior observer for UP assembly polls||Even as 25 MLAs from Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel’s camp are in Delhi amid the speculation of a possible change of guard in Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh, the party on Saturday, appointed Baghel as a senior observer of the All India Congress Committee (AICC) for the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly elections. “Honourable National President Sonia Gandhi ji (Sonia Gandhi) has instructed me to be the party observer for the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections… It is a big responsibility and I will try my best to live up to the expectations of the top leadership,” Baghel tweeted after his appointment. Earlier this year, Baghel was appointed as observer for the Assam assembly elections, in which Congress got 50 seats out of a total 126 seats. In the 2016 assembly polls, Congress won 26 seats in Assam. The movement of MLAs to Delhi comes two months after the Congress high command reserved its decision, on August 28, over the alleged two-and-a-half-year power-sharing agreement between Baghel and health minister TS Singh Deo. Baghel’s appointment is seen as an important development but both the camps are still to figure out the exact interpretation. Close functionaries of Baghel believe that it is an important development which reflects that the party and senior leadership want Baghel to play an important role in UP elections as a CM while people from Singh Deo’s camp are hoping for a change after the appointment. “Baghel ji’s (Bhupesh Baghel) appointment is a positive indication amid the current political scenario of the state. We believe that the high command wants an Other Backward Caste (OBC) chief minister to woo the OBC voters in UP, who are in sizeable number… Secondly, the move also puts a halt on any type of speculation about change of guard,” said Baghel’s close functionary. Notably, for the last few months, a group of leaders close to the CM and his two advisors were working with the team of Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi in Uttar Pradesh. The CM’s other team was engaged in providing booth-level and district-level training to the local leaders of eastern Uttar Pradesh. “After today’s appointment, Baghel will be visiting Uttar Pradesh in the second week of October and will be addressing a gathering with Priyanka Gandhi,” another Congress leader close to the CM said. Meanwhile, after the appointment of Baghel, the political corridor in Chhattisgarh has been rife with speculation and many are not able to understand the indication of the high command. People close to Singh Deo claimed that the appointment should not be seen as a relief for Baghel and could be the party’s strategy. “It is still not clear from today’s appointment whether it is some kind of ‘package deal’ or a promotion of Baghel ji. We are waiting for the high command’s decision for change of guard,” said a close aid of Singh Deo. On the other hand, more than 25 MLAs close to CM Baghel are camping in Delhi reportedly to express solidarity with Baghel. On August 28, after a long meeting with the high command, Baghel seemed to have bought some time. He said that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will visit the state next week, especially Bastar, to see for himself the work that was being done. The next day, when Singh Deo returned, he said he too had spoken to the leadership and they had “reserved their decision” on the matter. Nearly a month later, on Wednesday, 10 MLAs led by Baghel’s loyalist and MLA Brihaspat Singh reached Delhi and told the media that the MLAs are in Delhi to meet the party’s state in-charge PL Punia with a message for Rahul Gandhi. Singh Deo too played down the Delhi visit of MLAs and said it should not be made an issue. About the possible leadership change, Singh Deo had reiterated that the decision is reserved for the party high command. On Saturday, Baghel made another statement and said that Chhattisgarh can never become Punjab. “Chhattisgarh will always remain Chhattisgarh. It cannot become Punjab. The two states have only one similarity that both have numbers in their names,” he told reporters here at the helipad when asked that the BJP has equated Chhattisgarh and Punjab over turmoil in the ruling Congress. Punjab is derived from Pun (five) aab (water) which means the land of five rivers. Similarly Chhattisgarh has derived its name from ‘chattis’ (thirty six) ‘garh’ (fort). Political commentators of the state believe Baghel’s appointment for UP elections is not giving any clear indication regarding execution of power-sharing formula. “The fact that Baghel proved himself to be a successful election manager in the recent past makes Bhupesh Baghel an asset for the Congress party in any election going state. However, the performance in Chhattisgarh was largely the result of team work. Baghel’s appointment for the UP elections has come at a time when the doubts over his continuance as the CM are yet to be cleared. Baghel’s supporters are bound to be elated by the public display of confidence of the Gandhi siblings in his organisational capabilities. Baghel’s detractors, however, would understandably like to look for rays of hope in this development and consider it a prelude to a formal distancing from the state,” said Parivesh Mishra, a political commentator based in Chhattisgarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-appoints-bhupesh-baghel-as-senior-observer-for-up-assembly-polls-101633196141280.html
02-10-2021||India||Covid can 'come back with vengeance': AIIMS task force chief warns against lower||Dr Navneet Wig, chairperson of the Covid-19 task force at the All India Institute Of Medical Science (AIIMS), on Saturday warned against lowering the guards, as he said that the war against the pandemic "is still not over" and it "can come back with a vengeance", news agency ANI reported. The senior doctor also noted that some states in the country still have a positivity rate of more than 10 per cent. Hence it is important that people remain cautious and take all necessary precautions to prevent respiratory disease, he said."It is not easy. Many countries are still fighting battles. So we have to be very cautious as this can come back with a vengeance," Dr Wig said as per the ANI report.As of Saturday, more than 90 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered in the country, marking a major milestone in the battle against the disease. Commenting on the same, Dr Wig said, "We have to go far ahead of 100 crores and have to make everybody double vaccinated." He further emphasised maintaining vaccination pace and ensuring that all beneficiaries are fully vaccinated, according to the report."That is how we are going to win this war. It is not an easy war, still, we cannot be overconfident, we have to be a little underconfident so that we don't lower our guard and take all precautions," Dr Wig also said.Noting a rise in the cases of dengue and typhoid fever, Dr Wig requested people to wear a mask and practise social distancing as much as possible. "We are seeing cases with dengue, scrub typhus, typhoid fever and airborne diseases. So, it is very difficult for doctors to decide if it is Covid or flu, dengue, typhoid fever, or viral hepatitis. My request is that till festival season, please go slow, wear your mask and avoid social gatherings." he said.India on Saturday logged 24,354 new Covid-19 cases, pushing the overall tally to 33,791,061. While the active cases declined to 273,889, which is the lowest in 197 days, according to the Union health ministry's data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-can-come-back-with-vengeance-aiims-task-force-chief-warns-against-lower-101633195008140.html
02-10-2021||India||Chhattisgarh launches cow dung based power generation project||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel launched an electricity generation project that uses cow dung as fuel at a farmers' event to mark Gandhi Jayanti on Saturday. Baghel said that the programme will see women and youth get opportunities and also will be a step towards realizing Mahatma Gandhi's dream of 'Gram Swaraj' (village self rule).“The entire world is worried over global warming. There is talk of green energy everywhere, so our government has decided to make electricity from cow dung. In every village, such a unit will be set up in gauthans (a place in rural areas where cattle are kept), where cow dung is procured under the Godhan Nyay Yojana scheme,” Baghel said.“Gauthans will produce electricity from cow dung, besides manufacturing organic manure, doubling the benefits and incomes of Gauthan Samitis and women self-help groups,” the state government said in a press release.Electricity generation from cow dung will begin from October 2, the press release said. “In the first phase, units for power generation from cow dung were set up at Rakhi in Bemetara district, Sikola in Durg and Bancharoda in Raipur district. One unit will produce 85 cubic cubic meters of gas. Since one cubic cubic meter produces 1.8 KW of electricity. 153 KW of electricity will be produced in one unit. In this way, about 460 KW of electricity will be generated from the biogas genset units installed in the above three Gauthans, which will power the lighting system in the Gauthans as well as the machines installed,” the release said.On the occasion, the government also launched = cow dung powered units set up at Sikola gauthan in Durg, Bancharoda gauthan in Raipur and Rakhi gauthan in Bemetara.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-launches-cow-dung-based-power-generation-project-101633194612169.html
02-10-2021||India||3 terrorist attacks in J&K; 1 civilian killed, another injured||Three separate terrorist attacks rocked Srinagar on Saturday leading to the death of a civilian in one of the attacks. Another civilian was injured in the second attack that took place in Srinagar, while in the third incident where terrorists hurled a grenade towards a CRPF bunker in Anantnag district, no damage was reported.In the first incident at about 5.50pm, terrorists fired at Majid Ahmad, a resident of Chattabal Srinagar at Karan Nagar, injuring him critically, a police official said. Ahmad was taken to the nearby SMHS hospital, where he succumbed to injuries during treatment, PTI reported.At about 8pm, militants shot at and injured another person, identified as Mohammad Shafi Dar, at SD Colony Batamaloo. Dar received critical gunshot injuries and was immediately shifted to a nearby hospital. The J&K police have registered cases in the twin incidents and investigations have been launched.In Anantnag, a grenade was hurled towards 40 Battalion CRPF bunker at K P Road in the south Kashmir district at 6.50pm, another police official said. Reports said the grenade missed the target and the explosion did not cause any loss.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-terrorist-attacks-in-j-k-1-civilian-killed-another-injured-101633193271256.html
02-10-2021||India||Assam forms panel to prepare framework for implementation of Assam Accord||An eight-member committee was set up by the Assam government on Saturday to prepare the framework for implementation of Assam Accord and all of its clauses. The committee will also focus especially on the Clause-6 report which will be prepared by a central panel in a bid to protect the cultural, social and linguistic identity and heritage of the indigenous people, officials told news agency PTI.The commissioner and secretary of the Implementation of Assam Accord Department, GD Tripathi, said that the sub-committee will submit its report within the next three months.“The Governor of Assam is pleased to constitute a sub-committee to examine and prepare a framework for implementation of all clauses of Assam Accord in general with special emphasis on Clause-6 (High Level Committee Report)," the notification said.The notifications also said that emphasis will be placed on Clause 7, 9 and 10 along with updating the National Register of Citizens, issues of flood and erosion, rehabilitation of families of martyrs and victims of Assam agitation.The sub-committee will be headed by the Implementation of Assam Accord minister Atul Bora. It will also consist of three ministers and five members from the All Assam Students' Union (AASU). State finance minister Ajanta Neog, parliamentary affairs minister Pijush Hazarika along with AASU president Dipanka Kumar Nath, general secretary Sankar Jyoti Baruah, chief adviser Samujjal Kumar Bhattacharya, and advisers Prakash Chandra Das and Uddip Jyoti Gogoi are part of the committee. Deputy secretary of the Implementation of Assam Accord Department Sujata Suchibrata also was appointed as the convener of the sub-committee.The decision to form the committee was taken last month after chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma met members of the AASU.The Assam Accord was signed in 1985 after a six-year-long violent anti-foreigners movement which stated that names of all foreigners settling in Assam on or after March 25, 1971 be deleted from electoral rolls along with taking measures to deport them.Successive state governments also formed a series of committees to implement the pact in letter and spirit but many clauses including the controversial Clause-6, remain unfulfilled.Clause-6 of the Assam Accord states that constitutional, legislative and administrative safeguards, as may be appropriate, shall be provided to protect, preserve and promote the culture, social, linguistic identity and heritage of the Assamese people.Clause 7 of the Assam Accord states, “The Government take(s) this opportunity to renew their commitment for the speedy all-round economic development of Assam, so as to improve the standard of living of the people. Special emphasis will be placed on education and science and technology through establishment of national institutions.”The Clause 9 of the Assam accord seeks sealing of the international border, increasing patrolling on land and river routes, building adequate check posts to stop future infiltration and building a road along the border to facilitate patrolling by security forces."It will be ensured that relevant laws for prevention of encroachment of government lands in tribal belts and blocks are strictly enforced and unauthorized encroachers evicted as laid down under such laws," Clause 10 of the Accord states.The High-Level Committee (HLC) constituted by the Union ministry of home affairs and headed by Justice Biplab Kumar Sarma submitted its report in February 2020 to then chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal for handing it over to Union home minister Amit Shah. However, the chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, ahead of the Assam assembly polls in February said the government cannot implement the recommendations of the HLC citing that they were far from ‘legal reality’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-forms-panel-to-prepare-framework-for-implementation-of-assam-accord-101633191106770.html
02-10-2021||India||Over 6.3 billion Covid-19 shots administered worldwide so far; China, India lead||India on Saturday achieved a milestone in its battle against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as the country administered more than 900 million doses cumulatively, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya announced earlier in the day. With 32.8% of its population fully vaccinated against the viral disease, India is in second place after China in the list of countries with the highest number of doses administered so far.According to data published by news agency Bloomberg, with more than 2.2 billion doses, China has covered 79% of its overall population.The European Union is at the third position after China and India, where more than 567 million doses have been administered so far, which translates into a fully vaccinated population of 63.9%. The United States is at number four with 394 million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered so far, the report also mentions.India rolled out its vaccination drive against the Covid-19 on January 16. In the initial phase of the drive, only healthcare workers (HCWs) and people who were at the frontline of the battle against Covid were being inoculated. In the later phases, the central government opened the drive to people who were deemed vulnerable and to those above 45 years of age.The government aims to vaccinate every adult by December 2021.Worldwide, more than 6.3 billion doses have been administered, according to data collected by Bloomberg. With this 41% of the total global population have been fully vaccinated against the Covid-19, the data showed.Globally, the latest vaccination rate is 31,309,051 doses per day on average, the Bloomberg data also showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-6-3-billion-covid-19-shots-administered-worldwide-so-far-china-india-lead-101633191157173.html
02-10-2021||India||UK updates advisory for people coming to India, mentions 10-day quarantine||The UK government has updated its advisory for people travelling to India a day after India made 10-day quarantine mandatory, in a reciprocal move to the UK's stand on recognition of India's vaccination certificate."Travellers irrespective of their vaccination status, arriving in India will undertake COVID-19 RT-PCR test on arrival at the airport and on day 8 after arrival at their own cost and will undergo mandatory quarantine at home or at the destination address for 10 days after arrival in India," the updated advisory said adding that the new rules will come to force from October 4.A UK government spokesperson told PTI that the government is in "close contact" with India and the travel advisory will be updated with the latest information on any change to the rules.On Friday, India made 10-day quarantine mandatory for all travellers coming to India from the UK, irrespective of their vaccination status. It was an exceptional move as India has not announced such restrictions for any country so far.The travel restriction was in response to the UK government's new travel rules which too will be implemented from October 4. Despite recognising Covishield, a formulation of the Oxford-Astrazeneca vaccine, the UK government has so far refused to accept India's vaccine certificate. This makes a doubly vaccinated Indian traveller in the UK similar to an unvaccinated traveller as both of them will have to undergo 10-day mandatory quarantine.Reports said the UK is looking at expanding the role that vaccination can play more widely for those who have been fully vaccinated elsewhere to enter the UK. “We are working with an array of international partners and look forward to continuing the expansion of the policy to countries and territories across the globe in a phased approach. Extension of vaccine certification will be reviewed approximately every three weeks,” sources said to PTI.As the engagement between India and the UK government is still going on and no resolution to the issue has been found, from October 4, 10-day quarantine will be mandatory in both the countries, irrespective of the vaccination status.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-updates-advisory-for-people-coming-to-india-mentions-10-day-quarantine-101633188755932.html
02-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: Reports suggest Taliban will use suicide bombers at border and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Taliban to deploy suicide bombers at borders; eye on Tajikistan: ReportThe Taliban have created an exclusive battalion of suicide bombers to be deployed at the borders of the country, especially in the Badakhshan province which is at the border between Afghanistan and Tajikistan, reports said. Deputy governor of the province Mullah Nisar Ahmad Ahmadi said the battalion is named Lashkar-e-Mansoori, or "Mansoor army". [Read more…]Next round of military talks with China on LAC row soon, says Army chief Gen NaravaneArmy chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Saturday said that the next round of military talks with the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) to cool tensions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh could take place in the second week of October. [Read more…]'Comedy of errors': Amarinder Singh replies to SurjewalaPunjab's former chief minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday lashed out at the Congress amid the political crisis and accused it of spreading "preposterous lies... in a clear bid to cover up their mishandling of the crisis in the state." Singh also said that Congress is "in total state of panic" ahead of the legislative assembly elections. [Read more…]'When it comes to projects...': Sharad Pawar praises Nitin GadkariAt a time when speculations about the rift of the partners of Maha Vikas Aghadi government are rife, NCP chief Sharad Pawar showered praises on BJP leader and Union minister Nitin Gadkari saying Gadkari is a great example of how a people's representative can work for the development of the country. Pawar also said that he came to the event only because it was Nitin Gadkari's project and Gadkari wanted him to be present. [Read more…]Experts laud Merck's Covid-19 drug molnupiravir. All you need to knowMerck & Co’s molnupiravir, the Covid-19 pill, claims to help nations which are struggling to vaccinate their citizens. According to an analysis based on a late-stage trial conducted by Merck and partner Ridgeback Biotherapeutics LP, the pill reduced the risk of hospitalisation or death by 50%, news agency Bloomberg reported. [Read more…]'We have struggled with our batting this season': Rohit explains MI's shortcomings in IPL 2021The Mumbai Indians (MI) cannot catch a break in the UAE leg of IPL 2021. Out of five matches in the second half of the season, they have lost four and have hurt their chances of making the Playoffs. Following MI's latest defeat on Saturday, by four wickets against Delhi Capitals (DC), skipper Rohit Sharma elaborated on where his team is going wrong. [Read more…]Nagarjuna reacts to Samantha Akkineni-Naga Chaitanya’s ‘unfortunate’ splitNagarjuna Akkineni has issued a statement after his son Naga Chaitanya and daughter-in-law Samantha Akkineni announced their separation. Taking to Twitter, he said that she ‘will always be dear’ to the family. [Read more…]Hives: 4 effective tips to treat the skin rash as per AyurvedaHives or urticaria are a red, raised, itchy skin rashes that may be triggered due to an allergic reaction. Due to the allergic reaction, the body releases a protein called histamine. When this is released, the tiny blood vessels known as capillaries in the body release fluid. The fluid accumulates in the skin and causes a rash. [Read more…]||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-reports-suggest-taliban-will-use-suicide-bombers-at-border-and-all-the-latest-news-101633187058527.html
02-10-2021||India||'Comedy of errors': Amarinder Singh replies to Surjewala, says Congress is in total disarray||Punjab's former chief minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday lashed out at the Congress amid the political crisis and accused it of spreading "preposterous lies... in a clear bid to cover up their mishandling of the crisis in the state." Singh also said that Congress is "in total state of panic" ahead of the legislative assembly elections.Responding to the party spokesperson Randeep Surjewala who claimed that Singh lost the support of 78 MLAs, out of 79 MLAs, Singh said, it is a "comedy of errors." The statement came soon after Surjewala shared the numbers and said, "When a chief minister loses the trust of the MLAs, he should step down from the post." "If we wouldn't have changed the CM, it would have been termed as a dictatorship."In his statement, Singh also targeted Sidhu with whom he was locked in a long battle over various differences and said, "It seems the entire party has become imbued with Navjot Singh Sidhu’s sense of comic theatrics." "Next they will claim that 117 MLAs wrote to them against me!" he further said in a jibe against Surjewala.Singh further said that the Congress was "in a total state of disarray, and the crisis seemed to be escalating by the day, with a large majority of its senior leaders completely disenchanted with the party functioning.""The fact of the matter was that the 43-odd MLAs who had signed the said letter had been forced to do so under duress," he clarified.Amarinder Singh also claimed that the "entire affair was orchestrated by Navjot Singh Sidhu and his aides." "I have won every election in Punjab since 2017. It was not the people who'd lost trust in me... Don't know why they're allowing him to dictate terms even now," he said.The outburst of Singh comes in the backdrop of a series of political developments taking place in Punjab ahead of the legislative assembly elections. After two months of Sidhu's elevation as chief of Punjab Congress, the cricketer-turned-politician resigned from his post on September 28. It was done even as Singh continued to express his opposition to the party's decision.Meanwhile, Amarinder Singh, who resigned from the post of chief minister last month, said on Thursday that he will leave the party but will not join the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/comedy-of-errors-amarinder-singh-replies-to-surjewala-says-congress-is-in-total-disarray-101633184172565.html
02-10-2021||India||HT This Day: October 3, 1955 — Nehru inaugurates railway coach factory||The Perambur Integral Coach Factory went into production today when Mr. Nehru performed its inaugural ceremony in the assembly shop in the presence of a large gathering. As the Prime Minister pressed the button to unveil the first coach to be assembled in the factory, from a crane overhead rained rose petals. Instantly, the coach moved out of the shop to the strain of loud clapping. Mr. Nehru’s thoughts were dominated by the significance of the occasion which was to commemorate the anniversary of Gandhiji’s birthday. He said Gandhiji was not opposed to industrialization and, therefore, there was no contradiction between the celebration of his birthday and the inauguration of the coach factory. The bulk of India comprised villages which had to be reconstructed if the country was to progress. Community projects had already covered more than 1, 00,000 villages and would cover the entire countryside within a few years. The Prime Minister denounced casteism and the classification and stratification of society. The distance between officers and workers must go and anybody who considered manual labour beneath his dignity did not deserve his respect. He declared that the new factory at Perambur “is another great step in our march” and “represents fairly our march towards industrialization.”VILLAGE INDUSTRIES This factory, like all other factories, did not come in the way of development of village industries and the raising of the standard of living of the rural and urban population. Some people took a rather narrow and a lop-sided view of Gandhiji’s ideals without understanding all the aspects of their many-sided character. Many, he thought, laid emphasis on the philosophy for which Mahatma Gandhi stood, without understanding the spirit underlying it. For the functioning of a great movement in India and as the leader of the great struggle against a mighty empire, Gandhiji laid stress on the village industries. The Prime Minister said there could be no real advancement in the material stature of India without big factories. We cannot even maintain the freedom and independence of the nation without factories and all they represent.” At the same time, he did not think there could be well-being of India, large-scale employment, without widespread village industries. “There is no conflict about this in my mind,” he said.LATEST TECHNIQUES “Occasionally there may be some conflict. Basically we have to advance simultaneously and not one after the other. We cannot keep pace with the modern world unless we adopt the latest technique, whether it is for the big factory or for the small village industry. We cannot keep pace with the modern world unless we utilize the sources of power available in thy world today.” “Today we stand on the threshold of an atomic era. Atomic energy places an enormous new source of power at our disposal and you cannot ignore it. Even if you ignore it, others will not ignore it but will use it for their advantage. Therefore, we have to use all sources of power. We shall have to have this atomic energy when the time comes. At the same time, everything has ultimately to be judged in terms of the human welfare-in terms of the welfare of the millions of our country.” Therefore, the Prime Minister said, he was glad to come here on this auspicious occasion of Gandhi Jayanti and perform the opening ceremony. In India new factories were coming up and great changes were taking place, through great river valley and power projects. MAGNIFICENT STRUCTURE The Prime Minister said he was impressed with the “magnificent structure,” which had been built with considerable ability and efficiency. He said he saw the big machines working in the factory. Most of these machines had come from foreign countries. “There can be no real progress or real industrialization in our country till the machines themselves are made in this country. So long as we have to rely upon other countries for the wherewithal, we are dependent.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-october-3-1955-nehru-inaugurates-railway-coach-factory-101633183780739.html
02-10-2021||India||7th Pay Commission: Govt changes rules of ex-gratia compensation payment to employees' family||The Central government has modified the rules related to the payment of ex-gratia compensation to families of employees during the performance of official duty. The family members of Central government employees are entitled to ex-gratia lump sum compensation, the amount of which gets revised from time to time.The payment of gratuity, GPF balance and Central Government Employees Group Insurance Scheme (CGEGIS) amount after the death of an employee are made in accordance with the nominations made by the government servant during service. But the ex-gratia compensation is made to the member of the family who is eligible for extraordinary family pension under the CCS (Extraordinary Pension) Rules, 1939 since provision for a nominee didn’t exist before.Also Read | Gujarat hikes dearness allowance for state govt employees by 11%The department of pension and pensioners welfare examined the matter in consultation with the finance ministry and decided that payment of ex-gratia compensation may be made to a member or members of the family in whose favour a nomination is made by the employee during service. If an employee fails to make anyone a nominee, the ex gratia amount will be divided equally among all eligible family members, according to an office memorandum published by the department of pension and pensioners.“Since the ex-gratia lump sum payment is payable to the family only, no nomination shall be made in favour of a person who is not a member of the family, even where the Government servant has no family,” the memo said.“If no nomination has been made or the nomination made by the Government servant does not subsist, the ex-gratia lump sum compensation will be shared equally by all eligible family members, as in the case of Gratuity, in accordance with Rule 51 of the CCS (Pension) Rules,” it added.The office memorandum was issued on September 30, 2021. The latest instructions will be followed in case the employee dies on or after the date of issue of the memo. Cases of payment of ex-gratia compensation on government employee’s death before the date of issue of the office memo will be dealt with as per the previous rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7th-pay-commission-govt-changes-rules-of-ex-gratia-compensation-payment-to-employee-s-family-101633180972472.html
02-10-2021||India||Amarinder Singh lost support of 78 MLAs out of 79: Surjewala's swipe at Captain||Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala on Saturday said former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh had lost the support of 78 MLAs, out of 79 MLAs., news agency ANI reported.  "If we wouldn't have changed the CM, it would have been termed as a dictatorship," the Congress leader said, a day after Harish Rawat trained guns at Amarinder Singh. When a chief minister loses the trust of the MLAs, he should step down from the post, Surjewala added, stoking the ongoing fiery exchange between Amarinder Singh and Congress leaders.This is the first time that an exact number was revealed by the Congress after Amarinder Singh's resignation as the chief minister as it was reported that around 60 MLAs wrote to the high command. Amarinder Singh refuted the allegation and issued a statement saying Harish Rawat had earlier said 43 MLAs had written to the high command.  Amarinder Singh admits he was under pressure. ‘Of loyalty to Congress,' he saysThe political blitzkrieg has escalated after Amarinder Singh's Delhi visit where he announced that he would resign from the Congress as he has been humiliated by the party leadership.Ex-Punjab CM Amarinder Singh gearing up to float own party, may tie up with BJPFacing questions from G-23 leaders, the group of rebel Congress leaders who pushed for massive reforms in the Congress starting with the election to the post of the party president, the Congress countered Amarinder Singh's claims and Harish Rawat, on Friday, said the Captain was not at all humiliated and was actually wielding a free hand in Punjab. Harish Rawat alleged that Amarinder Singh did not even take into consideration the recommendations a Congress panel made for Punjab.Amarinder Singh's exit has projected a narrative that the Congress is sidelining its senior leaders while projecting junior comparatively junior leadership like Sidhu at the front. Surjewala on Saturday clarifies that the party had no other way except to remove Amarinder Singh as he lost the trust of his MLAs.Amarinder Singh, however, challenged the figure that 78 MLAs turned against him and said, "Next they will claim that 117 MLAs wrote to them against me!"||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amarinder-singh-lost-support-of-78-mlas-out-of-79-surjewala-s-swipe-at-captain-101633180214763.html
02-10-2021||India||Covid-19: Kerala to reopen theatres from Oct 25, but with restrictions||The Kerala government on Saturday announced reopening of cinema theatres and indoor auditoriums in the state from October 25, but with restrictions in view of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic."Entry will be for those who are fully vaccinated including employees. Theatres and auditoriums will function with 50 per cent seating capacity," news agency ANI reported chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan as saying.The announcement was made as number of daily cases of Covid-19 have been declining in the southern state. However, it still contributes to more than half of the 24-hour Covid-19 tally of India.On Saturday, Kerala reported 13,217 new Covid-19 cases and 121 related fatalities. This took the death toll fatality count to 47,07,936 and 25,303, respectively.According to state health department, 14,437 people recovered fron the infection in the last 24 hours.On Friday, the state reported 13,834 (of India's 24,354 cases) new Covid-19 cases and 95 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid119-kerala-to-reopen-theatres-from-oct-25-but-with-restrictions-101633179574854.html
02-10-2021||India||'When it comes to Gadkari's projects...': Sharad Pawar praises Nitin Gadkari||At a time when speculations about the rift of the partners of Maha Vikas Aghadi government are rife, NCP chief Sharad Pawar showered praises on BJP leader and Union minister Nitin Gadkari saying Gadkari is a great example of how a people's representative can work for the development of the country. Pawar also said that he came to the event only because it was Nitin Gadkari's project and Gadkari wanted him to be present. "I remember that before Gadkari took over this responsibility (of the ministry of road transport and highways), about 5,000 km of work had been done. But after he took over, the figure has crossed 12,000 km," the NCP chief said at the inauguration project at Ahmednagar in Maharashtra where Gadkari was also present at the dais."I am attending this function because I was told that Gadkari was going to inaugurate many projects in Ahmednagar which would solve long-pending issues of the city, and he wants me to be present," Pawar said.Pawar said that most of the times nothing happens after the stone-laying ceremony of a project is over but this is not true for a project that Gadkari is overseeing. "But when it comes to Gadkari's projects, within a few days of the function one sees the work starting," Pawar said.Gadkari and Sharad Pawar share a close bond beyond politics on which Gadkari spoke on an earlier occasion. "Once (Samajwadi Party leader) Mulayam Singh asked me how was it that I and Sharad Pawar were seen together at Murli Manohar Joshi's felicitation in Parliament though we are from rival parties. I told him that in Maharashtra, politics happens only during elections, afterwards we become friends," Gadkari had said.Road and transport minister Nitin Gadkari is mostly busy reviewing the works of his ministry. At such an event recently in Haryana where he went to review the progress of the New Delhi-Mumbai Expressway, he said he managed to keep himself busy with work during the lockdown. He delivered so many lectures online that he now earns ₹4 lakh from his YouTube channel per month, he said. One of Nitin Gadkari's next projects is to make it mandatory for all vehicle manufacturers to make flex-fuel engines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-it-comes-to-gadkari-s-projects-sharad-pawar-praises-nitin-gadkari-101633179371819.html
02-10-2021||India||PM Modi slams oppositions for ‘political deceit’, ‘intellectual dishonesty’||Accusing the opposition of "intellectual dishonesty" and "political deceit" in its criticism of his government, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said tough and big decisions need to be taken to bring benefits to citizens who should have received them decades ago.In an interview to Open magazine, Modi took on his political rivals over their attack on him for decisions like new farm reform laws, rollout of the GST and Aadhaar, and construction of a new parliament building, as he accused them of doing a U-turn and launching a malicious campaign for political reasons after earlier promising or advocating similar measures.Look at those who are opposing the pro-farmer reforms today, and people will see the real meaning of "intellectual dishonesty and rajneetik dhokhadhadi" (political deceit), he said.It is one thing if a political party makes a promise and is unable to deliver on it but what is a "particularly undesirable" and "detestable" trait is some of these parties made promises on the lines of the reforms enacted by his government and have now done a U-turn and spread "the most malicious kind of misinformation on the promises they themselves had made", he said."These were the same people who wrote in their manifesto that they would enact the same reforms that we have brought. Yet, just because some other political party, blessed by the will of the people, is enacting the same reforms, they have made a complete U-turn and in a brazen display of intellectual dishonesty, completely disregard what will benefit the farmers and only seek what they think will benefit them politically," Modi said.He asserted that his government is committed to empowering small farmers.The ruling BJP has said that several opposition parties, including the Congress, had promised similar farm reforms that the Modi government has enacted but are now backing protests against the new laws for selfish political reasons.A section of farmers, especially in Punjab and part of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, have been protesting against the laws, whose implementation have been put on hold.The prime minister said similar "political deceit" can be seen when it comes to Aadhaar, GST, farm laws and even crucial matters such as arming our security forces."Don't you think political parties were making a mockery of themselves when their members spoke about the need for a new parliament, previous speakers said that a new parliament was needed? But if someone tries to do it, they oppose it by making some excuses, how correct is this?" he replied to a question about his government's reforms in fraught sectors like agriculture and labour.He said, "The things that people of India are entitled to, those benefits that they should have received decades ago, have still not reached them. India shouldn't be put in a situation where it has to wait any longer for the things that this country and its citizens are entitled to, we should give it to them. And, for this, big decisions should be taken and if need be, tough decisions should also be taken."The prime minister noted that his government has been saying right from the beginning that it is ready to sit together with the protesting farm bodies and discuss on those issues on which there is a disagreement."Many meetings have also been held in this regard but no one till now has come up with a specific point of disagreement that we want this to be changed," he said.Modi said politics in India had seen only one model under which governments were run to build the next government, while his fundamental thinking is different as he believes in running the government to build the nation."The tradition has been to run the government to make your party win but my purpose is to run the government in a way to make our country win," he said.Referring to his government's measures like cooking gas cylinder distribution and building toilets for the poor or push to digital payments, he said many sections of India's political class view people through the lens of "Raj Shakti" (government's power) while he sees them as "Jan Shakti" (people's power).He also drew a distinction between his government and the previous governments saying earlier ones were fundamentally formed under the leadership of a person from "Congress Gotra"."And that is why, for each of them, there was no difference between their political thought process and economic thought process. Atalji was given an opportunity by people but he didn't have a full majority. It was a coalition Government. I am fortunate that this is the first non-Congress government that was given a full majority by the people. This means that the people of this country voted for complete change," he added.The prime minister also asserted that India has done better than many developed countries in handling the Covid pandemic.In an apparent attack on those who have criticised his government's handling of the Covid pandemic, he said, "However, we have in our midst vested interests whose only aim is to tarnish India's name. Covid was a global scourge with all countries equally affected. In this scenario, India has done better than its peers and many developed countries, notwithstanding such negative campaigns."The biggest lesson from the Covid fight has been that India has an unparalleled ability to unite, find a common purpose, come together, and a tremendous capacity to deliver when a need arises, he said.From being a net importer of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, India has now become one of the biggest manufacturers across the globe, he said."Imagine if our country had not come up with a vaccine. What would be the situation? We know that a large population of the world doesn't have access to Covid vaccines. Today, our success in vaccination is thanks to India being Atmanirbhar (self-reliant)," he said.Modi also said that he attaches a big importance to criticism as it is his conviction that this helps in his own healthy development."I, with an honest mind, respect critics a lot. But, unfortunately, the number of critics is very few. Mostly, people only level allegations, the people who play games about perception are more in number. And, the reason for this is that, for criticism, one has to do a lot of hardwork, research and, in today's fast-paced world, maybe people don't have time. So sometimes, I miss critics," he said.After years of compulsive reforms, his government has ushered in reforms through conviction, Modi said, noting that it undertook the exercise during the Covid period too in established sectors like insurance, agriculture and labour, or in futuristic sectors like telecom and space."Our reforms are not only aimed at achieving our economic objective of Atmanirbhar Bharat but also focused on Ease of Living, unlike earlier governments which viewed economic reforms through a narrow prism of facilitating business ventures," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-slams-oppositions-for-political-deceit-intellectual-dishonesty-101633178258158.html
02-10-2021||India||Punjab, Haryana to buy paddy from tomorrow; farmers end protest after assurance||Paddy procurement in Haryana and Punjab will begin from October 3, news agency ANI reported quoting Ashwini Kumar Choubey, minister of the state of consumer affairs, food & public distribution. This comes days after the Centre delayed the procurement of Kharif crops till October 11, sparking protests in Haryana and Punjab by farmers.According to the previous order by the Union ministry, widespread rainfall has been experienced across Punjab and Haryana during the second fortnight of September and untimely showers have affected the standing paddy crop in both the agrarian states. Paddy procurement for 2021-22 Kharif marketing season in Punjab was to commence from October 1, while in Haryana it officially started from September 25."The procurement of Kharif crops will start from tomorrow (October 3) in Haryana as well as Punjab," said Choubey after holding a meeting with Manohar Lal Khattar, chief minister of Haryana.The Haryana chief minister also confirmed the change in the government order. "Due to delay in monsoon, the central government had postponed the start of procurement of paddy and millet to October 11 from 1 this year... the procurement will start tomorrow," news agency ANI quoted Khattar as saying.Following the change in order, Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a coalition of over forty farmers' unions, withdrew their demonstrations for the early start of procurement of Kharif crops.Earlier in the day, Haryana police baton-charged the people protesting over delay in paddy procurement in Panchkula. Protesters broke barricades and gathered outside the residence of the Haryana Chief Minister in Karnal as they agitated against the previous order.Similar protests were also reported on Friday from Kaithal, Kurukshetra and Panipat districts as farmers locked the gates of market committees to express their resentment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-farmers-protest-govt-says-it-will-begin-paddy-procurement-in-haryana-punjab-from-tomorrow-101633177320829.html
02-10-2021||India||Amid Congress turmoil in Punjab & Chhattisgarh, Gehlot says his govt will complete 5 years||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday said his government will complete its full tenure of five years, amid internal rumblings in the Congress in neighbouring Punjab, where Amarinder Singh resigned as CM, and Chhattisgarh.Speaking at a programme at his residence here to launch the 'Prashasan Sharon ke Sang and Prashasan Gaon ke Sang' campaign, Gehlot said there was speculation doing the rounds about Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh also after Punjab."The Congress government in Rajasthan will not only complete its five years but will again come back to power in the next assembly elections in the state," he said.Gehlot said that according to feedback from people, there is no anti-incumbency factor against his government.In Rajasthan, former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and Gehlot have been locked in a leadership tussle, while in Chhattisgarh after Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel completed two and a half years on the post in June, the T S Singhdeo camp claimed that the Congress leadership in 2018 had agreed to give the post to him after the government completed half its term.Amarinder Singh resigned as chief minister, claiming that he was humiliated by the Congress, drawing a strong response from the party, with senior leader Harish Rawat saying that the party always gave him respect.On the launch of the campaign, Gehlot also said that he will allot the urban development and housing department again to Shanti Dhariwal, if the Congress wins in the next Rajasthan elections, as he has done hardwork with regard to the campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-congress-turmoil-in-punjab-chhattisgarh-gehlot-says-his-govt-will-complete-5-years-101633174290834.html
02-10-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5pm: EC freezes LJP's party symbol and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.The Lok Janshakti Party’s symbol was frozen by the Election Commission of India on Saturday as feud between factions led by Chirag Paswan and Union minister Pashupati Nath Paras continues to affect the party. Read moreWith more Congress MLAs from Chhattisgarh joining their colleagues in New Delhi amid speculation of a leadership change in the state, chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Saturday reiterated that there is no political movement and the MLAs are going to Delhi on their own wish as they are all independent individuals. Reacting to former chief minister Raman Singh's statement that Chhattisgarh is going the Punjab way, Baghel said Chhattisgarh can never become Punjab. Read moreControversy erupted in the final stages of the IPL 2021 match between Punjab Kings and Kolkata Knight Riders, when a low catch taken by Rahul Tripathi of PBKS captain KL Rahul was given not out by the third umpire. Rahul was batting on 62 with PBKS needing 11 off 10 balls when Rahul slapped the ball on the leg-side. Tripathi, stationed at deep midwicket, came in and completed the catch, or so it seemed. Read more Royal Enfield on Friday announced that its total wholesales in September declined by 44% to 33,529 units. The Chennai-based bikemaker had reported a total sales of 60,331 units in the corresponding month a year ago. The domestic sales in the month of September stood at 27,233 units, down 52% from 56,200 units in the same month of 2020. Read moreWalnuts, the crunchy and delicious tree-based nuts, somewhat resembling the shape of a human brain from inside, are loaded with tremendous benefits. Apart from boosting brain health, several scientific studies have proved that they are excellent for cardiac health, weight loss, promote a healthy gut, and are a good snacking option for diabetes patients. Read moreSamantha Akkineni and Naga Chaitanya have confirmed their separation. She shared a note with her followers on Instagram, mentioning that they wish to ‘pursue (their) own paths’. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5pm-ec-freezes-ljp-s-party-symbol-and-all-the-latest-news-101633172275772.html
02-10-2021||India||Sibal takes dig at Centre on Gandhi Jayanti, says 'violence was never part of statecraft'||Senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal attacked the Narendra Modi-led government on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti, saying they had claimed to bring development within five years but failed to bring any change. Sibal, who has lately been critical of the grand old party's functioning, said the violence was never the part of statecraft during Congress rule and that the party is making all the efforts to follow the principles of Mahatma Gandhi, according to news agency ANI."The Congress party is making efforts to follow the principles of Gandhiji. Even the Congress party had formed government at Centre but violence was never part of statecraft," the former Union minister said while visiting the Sabarmati Ashram.Taking a dig at the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) claims of bringing India on the path of development, Sibal said India came into existence only after 2014 and all IITs, IIMs, and other reputed institutions were built by the BJP government, reported ANI."Leaders from Gujarat who've reached Delhi, maybe they know little about Gandhi ji. He (Gandhiji) has always said there is only god and the god is the truth. I want to ask Modi Ji, where is the truth? There are lies in words, even in work," ANI quoted Sibal as saying.Also Read | 'Those tweeting Godse zindabad irresponsibly shaming the nation': Varun Gandhi on Gandhi JayantiEarlier this week, Sibal renewed criticism of the Congress after Captain Amarinder Singh had to step down from the post of Punjab chief minister amid turmoil in the party’s state unit. The veteran Congress leader said he wasn’t aware who takes the decision in the party since it has no president.Congress workers gathered outside Sibal’s Delhi residence to protest against his remarks and reportedly damaged his car. Several Congress leaders, including Shashi Tharoor and Manish Tewari, condemned the incident."Those who are trying to defend the command performance last night, this is what happened at Kapil Sibal's house. They damaged the car. Stood on top so it caved in. Threw tomatoes both outside and inside the house. If this is not hooliganism then what else is it?" Tewari tweeted.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sibal-takes-dig-at-centre-on-gandhi-jayanti-says-violence-was-never-part-of-statecraft-101633173365008.html
02-10-2021||India||'Hindu Rashtra': Paramhans Acharya to take Jal Samadhi by immersing nose in bottled Sarayu water||Seet Jagadguru Paramhans Acharya Maharaj had urged the Centre to declare India as a 'Hindu Rashtra' by October 2 and said that he would take Jal Samadhi in the Saryu river if his demands are not met. Reports said the UP government put Paramhans Acharya under house arrest to stop him from going to the Sarayu, but according to a video that is now viral, the seer will now take Jal Samadhi by immersing his nose in the Sarayu water that he had already arranged for, he said showing a white water can in the video. Jal Samadhi is choosing to end life by immersing in water."I earlier announced to take Jal Samadhi if India is not declared as Hindu Rashtra by October 2. Now the administration has put me under house arrest. But even under house arrest, I will take Jal samadhi as I have brought Sarayu water. Let's see. God willing, I will be successful because the country comes before life. India will be saved only after it's declared a Hindu Rashtra," he said. भारत को हिन्दू राष्ट्र घोषित करने की मांग कर रहे महंत परमहंस ने चेतावनी दी है कि आज रात 12 बजे जल समाधि ले लेंगे। उन्होंने आश्रम में ही सरयू के जल में नाक डुबोकर समाधि लेने की घोषणा की है। जिला प्रशासन के निर्देश पर उन्हें हाउस अरेस्ट कर दिया गया है#UttarPradesh #Ayodhya pic.twitter.com/iTU7tTYApOOn September 28, Paramhans Acharya Maharaj demanded that apart from declaring Hindu Rashtra, the Centre should also terminate the nationality of Muslims and Christians.Earlier, Paramhans Acharya Maharaj took a 15-day long fast with the same demand and had also wanted to self-immolate in a pyre. On both occasions, he was prevented after the intervention of the administration.On Friday, Paramhans Acharya held a "Hindu Sanatan Dharm" meeting where the representatives from 29 states came together for a discussion on 'Hindu Rashtra'. "Once I take 'Jal Samadhi', my followers will continue to become my voice, they will continue their demand and struggle until India is declared to be Hindu Rashtra," he said after the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hindu-rashtra-paramhans-acharya-to-take-jal-samadhi-by-immersing-nose-in-bottled-sarayu-water-101633172230040.html
02-10-2021||India||Increase in PLA troop deployment along LAC a matter of concern, says Naravane||Expressing hope that the pending issues between India and China along the Line of Actual Control would be resolved soon, Army chief Gen Manoj Mukund Naravane said the increase in the deployment by Chinese troops across the border was a matter of concern.He said India had made matching deployments in terms of troops and infrastructure in its areas along the LAC and there was no way anyone would be able to behave in an aggressive manner again.Speaking to ANI, Gen Naravane, who is in Ladakh for his two-day visit, said, "The situation at friction points has been normal for the past six months. The talks have been going on. We had the 12th round of talks last month, and also hopeful of having the 13th round of talks, maybe by the second week of October."He added, "When the talks had started, people were doubtful whether talks would resolve anything, but I am of the firm opinion that we can resolve our differences with dialogue and that is what has happened in the past few months."The army chief said, "The Chinese have deployed (their forces) in considerable numbers across Eastern Ladakh and up to eastern command. There has been an increase in the deployment and it is a matter of concern for us. We are also carrying out matching developments in terms of infrastructure and deployment of troops. We are quite poised in order to meet any eventuality."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/increase-in-chinese-deployment-along-the-lac-a-matter-of-concern-says-naravane-101633172423631.html
02-10-2021||India||Mizoram releases fresh Covid-19 guidelines, more relaxations offered: 10 points||The Mizoram government has issued new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) guidelines, giving relaxations to economic and other activities. The new guidelines will come into effect on October 3 and will remain in force in the state till October 16.The fresh guidelines focus on easing economic and other activities in Aizawl Municipal Corporation (AMC) area and other parts of the state.The order issued on Friday night said that it has been felt necessary to give more focus on providing better treatment to Covid-19 patients than imposing stringent restrictions despite a spurt in infections.Here are the key points of the guidelines issued by Mizoram government:• The new order allowed the re-opening of churches in Covid-19 affected AMC area and also in other parts of the state only on Sunday and Sabbath (Saturday) during daytime with 50 per cent seating capacity.• Churches in Covid-19 free towns and villages outside AMC area have been already re-opened on August 22.• School and other higher education institutions will continue to remain closed in AMC area. Training institutes will, however, be allowed to re-open with 50 per cent seating capacity in the state capital, the order said.• Re-opening of public parks is now allowed even in AMC area with 50 participants subjected to permission of local level task force of the locality where such park is located.• Social or public gatherings like anniversary or birthday celebrations and other gatherings are now allowed in AMC area with either 50 per cent of the seating capacity or 50 attendees, whichever is less, the order said.• The number of attendees in funerals and weddings in AMC area has been increased from 30 to 50 or 50 per cent of the seating capacity, whichever is less, it added.• The government has now allowed full re-opening of all business shops, market places, hawker stalls, hotels, restaurants (with 50% seating capacity) and tourist lodges, among others, across AMC area.• All government offices in the state will now open with full staff, the order said.• Intra-state movement is allowed under exceptional cases.• Night curfew will continue to be imposed in all district headquarters between 8pm and 4am.Covid-19 situation in MizoramMizoram on Saturday reported 1,626 new Covid-19 cases pushing the state's tally to 96,456, the state health department said. The death toll rose to 314 as three more persons succumbed to the infection in the last 24 hours, an official said.The state now has 16,361 active Covid-19 cases and its positivity rate is above 20 per cent.The state has so far conducted more than 11.12 lakh samples tests for Covid-19.On Thursday, Mizoram recorded 1,741 new cases of Covid-19 infections.On Tuesday, the number stood at 1,846, Mizoram's highest-ever single-day tally. On September 21, the state had reported its previous highest single-day spike of 1,731 Covid-19 cases.What's behind Mizoram's high Covid-19 infections?The small state with just over 1.1 million people (according to the 2011 census) has been recording over 1,000 new cases every day for nearly three weeks. Almost untouched by the first wave last year, it has now seen its infection tally go up rapidly.The state government conducted some studies to understand the reson behind this increasing trend. Based on their findings, the government claimed that lack of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour (CAB) in a close-knit society where visits to each other’s houses are common, is one of the main reasons for the high prevalence of infection in the state.Dr Pachuau Lalmalsawma, state nodal officer and spokesperson, added that strict contact tracing and mass testing have also added to the increase in the number of daily cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mizoram-release-fresh-covid-19-guidelines-more-relaxations-offered-10-points-101633171848713.html
02-10-2021||India||ECI freezes LJP’s party symbol as Paswan-Paras feud continues||The Lok Janshakti Party’s symbol was frozen by the Election Commission of India on Saturday as feud between factions led by Chirag Paswan and Union minister Pashupati Nath Paras continues to affect the party.Earlier this year, a feud ensued between Chirag Paswan and his uncle Pashupati Nath Paras when the latter ousted Chirag Paswan, son of the party founder late Ram Vilas Paswan, from the LJP claiming that the outfit was now led by Paras, Ram Vilas Paswan’s younger brother.The Election Commission in a statement said that the decision was taken as bypolls will be held in Bihar’s Kusheshwar Asthan and Tarapur. The EC said that both factions will not be allowed to use the party name unconditionally, nor can they use the ‘Bungalow’ symbol that the LJP has used till now.The Election Commission asked both the factions to choose three free symbols in order of preference before 1pm Monday. The Commission will then allocate the symbols.Union minister Pashupati Nath Paras, with the help of Prince Raj, Chandan Singh, Veena Devi and Mehboob Ali Kaiser, ousted Chirag Paswan from the position of party chief. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla in June recognised Pashupati Kumar Paras as the leader of the party in the Lower House.Chirag Paswan, who said that he was betrayed by his uncle, blamed Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar and also hinted that even the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) may have played a role in deepening the rift between the party. “It is Nitish Kumar and his partymen who have targeted not only my party but also my family members,” Paswan said while speaking to HT earlier this year.He also said that the silence from the BJP could also mean that their state unit too played a role.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eci-freezes-ljp-s-party-symbol-as-paswan-paras-feud-continues-101633169685555.html
02-10-2021||India||'Post or no post, will stand by Rahul, Priyanka Gandhi', tweets Sidhu amid Punjab Congress crisis||Cricketer-turned-politician Navjot Singh Sidhu on Saturday said that he will continue to support the Gandhis, whether he is given any post or not. This comes amidst the turmoil in the Punjab unit of Congress, triggered by his resignation as the chief of the party's state unit."Will uphold principles of Gandhi Ji and Shastri Ji... Post or no post will stand by Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. Let all negative forces try to defeat me, but with every ounce of positive energy will make Punjab win, Punjabiyat (Universal Brotherhood) win and every Punjabi win !!" he wrote on Twitter.Will uphold principles of Gandhi Ji & Shastri Ji … Post or No Post will stand by @RahulGandhi & @priyankagandhi ! Let all negative forces try to defeat me, but with every ounce of positive energy will make Punjab win, Punjabiyat (Universal Brotherhood) win & every punjabi win !! pic.twitter.com/6r4pYte06EOn Thursday, Sidhu held a meeting with Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, after which it was reported that the issues between the two leaders arrived at a formula to form a coordination committee for better administration of the state unit. A senior leader said after the meeting that Sidhu will continue as Punjab Congress chief.On September 28, Sidhu resigned from the post saying he won't be able to compromise on the state's future.In a video he tweeted days later, the senior leader of the party also said that politics for him is taking a stand for the people and for Punjab, not for his own benefit.Sidhu's sudden resignation gave fuel to the fire in Punjab Congress, which the top leadership thought was doused after resignation of Amarinder Singh as chief minister. According to reports, Sidhu did not discuss the resignation with any senior Congress leader before posting on his social media.Meanwhile, downplaying the crisis at a time when the Congress is just a few months away from the legislative assembly election, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Friday said, "Party is supreme. The government takes note of the needs of the party."Amarinder Singh, who resigned from the post of chief minister last month, said on Thursday that he will leave the party, clarified that he will not join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/post-or-no-post-will-stand-by-rahul-priyanka-gandhi-tweets-sidhu-101633168741764.html
02-10-2021||India||Indian Army deploys K9-Vajra howitzer regiment along LAC: Know all about the guns||The Indian Army has deployed the first K9-Vajra self-propelled howitzer regiment in the forward areas in Ladakh along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China, news agency ANI reported.In a video posted by the news agency, the K9-Vajra were seen navigating the mountainous terrain in Ladakh with ease and at high speed.#WATCH K9-Vajra self-propelled howitzer in action in a forward area in Eastern Ladakh pic.twitter.com/T8PsxfvstRThe gun can strike enemy targets at around 50 kilometres.The howitzers are among a large number of military equipment dedicated by the central government to the service of the nation 2018.Here is everything you need to know about the K9-Vajra self-propelled howitzer:• The 155mm/52 calibre guns are being made at Armoured Systems Complex of Larsen and Toubro (L&T) in Gujarat under the Centre's 'Make in India' initiative.• L&T had in 2017 won the ₹4,500-crore contract from the defence ministry to supply 100 units of K9-Vajra. The company has set up the facility in Hazira, around 30km from Surat.• The defence ministry contract involves delivery of 100 such systems in 42 months.• The first 10 of these guns were imported from Hanwha Techwin of South Korea in semi knocked down state - or incompletely disassembled kit - and were assembled by L&T in India.• The gun weighs 50 tonnes and can fire 47kg bombs.• These howitzers can also turn around at zero radius, basically at the same place where they are standing.• India has added fire technology system and major electronics and enhancements in the guns.• Their induction will give a huge fillip to the firepower capability of Indian Army on the country's western borders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-deploys-k9-vajra-howitzer-regiment-along-lac-know-all-about-the-gun-101633166922888.html
02-10-2021||India||What is happening in Chhattisgarh? CM Bhupesh Baghel says not becoming Punjab||With more Congress MLAs from Chhattisgarh joining their colleagues in New Delhi amid speculation of a leadership change in the state, chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Saturday reiterated that there is no political movement and the MLAs are going to Delhi on their own wish as they are all independent individuals. Reacting to former chief minister Raman Singh's statement that Chhattisgarh is going the Punjab way, Baghel said Chhattisgarh can never become Punjab.The speculation is Chhattisgarh Congress is split between two camps, one belonging to Bhupesh Baghel and the other belonging to health minister TS Singhdeo, who is demanding a change of guard in the state. On Friday, Singhdeo said, "The tussle is not as bad as is being portrayed. The high command will take the decision according to the current situation and no new situation has emerged."6 more Chhattisgarh Congress MLAs arrive in DelhiThe development in Chhattisgarh comes at a time when the Congress is facing a crisis originating from Punjab. Captain Amarinder Singh's exit from the chief minister post over his disagreement with Navjot Singh Sidhu has got senior Congress leaders speaking out against the functioning of the party.Baghel has completed 2.5 years as the chief minister in June and now the supporters of Singhdeo are demanding a change in the guard in favour of Singhdeo, though the Congress never talked about rotational chief ministership when it came to power in the 2018 election. As of now, around 30 Chhattisgarh MLAs are already in Delhi. Baghel has been downplaying the movement though the number of Chhattisgarh MLAs visiting Delhi together is quite surprising.  “Tell me one thing - can't legislators go anywhere. Every step should not be seen as politics. Anybody can go anywhere. Even you (mediapersons) tour with your friends and it doesn't mean every time the purpose is getting news,” Baghel said on Thursday. The Congress high command had summoned both Baghel and Singhdeo to Delhi in August to resolve the feud and the leadership issue was solved for the time being.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-is-happening-in-chhattisgarh-cm-bhupesh-baghel-says-not-becoming-punjab-101633164575930.html
02-10-2021||India||India crosses landmark of 900 million Covid vaccinations, says health minister||India has administered 900 million Covid-19 vaccines so far, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Saturday. This landmark number assumes significance as the government is aiming to vaccinate every adult individual by December 2021. "Shastri ji gave the slogan 'Jai Jawan - Jai Kisan'. Revered Atal ji added 'Jai Vigyan' and PM @Narendra Modi Ji gave the slogan 'Jai Anusandhan'. Today the result of anusandhan is this corona vaccine.#JaiAnusandhan," Mandaviya tweeted.The Union government is committed to accelerating the pace and expanding the scope of COVID-19 vaccination throughout the country, the health ministry said earlier in the day. The vaccination drive has been ramped up through availability of more vaccines, advance visibility of vaccine availability to states and UTs for enabling better planning by them, and streamlining the vaccine supply chain, the ministry added.India crosses the landmark of 90 crore #COVID19 vaccinations.श्री शास्त्री जी ने 'जय जवान - जय किसान' का नारा दिया था।श्रद्धेय अटल जी ने 'जय विज्ञान' जोड़ाऔर PM @NarendraModi जी ने 'जय अनुसंधान' का नारा दिया। आज अनुसंधान का परिणाम यह कोरोना वैक्सीन है।#JaiAnusandhan pic.twitter.com/V1hyi5i6RQThe government today further informed that over 5.28 crore unutilised vaccine doses are still available with the states/UTs. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had launched the first phase of the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive on January 16 via video conferencing. To ramp up the pace of vaccination, the government introduced the 'new phase of universalisation' of Covid-19 vaccination on June 21, 2021. Under this drive, the Centre is procuring and supplying free of cost 75 per cent of the vaccines being produced by the vaccine manufacturers in the country to states and UTs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-crosses-landmark-of-900-million-covid-vaccinations-says-health-minister-101633163053518.html
02-10-2021||India||Harish Chaudhary to be Cong's Punjab affairs in-charge? This is what he says||Navjot Singh Sidhu surprised everyone when he resigned as the chief of Congress' Punjab unit. Apparently miffed over not having a say or being consulted in several key decisions, Sidhu sent is his resignation letter to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi.The resignation has still not been accepted an in this four days since his sudden decision, the Congess has held several rounds of hectic parleys to bring the situation under control ahead of the assembly elections in Punjab.Among the several rounds of churning, reports have emerged that Harish Rawat could be replaced by Harish Chaudhary as in-charge of party's affairs in Punjab. Chaudhary is currently the revenue minister in Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government in Rajasthan and is considered as close to Rahul Gandhi.When asked about the buzz, Chaudhary told news agency ANI, "Whatever opportunity I would be given, I'll take it. Sidhu is with Congress, it's party's internal matter."He added, "The decision (on Sidhu's resignation) will be taken by state in-charge and party president."Chaudhary has already been appointed as as an observer of the party’s affairs in Punjab by Congress president Sonia Gandhi. He was part of the Congress legislature party (CLP) held last month along with another observer, Ajay Maken, where Charanjit Singh Channi was chosen as the leader.Chaudhary was part of the meeting called by Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi in Chandigarh on Thursday to resolve issues raised by Navjot Singh Sidhu. The meeting at Punjab Bhawan, which lasted for three hours, was also attended by state cabinet minister Pargat Singh and leaders like Pawan Goyal and Kuljit Nagra.It was decided in the meeting that a coordination committee will be formed that will be consulted on all major policy matters and decisions of the government in Punjab. People familiar with the matter have said that the panel is likely to be headed by a central leader (most likely Chaudhary) and may comprise Channi, Sidhu and a third leader.A senior leader said that Sidhu will continue as Congress Punjab unit president.The Punjab Congress has already sent the proposal to the party's top leadership. An announcement regarding this is expected to be made soon after the nod from the Congress high command.Sidhu's resignation as state party chief intensified the crisis in the Punjab Congress. A minister and three Congress leaders, considered close to him, also stepped down from their posts.Sidhu was made Punjab Pradesh Congress Committed (PPCC) chief by the Congress leadership in July to stem infighting in the state unit ahead of next year's assembly polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/harish-chaudhary-to-be-cong-s-punjab-affairs-in-charge-this-is-what-he-says-101633161870294.html
02-10-2021||India||'If a big political party...': Sanjay Raut's advice to Congress amid Punjab turmoil||A day after the Shiv Sena said Congress needs a full-time president in its editorial ‘Saamana’, party leader Sanjay Raut on Saturday once again gave its Maharashtra ally the same advice. This came as the crisis within the Congress' Punjab unit continued to remain in the media spotlight amid the ongoing infighting. "If a big political party like Congress remains without a head, then it naturally causes confusion. I am sure the Congress party will soon resolve its internal matters," news agency ANI quoted Sanjay Raut as saying.On Friday, the Shiv Sena said the confusion prevailing over the leadership in the party was as much responsible for the political crisis in Punjab as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The Sena also claimed that although Rahul Gandhi was trying to resolve the issues faced by the Congress, the old-timers in the party were in a secret pact with the BJP to stop him from doing so with the aim of sinking the party, reported PTI.Also Read: Harish Chaudhary to be Cong's Punjab affairs in-charge? This is what he says"The Congress needs a full-time president. What is the use of a body without a head?... The Congress is ailing and it is being treated, but whether that treatment is right or not needs to be reviewed," the party said in an editorial in its mouthpiece ‘Saamana’."Rahul Gandhi is trying to fix the leakages in the old mansion (Congress), but some old feudal lords are not letting the new people work. They have started claiming ownership over several things in the mansion… It is now confirmed that the party's old guard is in a secret pact with BJP and they are trying to sink Congress," it alleged.The remarks come against the backdrop of ongoing turmoil in Punjab ahead of the assembly elections slated for next year.Upset that his commands were not being followed after the cabinet expansion in Punjab, Navjot Singh Sidhu resigned as Congress president in the state on September 28, the position he was elevated to only in July. Shortly after, a minister and three Congress leaders, considered close to him, stepped down from their posts.Before that, Amarinder Singh tendered his resignation as the chief minister of Punjab on September 18 following months of infighting between him and Navjot Singh Sidhu. He said that the Congress leadership had let him down. And when Sidhu resigned from his post, Singh sought to take a dig at him and called him an "unstable man".Charanjeet Singh Channi took oath as the 16th chief minister of Punjab on September 20, days after Amarinder Singh stepped down from the top post in the state.In the Congress-led Chhattisgarh too, a political crisis seems to be brewing with state health minister TS Singh Deo demanding a change of guard. After the Bhupesh Baghel-led government completed two-and-a-half years in office in June, the supporters of TS Singh Deo raised the issue of rotational chief ministership. On the other hand, more than a dozen Congress MLAs are now camping in Delhi to extend their support to current chief minister Baghel to continue his post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-a-big-political-party-sanjay-raut-s-advice-to-congress-amid-punjab-turmoil-101633161386553.html
02-10-2021||India||4.1 magnitude earthquake hits Arunachal Pradesh's Basar||An earthquake of magnitude 4.1 struck Arunachal Pradesh's Basar on Saturday, informed the National Center for Seismology (NCS)."Earthquake of Magnitude:4.1, Occurred on 02-10-2021, 10:15:40 IST, Lat: 29.12 & Long: 93.99, Depth: 10 Km ,Location: 143 km NNW of Basar, Arunachal Pradesh," NCS tweeted.Earlier in September, an earthquake of magnitude 4.5 on the Richter scale hit near Pangin of Arunachal Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/41-magnitude-earthquake-hits-arunachal-pradesh-s-basar-101633160201928.html
02-10-2021||India||All you need to know about Rashtriya Jal Jeevan Kosh launched by PM Modi today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday launched the Rashtriya Jal Jeevan Kosh (RJJK) to facilitate contributions for creation of safe drinking water supply in villages. This is a part of the flagship Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM), launched by PM Modi in 2019.The JJM aims to provide clean tap water to every household. At the time of launch of the mission, only 3.23 crore (or 17 per cent) rural households had tap water supply.Also Read| Modi launches Jal Jeevan Mission app; says initiative driven by villages, womenThe government said in a release that in the last two years, more than five crore households have been provided with tap water connections. This is a significant achievement considering the face that the entire country, along with the world, was battered by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, it added.What is Rashtriya Jal Jeevan Kosh?RJJK is a registered public charitable trust set up by department of drinking water and sanitation, under the ministry of jal shakti. It has been set up to serve as a receptacle for charitable contributions/donations and to facilitate such contribution for creation of safe drinking water supply in villages.The government said that PM Modi had asked that the mission to provide potable tap water supply to every rural household and village institutions be turned into a people's movement and this is a major step towards it.The contribution can also be made for providing tap water in schools, anganwadi centres, tribal residential schools and health-cum-wellness centres, according to a release by the government.Major aims of RJJKThe Jal Jeevan Kosh will promote research and development, innovation and use of technology in ensuring tap water in rural households. It will also help build the capacity of the local village community to plan, implement, manage, operate and maintain their water supply schemes.RJJK will further promote water conservation efforts, augmentation/strengthening of drinking water sources, grey water treatment and re-use to enhance water security.Audit of RJJKThe government said that the audit of RJJK account will be carried out annually by an independent auditor from a panel of auditors empanelled with Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG).Also Read| Explained: What is Jal Jeevan Mission and how tech solutions are helping in access to clean waterTax benefits under RJJKThe Centre has said that donations to “Rashtriya Jal Jeevan Kosh” are eligible for 50 per cent deduction under section 80G of the Income Tax Act. This is applicable for the assessment year 2021-22 and subsequent years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-you-need-to-know-about-rashtriya-jal-jeevan-kosh-launched-by-pm-modi-today-101633159199507.html
02-10-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 1pm: Varun Gandhi slams those tweeting Godse zindabad and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Varun Gandhi on Saturday paid tribute to father of the nation Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi on his 152nd birth anniversary. He also slammed a counter trend being popularised by a section of Twitter praising Nathuram Godse who assassinated Gandhi, popularly known as the Mahatma. Read moreLieutenant Governor of Ladakh, RK Mathur, on Saturday inaugurated in the Union territory a “Tiranga” made up of Khadi cloth, the largest such national flag in the world. The unveiling of the flag took place on a day when the country is observing the birth anniversary of the “Father of the Nation,” Mahatma Gandhi, with whom Khadi is synonymous. Read moreWith Virat Kohli deciding to give up India's captaincy in T20 internationals after the conclusion of the T20 World Cup, the biggest debate in Indian cricket at the moment is about choosing his successor. Former South Africa pacer Dale Steyn weighed in on the topic, explaining that India have a huge pool of talent to choose from as their next leader. Steyn's picks ranged from young to the experienced, as he did not shy away from naming youngster Rishabh Pant or even Suryakumar Yadav to take up the mantle in time to come. Read moreAsha Parekh celebrates her 79th birthday on Saturday. The actor, who was once among the highest paid film personalities, made millions of hearts beat for her but chose to remain single for life. The Dil Deke Dekho actor fell for a married man but was in no mood to be a “homewrecker” and chose to live the life the way she did. Read moreBollywood actor Sonal Chauhan has often claimed that she is no health expert, but that has never stopped the star from dishing out fitness goals for her fans. The star is an avid yoga practitioner and credits her health achievements to the same. She often posts pictures of herself doing various yoga asanas on social media. She did the same recently and posted a photo in which she practised yoga's Anjaneyasana. Read moreA video shared by Olympic gold medallist Neeraj Chopra has created a chatter among tweeple. Shared on his personal Twitter handle, the video shows him scuba diving. There is a chance that the clip will wow you too. Read moreUnited Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres paid tribute to Mahatma Gandhi on his 152nd birth anniversary. On the occasion, he stressed the need to 'usher in a new era of peace & tolerance'. Guterres urged countries to pay heed to the peace activist's message of non-violence. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1pm-on-gandhi-jayanti-varun-gandhi-slams-those-tweeting-godse-zindabad-and-other-news-updates-101633157531745.html
02-10-2021||India||Explained: What is Jal Jeevan Mission and how tech solutions are helping in access to clean water||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday launched the Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM) mobile application, seeking top leverage the technological advancements to ensure that villages and rural households get access to clean drinking water.The mobile application will improve awareness among stakeholders and work towards providing greater transparency and bringing accountability of schemes under the government's flagship Jal Jeevan Mission.The Prime Minister said that the Jal Jeevan Mission has been empowering women of the country by saving their time and efforts which was earlier consumed in covering long distances to fetch drinking water.Also Read| All you need to know about Rashtriya Jal Jeevan Kosh launched by PM Modi todayWhat is the JJM mobile application?According to Jal Jeevan Mission website, the mobile application will provide details of water infrastructure, an Aadhaar-verified data set of beneficiaries, and water quality and contamination-related information for each village. The information will be available to users on a public forum alongside specific data for each village, district and state-level bodies concerning water.This data is currently maintained on the integrated management information system and covers action plans of villages, districts and states, along with financing and funding details. The app will also allow users to rate their experience with their water facility.How technology is powering JJMApart from the mobile application, the government has also put in place Internet of Things (IoT)-based sensors, flow meters and water-quality detection kits to achieve cost-effective solutions for providing clean tap water to every rural household in the country by 2024.The government programme has also led many startups to develop affordable solutions for measuring and monitoring water consumption in villages.Water quality management information systemThe Jal Shakti ministry has been maintaining a JJM dashboard to show the coverage of tap water connections across states. The water quality management information system provides details of water samples received and tested across labs and states. The mobile app will bring all this data under one umbrella.The primary data is being generated through internet-based sensors. It not just monitors the flow of water in the pipelines, but also checks for turbidity and chlorination in water.The sensors are placed in the reservoirs and at the outlet going towards each habitation of the village. A pressure sensor is also placed at the tail end. The sensor is programmed to relay the data on overall supply every day.While the Jal Jeevan Mission mandates the local authority to conduct regular checks, five women in each village have also been trained to use test kits to check water quality. These kits are designed to assess 12 types of contamination, including phosphate, sulphate, and turbidity, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-launches-jal-jeevan-mission-mobile-app-all-you-need-to-know-101633158924512.html
02-10-2021||India||Income Tax department detects ‘unaccounted transactions’ worth over ₹500 crore at Ahmedabad real estate firm||The Income Tax department raided an Ahmedabad-based real estate developer, resulting in the detection of unaccounted transactions worth more than ₹500 crore, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) claimed on Saturday, adding that the operation, which was a part of a tax evasion probe, was also conducted on brokers linked to the developer.“Documents have revealed unaccounted income of more than ₹200 crore each in the hands of the real estate group, as well as parties recorded on documents recovered from the brokers. Overall, the exercise led to the detection of unaccounted transactions of more than ₹500 crore,” the CBDT, which frames policy for the IT department, said in a statement, according to news agency PTI.“Several documents related to the purchase of properties over the years, which are apparently held in the name of benami individuals, were also found,” the statement further stated.The recoveries made during the raid include ₹1 crore cash and jewellery worth ₹98 lakh, the statement noted on the September 28 operation, which, the department said, is still underway. “Incriminating documents, loose papers, digital evidence have been seized from the premises of the real estate developer. These evidences contained detailed record of the group’s unaccounted transactions which took place across several years,” the CBDT further said.Total twenty-four lockers have been put under restraint, the board added.Nearly two dozen premises of the real estate developer were subjected to the raid, according to CBDT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/income-tax-department-detects-unaccounted-transactions-worth-over-rs-500-crore-at-ahmedabad-real-estate-firm-101633158481708.html
02-10-2021||India||Modi launches Jal Jeevan Mission app; says initiative driven by villages, women||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday that the vision of his government’s Jal Jeevan Mission is not only to provide water to people but also to ensure decentralisation. PM Modi said that the initiative is driven by the villages and women across the country. “The main base of the Jal Jeevan Mission is public participation and mass movement. Today, several steps have been taken to make the initiative more powerful and transparent,” the Prime Minister said as he virtually launched the Jal Jeevan Mission mobile application.Also Read| Explained: What is Jal Jeevan Mission and how tech solutions are helping in access to clean waterPM Modi said that all details about the mission such as how many households received water, quality of water etc will be available in one place on the mobile application. The application aims to improve awareness among stakeholders and for greater transparency and accountability of schemes under the Jal Jeevan mission. “Details about your village will be available on the application. Water quality monitoring and surveillance framework will majorly help in maintaining the quality of water. Villagers will also be able to check the quality of water in their area,” the Prime Minister further said.This is a village-driven and women-driven movement. Its main base is mass movement & public participation. On the Jal Jeevan Mission app, every detail regarding this movement will be available in one place: PM Narendra Modi pic.twitter.com/dH5zHaMwbFDuring Saturday's virtual interaction, Modi interacted with gram panchayats and village water and sanitation committees (VWSC), and also launched the Rashtriya Jal Jeevan Kosh. The Rashtriya Jal Jeevan Kosh facilitates contributions for providing tap water connection in every rural household, school, Anganwadi centre, etc. Contributions can be made by any individual, organisation, philanthropist, be it in India or abroad.Also Read| All you need to know about Rashtriya Jal Jeevan Kosh launched by PM Modi todayThe Jal Jeevan Mission was announced by the Prime Minister in August 2019 to provide clean tap water to all households. When the mission was launched, only 17% (32.3 million) of the country’s rural households had a tap water supply. As of now, tap water supply has been provided in 772,000 schools and 748,000 Anganwadi centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-launches-jal-jeevan-mission-app-says-initiative-driven-by-villages-women-101633153242761.html
02-10-2021||India||'Those tweeting Godse zindabad irresponsibly shaming the nation': Varun Gandhi on Gandhi Jayanti||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Varun Gandhi on Saturday paid tribute to father of the nation Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi on his 152nd birth anniversary. He also slammed a counter trend being popularised by a section of Twitter praising Nathuram Godse who assassinated Gandhi, popularly known as the Mahatma."India has always been a spiritual superpower,but it is the Mahatma who articulated our nation’s spiritual underpinnings through his being & gave us a moral authority that remains our greatest strength even today. Those tweeting ‘Godse zindabad’ are irresponsibly shaming the nation," Varun Gandhi said in his tweet.India has always been a spiritual superpower,but it is the Mahatma who articulated our nation’s spiritual underpinnings through his being & gave us a moral authority that remains our greatest strength even today.Those tweeting ‘Godse zindabad’ are irresponsibly shaming the nationHe did not use any hashtag, but his post received close to 1,000 retweets and over 5,000 like within an hour on Gandhi Jayanti.#नाथूराम_गोडसे_जिंदाबाद (Nathuram Godse Zindabad) is among the top trends on Twitter on Saturday. Though this may come as a surprise for many Twitter users, the micro-blogging website has an algorithm which enables a particular topic to trend.Twitter has said that the trends is served to users based on a combination of factors, including the geographical location, their interests and the handles they follow. But the trends tab - from where Varun Gandhi picked up the Godse trend - is based on the number of tweets being posted on a particular topic, or name. This tab is not customised for a user."This algorithm identifies topics that are popular now, rather than topics that have been popular for a while or on a daily basis, to help you discover the hottest emerging topics of discussion on Twitter," the micro-blogging website said in an explainer.Though it said that the number of tweets that are related to the Trends is just one of the factors the algorithm looks at when ranking and determining trends, experts have pointed that Twitter's algorithm records spikes based on the number of tweets on a particular topic.Meanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi led the nation in paying tributes to Mahatma Gandhi. PM Modi paid floral tributes to the father of nation at Rajghat.Several Union ministers and other political leaders also paid tributes to Mahatma Gandhi. Union home minister Amit Shah said Gandhi's ideas of Swadeshi, Swabhasha and Swaraj will continue to inspire the countrymen for a long time."The great life of Mahatma Gandhi was like a continuous national sacrifice, which inspired the whole world to walk on the path of peace and non-violence. Gandhiji's ideas of Swadeshi, Swabhasha and Swaraj will continue to inspire the countrymen for a long time. Tribute to him on Gandhi Jayanti," Shah tweeted.Defence minister Rajnath Singh said, "I bow to Pujya Bapu on Gandhi Jayanti. A towering personality blessed with tremendous willpower and immense wisdom, he provided exemplary leadership to India's freedom movement. Let us rededicate ourselves to 'Swachchta and Atmanirbharbharta' on his jayanti."Born on October 2, 1869, in Porbandar town of Gujarat, Mahatma Gandhi or Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi adopted a non-violent resistance and was at the forefront of the freedom struggle against the colonial British rule.This led to India finally achieving its independence in 1947. Fondly known as Bapu, his unwavering belief in 'Swaraj' (self-governance) and 'Ahimsa' (non-violence) won him accolades across the world.Globally, Gandhi's birth anniversary is celebrated as the International Day of Non-Violence. Several events are held in India and across the world to mark the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gandhi-jayanti-those-tweeting-godse-zindabad-irresponsibly-shaming-the-nation-varun-gandhi-101633155444468.html
02-10-2021||India||‘I’m not as simple as I look’: Top quotes by India’s second PM Lal Bahadur Shastri||October 2 is observed as the birth anniversary of Lal Bahadur Shastri, who was the second Prime Minister of India, every year. On Saturday, leaders from across the political spectrum, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, President Ram Nath Kovind, Congress leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi, paid floral tributes to Shastri. His son, Anil Shastri, was also seen paying tributes at Vijay Sthal.Lal Bahadur Shastri was born on October 2, 1904, in the Mughalsarai district of Uttar Pradesh. Being involved with politics at a very young age, Shastri played an important role in India’s freedom struggle from the British Raj. Shastri, who was regarded as a secularist who rejected the mixing of politics and religion, also emphasised fighting for the country’s poor population.He was appointed as the Prime Minister in 1964 after Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru’s death and held charge of the top post till 1966. He led India during the Indo-Pak war of 1965 and gave the slogan ‘Jai Jawan Jai Kisan’. He also promoted the White Revolution and Green Revolution in India.Shastri died in Tashkent, Uzbekistan on January 11, 1966, a day after he signed a peace treaty to end the 1965 war with Pakistan. Even though it is officially said that Shastri passed away due to a heart attack, his wife Lalita alleged that he was poisoned.Here are some of the top quotes of Lal Bahadur Shastri:“Discipline and united action are the real source of strength for the nation.”“We must fight for peace bravely as we fought in war.”“I am not as simple as I look.”“We believe in peace and peaceful development, not only for ourselves but for people all over the world.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/im-not-as-simple-as-i-look-top-quotes-by-lal-bahadur-shastri-101633148066626.html
02-10-2021||India||Banned over 2 million Indian accounts in August, says WhatsApp||WhatsApp banned more than two million Indian accounts and received 420 grievance reports in August, the Facebook-owned company has said in its compliance report. WhatsApp said in its report released on Tuesday that 20,70,000 Indian accounts were banned during the said period. WhatsApp also said it received 420 user reports spanning across account support (105), ban appeal (222), other support (34), product support (42) and safety (17) during August and that 41 accounts were "actioned" or took remedial action during this period. According to the messaging platform, taking action means it has either banned an account or restored a previously banned account as a result of the complaint.More than three million Indian accounts were banned by WhatsApp, which also received 594 grievance reports, between June 16 and July 31. The company has said in the past that more than 95 per cent of bans are due to the unauthorised use of automated or bulk messaging or spam. The global average number of accounts that WhatsApp bans to prevent abuse on its platform is around 8 million accounts per month.Also read | Blocked 2 million accounts in India in 1 month, says WhatsApp in new reportIt also said that it may have reviewed the reports but may not have included them as “actioned” for reasons, including the user needing assistance to access their account or to use some features, user-requested restoration of a banned account and the request is denied, or if the reported account does not violate the laws of India or WhatsApp's terms of service.The government’s new IT rules, which came into effect on May 26, require large digital platforms with more than 5 million users to publish compliance reports every month, mentioning the details of complaints received and action taken. WhatsApp has emphasised in the past that it has no visibility into the content of any messages as it is an end-to-end encrypted platform. It said that besides the behavioural signals from accounts, it relies on available unencrypted information, including user reports, profile photos, group photos and descriptions as well as advanced AI tools and resources to detect and prevent abuse on its platform.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/banned-over-2-million-indian-accounts-in-august-says-whatsapp-101633153579946.html
02-10-2021||India||India to take up border friction points one by one with China before bilateral normalcy||Rather than taking up all contentious border-related issues all at once, India has decided to take them step by step, resolving one issue at a time, with China before bilateral normalcy is restored between the two Indo-Pacific powers. Just as Indian Army-Peoples’ Liberation Army (PLA) stand-off on Gogra in East Ladakh was resolved in the 12th Corps Commander meeting on July 31, India intends to take up all the remaining issues one by one with China while not allowing PLA to unilaterally change the status quo along the 3,488-kilometer Line of Actual Control (LAC). Next on the table are resolving stand-off at Hot Springs near Kongka La, Demchok and restoration of patrolling rights in the Depsang Bulge.It is understood that India has identified 18 friction points on the LAC that needs to be resolved between the two armies before peace and tranquillity is restored along the undemarcated border. “We intend to take up each friction point one by one so that both sides are clear about the arguments in support of their posture,” said a former foreign secretary.The future of bilateral relations between the two countries will depend on the time taken to resolve the border issues. In May 2020, the PLA threw the 1993-1996 bilateral border agreement out of the window and decided to militarily change the status quo in East Ladakh with transgression on north banks of Pangong Tso, Galwan, Gogra and Hot Springs with the intention of superimposing an already rejected 1959 line (as proposed by then Chinese PM Zhou En-Lai) on the 1597km LAC in East Ladakh. The situation flared up in Galwan on June 15, 2020, when the PLA tried to be belligerent with the Indian Army at patrolling point 14, resulting in the loss of 20 Indian soldiers, including Col Santosh Babu, in hand to hand combat.Both the PLA and Indian Army are deployed on the LAC and continue with patrolling with the perceived border with the PLA troops brought down to East Ladakh for military exercises in June 2021 having gone back to their respective bases. There is no unusual activity in the Central sector.While Indian Army chief Gen MM Naravane is reviewing its deployment before the onset of winter in East Ladakh, the national security planners have strengthened the Central Army Command, given the proximity of the Barahoti LAC to New Delhi. Unlike the past when the Central Army Command had been virtually reduced to a training command with two deployed brigades in the central sector, the present formation is robust with three full-fledged divisions under its Lucknow based command. The situation is no different in the eastern sector with the Indian Army matching the increased PLA deployments east of Lhasa to Nyingchi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-take-up-border-friction-points-one-by-one-with-china-101633151195974.html
02-10-2021||India||On Gandhi Jayanti, world's largest ‘Khadi national flag’ inaugurated in Leh||Lieutenant Governor of Ladakh, RK Mathur, on Saturday inaugurated in the Union territory a “Tiranga” made up of Khadi cloth, the largest such national flag in the world. The unveiling of the flag took place on a day when the country is observing the birth anniversary of the “Father of the Nation,” Mahatma Gandhi, with whom Khadi is synonymous.Photos: President Kovind, PM Modi, others pay homage to Mahatma GandhiThe “Khadi national flag” has been installed in Leh, the UT's capital city. It has a length of 225 feet with a width of 150 feet and weighs 1000 kilogram, according to national broadcaster Doordarshan, which broadcast the inauguration ceremony. Worlds biggest #Khadi #NationalFlag hoisted in #Leh. This flag is 225 feet long and 150 feet wide. Weight 1000 kg#GandhiJayanti #MahatmaGandhi pic.twitter.com/5ep3tyVYiDArmy chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane, who is on a 2-day visit to Ladakh, attended the event, along with several senior Army officials.Meanwhile, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya described the unveiling as a “moment of great pride for India.” Mandaviya tweeted, “On Gandhi Ji's Jayanti, the world's largest Khadi Tiranga is unveiled in Leh, Ladakh. I salute this gesture which commemorates Bapu's memory, promotes Indian artisans, and also honours the nation.” It is a moment of great pride for 🇮🇳 that on Gandhi ji's Jayanti, the world's largest Khadi Tiranga is unveiled in Leh, Ladakh.I salute this gesture which commemorates Bapu's memory, promotes Indian artisans and also honours the nation.Jai Hind, Jai Bharat! pic.twitter.com/cUQTmnujE9Saturday marks the 152nd birth anniversary of Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi, known in India, and across the globe as Mahatma Gandhi. The freedom fighter, who was born on October 2, 1869, in Porbandar, Gujarat, was a peace activist renowned for his non-violent means of demonstrations against the British rule.Leaders took to social media to pay homage to Gandhi, with many also visiting his resting place Rajghat in Delhi to offer floral tributes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-gandhi-jayanti-world-s-largest-khadi-national-flag-inaugurated-in-leh-101633152112056.html
02-10-2021||India||India records 24,354 new Covid-19 cases; active cases lowest in 197 days||India’s daily tally of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) saw a slight decline on Saturday after 24,354 cases were reported in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload to 33,791,061, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. Saturday’s tally is 2,373 less than that of Friday’s when 26,727 people were detected as Covid-19 positive. As many as 234 patients died during the last 24 hours, pushing the country's death toll to 448,573. According to the health ministry’s dashboard, the death toll on Saturday is 43 less than that of Friday’s when 277 fatalities were recorded.The active cases, which currently account for less than 1 per cent of the caseload, stand at 273,889 and have been the lowest for the last 197 days. As many as 25,455 people recovered from the viral disease in the same period. With this, the cumulative count of recoveries 33,068,599. The active cases, which currently account for less than 1% of the caseload, stand at 273,889 and have been the lowest for the last 197 days.Kerala continues to contribute the highest number of cases towards the national Covid-19 tally. The Union health ministry said on Saturday that of the new cases seen across the country, Kerala added 13,834 infections. The infection count in the southern state has climbed to 4,694,719 including 25,182 deaths, 142,499 active cases and 4,526,429 recoveries. According to the Kerala government’s press release, 440,194 persons are under observation of which 17,976 are in isolation wards of various hospitals. Thrissur, Ernakulam and Thiruvananthapuram remain the worst-hit districts in the state.Meanwhile, the vaccination coverage against Covid-19 in India has exceeded 897.4 million and nearly seven million doses were administered to beneficiaries in the last 24 hours. Of the total vaccination, 654,331,744 beneficiaries have received the first dose and the remaining 243,149,810 have received both doses, i.e fully vaccinated. The Union health ministry said on Thursday that 69% of India’s adult population has received at least one dose of the vaccine while 25% is inoculated with both doses.According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 571,994,990 samples have been tested for Covid-19 till now of which 1,429,258 samples were tested in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-24-354-new-covid-19-cases-active-cases-lowest-in-197-days-101633149664762.html
02-10-2021||India||Photos: President Kovind, PM Modi, others pay homage to Mahatma Gandhi||On the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti on Saturday, President Ram Nath Kovind, vice president M Venkaiah Naidu, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and several other leaders paid tributes to one of the most revered leaders who fought for our freedom struggle. PM Modi said Gandhi’s life and ideas will inspire every generation to walk the path of their duties. Many leaders, including PM Modi and Rahul Gandhi, also visited Raj Ghat to pay homage to the freedom fighter. An interfaith prayer meeting was also held at Raj Ghat, where Mahatma Gandhi's favourite devotional songs were sung. Born on October 2, 1869, in Porbandar town of Gujarat, Mahatma Gandhi or Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi adopted a non-violent resistance and was at the forefront of the freedom struggle against British rule. This led to India finally achieving its independence in 1947. Mahatma Gandhi's birth anniversary is also celebrated as the International Day of Non-Violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/photos-president-kovind-pm-modi-others-pay-homage-to-mahatma-gandhi-101633152318471.html
02-10-2021||India||Amid India-UK vaccine certification row, Adar Poonawalla says rules for entry into Britain are 'total chaos'||Serum Institute of India (SII) CEO Adar Poonawalla has described as “total chaos” rules for entry into the United Kingdom, as the refusal of the Boris Johnson administration to recognise the vaccination status against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) of Indian travellers, including those jabbed with Covishield, kicked up a major row with India.“It is total chaos. I call on all countries to work together, harmoniously, to sign a mutually agreed pact. At the very least, we can acknowledge a certification programme using vaccines approved by the World Health Organization (WHO),” Livemint quoted Poonawalla as saying, citing the Serum CEO's exclusive interview with The Telegraph.Under the new rules announced by the UK government, Indian citizens travelling there will be considered “unvaccinated” even if they are fully inoculated or, in other words, taken both doses of a Covid-19 jab. Covishield is the Indian variant of Britain's AstraZeneca vaccine and the SII manufactures it locally under that name. It is among six vaccines approved by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI). Due to their “unvaccinated” status under the new norms, Indians will have to undergo a mandatory 10-day quarantine upon arriving in the UK. In a tit-for-tat response, India announced on Friday that, starting October 4, those arriving in the country from the United Kingdom will have to quarantine for an equal number of days as Indians travelling to the UK.Also Read | India hits back at UK with quarantine rulesResponding to the reciprocal measures announced by New Delhi, the British high commission said that the UK is “continuing to engage with the Government of India on technical cooperation to people vaccinated by a relevant health authority in India.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/amid-india-uk-vaccine-certification-row-adar-poonawalla-says-rules-for-entry-into-britain-are-total-chaos-101633147121066.html
02-10-2021||India||CM Jagan Reddy to launch Clean Andhra Pradesh initiative today||Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy will on Saturday launch the Clean Andhra Pradesh (CLAP) Jagananna Swachha Sankalpam by flagging off 2,600 garbage collection vehicles in the state's Vijayawada city, according to a government press release. The CLAP initiative has been introduced by the state government to bring in a robust sanitation system across rural and urban localities of Andhra Pradesh. The objective of the initiative is to achieve total source segregation of garbage, onsite waste treatment, encouraging home composting, mechanised door-to-door collection with community participation and ensuring complete treatment of waste generated.A three-bin system will be set up for primary segregation of waste at a domestic level. Each household in the state will get blue, green, and red dustbins to segregate their waste. The government release added that the procurement and supply of 12 million household bins at a cost of ₹720,000,000 to around 4 million households are underway. With regard to door-door collection, nearly 3,100 diesel auto tippers and 1,800 electric vehicles will be deployed. Both these vehicles will have wet, dry and domestic partition dust bins with a hydraulic lift.Under the initiative, the state government will also add 4,171 more solid waste processing centres to the existing ones. According to a report by greatandhra.com, 14,000 tricycles will be given to gram panchayats for garbage transportation, 1,000 auto-rickshaws will be provided to villages that have a population of over 10,000 and 6,417 incinerators will be given to gram panchayats for safe disposal of sanitary napkins and masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-jagan-reddy-to-launch-clean-andhra-pradesh-initiative-today-101633141193165.html
02-10-2021||India||After Imran Khan’s talks with Tehreek-i-Taliban remarks, Pakistan minister says check background||A Pakistan minister has defended Prime Minister Imran Khan after he said that his government is holding talks with some groups of the banned Tehreek-i-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), sparking criticism. In an interview with a Turkish news channel, Imran Khan said that the Pakistan government holding talks with some groups of the banned Tehreek-i-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) to ask them to lay down their weapons and make them agree to adhere to the country's constitution. "There are different groups which form the TTP and some of them want to talk to our government for peace. So, we are in talks with them. It's a reconciliation process," Khan said during an interview with the TRT World on Friday.Khan said he is expecting a deal to come out of the talks but added that nothing is certain. He said dialogue was the only solution and is willing to “forgive” the TTP if an agreement is reached.Also read | After Taliban takeover of Afghanistan, terror attacks in Pakistan highest in 4 yearsOn Friday, Pakistan federal information minister Fawad Chaudhry said that it is important that the "background of [the statement] is presented before you", reported Samaa TV. "The state of Pakistan has gone through a river of fire and blood. We have sacrificed thousands of people. As a result of these sacrifices, we have defeated terrorist organisations like al Qaeda on the one hand and eliminated India's sinister designs on the other," Chaudhry said in a video statement on Friday night.According to Samaa TV, he also stressed that there were people who had failed to honour their allegiance with the state of Pakistan under "certain circumstances" but now they wanted to return to honour this allegiance. Before Imran Khan’s remarks on the banned group, Pakistan’s President Arif Alvi said last month that they could give amnesty to some TTP members if they are not involved with the armed group and don't engage in criminal activities.TTP leader Mufti Wali Noor Mehsud, in an interview with Japanese media outlet Mainichi Shimbun recently, welcomed the Taliban's return to power in Afghanistan and said that "we are hopeful for a strong relationship between the two of us".Also read | Pakistan open to pardon TTP members if give up terror activities, says QureshiAccording to data compiled by the South Asia Terrorism Portal, terror attacks in Pakistan have risen ever since the Taliban recaptured Afghanistan. Pakistan saw at least 35 terror attacks that killed 52 civilians in August alone, the highest since February 2017, and most of these attacks have been attributed to Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), an offshoot terror outfit of the TalibanThe TTP, also called the ‘Pakistani Taliban’, has said it wants to overthrow the government in Islamabad through a violent military campaign against the state. It maintains ties with several other terror outfits, including but not limited to al Qaeda. According to experts, this fringe militant group was “emboldened further by what happened in Afghanistan”. Asfandyar Mir, a senior expert at the United States Institute of Peace, said Islamabad is concerned about the re-emergence of the Pakistani Taliban threat even though Pakistan is not talking about it openly.Also read | Imran Khan says Afghans ‘broke shackles of slavery’ as Taliban seize power“The terrorist group had already been growing stronger much before the situation in Afghanistan with splinter groups merging over the past year or so,” Umar Karim, a visiting fellow at the London-based Royal United Services Institute, told Bloomberg.Reports have said that the frequent attacks by the Pakistani Taliban have also raised concerns about the security and safety of Chinese projects in the country. Global Times reported that analysts have warned that TTP may continue its attacks in Pakistan and cause damage to China's projects and personnel in the country.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-imran-khan-s-talks-with-tehreek-i-taliban-remarks-pak-minister-s-defence-101633144505103.html
02-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi to launch Jal Jeevan Mission app, Rashtriya Jal Jeevan Kosh today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi to launch Jal Jeevan Mission app, Rashtriya Jal Jeevan Kosh todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will on Saturday virtually interact with gram panchayats and village water and sanitation committees (VWSC) on the Jal Jeevan Mission, according to a statement issued by the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO). Read moreOn Gandhi Jayanti, Kochi Metro to offer 50 per cent discount on faresOn the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti, the Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) has decided to offer a 50 per cent discount on train fares to all commuters. Kochi 1 Card Holders (Trip Pass) also will get a cashback of the difference in amount to their card. Read more'BCCI must look after him, make sure his talent doesn't get wasted': Sehwag names PBKS bowler who can benefit Team IndiaSpeaking with Cricbuzz after PBKS' five-wicket win, Virender Sehwag said Arshdeep Singh has the capabilities to benefit Team India with his remarkable bowling and urged the BCCI to nurture him. Read moreGandhi actor Ben Kingsley once revealed 400,000 Indians participated in film's funeral scene: 'There was no CGI'There have been various versions of Mahatma Gandhi played in Indian and international films. However, nothing has come close to Ben Kingsley's portrayal of Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi. Read moreShilpa Shetty teams yellow embroidered half saree with midriff-baring blouse and we are smittenLooking for a head-turning ensemble for your haldi ceremony? Take inspiration from Shilpa Shetty's new look in a gorgeous half-saree teamed with a midriff-baring blouse. Read more'Free Hong Kong, Tibet': Anti-China protests in Taiwan on Chinese National DayProtests break out in Taiwan on China's national day which marks the founding of PRC. Hong Hongers & Tibetans living in Taiwan hit streets against Beijing's oppression in Hong Kong, Tibet. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-modi-to-launch-jal-jeevan-mission-app-rashtriya-jal-jeevan-kosh-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101633141769865.html
02-10-2021||India||On Gandhi Jayanti, PM Modi, other political leaders pay floral tributes at Rajghat||On the occasion of Mahatma Gandhi's 152nd birth anniversary, several leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Saturday paid floral tributes to the Father of the Nation at Rajghat. He said Gandhi's principles are globally relevant and give strength to millions. "Tributes to the Father of the Nation Mahatma Gandhi on his birth anniversary. I bow to respected Bapu on Gandhi Jayanti. The life and ideals of Pujya Bapu will continue to inspire every generation of the country to walk on the path of duty. His noble principles are globally relevant and give strength to millions," PM Modi tweeted.Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla also paid tributes to Gandhi at Rajghat on this occasion. He tweeted, “On the occasion of birth anniversary of Father of the Nation Mahatma Gandhi ji, paid floral tributes at his Samadhi Sthal--Rajghat. The thoughts of revered Bapu will always guide us.”Congress president Sonia Gandhi paid floral tribute to Gandhi. “Today, hate and violence are the biggest enemies in front of us and truth and non-violence are the most powerful weapons to fight those who want to divide us, our goals can only be achieved by following our core values,” the Congress tweeted.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi too paid his tributes to the Father of the Nation at Rajghat on his birth anniversary. "Only one Satyagrahi is enough for victory. Humble tribute to Mahatma Gandhi," he tweeted.Vice president M Venkaiah Naidu, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and his deputy Manish Sisodia also paid their tributes to Mahatma Gandhi at Rajghat.Born on October 2, 1869, in Gujarat's Porbandar, Mahatma Gandhi adopted a non-violent resistance and was at the forefront of India’s freedom struggle against British rule. This led to India finally achieving its independence in 1947. Fondly known as Bapu, his unwavering belief in 'Swaraj' (self-governance) and 'Ahimsa' (non-violence) won him accolades across the globe. Globally, Gandhi's birth anniversary is celebrated as the International Day of Non-Violence and several events are held in India and across the world to mark the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-gandhi-jayanti-pm-modi-other-political-leaders-pay-floral-tributes-at-rajghat-101633141219382.html
02-10-2021||India||On Gandhi Jayanti, Kochi Metro to offer 50 per cent discount on fares||On the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti, the Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) has decided to offer a 50 per cent discount on train fares to all commuters. Kochi 1 Card Holders (Trip Pass) also will get a cashback of the difference in amount to their card. The KMRL has also introduced a free ticket scheme for disabled passengers and a 50 per cent discount to those who accompany them from October 2.Meanwhile, authorities have also changed the train timetable over the weekend. “Due to increasing passenger ridership trend on Saturdays similar to that of normal weekdays and steep increase in ridership on Sundays after lifting weekend lockdown recently, KMRL has decided to change the Train Table on Weekends,” said a KMRL official, reports news agency PTI.As per the revised timetable, train frequency on Saturdays will be 8 minutes and 15 seconds during peak hours and 10 minutes during non-peak hours, similar to weekdays’ timetable. On Sundays, the frequency will be 10 minutes instead of 15 minutes. The frequency of trains too will be increased from Saturday. An additional train will be kept as standby to cater to sudden surge, if any, in passenger demand to ensure physical distancing, reports PTI.In addition to these changes, Metro trains in Kochi will henceforth be recognised by their ‘names’. Kochi Metro has taken the step in line with the pattern set by trains of Indian Railways. “The names synchronise with the culture of our country and will assist commuters in quick and easy identification of the trains,” said a release from the Kochi Metro Rail Limited, according to PTI.October 2 is the birth anniversary of Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi, who is one of the most important figures in Indian politics as well as in its struggle for Independence. On Gandhi's birth anniversary, people across the globe reflect on his teachings, especially the values of non-violence and selfless service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-gandhi-jayanti-kochi-metro-to-offer-50-per-cent-discount-on-fares-101633139204646.html
02-10-2021||India||PM pays tributes to Gandhi, Lal Bahadur Shastri on their birth anniversaries||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday paid tributes to Mahatma Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri on their birth anniversaries. Taking to Twitter, Modi said that Mahatma Gandhi's principles are relevant all across the world and give strength to millions of people. “I bow to respected Bapu on Gandhi Jayanti. His noble principles are globally relevant and give strength to millions,” PM Modi wrote on the microblogging site.Mahatma Gandhi, who is considered as the Father of the Nation, was a lawyer and an anti-colonial nationalist, who played a crucial role in India's Independence from British rule. Every year, his birth anniversary on October 2 is celebrated as Gandhi Jayanti and is observed as a national holiday. This time, it is his 152nd birthday.राष्ट्रपिता महात्मा गांधी को उनकी जन्म-जयंती पर विनम्र श्रद्धांजलि। पूज्य बापू का जीवन और आदर्श देश की हर पीढ़ी को कर्तव्य पथ पर चलने के लिए प्रेरित करता रहेगा।I bow to respected Bapu on Gandhi Jayanti. His noble principles are globally relevant and give strength to millions.People across India observe Gandhi Jayanti through prayer services and tributes. Similar events also take place at the Raj Ghat in New Delhi, a memorial to the Mahatma. Last year, Prime Minister Modi, President Ram Nath Kovind paid tributes to Gandhi at the Raj Ghat. Modi was seen laying a wreath and offering prayers at the Gandhi Samadhi in the memorial.In 2007, the United Nations said that October 2 will be observed as the International Day of Non-Violence which aims to "disseminate the message of non-violence, including through education and public awareness."While paying tributes to Lal Bahadur Shastri on his birth anniversary, PM Modi said that Shastri's life, which was based on values and principles, will always remain a source of inspiration for India's citizens.पूर्व प्रधानमंत्री लाल बहादुर शास्त्री जी को उनकी जयंती पर शत-शत नमन। मूल्यों और सिद्धांतों पर आधारित उनका जीवन देशवासियों के लिए हमेशा प्रेरणास्रोत बना रहेगा।Lal Bahadur Shastri was the second Prime Minister of India from 1964-66 and earlier served in key positions in Jawaharlal Nehru's cabinet. He was a key figure in India's independence movement along with Mahatma Gandhi. Shastri was regarded as a secularist who rejected the mixing of politics and religion. He led India during the war with Pakistan in 1965 and is known for his slogan ‘Jai Jawan Jai Kisan’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-pays-tributes-to-gandhi-lal-bahadur-shastri-on-their-birth-anniversaries-101633137752849.html
02-10-2021||India||Lal Bahadur Shastri’s 117th birth anniversary: Remembering India's 2nd PM||Saturday marks the birth anniversary of India's second prime minister, Lal Bahadur Shastri, who was born on October 2, 1904, in Uttar Pradesh's Mughalsarai. Shastri was among the leading propagators towards India’s freedom struggle and fought especially for the poor of the nation. He joined the freedom struggle in 1920 and participated in the Non-Cooperation Movement of 1921."Tributes to former prime minister Lal Bahadur Shastri ji on his birth anniversary. His life based on values and principles will always remain a source of inspiration for the countrymen," Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted on Saturday.Here is remembering Lal Bahadur Shastri:1. In 1930, Shastri participated in the Salt Satyagraha, for which he was imprisoned for more than two years. He became a loyal follower, first of Mahatma Gandhi and then of Jawaharlal Nehru.2. He participated in the 1942 Quit India Movement as India raised its demand for the British to leave.3. He became the Prime Minister in 1964 after Jawaharlal Nehru's demise and led India during the war with Pakistan in 1965. As the prime minister, he stopped drawing his salary during the war between India and Pakistan in 1965, when the nation was facing a food shortage.4. Shastri was also responsible for the White Revolution, a campaign that supported the production of milk. In 1965, he also promoted the Green Revolution in India with the aim of farmers' prosperity and to make India self-reliant in foodgrain production. Green Revolution remains the model operation in India that benefited the states of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.5. Shastri continues to inspire India's farmers and soldiers as he is the man behind the iconic slogan of "Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan".6. "India will have to hang down her head in shame if even one person is left who is said in any way to be untouchable," was one among his many inspirational quotes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lal-bahadur-shastri-s-117th-birth-anniversary-remembering-india-s-2nd-pm-101633136812356.html
02-10-2021||India||PM Modi to launch Jal Jeevan Mission app, Rashtriya Jal Jeevan Kosh today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Saturday virtually interact with gram panchayats and village water and sanitation committees (VWSC) on the Jal Jeevan Mission, according to a statement issued by the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO). The PMO statement on Friday said that PM Modi will also launch the Jal Jeevan Mission mobile application for improving awareness among stakeholders and for greater transparency and accountability of schemes under the initiative.PM Modi will also launch the Rashtriya Jal Jeevan Kosh, which will facilitate contributions for providing tap water connection in every rural household, school, Anganwadi centre, etc. Contributions can be made by any individual, organisation, philanthropist, be it in India or overseas.“At 11 AM tomorrow, 2nd October, I will be taking part in an interesting programme relating to Jal Shakti and rural empowerment. I would interact with Gram Panchayats and Pani Samitis. Jal Jeevan Mission App and Rashtriya Jal Jeevan Kosh would be launched,” PM Modi tweeted on Friday.At 11 AM tomorrow, 2nd October, I would be taking part in an interesting programme relating to Jal Shakti and rural empowerment. I would interact with Gram Panchayats and Pani Samitis. Jal Jeevan Mission App and Rashtriya Jal Jeevan Kosh would be launched. https://t.co/N01N4wlFZVThe Jal Jeevan Mission was announced by the Prime Minister in August 2019 to provide clean tap water to all households. At the time of its launch, only 17% (32.3 million) of the country’s rural households had a tap water supply.“Despite Covid-19 pandemic, in the last two years, more than 5 Crore households have been provided with tap water connections. As on date, about 8.26 Crore (43%) rural households have tap water supply in their homes. Every rural household in 78 districts, 58 thousand Gram Panchayats and 1.16 lakh villages are getting tap water supply,” the PMO statement said, adding that as of now, tap water supply has been provided in 772,000 schools and 748,000 Anganwadi centres.The initiative has been implemented in partnership with states with a budget of ₹36,000,000, and ₹14,200,000 has been further given to Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs) “as a tied grant under the 15th Finance Commission for water and sanitation in villages for the period 2021-2022 to 2025-2026.”“Nation-wide Gram Sabhas on Jal Jeevan Mission will also take place during the day. The Gram Sabhas will discuss planning and management of village water supply systems and also work towards long-term water security,” the PMO statement also read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-launch-jal-jeevan-mission-app-rashtriya-jal-jeevan-kosh-today-101633136043213.html
02-10-2021||India||On Gandhi Jayanti, know the importance of forest satyagraha||Forest satyagraha emerged as an important part of India's freedom struggle during 1930 when Mahatma Gandhi started the Civil Disobedience Movement. It was from Chhattisgarh's Tamora village that the tribals of that area followed Gandhi's path of non-violence through forest satyagraha against the British. The movement was led by Dayabati, a girl from the Tamora village.History of forest satyagrahaForest satyagraha was a unique feature of the Gandhian movement in Chhattisgarh in 1930. The forest law of British started in 1930, under which the entry of animals into the forest for fodder was banned and there was a compulsion to keep animals at home. It is said that while implementing the forest law, the British captured most of the cattle of Tamora and the surrounding villages. The cattle owners were also accused of breaking the forest law and the tribals were harassed in the name of the law.In the forest satyagraha, the forest laws were disobeyed in several ways, such as by leaving the cattle for grazing in the prohibited forests, by collecting wood and leaves from these forests without obtaining permission from the forest authorities and by a social boycott of the forest and revenue departments employees of the British. The main theme was to cut grass and twigs from the forests so as to protest and disobey British laws. The peasants, villagers and tribal men and women played an active and important role in this movement.The satyagrahis urged the British officers to release the animals and when they did not obey, the forest dwellers passed a resolution. The movement was started by Yeti Yatanlal and Shankar Ganoudwale, who were looking after the proceedings of India's freedom struggle for Chhattisgarh. On September 6, 1930, the last resolution to break the forest law was passed.Forest rightsChhattisgarh has emerged as a leading state in recognition of individual and community forest rights. More than 441,000 individuals and over 46,000 community forest rights have been distributed to the scheduled tribes and other traditional forest dwellers. Under the Forest Rights Act, 2006, 1,158 hectares of forest land has been provided to various departments for conducting 2,309 projects regarding 13 purposes including roads and community centres, schools, dispensaries, Anganwadis and fair price shops, reports news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-gandhi-jayanti-know-the-importance-of-forest-satyagraha-101633131489931.html
02-10-2021||NA||Breaking News: Dubai's Burj Khalifa illuminates Mahatma Gandhi's image||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:Dubai's Burj Khalifa illuminates Mahatma Gandhi's imageUnited Arab Emirates: Burj Khalifa in Dubai illuminates Mahatma Gandhi's image on the occasion of his birth anniversary pic.twitter.com/KB9IPt2qooTaliban to deploy suicide bombers at borders; eye on Tajikistan: ReportThe Taliban have created an exclusive battalion of suicide bombers to be deployed at the borders of the country, especially in the Badakhshan province which is at the border between Afghanistan and Tajikistan, reports said. Read MoreTesla delivers 241,300 vehicles in Q3, beats analysts' estimatesTesla Inc said on Saturday it had delivered 241,300 electric cars in the third quarter, beating Wall Street estimates after Chief Executive Elon Musk asked staff to "go super hardcore" to meet targets.Analysts had expected the electric-car maker to deliver 229,242 vehicles, according to Refinitiv data.Next round of military talks with China on LAC row soon, says Army chief Gen NaravaneArmy chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Saturday said that the next round of military talks with the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) to cool tensions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh could take place in the second week of October. Read MoreMore than 6.3 billion Covid-19 shots administered worldwide: ReportMore than 6.3 billion doses have been administered—enough to fully vaccinate 41% of the global population, according to a report by Bloomberg.'When it comes to Gadkari's projects...': Sharad Pawar praises Nitin GadkariAt a time when speculations about the rift of the partners of Maha Vikas Aghadi government are rife, NCP chief Sharad Pawar showered praises on BJP leader and Union minister Nitin Gadkari saying Gadkari is a great example of how a people's representative can work for the development of the country.Former Punjab CM Amarinder Singh says Congress in total state of panicFormer chief minister Amarinder Singh termed the political crisis in Punja “a comedy of errors." He also said that the party is “in total state of panic" ahead of the legislative assembly elections. Entire affair in Punjab orchestrated by Navjot Singh Sidhu, aides: Former Punjab CM SinghI have won every election in Punjab since 2017. It was not the people who'd lost trust in me. Entire affair was orchestrated by Navjot Singh Sidhu & his aides. Don't know why they're allowing him to dictate terms even now, says Former Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder SinghPM Modi slams oppositions for ‘political deceit’, ‘intellectual dishonesty’Accusing the opposition of "intellectual dishonesty" and "political deceit" in its criticism of his government, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said tough and big decisions need to be taken to bring benefits to citizens who should have received them decades ago.When a CM loses MLAs' trust, he should step down from the post: SurjewalaWhen a CM loses MLAs' trust, he should step down from the post. Out of 79, 78 MLAs had written that CM should be changed. If we wouldn't have changed the chief minister, it would've been termed as dictatorship: Congress leader Randeep SurjewalaDomestic help held after cam footage shows her torturing 10-month-old girl in BengalA 50-year-old maid was arrested after app-cam footage showed her torturing the 10-month-old girl of her employer at East Midnapore district in West Bengal late on Friday.India's exports cross $100 billion-mark in previous quarterIndia’s exports in September 2021 stood at USD 33.44 billion, as compared to USD 33.28 billion in August and USD 35.17 billion in July. This is the first-ever quarter with over USD 100 billion in exports for India: Ministry of Commerce & IndustryPaddy procurement to start from Oct 3The procurement (of Kharif crops) will start from tomorrow in Haryana as well as Punjab, announces Ashwini Kumar Choubey, MoS, Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution in DelhiED seizes assets of man convicted for hooch tragedy in BiharEnforcement Directorate took possession of 15 immovable properties worth ₹1.31 crores belonging to Sanjay Pratap Singh, his wife, Kiran Devi and his associate, Srikumar Singh on September 30 in a case of illegal liquor trade arising out of FIR over hooch tragedy in which 21 people died in Nawada, Bihar, it said in a statement.Delhi CM Kejriwal to announce 'winter action plan' on Oct 4Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal will announce 'Winter Action Plan' to fight pollution in city on October 4, announced Environment Minister Gopal Rai.EC freezes LJP's party symbol as tussle continues between Chirag Paswan and Paras-led factionElection Commission of India (ECI) freezes Lok Janshakti Party's symbol amid tussle between factions of Chirag Pawan and Pashupati Kumar Paras.France' Le Drian to hold talks with US State Secretary on Oct 5France’s foreign minister Le Drian to hold talks with US Secretary of State Antony Blinken on October 5, reports news agency Reuters.‘Post or no post, will stand by Rahul, Priyanka Gandhi', tweets SidhuWill uphold principles of Gandhi Ji & Shastri Ji … Post or No Post will stand by @RahulGandhi & @priyankagandhi ! Let all negative forces try to defeat me, but with every ounce of positive energy will make Punjab win, Punjabiyat (Universal Brotherhood) win & every punjabi win !! pic.twitter.com/6r4pYte06EMLAs going on their own wish: Chhattisgarh CM BaghelThe MLAs are going on their own wish, they are independent...but there is no political movement, says Chhattisgarh chief minister and Congress leader Bhupesh Baghel.India crosses landmark of 900 million Covid-19 vaccinations, says health minister MandaviyaIndia crosses the landmark of 90 crore #COVID19 vaccinations.श्री शास्त्री जी ने 'जय जवान - जय किसान' का नारा दिया था।श्रद्धेय अटल जी ने 'जय विज्ञान' जोड़ाऔर PM @NarendraModi जी ने 'जय अनुसंधान' का नारा दिया। आज अनुसंधान का परिणाम यह कोरोना वैक्सीन है।#JaiAnusandhan pic.twitter.com/V1hyi5i6RQUnion health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Saturday that India has crossed the landmark of 900 million vaccinations against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). U'khand govt appoints Dr Pankaj Pandey as new state information secyThe Uttarakhand government on Saturday appointed Dr Pankaj Kumar Pandey as the state's new information secretary, news agency ANI reported. Modi launches Jal Jeevan Mission app; says initiative driven by villages, womenPrime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday that the vision of his government’s Jal Jeevan Mission is not only to provide water to people, but also to ensure decentralisation. Read morePM Modi launches Jal Jeevan Mission mobile appPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday launched the Jal Jeevan Mission mobile application- which aims to improve awareness among stakeholders and for greater transparency and accountability of schemes under the initiative.Odisha saw record September rainfall in 14 years, farmers’ woes riseA burst of rainfall propelled by a deep depression across the Bay of Bengal in September this year made it the wettest September in the last 14 years in Odisha. Read moreOver 881 million vaccines doses given to states, says CentreThe Union health ministry said on Saturday that more than 881 million doses of the vaccine against Covid-19 have been provided to states and Union Territories (UTs) so far through the government (free of cost channel) and direct state procurement category. Earthquake of 4.1 magnitude jolts Arunachal PradeshAn earthquake of magnitude 4.1 on the Richter scale occurred 143 km NNW of Basar, Arunachal Pradesh at 10:15 IST today: National Center for SeismologyFrom Nov, Delhi govt to start survey to track inactive ration cards: MinisterFrom November, the Aam-Aadmi Party (AAP)-led government in Delhi will begin carrying out a door-to-door survey to track ration cards, which have been inactive for the past two to three months, Delhi food minister Imran Hussain has said. Read moreIndia logs 24,354 fresh Covid cases, active cases lowest in 197 daysIndia on Saturday saw a slight fall in its daily tally of the coronavirus disease after 24,354 new cases were reported in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload to 33,791,061. The active cases stand at 273,889, the lowest in 197 days. On Gandhi Jayanti, Kochi Metro to offer 50 per cent discount on faresOn the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti, the Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) has decided to offer a 50 per cent discount on train fares to all commuters. Kochi 1 Card Holders (Trip Pass) also will get a cashback of the difference in amount to their card. Read morePM pays tributes to Gandhi, Lal Bahadur Shastri on their birth anniversariesPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday paid tributes to Mahatma Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri on their birth anniversaries. Read moreFully vaccinated people not following Covid norms at risk: Maha Dy CM PawarMaharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar warned that fully vaccinated people in the state who are not following all Covid-19 related protocols are exposing themselves to the virus. "We conducted a survey and found that around 0.19 per cent of people who have taken the first dose are found infected with Covid-19 and around 0.25 per cent people were found infected after taking both doses of vaccine," Pawar said on Friday, according to news agency ANI. PM Modi to launch Jal Jeevan Mission app, Rashtriya Jal Jeevan Kosh todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will on Saturday virtually interact with gram panchayats and village water and sanitation committees (VWSC) on the Jal Jeevan Mission, according to a statement issued by the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO). Read moreCalifornia to impose US' first vaccine mandate for school studentsCalifornia will become the first state in the United States to impose the first Covid-19 vaccine mandate for school students, news agency AP reported on Friday. Governor Gavin Newsom said on Friday that the vaccine mandate won't take effect for all children until the government has finished fully vetting the vaccine for two age groups — 12 to 15 and 5 to 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-october-2-2021-101633134663002.html
02-10-2021||India||Engaging with India on vaccine certification recognition: UK reacts to reciprocal move||The UK has said it is “continuing to engage” with India on technical cooperation to expand its recognition of vaccine certification after New Delhi decided to impose reciprocal measures on British nationals. UK nationals arriving in the country from Britain will have to undergo mandatory quarantine at home or in the destination address for 10 days after their arrival. "The UK is continuing to work on expanding the policy to countries and territories across the globe in a phased approach. We are continuing to engage with the Government of India on technical cooperation to expand UK recognition of vaccine certification to people vaccinated by a relevant public health body in India," the British High Commission spokesperson said in a statement according to news agency ANI.According to the spokesperson, the United Kingdom is open to travel and they are seeing a lot of people going from India to the UK, be it tourists, business people or students. "Over 62,500 student visas have been issued in the year ending June 2021, which is an increase of almost 30% as compared to the previous year. We want to make the process of travelling as easy as possible,” the spokesperson added.Also read | India hits back at UK with quarantine rulesIndia’s decision came days after the UK announced new travel rules under which Indian travellers, even those who have received both doses of the Covishield vaccine, will be considered unvaccinated. Covishield is the Indian variant of Britain’s AstraZeneca vaccine.Also watch | 10-day quarantine for UK visitors: India imposes reciprocal travel restrictions
02-10-2021||India||Pay ₹10 lakh to families of 2 girls who died at aaganwadi centre: HC to Odisha||BHUBANESWAR: More than nine years after two 4-year-old girls playing at an anganwadi centre drowned in a pit, the Orissa high court has ordered the government to pay ₹10 lakh each to the parents of the children ruling that their death was a violation of the constitutional right to life of the two young children. Asking the state government to pay the compensation within a month, the bench of chief justice S Muralidhar and justice BP Routray said death of two little children was entirely avoidable and would not have occurred if barricades had been erected around the excavated pits where the two kids drowned.On September 7, 2012, bodies of Monalisa Naik, the daughter of Jambeswar Naik and Priyanka Das, daughter of Pitabas Das, were found in the waterlogged pits excavated in the anganwadi centre operating in the premises of Tentulihata Project upper primary school under Banarpal Block of Angul district. Both the girls fell in the 4.5 feet deep pit that was dug for construction of additional classrooms.Their parents approached the high court seeking action to fix responsibility on those responsible for the death of their children as well as compensation.The high court said the photographs proved that that the rainwater filled pits were left unguarded with no warning sign anywhere.“With there being no barricades, no warning boards or signs, there is no way the two young children would have known that there were water filled pits, of 4 ½ feet which they had to avoid stepping into. The lack of barricading of the pits or any warning sign appears to be the reason why they met with a tragic death. There can be no doubt therefore that there was gross negligence on the part of the school management and the district administration in not barricading these pits. There was a complete absence of any standard of care or even anticipation of the likely danger posed by an unguarded excavated pit 4 ½ feet of depth,” the court said.The court said the State has to “endeavour to provide early childhood care and education for all children until they complete the age of six years” and a safe and secure environment should have been provided even to children attending anganwadi centres.It also asked all district collectors to ensure strict compliance with the Supreme Court’s 2009 guidelines for prevention of fatal accidents involving children. The guidelines were issued after a 6-year-old child, Prince, was stuck in a 60-feet borewell in Haryana’s Kurukshetra district. Prince was rescued after a 50-hour-long operation by National Disaster Response Force and army.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pay-rs-10-lakh-to-families-of-2-girls-who-died-at-aaganwadi-centre-hc-to-odisha-101633121199799.html
02-10-2021||India||Another JD(S) MLC may quit party, likely to join BJP next year||Bengaluru The Janata Dal (Secular) suffered a fresh blow on Friday as another serving legislator from the party expressed his intent to join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) next year. Sandesh Nagaraj, the JD(S) legislative council member, on Friday said that there was no “doubt” that he wanted to join the BJP. “I was not in contact with JD(S) for the last one and half years and will remain their legislator till January 5, 2022. No doubt about it,” Nagaraj said on Friday. Nagaraj’s term in the upper house of the state legislature ends on January 5 next year. The statements come days after Srinivas Gowda, the sitting MLA from Kolar decided to part ways with the JD(S) on September 21 and is expected to join the Congress. Srinivas Gowda on Friday said that he was “neglected” by the party because of the “father and sons”. At least two other legislators have also hinted at the possibility of departing from the JD(S), which its detractors and members have often attributed to the family-centric style of politics. “We have a factory that produces political leaders. Like vision 123, from 1983 we have continued to produce them, they take training from us and after completion they go wherever they get a higher salary,” HD Revanna, Deve Gowda’s son and senior JD(S) leader said on Friday.He, however, said that he will not like to comment on Srinivas Gowda or his comments.JD(S) had lost power in 2019 after three of its legislators and 14 others from the Congress, its alliance partner, defected to the BJP after the Lok Sabha elections that helped reinstate BS Yediyurappa to a fourth-term as chief minister. The simmering dissent within the JD(S) started to boil over since its alliance with the Congress in 2018 to keep the BJP out of power. The cadre of the JD(S) and Congress have fought bitter and bloody battles in the Old Mysuru region and were willing to move towards the BJP when the two decided to fight out the 2019 Lok Sabha elections together. This was further compounded when former chief minister HD Kumaraswamy imposed the candidature of his actor son, Nikhil, from Mandya over several other aspirants in which the JD(S) lost by a huge margin against a BJP-backed independent, Sumalatha. Former Prime Minister Deve Gowda too lost in the 2019 assembly elections after he decided to give his Hassan seat to his other grandson, Prajwal Revanna, and decided to contest from Tumakuru, in which he lost to a relatively unknown BJP candidate. The BJP won an unprecedented 25 out of the 28 parliamentary seats in Karnataka, reducing the JD(S) and Congress to just one each. The BJP and Congress are both gaining from the dissent within the JD(S) that draws its strength from the Old Mysuru region in Karnataka, where the dominant Vokkaliga community continues to back the regional outfit. The developments come barely a month before the two bypolls--Hanagal and Sindgi--on October 30 and the soon-to-be held Zilla and Taluk Panchayat elections that would serve as a good indicator for the 2023 assembly elections. The BJP is looking to make inroads into the old Mysuru region to help the saffron outfit return to power on its own in the 2023 assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-jd-s-mlc-may-quit-party-likely-to-join-bjp-next-year-101633120717675.html
02-10-2021||India||Panchamasalis call off plans for hunger strike over reservation demands after Karnataka CM Bommai’s assurance||Bengaluru Satisfied with the assurances made by chief minister Basavaraj Bommai, the Panchamasalis, the largest sub-sect under the dominant Lingayat community, on Friday decided to back down from its plans for an indefinite hunger strike over reservation-related demands.The Panchamasali sub-sect had warned of starting a hunger strike from October 1 if the assurances made by former chief minister BS Yediyurappa was not fulfilled by September 25. Basava Jaya Mruthyunjaya Swami, the pontiff of the influential Kudalasangama Panchamasali Peetha said that the community would not undertake the satyagraha after assurances made by the chief minister.The pontiff said that the community leaders would request the government to get the report of the backward classes commission and once handed, they would wait three months before they revive their struggle.“The state government should get the report from the backward classes commission at the earliest. After the report comes, we demand that the government give us our reservation within three months to which they have agreed. If not, we will revive our protests and continue our satyagraha in Bengaluru,” the seer said on Friday.Bommai and other senior leaders from the government held discussions with the seer and other prominent leaders of the struggle on Friday morning in what has become a successful bid to get the latter to forgo the agitation.The overt assurances made by the Basavaraj Bommai-led government feeds into and from the same politics in which dominant communities continue to be prioritised over marginalised groups who have sought to block the Panchamasali into the 2A category as it would further deprive the latter of reservation-assured opportunities.“We had requested the seer not to go ahead with the Satyagraha,” CC Patil, Karnataka’s minister for public works and a member of the Panchamasali sub-sect said on Friday.He said that the government was committed to help the community and was the only one to have reciprocated to their demands.This development comes as a major relief to Bommai who has been battling one crisis after another and has tried to keep all of them under check to avoid adding more challenges to his already challenging term in office. The decision by the community comes a month ahead of the two bypolls in Hanagal and Sindgi on October 30 which the BJP is hoping to win and add to its overall tally.The Panchamasalis have kept up their struggle to be included in the 2A category from the existing 3B in the state reservation list to get better opportunities for its followers.Former chief minister BS Yediyurappa, a Lingayat himself, has long depended on this community to propel his and the BJP’s fortunes in the southern state over decades.In Karnataka, caste-groups are believed to back one of the three major political parties--BJP, Congress and JD(S)--which allows these outfits to pander to the interests of these specific communities which continues to bolster the dominant-caste political culture in the state.The BJP is believed to have the backing of the Lingayats and Brahmins while the Congress counts sections of the backward classes, scheduled caste and minorities as its support base. The Vokkaligas, another dominant community, have stood firmly behind former Prime Minister HD Deve Gowda and his former chief minister son, HD Kumaraswamy-led JD(S).The statements come at a time when several caste groups have intensified their respective demands for better reservation opportunities in employment and education.Caste plays an important factor in Karnataka’s political and social life as well as targeted policy to help get the backing of such communities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/panchamasalis-call-off-plans-for-hunger-strike-over-reservation-demands-after-karnataka-cm-bommai-s-assurance-101633120064503.html
02-10-2021||India||Two-year-old girl found dead in Karnataka village, police suspect human sacrifice||Bengaluru: The Belagavi police have started probe into a suspected case of black magic after a two-year-old girl who was found unconscious in a sugarcane field in Halyal village near Athani on September 23 died on Friday. Police said that there were signs of torture, especially burn marks on the girl’s body. The girl was under treatment for burn injuries at the Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences (BIMS), however, she died in the hospital on Friday morning. “She was found by some farmers who had heard her crying. They took her to a private hospital. From there she was shifted to the BIMS after her condition worsened,” said a senior district police official. According to officials, initially, sexual assault was suspected as there were cigarette burns on the body. However, a medical test report confirmed there was no sexual assault. “During the investigation, we realized the burns were made using camphor and almond oil. Since they were commonly used in black magic and the patterns on the body suggested the same, we are investigating the same,” the officials added. Police said they were unable to identify the girl yet. Police had circulated photographs of the child and requested people for any information about her or her family. She wasn’t able to give a statement to the police either since she was unconscious. “To identify her we have circulated her photograph in neighboring districts. We have asked all stations to provide details of the missing complaints reported in the station,” said police officials. The investigators are suspecting that the parents of the girl could be involved in the case, since no missing complaints have been filed in any of the stations. “We have even sent her photos and requested information from police departments of Maharashtra and Telangana police, but there was no information,” added Athani police officials. On March 21, two grandchildren of a former MLA were found dead under mysterious circumstances near a lake at Ballatagi village in Sirwar taluk on Monday, triggering suspicion of witchcraft behind their death. Varun (9), and his younger brother, Sannaiah (5), who went missing on March 19, were found dead the following day, sending shockwaves through the village, which has seen unabated incidents of children being allegedly killed by those performing black magic. Karnataka Prevention and Eradication of Inhuman Evil Practices and Black Magic Act, 2017 received the assent of the governor on December 6, 2017, and was formally notified by the current BJP government on January 4, 2020. However, activists say that instances of black magic are still reported in the region. “These are not first instances of black magic in the district and particularly in north Karnataka. As of now, police are only acting when there is pressure on them, and no proactive steps have been taken by them. The situation is such that the mobile numbers of black magicians are easily available in Belagavi but no action has been taken,” said a Belagavi-based activist and lawyer, who didn’t want to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twoyearold-girl-found-dead-in-karnataka-village-police-suspect-human-sacrifice-101633119698673.html
02-10-2021||India||Karnataka govt issues fresh order to raze old buildings in Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Even as the Bengaluru city administration has identified 185 old buildings that are at the risk of collapse, only 10 have been demolished so far, said Karnataka revenue minister R Ashok on Friday. He said that instructions to demolish these buildings were given in 2019 itself, but no action was taken. Fresh instructions have been issued to demolish these buildings within seven days and to conduct a fresh survey to identify more old buildings which are at the risk of collapse, he added. “Even though there are 185 such old buildings, only 10 of them have been demolished so far,” said the minister. He said that instructions and a deadline have been given to authorities regarding these instances. “We have given them seven days to time to issue notices to these buildings. The deadline is just for one week,” said Ashok. The minister added if these buildings are not demolished within the seven days, respective departments have been asked to demolish the buildings with the help of the police. He also added that the cost of demolition will be added to the existing property tax dues of the owners. The revenue minister further added that while the seven-day notice was issued to the building identified in the survey conducted in 2019, a fresh survey will be conducted to find buildings that are in a dangerous condition that didn’t come under the 2019 survey. “We have given 15 days to Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) to identify any building that is in a damaged state and could collapse. A deadline has been given to concerned departments to provide this report within 15 days and notices should be issued at the earliest,” the minister added. According to Ashok, action will be taken against BBMP officials, who have allowed construction near old buildings. “It has come to our notice that construction has been allowed near buildings that are old. Several buildings have collapsed in the past after the builders undertook digging work to construct new buildings. We will identify officials who have given permission for such construction without adequate protection,” added Ashok. BBMP commissioner Gaurav Gupta said that orders have been issued to conduct a fresh survey in the city to identify buildings at the danger of collapse. The statement comes two days after two old buildings in the city collapsed. A day after a building collapsed in south Bengaluru’s Lakkasandra, another three-storied building collapsed in the same locality on Tuesday. Though suffered major injuries, however, according to eyewitness accounts some occupants of the building escaped in the nick of time. Three people sustained minor injuries in the incident. According to the department of fire and emergency services, the building was located on the premises of the Karnataka Milk Federation (KMF) at the dairy circle and it was occupied by the staffers of Bangalore Milk Union Limited (Bamul). Residents noticed cracks in the building on Tuesday morning and the department was alerted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-govt-issues-fresh-order-to-raze-old-buildings-in-bengaluru-101633119463446.html
02-10-2021||India||Have no role in charity trust land allotment case: Kalaburagi MP Umesh Jadhav||Bengaluru Umesh Jadhav, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) member of Lok Sabha from Kalaburagi, on Friday said he had no part to play in the Murthy Charitable Trust case in which it was alleged that land costing several crores was sold off for under ₹22 lakh.Jadhav said that it was a non-profitable charity trust and the Civic Amenity (CA) site was allotted in 2004 on an outright sale basis.“On paying the outright sale consideration a conditional sale deed was executed in favour of the trust by putting it in possession of the said CA site. At that point of time neither my wife nor me were part of the trust and I was working under the Central Government as its employee. During 2020, the said trust requested my wife to become a trustee to promote its public activities and my wife with an intention to serve (the) public at large accepted the said offer. Thereafter, as per the process of law the Karnataka Housing Board has executed an absolute sale deed,” Jadhav said in a statement on Friday.He added that the entire process was done according to the law.“My wife has no pecuniary interest in the matter and as a philanthropist she wanted to assist the trust,” he added. The Karnataka high court on Thursday had quashed an absolute sale deed executed by the Karnataka Housing Board (KHB) in favour of a trust headed by the MP’s wife.The court alleged favouritism and even imposed a ₹1 lakh fine on the KHB as well as ordered to hold an inquiry into the alleged transaction and recover the cost from erring officials.The petitioner had alleged that there was collusion in the transaction which was executed 16 years after the allotment to circumvent the conditions of the original allotment.The land in question is a 278 square meter parcel of land in Yelahanka New Town which was originally allotted in August 2004, but the KHB had executed the sale deed only on July 28 last year.The petitioner, Adinayarana Shetty, had claimed that the land costing upwards of ₹10 crore was sold for just under ₹22 lakh.Jadhav had won Kalaburagi MP seat in 2019 after he managed to hand Congress heavyweight, Mallikarjun Kharge, his very first electoral defeat.“My political opponents have set up an alleged public spirited person to challenge the granting of such CA site in favour of the trust on the ground that the trust has not complied the condition of the conditional sale deed of putting up construction within two years, which the trust has complied and the condition is also not mandatorily required to be complied. Whether my wife is a trustee or not, the activity of the trust would go on for public purpose(s) as was done from 2004 to 2020, in her absence,” Jadhav said.He added that a prevailing market value of the site as of 2004 was duly paid.“Further the trust was also entitled for marginal land which it had possession right from the year 2004. Accordingly, at the present rate an amount of Rs. 18,00,000 crore is paid in addition. The high court has allowed the Writ Petition and has quashed the sale deed of the trust, but unnecessarily my name is dragged in though I have no interest in the matter. The trust is at liberty to take appropriate action as per law and I have nothing to say in the matter,” the MP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/have-no-role-in-charity-trust-land-allotment-case-kalaburgi-mp-umesh-jadhav-101633119037822.html
02-10-2021||India||Karnataka schools resume classes with 100% capacity as new Covid relaxations kick in||Bengaluru Schools across Karnataka resumed physical classes with 100% capacity as the state government’s new relaxations came into effect on Friday. According to the fresh guidelines issued by the Basavaraj Bommai-led government, all schools with classes from 6 to 12 can operate with full capacity as Covid-19 positivity rates continue to remain on the lower side. BC Nagesh, Karnataka’s minister for primary and secondary education on Friday said that the government has given instructions to schools to hold classes from morning till evening. “We have also said that there students should not be compelled to attend since there is no lunch served,” Nagesh said on Friday. Students have started returning to schools since their phase-wise reopening since the last week of August. The Karnataka government has also allowed cinema halls, schools and other categories of institutions to resume 100% operations from Friday in places where the positivity rate is below 1%. Pubs will also resume operations with 100% capacity from October 3. There was an average of over 63% attendance in classes above class 9 as against just over 50% in classes from 6 to 8, according to government data on Friday. Karnataka recorded 589 new Covid infections in a 24-hour period, taking the active case load to 12,469, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department on Friday. The average positivity rate of Karnataka stood at 0.46%. However, 13 more people succumbed to the virus, taking the death toll to 37,807 with a case fatality rate of 2.20%. There are at least three schools in Bengaluru, Mandya and Kolar thay have been closed down as several covid positive cases were detected in them over the last week. Meanwhile, parents associations in Bengaluru will hold a protest on Saturday against private schools demanding full fees from students despite the government orders. The state government said that it will take a call on reopening classes for students for classes 1 to 5 post the Dasara holidays later this month. “After Dasara we will discuss the next course of action,” Nagesh had said. He added that there are several regions across Karnataka where positivity rate is zero and there should be no problems for students to return to schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-schools-resume-classes-with-100-capacity-as-new-covid-relaxations-kick-in-101633118857758.html
02-10-2021||India||SC seeks army, Centre’s reply on denial of permanent commission||The Supreme Court on Friday directed the army and Centre to respond to the petitions filed by 72 women short service commission officers (WSSCO) who have alleged they were denied permanent commission in violation of the apex court’s March 25 judgment. The said decision had directed all WSSCOs who secured over 60% marks to be eligible for permanent commission, subject to disciplinary and vigilance clearance.A bench of justices DY Chandrachud and BV Nagarathna directed the Centre and Army to file their response by October 8 and ordered that none of the 72 WSSCOs be released from service.The women officers had filed contempt petitions against the decision of the army to deny them permanent commission (PC) after the results of the Special No 5 Selection Board (SB-5) held in September 2020 were declassified earlier this week.Senior advocates Huzefa Ahmadi, Meenakshi Arora and V Mohana, who represented the 72 officers, claimed the army had been “unfair” in denying the WSSCOs their right to PC by rejecting them on grounds such as “disobedience of orders, lapses in government procurement, forging medical documents, poor work ethics, lack of professionalism, un-officer like conduct, poor performance in courses”, which were not laid down as grounds in the March 25 judgment by the SC.They said the Centre pointed out that of the 529 WSSCOs who opted for PC, 514 fulfilled 60% marks criteria and 72 among them were held ineligible on other grounds. The court said, “You must implement the judgment (March 25) as it stands...”Additional solicitor general (ASG) Sanjay Jain sought time to file response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-seeks-army-centre-s-reply-on-denial-of-permanent-commission-to-72-women-officers-101633118437387.html
02-10-2021||India||Bipin Rawat, Lloyd Austin discuss India-US defence ties||India and the US discussed enhanced defence cooperation in domains such as space, cyber, and emerging technologies, during a meeting between Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin and Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat on Thursday.In the meeting, described by the US as “historic”, the two sides exchanged views on priorities for advancing the defence partnership between the two countries. This was General Rawat’s first Pentagon visit.Austin underscored US’ “commitment to supporting the Indian Armed Forces’ transition toward greater institutional integration and operational jointness”, Pentagon press secretary John Kirby said in readout of the meeting. “They also discussed opportunities for expanding multilateral cooperation with regional partners.”“This historic meeting highlights the enduring strength of the US-India Major Defense Partnership as the two countries work in concert with like-minded partners to sustain a free and open Indo-Pacific,” Kirby said further.India and the US have a close defence relationship with growing defence trade between them and joint military exercises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cds-bipin-rawat-lloyd-austin-discuss-india-us-defence-ties-101633118139846.html
02-10-2021||India||Haryana cops use water cannons to disperse farmers in Jhajjar, Ambala||Jhajjar/Ambala: The Haryana Police used water cannons on Friday to disperse farmers who had gathered in Jhajjar and Ambala to oppose events of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) leaders.In Jhajjar, the protesters jumped barricaded and tried to enter the venue where Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala was to attend a programme.The venue of the event was a government college in Jhajjar.The police said they used a water cannon to disperse the protesters as they gathered near the venue and some of them jumped over the barricades to force their way inside.Jhajjar’s senior police officials and the deputy commissioner reached the spot to oversee law and order.In Ambala district too, the police used a water cannon to disperse a group of farmers who had blocked a road leading to the venue where a party meeting was to be held by the BJP.As soon as the farmers got the information that state BJP chief O P Dhankar and Ambala MP R L Kataria would be reaching the venue for the party meeting, they started gathering in numbers.The farmers sat in the middle of the road and blocked the road leading to the venue.The police said they used a water cannon to disperse the group of the farmers who were blocking the road.On Thursday, a group of farmers had jumped over police barricades in a bid to march towards the venue of a BJP meeting in Karnal’s Indri, police had said.Among those present at the meeting were Indri MLA Ram Kumar Kashyap and senior state BJP leader Pawan Saini.Farmers, who are protesting against the three central farm laws, have been opposing public functions of the BJP-JJP combine in Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-cops-use-water-cannons-to-disperse-farmers-in-jhajjar-ambala-101633117660869.html
02-10-2021||India||Army chief General Naravane reviews security in Eastern Ladakh||Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Friday visited forward areas in eastern Ladakh and reviewed security in a sensitive sector where the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) have been locked in a border standoff for almost 17 months and both sides are carrying out negotiations to cool tensions along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC), officials familiar with the matter said.Naravane visited forward areas in eastern Ladakh where he was briefed on the prevailing security situation and the army’s operational preparedness, the army said in a statement. The army chief interacted with the troops and complimented them “for their resoluteness and high morale,” it added.The two-day visit came barely two months after the rival armies carried out the second round of disengagement in early August and pulled back their forward deployed troops from Gogra or Patrol Point-17A, which was one of the friction points on the LAC. The breakthrough came after the 12th round of military talks held on August 2.Earlier, India and China wrapped up the disengagement process in Pangong Tso area in mid-February, with both armies pulling back forward-deployed troops, tanks, infantry combat vehicles and artillery guns from strategic heights where rival soldiers last year fired shots for the first time at the LAC in 45 years. (The last recorded incident when bullets were fired at the LAC was in October 1975, when the PLA ambushed an Indian patrol in Arunachal Pradesh’s Tulung La and shot four soldiers dead).Problems at Hot Springs and Depsang are yet to be resolved. To be sure, the problems at Depsang predate the current border standoff. Even after the disengagement from Pangong Tso and Gogra, the two sides still have 50,000 to 60,000 troops each in the Ladakh theatre. The dates for the 13th round of talks to discuss the other friction points along the LAC are yet to be announced.The visit also came a day after the army chief said that developments along the LAC in Ladakh added to challenges faced by the Indian military on the “active and disputed borders” in the western and eastern fronts. The “unprecedented” military standoff with China required large-scale mobilisation of resources at a time when the country was grappling with the Covid-19 pandemic, he said, addressing the annual session of PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry.On Thursday, he also visited the Rezang La War Memorial in eastern Ladakh and paid homage to soldiers killed in action during the 1962 India-China war.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-chief-general-naravane-reviews-security-in-eastern-ladakh-101633116877467.html
02-10-2021||India||Centre approves release of ₹7,274 crore to SDRF||The Union government on Friday approved the release of ₹7,274.40 crore to 23 states as part of its share of state disaster response fund (SDRF), which, officials said, could be used by states to pay ex gratia to the families of those whose deaths have been certified as Covid-19 fatalities. Eligible families will receive ₹50,000 each.The ministry of home affairs (MHA) on September 25 revised the items and norms of assistance under the SDRF, making a provision for grant of ex gratia payment to the next of kin of the deceased due to Covid-19.On June 30, the Supreme Court ruled that families that lost dear ones to Covid-19 were entitled to ex gratia payment under the Disaster Management Act, 2005. After the government informed the apex court about paying the compensation ex gratia from SDRF, the court last week said it was happy underlining that “we are certain what India has done, no other country in the world has done”. “We are happy that something has been done to wipe out the tears of persons who have suffered due to Covid-19,” a bench of justices MR Shah and AS Bopanna had said.The MHA in a statement on Friday said “this step of Narendra Modi government will facilitate state governments to have enough funds in their SDRF. The Union minister of home affairs and cooperation, Amit Shah, has approved release of the second instalment of to ₹7,274.40 crore of he central share of the SDRF in advance to 23 states.”Five states have already been provided with advance worth ₹1,599.20 crore.The MHA said the “state governments will now have an amount of ₹23,186.40 crore in their SDRF, including state’s share, during 2021-22, in addition to the amount of opening balance available in their SDRF, to meet the expenses for granting ex gratia to the next of kin of the deceased due to Covid-19 and for providing relief on other notified calamities.”It did not specify which states have been given the funds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-approves-release-of-7-274-crore-to-sdrf-to-pay-ex-gratia-to-families-of-those-died-of-covid-101633116038520.html
02-10-2021||India||PM Narendra Modi launches second phase of Swachh Bharat mission||Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the second phases of the flagship Swachh Bharat mission and the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation or AMRUT on Friday, saying the schemes were aimed at making Indian cities entirely garbage-free and water-secure and ensuring that no sewage pipes drain into the rivers.In his speech, the PM mentioned how India has come a long way from processing of barely 20% of its daily waste before 2014 to about 70% at present, but added that 100% garbage would be processed to create “wealth from waste” and improve standards of living. The total outlay of the two projects was about ₹4.4 lakh crores.“We have to remember that maintaining cleanliness is not just for a day, a fortnight, a year or for a few people, it is a mega campaign for every day, every fortnight, every year, for everyone and a continuous programme from one generation to another,” the PM said.In its second phase, Swachh Bharat will focus on foolproof waste management while AMRUT will focus on enhancing sewerage and septic management and to make all Indian cities water secure. In the second phase, all statutory towns will become at least ODF+ and all cities with less than 1 lakh population would be ODF++, as per the sanitation protocols set by the urban development ministry.The Amrut 2.0 will extends coverage from 500 cities under the first phase to 4,700 cities and towns and provide water tap connections to 26.8 million urban households. The Swachh Bharat Mission will focus on completing liquid waste management in cities with less than 100,000 population and process to remove all legacy dump sites.The government said 4,798 municipal bodies have already signed a memorandum of understanding with the Centre.Additionally, around 350,000 individual, community and public toilets will be constructed.Modi, who took a personal interest in making the Swachh Bharat mission a success, said, “If we look at seven years before 2014, only ₹1.25 lakh crore was allotted for urban development. Under our government, we have allotted nearly ₹4 lakh crore for urban development. This investment has been done on cleanliness, waste management and new sewage treatment plants,”Modi dedicated the schemes a tribute to Mahatma Gandhi, whose 152nd birth anniversary will be celebrated on Saturday, and said, “The journey of Swachh Bharat Abhiyan and AMRUT Mission has instilled pride in every countryman.” proud. He hailed the missions for encapsulating respect, dignity, the people’s ambition and the “unmatched love for the motherland”.The PM said that toilet facilities brought about social changes. “Earlier, many women couldn’t go to work and many girls opted out of the school in the absence of toilets,” he added, noting that not just personal hygiene but social hygiene had also changed, highlighting the example of the Indian Railways.Union ministers Hardeep Singh Puri, Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, Prahlad Singh Patel, Kaushal Kishore, Bishweswar Tudu and ministers from states were present on the occasion.Modi also underlined that the venue, the Ambedkar International Centre, assumes significance as “Babasaheb believed in urban development as a great means of removing inequality.”“Many people from villages come to cities with an aspiration for a better life. They get employment but their standard of living remains in a difficult situation even compared to their lives in the villages. This is like double jeopardy of staying away from home, and after that to stay in such a difficult situation,” the PM added.He once again relied on people’s participation to make the schemes successful and said, “Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas and Sabka Vishwas, Sabka Prayas is critical” for the next phase of cleanliness.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-launches-second-phase-of-swachh-bharat-mission-amrut-101633115618561.html
02-10-2021||India||Tamil Nadu: Four nursing college students arrested over ragging, later given bail, say police||Chennai: Based on a ragging complaint filed by a first-year male student, Coimbatore police have arrested four senior students from a private nursing college and subsequently let them out on bail, officials said on Friday. The 20-year-old student,who is a fresher in the nursing college, has in his complaint said that four students from the second year locked him up in a room, slapped and ragged him. “All of them stay outside the college in shared rental rooms and not in hostels. They dragged the complainant and hit him with their hands. There are no injuries. They have also ragged him for some time,” said S Murugavel, the assistant commissioner of police of Coimbatore, The student had been attending classes online and when colleges were allowed to reopen from September 1 onwards, he had come to the campus. The alleged ragging happened on September 20. Disturbed and shocked by the incident, the student went back to his family living in Kerala. On his family’s insistence, he returned to file a complaint. On September 29, the student returned to Coimbatore and filed a complaint at the Singanallur police station. The four students, all from the second year in the private nursing college, were arrested on Wednesday. They have been booked under Sections 3 (prohibition of ragging) and 4 (penalty for ragging) of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Ragging Act, 1997 and under Sections 143 (unlawful assembly) and 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). “The complaint was filed against these four students and all of them were arrested and have now been released on bail,” confirmed another senior police official in Coimbatore. “Some media reports have suggested that 13 people have been booked. That’s not the case. We are not on the lookout anymore,” he said.poli||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-four-nursing-college-students-arrested-over-ragging-later-given-bail-saypolice-101633115140509.html
02-10-2021||India||SC refuses to entertain plea of ex-Kerala minister against Lokayukta report||New DelhiThe Supreme Court on Friday refused to entertain an appeal by former Kerala minister K T Jaleel seeking to stay the Lokayukta findings that he had “abused” his position as a public servant to obtain a favour for a relative.A bench headed by Justice L Nageswara Rao declined to consider the plea challenging the Kerala high court order.The top court said it could have considered the case if it was a case of vague or ambiguous allegations but it is a clear case of a relative being favoured. Sensing disinclination of the bench, also comprising Justice B R Gavai, the minister’s counsel withdrew the appeal and the matter was dismissed as withdrawn.Senior advocate Gopal Shankaranarayanan, appearing for the ex-minister, argued that the findings of Lokayukta were reached without hearing him.He submitted that the complaint was filed after the kin of the ex-minister initiated proceedings against members of the rival Muslim League party for recovery of arrears from NPA accounts.There were no procedural lapses from the Lokayukta as alleged by the petitioner, the high court had observed.It said the Lokayukta report was furnished after examining all the files and documents in connection with the appointment of his kin as general manager in a state financial institution.Jaleel had resigned as the minister from the LDF government on April 13 after the Lokayukta held that he violated oath of office by appointing his relative to the post of general manager of Kerala State Minority Development Finance Corporation (KSMDFC).Jaleel had argued that the Lokayukta did not have powers to consider the matter as it concerned prescription of qualification and appointment to MDFC, which is specifically excluded from the purview of the probe under the Kerala Lokayukta Act.The state government had also supported Jaleel, saying he was not given an opportunity to present his views before the Lokayukta.In his plea, Jaleel had alleged that the report was prepared without conducting any preliminary inquiry or regular investigation.A division bench of the Lokayukta had recently submitted the report against Jaleel to the chief minister and had held that the allegation of abuse of power, favouritism and nepotism against the minister was proved.The Muslim Youth League had on November 2, 2018 alleged that Adeeb K T, a cousin of Jaleel, was appointed general manager in Kerala State Minorities Development Finance Corporation, flouting rules.Adeeb was serving as manager of a private bank when the appointment was made.The Lokayukta had found that the minister had changed the qualifications for the post of general manager in the Corporation to add “B Tech with PGDBA” also as a qualification for the post to enable his second cousin, eligible for the post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-refuses-to-entertain-plea-of-ex-kerala-minister-against-lokayukta-report-101633115139336.html
02-10-2021||India||Will give befitting reply to any invasion: Rajnath Singh||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Friday said that India has never resorted to any invasion or encroachment and it will not tolerate if someone tries to encroach an inch of Indian territory.“India believes in Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam (the world is one family) and we have propagated this message around the world. We have not invaded or encroached land of any other country but if some one tries to encroach an inch of India’s territory, then our armed forces know how to give a befitting reply,” Singh, who unveiled a statue of prominent freedom fighter Vir Chandra Singh Garhwali at his ancestral Peethsain village, in Pauri district, said.Singh also said that under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the last seven years, the government has worked in “mission mode”. “India has always been an admirer of peace but now, it has also become an admirer of development under Modi,” he said.The Union minister added that in the Galwan Valley skirmish last year, the Army fought valiantly and saved every inch of Indian land.Singh said the road passing through Lipulekh pass that connects India to Tibet, Nepal and China has been constructed. “The road will provide smooth passage to pilgrims to Mansarovar yatra. It will also bring Nepal close to India,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-give-befitting-reply-to-any-invasion-rajnath-singh-101633115138878.html
02-10-2021||India||Former Kerala chief secretary and writer CP Nair dies at 81||ThiruvananthapuramFormer bureaucrat and writer-columnist, Chellappan Parameswaran Nair, popularly known as C P Nair, died at his residence here following a cardiac arrest on Friday, family sources said.He was 81.A 1962 batch IAS officer, Nair had retired as the chief secretary of the southern state in 1998.Known for his administrative capabilities, sharp wit and humorous writing style, he was very much active in the socio-cultural and literary arenas of the state even after retirement.He held significant posts like district collector, home secretary, labour secretary and Commissioner of Travancore Devaswom Board during his decades-long stint as civil servant.Nair also served as the member of the Administrative Reforms Commission and headed a government panel, formed to rewrite the Kerala Education Act and Rules (KEAR) post-retirement.An award-winning writer and columnist, C P Nair wrote a handful of books including “Thakil”, “Uganda Malayalam”, “Lankayil Oru Maruthi” and so on and the work “Irukalimoottakal” had won him the Kerala Sahithya Akademi award.He is survived by wife Saraswathy and two children.People from various walks of life including ministers and political leaders condoled the death of the former bureaucrat.Condoling Nair’s death, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan remembered him as an eminent bureaucrat and writer.“His services as chief secretary and Administrative Reforms Commission member were noteworthy,” he said, adding that Nair made valuable contributions to the field of literature as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-kerala-chief-secretary-and-writer-cp-nair-dies-at-81-101633114898287.html
02-10-2021||India||TN wildlife officer orders hunting of tiger that killed a man||Chennai: Tamil Nadu chief wildlife warden Shekar Kumar Niraj issued an order on Friday to hunt a tiger as it has “become very dangerous to human life in the area”. Yet to be confirmed reports say that the tiger has killed four human beings, including a 55-year-old man, on Friday, in Nilgiris district. The tiger, identified as MDT 23, is present in the human habitation of Gudalur and has been preying on livestock too since July 2021. In the order, the district forest officer of Gudalur also confirms the tiger killed one man on Friday and a 56-year-old man on September 24. Since then teams have tried to capture the tiger but the big cat has been eluding them. “The said tiger MDT 23 has become dangerous to human lives in the area. People of that area are also demanding capture or killing of the tiger,” read the order from Niraj. “Today, as per the report received from Conservator of Forests and Field Director, Mudumalai Tiger Reserve through WhatsApp and other media, it has now been informed that the tiger MDT 23 has killed one person in the Masinagudi area today.”He authorised the Conservator of Forests and Field Director, Mudumalai Tiger Reserve, Udhagamandalam to take immediate action to “hunt the problematic tiger” under Section 11 (1) (a) of Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. The section says the Chief Wildlife Warden may, if he is satisfied that any wild animal specified in Schedule I has become dangerous to human life or is so disabled or deceased as to be beyond recovery, by order in writing and stating the reasons therefor, permit any person to hunt such animal or cause such animal to be hunted. Niraj has ordered that the entire operation be photographed and video recorded and a detailed report to be submitted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-wildlife-officer-orders-hunting-of-tiger-that-killed-a-man-101633114846879.html
02-10-2021||India||Tamil Nadu plans to vaccinate 15mn against Covid in October mega drive: Govt||Chennai: Tamil Nadu has set a target to inoculate 15 million people in October through mega vaccination camps, state health minister M Subramanian announced on Friday. “We have come to a situation where people are coming forward to be vaccinated,” Subramnian told reporters. Tamil Nadu has so far conducted three mega-vaccinations camps on Sundays and a total of 14.2 million people were vaccinated in September. This is the highest since the vaccination drive began on January 16 across the country. In the mega vaccination camp held for 12 hours on September 12, the state surpassed its target of 2 million and achieved vaccination of 2.89 million people. The second camp on September 19 saw over 1.64 million people being vaccinated. This led to exhaustion of the vaccine stock in the state with nothing left for the next day on Monday. In the third drive held on September 26, over 2.49 million people were vaccinated . The state is now gearing up for a fourth camp to be held this Sunday. Tamil Nadu presently has more than 2.89 million vaccine doses in hand, the minister said. “We will utilise these doses during the fourth camp on Sunday. Like previous weeks, there will be 20,000 camps for the driver which will go on from 7am to 7pm,” he said.While the minister will tour the state to oversee the vaccination drive, state health secretary J Radhakrishnan will carry out inspections in Chennai. The capital city has been at the top of the number of vaccinations administered in every drive where vaccination during the mega drives are conducted in streets, beaches, shopping malls and public spaces. Simultaneous home vaccination for senior citizens above the age of 80 years and people with disabilities also continue.“So far, only in September maximum vaccinations have reached people where we covered more than 1.4 crore through the three Mega Vaccination Camps in the history of our vaccination”, the minister said. “Because of this we have received more than 37-lakh vaccines from the union government. So for October, 1.23 crore of vaccines are expected from the union government and we hope we can vaccinate more than we did in September by vaccinating 1.50 crore people,” About 800,000 doses were received on Friday evening. He said that the aim is to vaccinate at least 70% of the population as prescribed by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and insisted by chief minister M K Stalin.Tamil Nadu officials have been using the achievements of these camps to seek more vaccines from the Centre. “We have proven that we have the capacity to vaccinate 50-lakh people per week if we get ample vaccines,” the health secretary had said earlier. On September 20, Stalin wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking allot 5 million vaccine doses every week to ensure that the entire eligible population can be covered by October.The Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine also directed its officials on Friday via a circular to attend gram sabha meetings on Saturday across the state and create awareness among people, including on the importance of vaccination. Initially, there was widespread hesitancy in Tamil Nadu for taking the Covid-19 vaccines due to fear of side effects, among other factors. The perception began to change only during May and June when the second wave of Covid-19 had peaked and the state was under duress much like other regions due to shortage in medical oxygen. But vaccination numbers were still low but this time officials said that it was due to shortage in supply. But July onwards, there has been a steady supply of vaccines from the union government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-plans-to-vaccinate-15mn-against-covid-in-october-mega-drivegovt-101633114718363.html
02-10-2021||India||Ashtamudi Lake, gateway to Kerala’s backwaters, now a sewage dump site||Kollam Kerala’s once scenic Ashtamudi Lake, described as the gateway to the state’s backwaters and preferred by tourists world over for houseboat rides, has become a dump site for sewage, which is slowly choking it to death, according to an inspection by the state legal services authority on the Kerala high court’s direction.“Very pathetic” is how the Kerala State Legal Services Authority’s (KeLSA) report to the high court describes the condition of the lake spread over an area of around 1,700 sq km and surrounded by swaying coconut groves and palm trees and spotted by several small islands.The report also said that sewage from nearby residences and government establishments was the main reason for pollution of the lake and also for putting its unique wetland ecosystem under risk of permanent damage.According to the Kerala Tourism website, cruises would give a “deeper look at the heart and spirit of the backwaters.”“The 8 arms or channels of the Ashtamudi Lake are what gave it its name. It is the entrance to the famous backwaters of Kerala and the houseboat rides here are extremely famous. The Kollam-to-Alappuzha route is considered among the best in the backwaters. Cruises here give you a deeper look at the heart and spirit of the backwaters,” the tourism site claims.However, the ground reality is something else according to local resident K M Salim, who said that no one would want to walk alongside the “highly polluted” lake let alone go for a “cruise” on it when it is reeking with the smell of decades worth of municipal solid waste and sewage.Incidentally, it is based on his letter sent to the high court that it decided to examine the issue, initiated a PIL on its own and asked KeLSA to inspect the water body which is the second largest lake in the state.Salim said tourism too has contributed to the lake’s pollution as effluents from the house boats are also discharged into the water body.District judge and KeLSA member secretary K T Nisar Ahammad, who inspected the lake, said the filth and garbage floating in the lake and choking its ecosystem, which includes thousands of years old mangrove trees, also includes “legacy waste” dumped there over the past several years.On being asked whether the filth in the lake was being termed as such due to it being “the legacy we are leaving” for future generations, he laughed and said, “Maybe”.The judge said that people do not realise that polluting the water body could very well affect the underground water in the area and eventually the general public health in the long run.“This situation is not just confined to Ashtamudi lake, it is prevalent in many other places in the state. People don’t realise that the quarrying of mountains and dumping of filth in rivers and lakes would have serious environmental consequences. There has to be awareness on this issue,” he said.The judge further said that with a little bit of effort the corporation could have cleaned up some portion of the lake, especially the part close to the KSRTC bus stand where the situation is really bad, but no one, including the local body, appeared to be bothered.He said that a few years back the government had sanctioned funds for cleaning up the lake, but it never took off and now there was another project, worth over ₹100 crore, in play for the same purpose.Salim said that the garbage and filth were being dumped in the area for years and as a result the more than 100 species of fishes, mangroves, coconut groves and palm trees were being adversely affected.A resident of the area for decades, he remembers his younger days when along with his friends he used to take a dip in the lake.“Now you cannot even dare to dip your hand in the water, as if you do you could end up having rashes or blisters or some other infection,” he said.Even fish, like Karimeen, found in the lake no longer taste the same as they used to during his younger days when Ashtamudi was not as polluted as it was presently, he said.“You cannot walk along the lake side without your olfactory senses being overwhelmed by the stink emanating from there,” he added.Photographs attached along with the KeLSA report, filed through advocate Santhosh Mathew, show all kinds of garbage and waste floating in the lake, along with the house boats, turning its colour to a murky green.In some photographs, which according to the judge “speak volumes”, the waterbody looks more like an open drain and less like a lake whose borders are also lined in many places with garbage.What is more anguishing, other than the inaction of the local bodies and their contribution in polluting the lake, is the fact that Ashtamudi despite being a Ramsar site -- a wetland site designed to be of international importance under Ramsar Convention which is also known as the ‘Convention of Wetlands’ -- nothing was being done by anyone to remedy the situation, both the judge and Salim said.The Convention, an intergovernmental environmental treaty adopted in 1971 by UNESCO and which came into force in 1975, provides for national action and international cooperation regarding the conservation of wetlands and wise sustainable use of their resources, according to the KeLSA report.The report by KeLSA further states that inspection of the lake revealed that the main reason behind its pollution was the direct dumping of sewage into it from the nearby government institutions, residences and a public toilet, very near to the waterbody, meant for passengers arriving at the KSRTC bus stand close by.It also said that while the Secretary of the District Panchayat denied dumping of sewage waste in the waterbody from a nearby district hospital, “the fact remains that the lake is highly polluted and its present condition is very pathetic.”Pollution of water bodies, like Ashtamudi Lake, in this manner was a “common scenario” in the whole of Kerala, the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ashtamudi-lake-gateway-to-kerala-s-backwaters-now-a-sewage-dump-site-101633114717277.html
02-10-2021||India||India ready to take lead in reviving global growth: Piyush Goyal at Dubai expo||A resurgent India is ready to take on the responsibility of being the frontrunner in reviving the global economy from the devastating impact of Covid-19 pandemic, Union minister Piyush Goyal said on Friday.Inaugurating the India Pavilion at Expo 2020 Dubai, Goyal said: “India is already a leading player in the global markets in IT, pharma and space technology, and with the development of research and innovation capabilities, the country’s prowess in these areas would help reap the benefits of new-age technologies like artificial intelligence (AI) and robotics.”The pandemic, Goyal said, could not stop the momentum of reforms that the Narendra Modi-led government ushered in seven years ago. The fiscal and policy measures taken by the government are set to boost the country’s manufacturing and exports’ potential and make India a global economic hub, besides strengthening its capabilities in the technology space, he added.“The lessons learnt from the pandemic have also emboldened our confidence of surpassing any challenges in the future with the help of our scientific and entrepreneurial research and development capabilities. Whether it is development of pharma and healthcare products or running of the world’s biggest vaccination program banking on the two indigenously-produced vaccines, India has set several examples,” he told the crowd.From here, productivity will play a big role in achieving a sustained high growth phase that India has already embarked upon, leaving behind the impact of the coronavirus, Goyal said, citing the 20.1% gross domestic product (GDP) growth in the first quarter of FY-22. The Indian economy had contracted 24.4% in the same quarter of FY-21 due to disruptions caused by the Covid-19 pandemic.This not only signals a strong revival but also the potential for economic rebound in a big way, the minister said. “We have a huge advantage in our young populace, and with the help of the New Education Policy (NEP), and its focus on skill development, the productivity levels in the country are set to rise substantially to support the growth objectives,” he added.Congratulating the UAE leadership for being able to deliver the event amid difficult times, Goyal said: “It is happening at a time when India is celebrating 75 years of its independence, and UAE is celebrating the 50th year of its foundation. UAE is one of India’s most valued partners and a close friend. EXPO 2020 will prove to be a landmark in strengthening the relationship between the two countries further”.Goyal also said that a proposed free trade agreement between India and the UAE holds huge potential for both the countries to boost trade and investment and that investors here are “very” positive about doing business in the Indian market.“I see a huge potential in this (deal) between the two countries. The UAE is a gateway to all of Africa and many other parts of the world. UAE also has a huge Indian diaspora, has a huge market for products like textiles, gems and jewellery, leather, footwear, and food products, which are labour oriented and provide economic opportunities,” he said.Last month, the two countries had formally launched negotiations on the pact, officially dubbed as Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement (CEPA). “I think the partnership will be a win-win for both the countries,” he added.While India-UAE trade has also been impacted by the pandemic, it was valued close to USD 60 billion in 2019-20 with UAE being India’s third-largest trading partner and being India’s second-largest export destination after the US, with an export value of approximately USD 29 billion in 2019-20.UAE is also the eighth largest investor in India and has invested USD 11 billion between April 2000 and March 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dubai-expo-2020-india-ready-to-take-lead-in-reviving-global-economy-says-piyush-goyal-101633114657694.html
02-10-2021||India||Cyclone Gulab may have caused damages worth ₹2,000 crore||The economic impact of cyclone Gulab that hit Andhra Pradesh and Odisha coasts is estimated to be around ₹2,000 crore, with much of it being borne by farmers, according to RMSI, a global disaster risk management firm.“Gulab is a very unique cyclone as it made landfall in AP, crossed large parts of India and moved out into the Arabian Sea over Maharashtra and intensified again,” said Pushpendra Johari, senior vice-president-sustainability, RMSI.The bulk of the losses is estimated from agriculture (about 70%), followed by damages to buildings at about 20% (including 50% residential, 32% industrial and 18% commercial), according to RMSI’s assessments. Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts in Andhra Pradesh and Ganjam and Gajapati districts in Odisha faced maximum winds due to Gulab while East Godavari, West Godavari, Guntur, Krishna, Prakasam, Srikakulam and Visakhapatnam districts in Andhra Pradesh saw floods. In Odisha, Bhadrak, Kendrapara, Puri, Jajapur, Jagatsinghpur, Baleswar, Khorda and Cuttack also saw flooding, according to RMSI.“The governments of Odisha and Andhra Pradesh proactively took measures to reduce impact. Odisha’s chief minister Naveen Patnaik set a ‘zero casualty’ target in the coastal districts of the state as the Odisha government evacuated as many as 3,049 people and shifted them to 204 relief shelters. Forty-two teams of the Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force and 24 squads of the National Disaster Response Force, along with about 102 teams of fire brigade personnel were dispatched to seven at-risk districts,” RMSI said.However, there are reports of several fishermen from both Andhra Pradesh and Odisha missing, despite early warnings issued by nodal agencies.And agriculture bore the brunt. “Crop was in its final stages in Andhra Pradesh. Due to heavy rain, standing crop fell. There was a lot of water stagnation because of which other than paddy, all crops, including vegetables which were in flowering stages, are damaged. I think the loss is huge for farmers,” said GV Ramanjaneyulu, executive director, Centre for Sustainable Agriculture, Hyderabad.Gulab, though it did not intensify into a severe cyclone, came during the harvest season, compounding the effect of the cyclone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-gulab-may-have-caused-damages-worth-rs-2-000-crore-101633114418467.html
02-10-2021||India||Telangana registers 40% excess rain during monsoon for second consecutive year||Hyderabad: For the second consecutive year, Telangana has received nearly 40% excess rainfall this south-west monsoon season which ended on Thursday, officials said on Friday.According to the Telangana State Development Planning Society (TSDPS), the normal average rainfall in the state during the monsoon that commences on June 1 and ends on September 30 is 720.5 mm. But this year, the state received an average rainfall of 1009.7 mm, which is 40% more than the normal, a bulletin from the society said.Out of 122 days of monsoon season, there were rains across the state for as many as 105 days. “This is only for the third time in the last 15 years that the state witnessed such abnormally high rainfall during the season. However, the rainfall last year was the highest – it was 46% more than the normal,” an official in TSDPS said.Out of 33 districts, six – Nizamabad, Warangal (urban), Karimnagar, Rajanna Siricilla, Siddipet and Narayanpet – received abnormally excess rainfall, ranging from 63% to 94%. Another six districts – Mancherial, Peddapalli, Jogulamba Gadwal, Nagarkurnool, Suryapet and Mulugu -- received normal rainfall.“All the remaining 21 districts received excess rainfall, ranging from 26% to 51%,” the official said.Except for a few days of dry spell in August, the rest of the season witnessed heavy rainfall due to active south-west monsoon and also impact of Cyclone Gulab. The entire July and as many as 28 days in September received heavy rains.“Some parts of the state witnessed 12 cm to 21 cm of rain in a span of 24 hours, which is a rare phenomenon. Such a huge rainfall was recorded for a period of 33 days this season,” he said.Telangana continues to witness rains despite the ending of south-west monsoon on Thursday. “The monsoon continues to be active and it is likely that the state will witness widespread rains till October 15,” Hyderabad meteorological department director K Nagaratna said.Due to continuous rainfall, all major reservoirs on Krishna and Godavari rivers continue to receive huge inflows up to their brim. Srisailam reservoir on Krishna river received an inflow of 71,000 cusecs by Friday evening and the irrigation authorities are letting out 75,000 cusecs to the downstream, as the water level in the reservoir reached 883.76 ft as against the full reservoir level of 885 ft.Nagarjunasagar dam is receiving an inflow of 97,000 cusecs and the authorities are releasing the same quantity of water to the downstream.All the reservoirs in Godavari basin are full and the irrigation department are letting out the heavy inflows into the sea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-registers-40-excess-rain-during-monsoon-for-second-consecutive-year-101633114297189.html
02-10-2021||India||Run off the road, Ford workers face up to a grim reality||He remembers that October morning as the most important of his life. One month after Ford unveiled its new hatchback, Figo, in September 2009, 19-year-old Vijay Kumar waited in line with many others at the company’s factory on the outskirts of Chennai, nervous and fidgety. He was hungry, having arrived on a bus from his home town of Theni, tucked away in the hills over 500km kilometers away. The first question the interview panel asked him was if he had eaten. He told them he hadn’t, because he didn’t want to be late.After testing his knowledge on the technicalities of automobiles, about the company, and the specifics about the entry level job he was applying for, the panel closed the interview. The last thing they told Kumar was that there was a nice canteen with free food, and he should eat before he headed home. “I loved that they cared,” said Kumar. Twelve years later, Kumar found out that Ford, the company that was his life for over a decade, would soon be shutting down. Via WhatsApp.“I thought it was a fake message,” he said. “This is what our relationship has come down to? They couldn’t even inform us in person.” After his day shift which ended at 3.15pm, he gathered with his colleagues at the Centre of Indian Trade Union (CITU) office, 1km from Ford’s plant. The sense of helplessness was universal.On September 9, Ford Motor Company announced that it would be shutting down its manufacturing facilities in India. “As part of the plan, Ford India will wind down vehicle assembly in Sanand by the fourth quarter of 2021 and vehicle and engine manufacturing in Chennai by the second quarter of 2022,” the company said in a statement. The Michigan-headquartered company arrived at this decision to close down due to the accumulated operating losses of more than $2 billion over the past 10 years in India, a $800 million non-operating write-down of assets in 2019, persistent industry overcapacity, and lack of expected growth in India’s car market.Ford’s exit follows other global majors Harley Davidson and General Motors that quit in 2020 and 2017 respectively. Despite exploring several restructuring options, the company wasn’t able to find “a sustainable path forward to long-term profitability that includes in-country vehicle manufacturing,” said Anurag Mehrotra, president and managing director of India, in the statement.Ford entered India in the early 1990s, ahead of even Hyundai, but never acquired the scale of operations or range of products that could make it profitable. It was late with its small car; did not become a serious player in sedans; and missed the economy-SUV (or popular SUV) boom that benefited latecomers such as Renault.The statement on its exit was issued by the company at 3:28 pm from its Gurugram office. In Chennai, first word from the management to the Chennai Ford Employees Union came half an hour before that. Selvaraj Kannan, former president of the CFEU which has 2,450 members, said, “They asked five officer-bearers from the union to come to the company at 1pm on September 9 and told them that they’re going to close down and there will be no change in that decision.”With no time for the information to disseminate, most employees, like Vijay, learnt about the news that would change their lives through a phone call, or a WhatsApp message.Ford employs about 182,000 people worldwide. In Chennai, there are 2,638 permanent employees and around 2,000 employees on contract. Besides them, there are a sizable number of employees from other ancillary companies who work exclusively to supply parts for Ford vehicles.Experts estimate that at least 4,000 MSMEs will be affected by Ford’s decision to close. “In any auto industry, the ratio is that for every one direct employee, there will be four indirect employees and two gig workers from service providers. Close to sixteen thousand workers overall face an income loss,” said KE Raghunathan, Convenor of Consortium of Indian Associations (CIA) who was formerly the national president of the All-India Manufacturers’ Organisation.There are about 2,700 auto ancillary units in Tamil Nadu for which the entire turnover is contributed by Ford, Raghunathan estimated. Besides, the shutdown will also take away jobs of services providers that had mushroomed around Ford’s now iconic address in Maraimalai Nagar.Mohammad Meeran, for instance, runs a tyre shop and makes ₹3,000 a day, on the highway that connects Chennai to other districts in Tamil Nadu. Right next to his shop is a bus stop that is a landmark. The Ford bus stop. Half his business, he said, comes from Ford’s employees.Since the factory reopened on September 13, Meeran has had company – local police stationed on Henry Ford Road, anticipating trouble. On September 14, CITU led a two-hour protest, beseeching the company to change their minds. “Zero-chance, the management told us,” said Selvaraj.The Good DaysThe sense of an impending layoff seems surreal because of what Ford stood for in Tamil Nadu. There was social capital attached to working for the company, paid back in no mean measure by the organisation itself, according to employees. Kumar’s first salary in 2009 as a 19-year-old was ₹1,750 a month – enough only for rent and food. When a roommate, earning twice as much, offered him a job at his company, Kumar declined. The decision paid off. Three years later, Kumar was made a permanent employee, earning ₹18,000 a month, while his friend earned less than half of that. Cut to 2021, and Kumar earns a salary package of ₹8 lakh a year. In Tamil Nadu, progression like that was unheard of. “My family is really poor but Ford was my backbone,” Kumar said. In his time at Ford, Kumar paid for his younger sister’s wedding, provided for his parents in the village, got married, and is now father to a one-year-old boy.His shifts alternated between morning and evening, giving him the flexibility to study further. He came to Ford with a diploma in automobile engineering and has been studying a part-time B.Tech course in mechanical engineering at SRM university.It was after 2005 that Ford began to focus on hiring those like Kumar, with a diploma in automobile engineering. But between 1998, when Ford launched, and 2003, they largely hired unskilled workers who had studied up to Class 12, training them exclusively for work with the company.Joseph (who goes by one name), from Dindigul district, was hired from a recruitment camp in Madurai in 2000. It changed not just his professional life, but his social status. In 2005, the company sent Joseph to their automobile plant in the Philippines. “It’s a royal company,” his father would say. Banks were calling them to avail home loans. Families were happy for their daughters to marry a man from Ford. The employees even got to show off their work life. Annually for one day, each employee was allowed to bring invitees who could be family and friends to tour the company. Even if Joseph wanted to complain about the company, his family always reminded him Ford had changed his life. “Everyone is now dismayed,” he said.The rise in Tamil NaduFord entered the India market four years after the country’s 1991 reforms push, the first global car maker to invest near Chennai when the late J Jayalalitha was chief minister of Tamil Nadu. Soon after, even as the ruling dispensation changed and M Karunanidhi took over, other global giants such as Hyundai, BMW, Daimler, and Renault-Nissan, followed, making the city a car-making hub. Official estimates show that the industry grew to 200,00 direct employees, and 600,00 indirect employees. According to the state industries department, Tamil Nadu accounted for 45% of India’s motor vehicle/car exports in 2017-18 and 35% of India’s auto component production and is the largest tyre manufacturing state.Though Ford partnered with Mahindra & Mahindra during its entry, the company chose to set up outside Chennai, after it was actively wooed by a state government that ensured a supportive political environment, and reassured by the connectivity of an international airport, two seaports, and plenty of local labour.The Anxious NowWith Ford sure to exit Chennai by June 2022, most employees believe that no monetary package can compensate for the loss that is on the anvil, with the employee union set to argue for job guarantees. “Now the workers will have to go back to their villages and struggle again. We have all ended up with health issues like back pain and knee pain due to long hours,” P Senthil Kumar, general secretary of the employees union said.The union has approached the state government to intervene to ensure that the plant isn’t closed down. In the middle of September, Stalin met with industries minister Thangam Thennarasu but the government has thus far kept its cards close to its chest. “Ford is in talks with a few potential buyers and it is for them to decide on the sale of their manufacturing facilities,” said a senior government official who didn’t wish to be named. “Since Chennai has an ecosystem for automobile manufacturers with ancillary units in the surrounding regions, we hope someone will buy the factory and run it. The situation is evolving.”A spokesperson for Ford said that they had started discussions with the employees union. “We will work closely with unions to arrive at a fair and balanced separation package for represented employees who will leave our business,” the spokesperson said. “We plan to serve customers in India with must-have, iconic vehicles, including the Mustang coupe. Customers in India in the future will also benefit from Ford’s plan to invest more than $30 billion globally to deliver all-new hybrid and fully electric vehicles, such as Mustang Mach-E that we look to bring to India in the future,” the representative added.Raghunathan said that the need of the hour is intervention by the state to protect jobs. “The government can provide a one time subsidy of 10% of an MSME’s last turnover to reduce their burden of settlement. If the 300-odd ancillary units partly dependent on Ford want to improvise their infrastructure by reinvesting in their tools for a different client, they could be given a subsidised rate of interest and enhanced loan repayment capacity. If a new company is willing to re-employ the existing workers, the state could offer incentives like paying the employees’ provident fund and ESI for five years,” he said.In the here and now, P Senthil Kumar, general secretary of the Employees Union is worried about the immediate future of the workers. Three men, employed by Ford, have seen their engagements called off, a throwback to when Standard Motor Products of India Limited shut shop in 1994. Back then, “marriages were called off and people died by suicide,” another trade union member said on condition of anonymity. “That’s what is worrying us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/run-off-the-road-ford-workers-face-up-to-a-grim-reality-101633114179862.html
02-10-2021||India||Cyclone Shaheen turns into severe cyclonic storm, says IMD||Cyclone Shaheen over central parts of north Arabian Sea, which turned into a severe cyclonic storm on Friday, is likely to intensify further and move towards Oman coast before weakening gradually, officials at India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Friday.Though Shaheen may not cross the Indian coast, sea conditions will remain rough along Maharashtra and Gujarat coasts, and high (6-9m wave height/62 to 87 kmph) to very high (9-14 m wave height/70 to 116 kmph) over north Arabian Sea.Shaheen, which was formed from the remnants of cyclone Gulab, is likely to cross the Oman coast on the morning of October 4 but its trajectory can be confirmed only in a day or so, the officials added.“There may be some perturbations along the Maharashtra coast and seas will be very rough all along the Makran and Oman coasts. Fishermen have been advised not to go towards the north Arabian Sea. Conditions are favourable for intensification of Shaheen as the vertical wind shear is low and sea surface temperatures are slightly high, about 28 to 29 degree C,” Sunitha Devi, in-charge of cyclones at IMD, said. At 5.30 pm on Friday, the cyclone lay centred about 570 km west-northwest of Devbhoomi Dwarka (Gujarat), 370 km east-southeast of Chabahar Port (Iran) and 540 km east-southeast of Muscat (Oman), officials said. It is very likely to intensify further in the next 12 hours and move west-northwestwards, skirting Makran coast, during the next 36 hours. Thereafter, it is likely to recurve west-southwestwards and move towards Oman coast, across the Gulf of Oman, and weaken gradually, the officials added.It is likely to cross the Oman coast as a cyclonic storm in the early hours of Monday, they said.Shaheen was formed after the remnants of Gulab, which crossed north coastal Andhra Pradesh and south coastal Odisha on September 26, traversed central and west India and emerged into the Arabian Sea on September 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shaheen-turns-into-severe-cyclonic-storm-imd-101633114179340.html
02-10-2021||India||8 DU colleges announce 100% cut-off in 11 subjects||Eight Delhi University colleges on Friday announced 100% marks as the eligibility criteria for admission into 11 graduation programmes, a record for the number of courses that require a perfect score for a college seat. Cut-off scores have inched up over the years, and this year’s are a particular outlier, although not entirely surprising since a no-examination academic assessment for Class 12 students this year pushed the pass percentage and peak scores to new levels. Since 2015, there have been only three colleges in which 100% cut-offs were set: Lady Shri Ram College for Women (LSR) did it for admission to BA (honours) in political science, economics and psychology last year, and College of Vocational Studies and Indraprastha College for Women set it for BSc (honours) in computer science in 2015.This year, Ramjas College has set a 100% cut-off in three subjects – BA (honours) in political science, BSc (honours) in physics, and a combination BA programme including two popular subjects. Compared to last year, the three courses have seen an increase of one, two, and four percentage points in the eligibility threshold respectively.Like the past few years, BA (honours) in political science, economics, English, history, and psychology have emerged as some of the most sought-after courses, with cut-offs in the 96-100% range. Two DU colleges – Hindu and Ramjas – have set their cut-offs for political science at 100% while 19 DU colleges have set their cut-offs in the subject between 98-100%.Computer Science has also emerged as a popular course. Hansraj College, Deen Dayal Upadhyay College, and Shaheed Sukhdev College of Business Studies announced 100% requirement for the course. Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur Khalsa College also kept a 100% cut-off for its BCom course. Jesus and Mary College has kept a 100% cutoff for its BA (honours) in psychology for students who do not include psychology in their best-of-four subject combination.One of the most sought-after commerce colleges in the country, Shri Ram College of Commerce (SRCC), has announced 100% cut-off in both BA (honours) in economics and BCom (honours), recording a jump of one and 0.5 percentage point respectively compared to last year’s score requirements. Most of the commerce courses across colleges are in the range of 97-100% with 38 out of 54 colleges offering BCom (honours) to students with a score of 98% and above.Since DU colleges do not follow a first-come, first-serve policy, all students making the cut have to be admitted, leading to the risk of more students being admitted than a college’s sanctioned capacity.Since there was no final end-term board exam, due to the Covid-19 second wave this year, the results of the Class 12 exams for most boards, including the bellwether Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), were prepared on the basis of a student’s past performance. A total of 220,156 CBSE Class 12 students scored 90% or more this year, compared to 196,620 in 2020 — a jump of nearly 12%. The number scoring 95% or more has almost doubled to 70,004 from last year’s 38,686.Manoj Khanna, principal of Ramjas College, said the high cut-offs were a precautionary measure to tackle over-admissions. “This was a precautionary measure as political science was one of the most sought-after courses last year as well. We ended up admitting more than 200 students as against the 93 seats for the course. Even the BA programme saw surplus admissions last year. Covid-19 protocols are also here to stay and if students are called back on campus for blended learning, we have to ensure we have enough space to accommodate all students. This is why we just could not have over-admissions this year.”Khanna also said that lack of data sets affected the ability of colleges to understand or predict admission demand. “If we allowed students to apply for colleges and courses like previous years, colleges would have had some data points to understand what students prefer. In the absence of that, colleges are left with little information to predict trends and tend to be on the cautious side,” he said. For the past two years, DU application form allows students to select their courses and college after the cut-offs are declared.DDU College principal Hem Chand Jain said: “Colleges are left with no choice when they receive data sets stating that around 1,250 eligible students have scored around 100% as their best-of-four subjects. Computer Science has emerged as a popular subject as it has a lot of scope and only 20 colleges in the university offer the course so we had to keep the cut-offs high to avoid over-admissions. Till a few years ago, when students went to specific colleges to apply, it was easier for colleges to decide cut-offs because we had a data set knowing how many students want to study a particular subject at a particular college. But online admission forms now allow students to apply to all courses at one go. Lack of that specific data set also contributed to the high cut-offs. However, students should not be disheartened and try for the subsequent lists”.Hansraj College principal Rama Sharma said, “We had an extensive discussion with our department and analysed the data for previous years. Computer science has emerged as a popular course and we had over-admissions last year as well. As far as commerce courses are considered, students scoring 100% will prefer SRCC. We want to admit more students so we have kept the cut-offs lower so that students who do not have 100% get an option to study here.”Cut-offs for St Stephen’s College are announced separately. Admissions under the first cut-off will be conducted between Monday and Wednesday, and the second cut-off list will be released on October 9. The university is expected to release five cut-offs and a special cut-off. Officials said DU received over 250,000 applications, for around 70,000 undergraduate seats this year. The applications received are approximately 100,000 fewer than last year.So far, there is no clarity on the mode of classes to be conducted for these students when they begin their academic session in November. DU is currently only allowing final-year students to come to campus for practical work.Former Dean (admissions) Shobha Bagai said this mode of admissions is not sustainable. “We cannot announce a cut-off higher than 100% or keep doing over-admissions. This is why an entrance test has been in demand for too long. Due to over-admissions, there is a distortion between the number of available seats and the number of students admitted in these courses affecting the teacher-student ratio, workload on teachers, and even infrastructural demands.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-du-colleges-announce-100-cut-off-in-11-subjects-101633113996497.html
02-10-2021||India||Dharmendra Pradhan writes to Jagan, Soren on Odia-medium schools’ promotion||Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Friday wrote to chief ministers of Jharkhand and Andhra Pradesh, seeking their personal intervention in promoting and “securing” Odia-medium schools in the two states.In his letter to Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, Pradhan, who hails from Odisha, sought the latter’s intervention for harmonious resolution of issues pertaining to the Odia-medium education in the border villages of the state.In his letter to Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren, Pradhan highlighted several issues faced by Odia-medium schools, including lack of teachers proficient in the language, lack of books available in the language and the recent merger of some Odia medium schools with Hindi medium ones||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dharmendra-pradhan-writes-to-jharkhand-andhra-pradesh-cms-on-odia-medium-schools-promotion-101633113878676.html
02-10-2021||India||India hits back at UK with quarantine rules||UK nationals travelling to India will have to undergo 10-day mandatory quarantine even if they are fully vaccinated under reciprocal measures to be enforced from October 4, marking an escalation in the vaccine certification row between the two countries.The Indian side made the decision on Friday as the UK has not yet taken a call on accepting India’s vaccine certification more than 10 days after the conclusion of technical discussions that were expected to resolve the matter.The row erupted because Indians travelling to the UK will have to undergo a 10-day quarantine under new British travel rules that come into force from October 4.The UK’s failure to recognise Covishield, the Indian variant of the Britain’s AstraZeneca jab, had also given rise to allegations of vaccine racism.
02-10-2021||India||Tatas lead race to acquire Air India||Tata Sons is the front runner among bidders to acquire the country’s flagship carrier Air India even as the government is working on formalities to declare the conglomerate’s name as the prospective owner of the state-run airline, which was once owned by the Tata group, three people aware of the development said on Friday, requesting anonymity.One of the people cited above, working in an economic ministry, said while financial bids that opened recently indicated the Tatas as the successful bidder ahead of SpiceJet promoter Ajay Singh, an elaborate evaluation by a ministerial panel was still pending and a formal announcement was unlikely immediately. The panel, Air India Specific Alternative Mechanism (AISAM), is headed by home minister Amit Shah; finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia, and commerce minister Piyush Goyal are its members.The ministries of finance, home and civil aviation did not respond to email queries on the matter. While a Tata group spokesman did not respond to HT’s queries, its external spokesperson declined comment.A second person said the financial bids had been vetted by the core group of secretaries on disinvestment (CGD) headed by the cabinet secretary this week and the matter will now be considered by the AISAM. “No official announcement can be made before the ministerial group formally approves the name of the winner,” he said.Tuhin Kanta Pandey, secretary in the department of investment and public asset management (Dipam), said in a tweet: “Media reports indicating approval of financial bids by Government of India in the AI [Air India] disinvestment case are incorrect. Media will be informed of the Government decision as and when it is taken.” Dipam is an arm of the Union finance ministry.Once AISAM gives formal approval to the winning bid by the Tatas, only formalities may be left for the salt-to-software conglomerate to take over control of Air India, founded by JRD Tata in 1932 as Tata Airlines.“The full handover process may, however, take some time,” a third person said.After the first attempt to divest Air India did not attract investors’ interest in 2017, the government launched the disinvestment process again in January 2020 and sweetened the deal by reducing the debt burden for the prospective owner as the airline was running into losses after its merger with domestic carrier Indian Airlines in 2007. According to Dipam, the airline had a total debt of ₹60,074 crore as of March 31, 2019 and the successful buyer is expected to absorb about ₹23,286 crore.The Air India disinvestment process was hit by the Covid-19 pandemic. Financial bids were invited in April 2021 and bidders were asked to submit offers by September 15. The government wants to sell off its entire 100% stake in the company, including 100% stake in Air India Express Ltd (AIXL) and 50% in Air India SATS Airport Services Pvt Ltd (AISATS).AIXL, a wholly owned subsidiary of Air India, operated a low-cost carrier and is headquartered in Kochi. AISATS is a 50:50 joint venture between AI and SATS Ltd, Singapore. SATS is a leading provider of food solutions and gateway services with over 70 years of ground handling and catering experience.According to Dipam, AI is one of the most extensive flight service providers in India with network coverage of 98 destinations (56 domestic destinations with around 2,712 departures per week and 42 international destinations with around 450 departures per week) as of November 1, 2019. AI offers 75 additional destinations through its secondary network of code share operations covered under 25 agreements with foreign carriers. During FY2019, AI carried around 22.1 million passengers. The airline has a fleet of 121 aircraft (excluding four B747-400s), mainly comprising Airbus and Boeing planes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tatas-lead-race-to-acquire-air-india-101633113639137.html
02-10-2021||India||Ex-Punjab CM Amarinder Singh gearing up to float own party, may tie up with BJP||Former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh is set to launch his own political party and may even consider an alliance or seat adjustment with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the state, people familiar with the matter said, detailing a development that could alter radically the electoral landscape in the upcoming polls in Punjab.The former CM, who has announced his intent to quit the Congress, did not confirm or deny the information shared with Hindustan Times by people aware of his thinking after his recent meetings with home minister Amit Shah and National Security Adviser Ajit Doval. The people couldn’t tell, however, whether the proposed tie-up would be predicated on the Union government taking steps to break the impasse over the three farm laws which are a hugely emotive issue in the state and have eroded the BJP’s popular base.For his part, the Captain merely said that he’s not the one to do politics through media statements.“I’d fight my battle in the field, in the court of the people,” he said, adding that he intends travelling to Delhi again and will sit down with senior Congress leaders (known as G-23) who are upset over the party’s shambolic state and the way its affairs are being run.Technically, the Captain is still in the Congress, but he has said that he does not intend to stay in the party. The formal parting of ways could come once his political plans are in place. “I’m going to tell the G-23 to hit the field, to reach out to people rather than expressing concerns in social media,” he said. The impact within the Congress of his outreach to similarly disaffected leaders will have to be assessed as most of them are seeking organisational changes, not an avenue to exit the party.Singh denied that he has been contacted by anyone on behalf of the Congress after he went public that he would quit. But a well-informed party functionary revealed that (in response to media reports of the Captain saying he felt humiliated), Congress president Sonia Gandhi messaged him to convey that she wished him well; and that it was never her intention to make him feel the way he did. She reportedly said that it wasn’t her way as she’s incapable of humiliating people or colleagues.Commenting on his September 20 resignation after receiving a call that morning from Gandhi who asked him to demit office, the Captain said “publicly I felt humiliated and personally I was hurt because my relations with the Gandhis go back to the days when Rajiv Gandhi and I were in Doon School in 1954”. He said he couldn’t figure out why the leadership chose to sack him rather than letting him gracefully leave three weeks earlier when he offered to resign. That was at a meeting with Gandhi and Harish Rawat, the All India Congress Committee incharge of Punjab.Singh wanted to put in his papers -- and said so at that meeting -- as there was no effort by the central leadership to rein in the new state party unit president Navjot Sidhu, who was attacking him publicly and relentlessly. But at that time, he said, Sonia Gandhi asked him to continue.Singh said he was unable to decipher as to why such shoddy treatment was meted out to him, ignoring his long service to the party and the electoral record of winning eight of 13 Lok Sabha seats, the local bodies polls, and the panchayat elections in the state. He had harsh words in that context for some AICC functionaries who, he believes, misled the leadership the way they blindsided him about the congress legislature party (CLP) meeting in Chandigarh. “They even made calls stopping legislators who wanted to meet me before the CLP meeting. Is that the way you treat the CLP leader?” He said he played fair till the very end, asking 30-odd leaders who had assembled at his residence to attend the CLP meeting while he called on the Governor to tender his resignation.“Can you imagine my sense of disbelief when a party MP telephoned me to inquire whether I had called the CLP meeting?” he said. Sonia Gandhi was on the line with him shortly after that, asking him to quit. On being reminded that just three weeks back she had wanted him to continue, the Captain said she simply said:“I am very sorry Amarinder, you should resign now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amarinder-will-form-own-party-may-tie-up-with-bjp-101633113577650.html
02-10-2021||India||Can’t force anybody for DNA test, impinges on right to privacy: Supreme Court||No one can be forced by courts to undergo a DNA test, the Supreme Court said on Friday, noting that it not only impinges on an individual’s privacy but can also lead to major societal repercussions for the person.The order came on a petition filed by a man who was directed by the Punjab & Haryana high court to undergo a DNA test to prove his claim for a share in the property of his biological parents.His claim was disputed by the couple’s three daughters, who denied that the man was their brother, and said that he was not the son of their parents. The women first demanded a DNA test of the man in a court in Kalka, and moved the high court after the trial judge declined to grant their request.When a DNA test was allowed by the high court in March 2019, the petitioner Ashok Kumar approached the top court.While deciding the appeal, a bench of justices R Subhash Reddy and Hrishikesh Roy said, “In circumstances where other evidence is available to prove or dispute the relationship, the court should ordinarily refrain from ordering blood tests. This is because such tests impinge upon the right of privacy of an individual and could also have major societal repercussions.”Setting aside the HC order, it added, “When the plaintiff is unwilling to subject himself to the DNA test, forcing him to undergo one would impinge on his personal liberty and his right to privacy. Seen from this perspective, the impugned judgment merits interference and is set aside.”In its order, the Punjab & Haryana high court held in 2019 that a DNA test is a “double-edged sword”, and since Kumar was so sure about his parentage, there was no reason for him to shy away or shirk from taking it.Kumar, however, refused to undergo the test, and said he was willing to defend his suit on documentary evidence.“The DNA test is directed in civil cases only in exceptional circumstances as a matter of last resort. Its evidentiary value is considered along with the entire circumstances of the case. A person can choose not to undergo the DNA test. In such cases, the courts can draw an adverse inference against the party for refusing the test. But by this judgment, the court has examined the DNA test in the light of right to privacy. It will now be difficult for courts below to insist upon DNA test,” Supreme Court advocate Anirudh Sharma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cant-force-anybody-for-dna-test-impinges-on-right-to-privacy-supreme-court-101633113457024.html
02-10-2021||India||5 Navy personnel go missing after avalanche hits Trishul expedition||At least six people, including five Indian Navy personnel, went missing on Friday morning after a mountaineering expedition team was hit by an avalanche on Mount Trishul in Uttarakhand’s Bageshwar district, officials at Uttarkashi-based Nehru Institute of Mountaineering (NIM) said.Mount Trishul is a group of three peaks that resembles a trident, the weapon of Lord Shiva, in the western Kumaon Himalayas in Bageshwar district, 320 kms from Dehradun.The incidents, the officials cited above said, took place at around 5 am when the expedition team had gone to scale the highest of the three peaks - Trishul-1 - at a height of 7,120 metres from “camp 3”.NIM principal Col Amit Bisht, who immediately left for the spot along with two trainers to oversee rescue operations, said: “As per information received, among the six missing, one was a porter who was accompanying the naval expedition team of 20 members. The team left for the summit from Mumbai on September 3. On Friday morning, 10 of them had left to scale the peak from camp-3. However, after reaching a height of 6,700 metres, they were caught in an avalanche following which six members went missing,” Col Bisht said.“Five of 10 naval personnel from the expedition team were rescued. The rescue team reached Joshimath, which is about 33 kms away from Mount Trishul. In view of bad weather, we have not been able to leave for the peak as of now,” he added. According to a Navy official, the remaining 15 remaining members of the expedition are also involved in the search and rescue operation.Meanwhile, another rescue team, comprising personnel of the Indian Army, Indian Air Force and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF), left for the spot to trace the missing personnel.“Search and rescue operations for five members of the Indian Navy mountaineering expedition to Mt Trishul, caught in an avalanche near summit camp, are being progressed by the ground rescue team and helicopters from Army, Air Force & State Disaster Response Force (SDRF),” the Navy said in a statement.Western Naval Command chief Vice Admiral R Hari Kumar had flagged off the expedition from INS Trishul on September 3. The event is part of the ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh’ celebrations to commemorate 50 years of victory in the 1971 war with Pakistan. The theme of the expedition is “Trishul Yudhpoat Se Trishul Parvat Tak” (from Trishul warship to Trishul mountain).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-navy-personnel-go-missing-after-avalanche-hits-trishul-expedition-101633113222194.html
02-10-2021||India||Have reservations at how police officers are behaving in country, says CJI Ramana||New Delhi: Flagging alleged nexus between politicians and the bureaucrats especially police officers, the Supreme Court Friday said it was once considering setting up of standing committees headed by Chief Justices of high courts to examine complaints of atrocities committed particularly by the police officers.“I have a lot of reservations at the way as to how bureaucracy particularly, how the police officers are behaving in this country,” observed Chief Justice N V Ramana. “I was at one time thinking of creating standing committees to examine atrocities and complaints against bureaucrats particularly police officers headed by the Chief Justices of the High Courts. Now, I want to reserve that, I do not want to do it now,” the CJI said. The CJI made the observations while heading a bench that was hearing three separate pleas of senior IPS officer Gurjinder Pal Singh, suspended Director of Chhattisgarh Police Academy of Chhattisgarh, against three FIRs lodged against him by the state government for offences of sedition, corruption, and extortion respectively.The bench, which reserved the orders, indicated the outcome and said that it would grant protection to the suspended officer from any coercive action in two cases lodged for the offence of sedition and extortion respectively and requested the Chhattisgarh High Court to decide his pleas expeditiously within eight weeks.In the third case lodged under the Prevention of Corruption Act for allegedly amassing disproportionate assets, the bench, also comprising Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli, said that the police officer would be at liberty to avail appropriate legal remedy as he had only sought its transfer to the CBI and the stay of the ongoing probe being conducted by the state police. At the outset, senior advocate F S Nariman, appearing for Singh in the sedition case, said that vexatious allegations have been made against the police officer for refusing to conspire to frame former Chief Minister and BJP leader in the state.Another senior advocate Vikas Singh, who also represented the police officer in corruption and the extortion case, said after being granted protection by the apex court, the state government on September 12 invoked a non-bailable provision in the third FIR for the offence of extortion for an alleged incident that had taken place in 2016. Singh said that the police officer has been a decorated one who is required to be protected and the government cannot be allowed to hound him.Senior Mukul Rohatgi and lawyer Sumeer Sodhi appeared for the state government and urged the bench that the police officer does not deserve any kind of protection because of the allegations and materials collected by the police during the probe.Rohatgi referred to the recovery of objectionable torn hand-written materials near the residence of the police officer and said that they indicated that he was actively involved in the seditious activity and wanted to overthrow the state government. Earlier also the bench had raised the issue of nexus between politicians in power and the police officers and had asked as to why the courts should protect such officers in criminal cases after the regime change.The counsel for the officer had said that honest and upright officials, having outstanding service records, needed to be protected against whom as many as three FIRs have been lodged by the government.The latest FIR was lodged on July 28 for offences of extortion, criminal intimidation under the IPC on the complaint of one Kamal Kumar Sen concerning an alleged incident of 2016.Gurjinder Pal Singh, the 1994-batch IPS officer who had served as the IG of Raipur, Durg, and Bilaspur during the earlier BJP rule, has been facing the probe in as many as three criminal cases.The top court, on August 26 this year, had granted Singh the protection from two criminal cases of sedition and amassing of disproportionate assets.Singh was initially booked in the disproportionate assets case following raids at his premises by the state’s Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) and Economic Offences Wing (EOW).Another case of sedition was invoked against him later on the grounds of his alleged involvement in promoting enmity and hatching a conspiracy against the government.According to the police, the documents recovered during the ACB/EOW raids revealed that Singh was allegedly involved in promoting enmity and hatching a conspiracy against the established government and public representatives and was booked under sedition charges.Singh was booked under IPC sections 124-A (sedition) and 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc) of the IPC at Raipur’s City Kotwali Police Station.He has sought the case be handed over to the CBI or other independent agencies to ensure a fair probe.The director of the state police academy was suspended on July 5 after the ACB/EOW, on June 29, registered an FIR under the Prevention of Corruption Act in connection with the disproportionate assets he had allegedly amassed. The ACB/EOW, which carried a three-day search at around 15 locations linked to Singh from July 1 to 3, claimed to have discovered movable and immovable assets worth around ₹10 crore.During the raid at the official residence of Singh, torn pieces of paper were also found from the backyard of the house and when the pieces were rearranged, serious and sensitive contents were found to be written and typed on it, the FIR said. PTI SJK RKS RKS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/have-reservations-at-how-police-officers-are-behaving-in-country-says-cji-ramana-101633113037153.html
02-10-2021||India||Supreme Court notice to govt on Aadhaar for Covid-19 vaccination||The Supreme Court on Friday sought a response from the central government on public interest litigation (PIL), which claimed that the Aadhaar card was being mandatorily insisted upon for administering vaccination against Covid-19.A bench of Justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and BV Nagarathna issued notice to the Centre on a petition filed by Pune-based lawyer Sidharthshankar Sharma, claiming that apart from seven identity documents mentioned in the CoWIN portal, Aadhaar was still being insisted upon.Initially, the bench was not inclined to entertain the petition as it was under the impression that other photo identity documents such as PAN card, drivers’ licence, Voter I-card or passport could be valid documents to register for Covid-19 vaccination.However, advocate Mayank Kshirsagar, appearing for the petitioner, told the court: “There are seven documents listed on CoWIN app for registration. But when you go to the vaccination centre, they insist on Aadhaar without which they do not allow vaccination. All policies are there on paper, but people are facing problems.”Hearing the arguments, the bench issued notice to the Union government and the Unique Identification Authority of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-centre-s-response-on-aadhaar-requirement-for-covid-19-vaccination-101633112977197.html
02-10-2021||India||Cop injured in attack on Rajiv Gandhi gets blood-stained cap back on last day of work||On Thursday, Prateep Philip retired as Director General of Police (Training) wearing a blood-stained cap and the same name badge he was wearing 30 years ago when, as an Assistant Superintendent of Police, he was on duty at the Sriperumbudur election meeting where a suicide bomber killed former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi.Two days before his retirement, a Chennai court allowed him to retrieve the cap and badge, submitted as material evidence in the case. “It was a defining and refining moment for me,” says Philip, who was only a few feet ahead of Gandhi when a woman suicide bomber detonated a powerful bomb. Philip, who still carries around 100 small pieces of shrapnel in his body, wanted to sign off wearing the cap and badge, both so-called material objects in legal terms. An additional sessions court judge, T Chandrasekaran ordered on September 28 that Philip could take interim custody of his cap and badge. Both are to be returned to the court in a month.Understanding Philip’s sentimental attachment to his cap and badge, a team of lawyers led by Sanjay Pinto told the court: “This is his last professional wish.” “He almost died in the blast. He was in the line of duty. I said (in the court) that the cap and the badge symbolise blood, sweat and tears.”Philip was 30 years old when as ASP of Kancheepuram district he was part of the police detail for Gandhi who arrived in Sriperumbudur for an election rally to campaign for Congress candidate Maragatham Chandrasekar. Philip says on May 19, two days before the incident, the organisers led by Chandrasekar changed the venue from secure school ground to an open temple ground. Philip went to see her and objected to the change, citing security concerns, but the organisers were adamant.Philip had just returned from a two-day break to see his newborn daughter in Kochi (she was born on May 11). His superior and the then SP Mohammed Iqbal asked him if a horoscope had been drawn up for her (a common practice in many parts of the country). “Someone had told the SP that May 21st was not a good day for the VIP according to his horoscope,” recalled Philip referring to the former Prime Minister only as the VIP. “As a man of faith, I said a prayer for our protection.” He remembers Gandhi stepping out of a bullet-proof car wearing a white kurta. “He looked very charismatic. He went towards the people and began shaking hands.”Philip controlled the crowd using a cane. He also put two women police officers in the women’s section. “It was a kind of a premonition because usually, we don’t bring in women for security because we don’t expect trouble from the women,” Iqbal told Philip to move ahead. They were next to the women’s section and when Philip looked back, a crowd of women surrounded Gandhi. “From the photos we can tell that’s how the assassin got close.”A suicide bomber, Dhanu akaThenmozhi Rajarathinam, belonging to the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) triggered an explosive-laden belt she was wearing as she bent down to touch Gandhi’s feet. Sixteen people, including Gandhi and Dhanu, were killed in the blast and around 45 including Philip and Iqbal were critically injured. The LTTE had orchestrated the assassination to avenge Gandhi’s decision to send the Indian Peace Keeping Force (IPKF) to Sri Lanka.“I was thrown up in the air,” said Philip. “Initially I was unconscious but because I was young, I gained consciousness in a few minutes and I found there was fire and smoke everywhere. There was blood all over my face. I was beginning to realise there was a blast.”A young inspector rushed to Philip. “I asked him how the VIP was”. Chacko responded to him in Malayalam “VIP poyi” meaning the PM was dead. Philip lost a lot of blood; he had 20% burns, from his face all the way to his ankles; and he had multiple fractures.Philip was in the hospital for 28-days. His SP Iqbal died due to internal bleeding. Now that he has retired, Philip said he plans on writing a book-- a survivor’s tale from the assassination that shook the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-cop-prateep-philip-injured-in-attack-on-rajiv-gandhi-gets-blood-stained-cap-back-on-last-day-of-work-101633112801330.html
02-10-2021||India||Mukul Sangma to meet loyalists amid reports of moving to TMC||Speculation over former chief minister of Meghalaya and Congress leader, Mukul Sangma, joining the Trinamool Congress gained momentum on Friday, with Sangma saying that he “will meet first”, but “nothing concrete” has yet been decided.“Who told you this?... Why do you people speculate so much when there’s nothing concrete yet? I said we will meet first, so there’s nothing else I can tell you now,” he said over the phone.A Congress MLA close to Sangma, however, confirmed that he would meet his loyalists late on Friday to chalk out a future strategy.Another Congress leader said that the former CM has visited Delhi twice in September, but failed to meet the party high command. “Can you imagine, he (Mukul) went twice to Delhi but met only junior party functionaries the first time and the second even after he had sought an appointment with Madam (Sonia Gandhi) in advance, she did not see him...,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-buzz-over-his-joining-tmc-meghalaya-former-cm-mukul-sangma-says-don-t-speculate-101633112739778.html
02-10-2021||India||Cong never humiliated former CM, says Harish Rawat; Amarinder Singh calls it ‘blatant lie’||The turmoil in the Congress in Punjab spurred a bitter verbal clash on Friday between party general secretary Harish Rawat and former chief minister Amarinder Singh, a day after the latter announced his decision to end a 52-year-long association with the party.Rawat, the Punjab incharge and key troubleshooter, said Singh was never humiliated and lost the support of party lawmakers, prompting Singh to hit out at Rawat over his “blatant lies”.“Captain has been our friend in Congress since 1980. But it is very unfortunate that amid the ongoing situation in the Punjab unit, he is forwarding the theory of his humiliation by the party leadership. He was not humiliated at all... It seems he is under some pressure and doing that on someone’s provocation,” Rawat said at a press conference in Dehradun.The comments came a day after Singh said he was going to quit the Congress over the humiliation meted out to him by the party. He also met Union home minister Amit Shah and national security adviser Ajit Doval in Delhi, but insisted that the meetings weren’t political.Singh quit as CM last week after months of tussle between him and rival Navjot Singh Sidhu for control of the party. Sidhu on Tuesday quit as state unit chief, plunging the party into further turmoil, but meetings with new chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Thursday appeared to have resolved the deadlock.Hours after Rawat’s press conference, Singh hit back.He said that three weeks before stepping down as CM, he had offered his resignation to Congress president Sonia Gandhi but she asked him to continue. The “humiliating manner” in which he was pushed into resigning was a matter of public record, he added.“The world saw the humiliation and the insult heaped on me, and yet Rawat is making claims to the contrary,” he said. “If this was not humiliation then what was it?” he asked.Rawat urged Singh to not support the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and said: “His recent meetings with Shah and other BJP leaders are putting a question mark on his whole life’s political capital and secular credentials which have been the core of his politics all these years. He should not help anti-Punjab BJP both directly or indirectly as they are trying to make him their mask in Punjab which is against his stature,” said Rawat.Rejecting the charge, Singh said even his worst critics could not doubt his integrity in this regard. “But I am no longer surprised that a senior and seasoned Congress leader like Rawat is questioning my secular credentials. It is quite evident that I am no longer trusted and respected in the party that I have served loyally all these years.”Rawat said the Congress had always given Singh respect. “Thrice he has been the state president of Congress and twice he has been made the CM for a tenure of about nine and a half years. In comparison to that, the other senior leaders in the state didn’t get that much,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-never-humiliated-former-punjab-cm-says-harish-rawat-amarinder-singh-calls-it-blatant-lie-101633111477088.html
02-10-2021||India||6 more Chhattisgarh Congress MLAs arrive in Delhi||Amid reports of a possible leadership change in Chhattisgarh, six more Congress MLAs reached Delhi on Friday night, to join the 10 legislators who flew in on Wednesday.While the six MLAs did not say their visit was for political reasons, the movement comes at a time when the state leadership is in a sense of flux, with both chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, and his primary contender health minister TS Singhdeo waiting to hear from Delhi.On Thursday, two MLAs reached Delhi, while one MLA returned to Raipur on Friday. All these MLAs are said to be close to Baghel. “There is no political motive behind my Delhi visit today ... It is purely personal visit as I have some personal work,” MLA Shishu Pal Sori told reporters at Raipur airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-11-chhattisgarh-congress-legislators-camping-in-delhi-6-more-reach-capital-101633109377136.html
02-10-2021||India||Australian govt gives nod to Covishield for international travellers||Australia on Friday declared Covishield, the Indian variant of the AstraZeneca Covid-19 shot, as a “recognised vaccine” for international travellers as part of measures aimed at safely reopening the country from November.The Australian side, however, indicated that Indian students will have to wait some more time before being granted permission to return. Australia’s visiting trade and tourism minister Dan Tehan said foreign students will be able to start “returning towards the end of this year and the beginning of next year”, ahead of the start of the first semester in February-March 2022.The Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) of Australia listed Covishield and China’s Coronavac (Sinovac) as “recognised vaccines” after an initial assessment of data on protection offered by the two jabs.Covishield, made by the Serum Institute of India, and Coronavac “should be considered as ‘recognised vaccines’ for the purpose of determining incoming international travellers as being appropriately vaccinated”, said a statement issued jointly by Prime Minister Scott Morrison and several ministers.The statement outlined the next steps to be taken by Australia to lift a ban on international flights and to make changes at the international border. “Our government is setting out the framework for how international travel will look in coming months,” it said.India has been pressing the Australian side to open up travel for Indian nationals, especially students wishing to join courses at universities and educational institutions. India is the second largest source of foreign students in Australia, behind China. During 2019-20, Indian students contributed $6.6 billion to the Australian economy.Tehan told reporters in New Delhi: “We are on track to see [the] reopening [of Australia] occur in November. This is so important in a number of areas...it means the pathway for Indian students to return to Australia is there again.” “We are warmly looking forward to welcoming the Indian students.”Australia’s recognition of Covishield also creates a pathway for Indian businesspeople to return, Tehan said. In response to a question on Australia possibly recognising India’s Covaxin shot, Tehan said this could be considered once the vaccine is approved by the WHO.The Australian government plans to move forward on foreign travel only after 70% of the population has been fully vaccinated. More than 78% of Australians have received the first dose and double dose rates are at 55%, with some areas on track to reach 70% over the next week.In the initial stages, Australia will allow travel to reunite Australian families. It will also work towards allowing in tourists.The statement further said the declaration of Covishield as a “recognised vaccine” for international travellers did not mean it had been approved for use for vaccination in Australia. “The recognition of these two additional vaccines is a major milestone towards more Australians vaccinated overseas getting home sooner,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/australia-approves-covishield-for-international-travellers-indian-students-will-have-to-wait-to-return-101633078176289.html
02-10-2021||India||‘Congress a better platform... in tune with idea of India’: Jignesh Mevani||An independent legislator from Gujarat and a Dalit leader, Jignesh Mevani, is expected to join the Congress soon. Mevani spoke to Sunetra Choudhury about why it is the right platform for him even as the party has faced a series of defections. Edited excerpts:What is it about the Congress that has drawn you when many have left the party?Whatever we’ve witnessed, as a nation, as a society, in the last 6-7 years, is nothing but the destruction of democracy. [There has been an] attack on our social fabric, our idea of India, and the Indian Constitution. The way RSS (Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh) and BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party) have been operating, there is every chance that they will amend the Constitution and keep destroying our democratic institutions. In this situation, I feel that my duty is to do everything that I can do to protect the Constitution and our idea of India. For that, I need a platform. What better platform, than a platform with the legacy of the Indian freedom movement, which is in tune with our idea of India, and which celebrates the Constitution. I believe that Rahul Gandhi is a man who never compromises with the RSS and BJP, and therefore I’m joining Indian National Congress.But isn’t what Kapil Sibal and other Congress leaders have been saying bothering you?Internal contradictions will be there in all the political parties. My duty as a beginner is to bring more people on board rather than being concerned about the ones who are leaving. Kanhaiya Kumar (who joined the party recently) and I will be reaching out to thousands and thousands of young people in every state. And I’m really optimistic and hopeful that seeing Hardik (Patel), Kanhaiya, and me, many people will join. People who left the party haven’t been able to create an impact, but our joining has tremendously excited people.Gujarat has seen much political activity of late. The BJP’s assessment is that by changing the entire cabinet, they are getting rid of anti-incumbency. What is your assessment?Their move of changing their entire cabinet, in a way, is an admission on their part that there is tremendous anti-incumbency. This anti-incumbency has two dimensions: anti-incumbency of the last 27 years, and anti-incumbency generated out of the monumental mismanagement of the Covid crisis. So, there is a great chance for the Opposition, there is a great chance for Congress. Last time we lost by 10-12 seats, this won’t be the case this time. I’m really optimistic and I’m greatly hopeful.In the 2017 polls, Congress performed the best it has in Gujarat in years. Don’t you think that the momentum that the opposition and the Congress built then has gone?I must admit that there have been ups and downs. But, as the elections come close, there will have momentum in our favour... and Hardik and I have planned to do something big on the issue of unemployment. We will be reaching out to the masses and things will change very soon.If GST was the big issue in 2017, unemployment will be the issue in 2022?Yes.The next big election is in Uttar Pradesh. Do you think the Dalit leadership base is consolidated in Uttar Pradesh or fragmented?Fragmented, and it is fragmented not just in UP Uttar Pradesh but everywhere. But my primary focus will be more on Gujarat. I will be going to various parts of the country only after 2022. Definitely, 2024 (national polls) is a gigantic task before all of us, but I’ll be focusing more on Gujrat. As far as the case of Uttar Pradesh is concerned, I don’t see any role for me initially, but in the coming days and years, I will go there definitely.How does BJP still retain the Dalit vote?As far as Gujarat is concerned, they haven’t been able to gain much out of Dalit votes. But in Uttar Pradesh, they could manage, and the Dalit Bahujan movement has also come down weakened and let us not forget that BJP is operating as a corporate party. They have enormous money. So, paid media, social media, buying people in Rajya Sabha elections... It has purely become a game of money in which BJP is able to do better than all the political parties. The movement, however, cannot get away with this argument, we also need to rethink our strategies, about what we have been doing. And we will try to work on that and how to bring Dalits back to our fold.Would you say that your attempt is going to be to renew the KHAM (Kshatriya, Harijan, Adivasi and Muslim) alliance that Congress had in Gujarat?We will be talking about inflation, unemployment, public health, education, and the fruits of the Gujarat Model that have not reached most people. I want to talk about the revival of the small and medium scale industries, how the entrepreneurs can be supported and promoted. I want to talk about providing resources to Dalits and tribals, how those who have suffered due to GST and notebandi (demonetisation). I want to talk about prosperity for all. So, culturally progressive, socially just, and economically prosperous Gujarat is my vision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-is-in-tune-with-idea-of-india-celebrates-constitution-mevani-101633071820275.html
