03-10-2021||India||‘Unforgivable, barbaric, cruel’: How politicians reacted to Lakhimpur incident||Several political leaders, including Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief Mamata Banerjee, have condemned the incident in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri in which eight people, including four farmers protesting against the Centre’s three farm laws, were killed.The incident happened earlier in the day at Tikonia-Banbirpur road when the farmers were protesting against the visit of Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya in Banbirpur village. A local police official said that the farmers got enraged after two SUVs reportedly belonging to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers hit them and injured many farmers. Massive chaos and arson broke out soon after and police rushed to the spot.Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait in a video message on Twitter claimed that the violence broke out after the farmers, who were on their way back home following protests against the farm laws, were attacked with a vehicle. He further alleged that fire was opened at them.Union minister of state for home Ajay Kumar Mishra Teni told news agency ANI that the car lost balance after and ended up killing two people after “miscreants from the agitating farmers” began pelting stones at the vehicle.The incident has caused massive outrage and many prominent political leaders have issued statements along with their decisions to visit Lakhimpur Kheri.Here are some reactions from politicians:1.     Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said that the incident in Lakhimpur Kheri is “unfortunate” and that actions will be taken against whoever is responsible for the same.2.     Congress leader Rahul Gandhi took to Twitter on Sunday to write that the “sacrifice” of those involved in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident “will not go in vain.”3.     Samajwadi Party (SP) president and former chief minister of Uttar Pradesh Akhilesh Yadav termed the incident as “inhuman and cruel.” “UP will not bear the oppression of arrogant BJP people anymore,” his tweet in Hindi read. He will visit Lakhimpur Kheri tomorrow.4.     Congress general secretary and party’s UP in-charge Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted, “enough is enough.” “This is the country of farmers, and not a fiefdom of BJP ideology...Farmers’ satyagrah will get stronger, farmers’ voice will get louder,” she wrote. She is set to leave for Lakhimpur on Monday 8am.5.     TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee, who won the Bhabanipur bypolls on Sunday and retained the chief minister’s chair, condemned the “barbaric incident” in Lakhimpur. “The apathy of BJP towards our farmer brethren pains me deeply,” she tweeted, adding that a five-member delegation of MPs will visit the families of the victims tomorrow.6.    “Violence or provocation of violence is no solution to any problem,” former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh said. 7.     Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi condemned the incident and shared his condolences with the “bereaved families in this hour of grief.”8.     Congress leader and Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel is also going to go to Lakhimpur Kheri tomorrow. He took to Twitter as well to raise his voice against the “brutal treatment meted out to farmers,” saying that the incident is “unforgivable.” “I am a farmer. I understand the pain of the farmers. I will go to Lakhimpur tomorrow morning to stand by them in these difficult circumstances,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unforgivable-barbaric-cruel-how-politicians-reacted-to-lakhimpur-incident-101633283010746.html
03-10-2021||India||Over 150 years later, Guwahati’s British-era DC Bungalow is now a heritage centre||Nearly 150 years after it was constructed to serve as the residence of the British deputy commissioner of Kamrup, the iconic DC Bungalow of Guwahati, was on Sunday opened to the public as a heritage centre. Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, who is in Assam as part of a three-day tour to the northeast, inaugurated the Mahabahu Brahmaputra River Heritage Centre in the presence of Governor Jagdish Mukhi and Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma. The Vice President called for a national campaign to rejuvenate the country’s rivers and suggested that “we save our rivers with a sense of immediacy”. “In the past, our villages and cities used to be dotted with several water bodies. In the quest for modernization, man, driven by greed, has destroyed natural ecosystems and at several places, the water bodies have virtually disappeared or have been encroached upon,” he said. In a detailed Facebook post later, Naidu praised the effort to covert the bungalow into a heritage property and commented on its beauty. “This is where the great warrior Lachit Barphukan made a decisive attack on the Mughals and forced them to return….Transforming this bungalow into Brahmaputra River Heritage Centre is a mark of respect for this vast river that nourished the civilisation here for centuries,” he wrote. Located atop Barphukanar Tilla, a small hillock named after the most famous Ahom general Lachit Barphukan, it is the site from where the Ahom forces planned and launched attacks on the Mughal army during the Battle of Saraighat in 1671, which the latter lost. “After the British annexed Assam in 1826 (after the Treaty of Yandaboo), the post of DC was created for Guwahati in 1839. But the city had no appropriate house at that time to accommodate Captain James Matthie, the first DC,” said a state government release. “Several sites were surveyed before Barphukanar Tilla on the banks of the Brahmaputra, where cannons used in the Battle of Saraighat lay scattered, was chosen. Post-independence, it continued to be the DC’s bungalow until 2011,” the release added. Though the exact date of when the bungalow was completed is not known, it is believed to be sometime in the 1850s. A project to convert it into a heritage museum was later taken up under the Brahmaputra Riverfront Development plan. The heritage centre has on display the heritage of boats, an amphitheatre, an exhibition space, a cafeteria etc. The other attractions include a collection of traditional fishing equipment, photographs and artifacts related to the history of Guwahati and river transport. The bungalow has installations depicting the textile designs, ethnic motifs and indigenous musical instruments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-150-years-later-guwahati-s-british-era-dc-bungalow-is-now-a-heritage-centre-101633281421630.html
03-10-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: October 4, 1963 — Governor, CM for Kashmir; Bakshi Ghulam Mohammed envisages greater unity||Srinagar- Premier Bakshi Ghulam Mohammed declared here today that in future the Sadr-i-Riyasat would be designated as Governor and the State Prime Minister as Chief Minister, as in other States of the country. He was delivering his farewell address to the Jammu and Kashmir Legislative Council. The Premier was cheered as he made the announcement. He said he was giving these directives to his successor Government who would introduce appropriate constitutional amendments in the next session of the State Legislature. He also favoured the integration of the Kashmir National Conference with the Indian National Congress and characterized his becoming a Congress member as a first step in this direction. He was relinquishing office to work in a larger field as a Congressman. Accession final Outlining his achievements during his 10-year rule as Premier, Bakshi said the State had been brought much nearer to the Union as a result of extension of the jurisdiction of the Election Commission, the Supreme Court and the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India to Kashmir, abolition of customs barriers as well as permit system, regulating the entry of persons into the State and integration of State services with all-India services. Kashmir’s accession to India ratified by the State Constituent Assembly on Feb. 6, 1954, was now irrevocable and nobody on earth could bring about any change in this relationship, he asserted. He said a decision had also been taken providing for direct election of Kashmir’s representatives to Parliament “as soon as the emergency was over.” Enumerating the measures introduced to make the State internally strong, Bakshi said landlordism had been abolished, rural indebtedness scaled down by 51 per cent, compulsory levy on landowners done away with, rehabilitation of lakhs of people from Pak-occupied Kashmir had almost been completed and a high power anti-corruption commission had been set up in the State. Earlier, replying to the debate on industrial policy, Bakshi conceded that failure of public sector industries had been mainly due to running them “Just like other Government departments instead of on commercial lines.” He declared that Kashmir would be guided by the industrial policy resolution of the Union Government.Industrial policy He assured equal treatment to public, private and co-operative sectors of industry. He said he was stepping down as Premier with his head high and a sense of confidence that what he promised to people on assuming office in August, 1953, he had been able to fulfil. The Premier said he would not be able to sit in the House any more but would be watching their activities with unabated interest. He felt his successor-whom he did not name-and his colleagues had the capacity and the calibre to “carry forward this small State full of numerous, complicated problems.” Mr Sheo Narayan Fotedar, Chairman of the Council, felicitated the Premier on his “glorious achievements.” He said he had never seen any Kashmir Premier, except the late Mr Gopalaswamy Ayyangar, to lay down the office at the peak of his glory in such calm, cool and complacent manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-october-4-1963-governor-cm-for-kashmir-bakshi-ghulam-mohammed-envisages-greater-unity-101633281420370.html
03-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur incident 'unfortunate', says Yogi Adityanath; promises tough action||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday expressed grief over the Lakhimpur incident in which at least eight people were killed including four farmers after violence broke out in the district. In an official statement by the chief minister's office, Adityanath called the incident "unfortunate" and said that "action will be taken against whoever is responsible."Violence erupted in the Lakhimpur Kheri district during a farmers' protest when a jeep allegedly ran over protesting farmers, while they were trying to protest against UP deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya’s visit to Banbirpur village.The incident took place on Tikonia-Banbirpur road where the farmers had gathered to oppose the deputy CM’s visit. The farmers also set two SUVs on fire which allegedly hit them, leaving a number of protesters seriously injured. The SUVs reportedly belonged to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers.Also Read | Lakhimpur Kheri: Ajay Misra says his son was not there in the car"The government will go under the root cause of the incident and expose the elements involved," the chief minister said, adding, it will "take strict action against the culprits."Taking serious cognisance of the incident, UP police’s additional director general (ADG) (Law and Order) Prashant Kumar, along with other senior officials, are present at the spot to control the situation. "They are investigating the cause of the incident," the chief minister also informed.The statement also appealed to locals to maintain and peace and not pay heed to rumors. CM Yogi Adityanath also asked people to refrain from arriving at any conclusions and asked for their contribution "in maintaining peace and order on the spot."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-incident-unfortunate-says-yogi-adityanath-promises-tough-action-101633280289914.html
03-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Ajay Misra says his son was not there in the car, driver lost balance because of stone-pelting||Union minister of state Ajay Mishra Teni refuted allegations that his son Ashish Mishra was driving the vehicle that allegedly ran over the protesters in Lakhimpur Kheri. "Had my son been there, he would not have come out alive," he told ANI. Lakhimpur Kheri turned into a battlefield on Sunday as violence broke out after two SUVs, part of the cavalcade of deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya and minister of state Ajay Mishra Teni allegedly crushed a group of farmers who were protesting against their visit. Protesters stopped the vehicles and set them on fire. UP police confirmed eight deaths, including that of four protesting farmers.
03-10-2021||India||‘No new Covid-19 variant of concern' in India: Dr NK Arora||No new variant of concern (VOC) or variant of interest (VOI) of Covid-19 has emerged in the country, said Dr NK Arora, co-chair of the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG), on Sunday."During last four-five months, no new variant of concern or interest has emerged. Initially, there were some concerns with 'Delta ', but later on we have found this is the part of the lineage which we call as AY (there are 1 to 13). Though new sub lineages coming up but none of them have been found to be either more infection or more virulent bit they are under constant watch," Dr Arora told ANI.However, the Delta variant of Covid-19 continuing to remain as the main VOC in India.The current status of VOC/VOI is found to be distributed in 459 districts across all 36 States and Union Territories of the country. The SARS-CoV-2 VOC/VOls detected in community samples are Delta- 25,164, AY series- 4143, Kappa and B.1.617.3 is 5364, Alpha-3,655, Beta- 102 and Gamma-1.The cumulative number of samples with pangolin lineage till the month of September is 60,043.A further categorisation shows that 54,865 community samples were taken and 5,178 samples were of travellers. The total VOC/VOI is 39,283 with amounts to 65.4 in proportion.Dr Arora added, "In addition, the country is constantly picking up samples from all over the country and there is a constant vigil to see that if anything of concern arises, prompt action will be taken. These days whenever there is a virus sample is picked up within three/ four weeks we know the status. Time-lapse between picking up the sample and the complete process has been shortened. We have sufficient capacity and have also prepared ourselves."Significantly along with government labs, private labs could also do sampling, he noted."In addition, to the current labs capacity if required we can get the sample done from private sectors as vendors as there is a huge private sector capacity also," said Dr Arora.In the month of December, 10 genome sequencing labs were made under a consortium, INSACOG. This has recently been expanded in the last three months to 28 labs with a monthly capacity of 80,000 samples that can be sequenced.There has also been no change as far Delta variant is concerned from a global perspective also which includes B.1.617.2 (AY) and AY.x sublineages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-new-covid-19-variant-of-concern-in-india-dr-nk-arora-101633277752953.html
03-10-2021||India||Farm-income growth slowing in food-bowl Punjab, indicates data||Farm incomes in food-bowl Punjab are growing at a much slower pace than some traditionally poorer states, as new data suggest agriculture in the state has hit an immutable law of economics: diminishing returns. Punjab propelled India’s Green Revolution five decades ago, rescuing millions from hunger. But the gains are fast eroding. Experts say the income slowdown is linked to an overdependence on big cereals, such as wheat and rice. A slower pace of farm income growth in Punjab is borne out by the Situation Assessment of Agricultural Households 2018-19 (SAS), a national survey of farm incomes released recently. Although Punjab’s farmers lead the country in terms of absolute levels of monthly income, farm income not adjusted for inflation in the state annually grew 6.73% in a span of six years between 2013-14 and 2018-19, the survey shows. In contrast, farm incomes in states such as Bihar and Uttarakhand grew much faster at 13.3% and 19.3% in the corresponding period, albeit over a low base. Cheap fertilisers, assured minimum support price (MSP) for cereals, free electricity for drawing water and high-yielding seeds have, over the decades, spurred a trend of ‘mono-cropping’, or the practice of growing mainly rice in summer and wheat in winter. This has robbed Punjab’s farmers potential income that could have come from growing a more diverse set of crops, research shows. MSP or minimum support price is a floor price set by the government. The government ‘procures’ or buys paddy and wheat at MSP to build stockpiles for redistribution to the poor. This has increased farmers’ dependence on cereals. A widespread farmers agitation since last year against the Modi government’s three new farm laws and demand by the protesting cultivators for a legal guarantee for MSP has only prompted authorities to step up procurement of cereals even more. The government bought a record 60.06 million tonne of rice grown in the summer-sown kharif season in 2020, the highest quantity ever. This procurement policy, which incentivises big cereals, has caused Punjab’s rich landscape of corn, barley, gram, lentils and nutritious coarser cereals to disappear within a decade of big cereals entering the state in the late-1960s. The number of crops grown by Punjab’s farmers has declined from 21 in the 1960s to just about nine, according to data cited by Prof. Surinder S. Jodhka of Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi, in a recent paper (https://bit.ly/3ov38XI). “The Green Revolution was actually a brown revolution. It was limited to rice and wheat,” said Uma Kapila, an economist who formerly taught at Delhi’s Miranda House. Punjab’s average farm gross domestic product has plateaued around 2%, while it could have been grown over 5% annually if only farmers had not given up cultivating a more diverse set of crops, according to a research by economists Ashok Gulati and Siraj Hussain of the think-tank ICRIER. The state’s agricultural GDP, a broad measure of farm income, grew only 1.61% annually, less than half the all-India average of 3.5% between 2005-06 and 2014-15, Gulati’s research shows. The paddy boom is partly responsible for a severe winter smog across much of northern India, as farmers set fire to paddy-crop residue, known as stubble, to clear fields. Punjab takes about 5,500 litres of water to grow one kg of rice, five times as much China uses, pointing to the state’s low water productivity. Northern and central districts are severely water depleted, while south-western districts face water logging and soil salinity or alkalinity. Districts such as Muktsar, Fazilka, Bathinda and Faridkot are notoriously degraded. The Central Ground Water Board put out a dire warning in May last year: at the current rate of water extraction, Punjab would be a desert within the next quarter century. The state has never been able to implement an agenda of crop diversification first chalked out by the so-called S.S. Johl committee in 1986,” said KS Mani, a former faculty at the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University. Paddy has meant a groundwater extraction rate of 165%, a jump of 16 percentage points since 2013. “I have moved from shallow tubewells to six deep tubewells on my 12 acres. My expenses are going up because I have to dig deeper and deeper every year,” says Ravinder Uppal, a paddy grower in Sangrur. Big cereals have stoked an insidious rise in costs, annually growing by 5-6% and pushing farmers into debt, says Balwinder Singh Sandhu, the state’s agricultural commissioner. The increase in paddy MSP has barely kept pace with rising costs, if a measure of cultivation known as “C2 cost” is factored in, which includes the imputed rental value of land, depreciation and interests on capital. Increasing the share of capital, such as mechanised harvesters and investment, is necessary for growth. But pumping more and more capital without technological advancements can lead to what Nobel winning economist Robert Solow demonstrated to be a “steady economic state”, where all new investment goes into replacing exhausted capital without productivity gains. The economy stalls as a result. Punjab’s agriculture is right in the middle of such a stagnation, as the Green Revolution has run its course. “Why else are 1.5 lakh people migrating abroad every year?” asks Sandhu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmincome-growth-slowing-in-food-bowl-punjab-indicates-data-101633276859919.html
03-10-2021||India||TMC’s Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay, who left Bhabanipur seat for Mamata, to contest in October 30 bypoll||Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader and cabinet minister Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay has been named as the party’s candidate in the upcoming bypoll in four constituencies in West Bengal, scheduled for October 30. He will be contesting for the Khardaha seat. Notably, Chattopadhyay vacated his seat in Kolkata’s Bhabanipur for TMC supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee to contest after she lost the Nandigram seat to BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari.The party on Sunday, hours after Mamata sealed a record win in Bhabanipur for the third time and retained her CM’s post, announced the names of its four candidates for the bypolls in Dinhata, Santipur, and Gosaba, besides Khardaha.
03-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: On stubble burning, Bhupendra Yadav says states cooperating constructively and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Stubble burning: Bhupendra Yadav says states cooperating constructivelyUnion environment minister Bhupendra Yadav said on Sunday that the Centre received constructive cooperation from four northern states- Delhi, Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh on the issue of stubble burning. Read moreFarmers to stage nationwide stir over Lakhimpur Kheri incident: Yogendra YadavFarmers will stage a stir outside district magistrate offices across the country on Monday over the alleged incident of two SUVs running over protesters in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri, social activist Yogendra Yadav announced today. Read moreMan in selfie with Aryan Khan not an officer: NCB clarifies as picture goes viralThe Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has categorically clarified that the man in a widely circulated picture with Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son, Aryan Khan, is not an officer or employee of the NCB. Read moreGhanshyam Nayak, Nattu Kaka of Taarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashmah, dies after battle with cancerActor Ghanshyam Nayak, known for playing Nattu Kaka in the popular sitcom Taarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashmah, died on Sunday. He was battling cancer. Read more‘Sack the 3rd umpire immediately’: Ex-cricketers react over TV umpire’s decision; Rahul also loses his calm – WATCHThe Indian Premier League (IPL) 2021 match no. 48 in Sharjah witnessed a furious side of Punjab Kings (PBKS) skipper KL Rahul who had a heated discussion with on-field umpire Anantha Padmanabhan over a DRS call. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/newsletter-from-ht-on-stubble-burning-bhupendra-yadav-says-states-cooperating-and-all-the-latest-news-101633274537962.html
03-10-2021||India||Eight killed in violence during protest against ministers in UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri: Police||Eight people including four farmers died in violence that broke out in Lakhimpur Kheri district of Uttar Pradesh on Sunday after a protest to block UP deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya’s visit to Banbirpur village, a senior police officer at police headquarters in Lucknow said.Violence and arson broke out after eight people were feared dead when a jeep allegedly ran over protesting farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri district of Uttar Pradesh on Sunday afternoon, police officials said.In a tweet, Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait claimed that the farmers were attacked when they were returning after staging a protest against the Centre’s new farm laws. He also alleged that people in the convoy opened fire.He further claimed that some people died and many were injured in the incident. Tikait said that he was going to Lakhimpur Kheri and would be likely to reach by midnight.Taking serious cognisance of the incident, UP police’s additional director general (ADG) (Law and Order) Prashant Kumar, along with other senior officials, have been rushed to the spot to control the situation.Kumar, who was on the way to the spot, said he could confirm the deaths and the exact situation only after reaching the site. He said heavy police deployment had already been done in the Tikonia area to avert any further trouble.Tikonia is nearly 70 kilometres from the Lakhimpur Kheri district headquarters and very close to the India-Nepal border.A local police official said the violence broke out minutes ahead of UP deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya’s visit to Banbirpur village under Tikonia police station limits. He said the incident took place on Tikonia-Banbirpur road when the farmers, who were agitating against the new farm laws and had blocked the road to oppose the deputy CM’s visit, got infuriated after two SUVs reportedly belonging to BJP workers hit them, leaving a number of farmers seriously injured.He said the farmers in retaliation overturned and set on fire two SUVs, besides thrashing people in the convoy.The deputy CM had to cancel his visit to Banbirpur village, where he was to inaugurate an annual wrestling competition, which is organised by Kheri MP and Union minister of state for home Ajay Kumar Mishra Teni in memory of his father late Ambika Prasad Mishra.Following the incident, Congress general secretary and UP in-charge Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, in a tweet, said: “How much hatred BJP harbours against farmers in the country? Don’t they have a right to live? If they raise their voices, then you will open fire on them? Run them over by vehicles? Enough is enough...This is the country of farmers, and not a fiefdom of BJP ideology...Farmers’ satyagrah will get stronger, farmers’ voice will get louder.”The Samajwadi Party will send a delegation of party leaders to Lakhimpur Kheri to probe the incident.Samajwadi Party national president Akhilesh Yadav in a tweet in Hindi said running over farmers who were peacefully protesting the farm law (three new central farm laws) by the son of a Union minister of state was inhuman and cruel...UP will not tolerate atrocities by arrogant BJP members...and if this state of affairs continue then in UP BJP members will not be able to travel in vehicles or get out of them.In another tweet Akhilesh said that he could speak a bit to the seriously hurt farmer leader Tejender Singh Virk...the government should give him best of medical treatment...and there’s only one demand--- that the chief minister should resign.Internet services too have been partially banned in Lakhimpur Kheri district after the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eight-dead-in-up-s-lakhimpur-kheri-after-jeep-runs-over-protesting-farmers-101633273679900.html
03-10-2021||India||West Bengal by-poll: 'Gracefully accept the outcome,' says BJP after Mamata-led TMC sweeps all 3 constituencies||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Sunday said it "gracefully accepts" the outcome of the three assembly by-polls in West Bengal, adding that the results are "not in line with the expectations" of the party. The statement comes as Mamata Banerjee-Trinamool Congress (TMC) secured a landslide victory in the Bhabanipur constituency, while in Jangipur and Samserganj too, TMC emerged as the winner.According to the Election Commission of India, Mamata Banerjee secured 85,263 votes. Banerjee's main rival candidate, Priyanka Tibrewal of BJP, got 26,428 votes. At third was CPI (M) candidate Srijib Biswas, who secured 4,226 votes."After being demolished in Nandigram, Mamata Banerjee may have survived in Bhabanipur for now, but it has never happened that a losing candidate chose to thrust herself as the chief minister, in violation of all democratic norms and proprietary," the statement read.It also alleged that the by-elections were declared "at the behest of Mamata Banerjee's government" amidst the prevailing Covid-19 situation and the post-poll violence. "The elections were held under an overbearing state administration, with the dark shadow of fear, intimidation and gloom of the post-poll violence hanging over the electorate," the BJP said in the statement.BJP also alleged partiality by the state administration during the elections campaign and claimed that the BJP candidate was stopped at various places in the poll-going constituency, "disregarding the basic right of an election candidate to reach out to one's electorate".It said the "polls, particularly in Bhabanipur, were marred by rampant fake voting". "BJP candidates even apprehended such voters, but were allowed to escape under supervision of Kolkata police under political pressure from the TMC," BJP claimed.The by-poll at Bhabanipur was necessitated after Sovandeb Chattopadhyay, who originally won the seat in the assembly elections held this year, vacated the seat to facilitate Banerjee's continuity in the CM post following her defeat in Nandigram.Banerjee lost to her former aide Suvendu Adhikari by a close margin of 1,956 votes from the Nandigram constituency in the assembly elections. As the TMC came back with a thumping majority, Banerjee was sworn in as the chief minister for the third time. However, as per the Constitution, Mamata had to win on any seat in the state to have the chance of becoming a member of the state assembly. In fact, she had to win before November 5 to remain the chief minister’s position.The BJP also said that it will "continue to fight the regressive politics of TMC". "The resilient BJP party workers will continue to fight tooth and nail against such democratic irregularities and won't stop till rule of law is restored in West Bengal," it stated.In the statement, the BJP also quoted Swami Vivekananda, and said, "Arise, awake and stop not till the goal is reached."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-by-poll-gracefully-accept-the-outcome-says-bjp-after-mamata-led-tmc-sweeps-all-3-constituencies-101633273306109.html
03-10-2021||India||BJD retains Pipili assembly constituency in Odisha, notches up bigger margin||Biju Janata Dal’s electoral juggernaut continued to roll after the party won the bypolls to the Pipili assembly constituency in Puri district on Sunday signifying the party’s readiness to take on its opponent BJP in next year’s panchayat and urban body polls.Bypolls in Pipili were held on September 30, with a record 78 per cent of the 2.29 lakh voters in the largely rural constituency flocking to the polling booths amid Covid-19 protocol.Rudra Pratap Maharathy, the 32-year-old son of former BJD minister Pradip Maharathy who won the seat seven times, defeated his nearest BJP rival Ashrit Patnaik by nearly 21,000 votes, said returning officer Samarth Verma. The winning margin in the bypoll was higher than the 2019 assembly poll.Biswokeshan Harichandan Mohapatra of Congress forfeited his security deposit as he could not poll the mandatory 1/6th of the total votes polled fuelling demands of resignation of PCC chief Niranjan Patnaik.An elated Rudra Pratap Maharathy said after the demise of his father, the people of Delang-Pipili were waiting for an MLA for around one year. “The voters are my malik (Lord) and I am their sevak (servant). I am not here for celebration; rather I will focus on work. My priority will be to complete the pending work initiated by my late father and will reach out to common people to address their issues,” said Maharathy.Odisha education minister Samir Ranjan Dash said the victory has now proved that the charisma of people’s CM Naveen Patnaik is still intact among the masses due to his pro-people policies.Bypolls to the picturesque assembly constituency was required after its sitting BJD MLA Pradip Maharathy succumbed to Covid-19 in October 2020. The bypoll scheduled on April 17 had to be postponed after the demise of Congress candidate Ajit Mangaraj just three days before the election was due to happen. The bypoll was again rescheduled to May 16 after Congress fielded Bishwokeshan Harichandan Mohapatra as their candidate. However, on May 4, the Election Commission deferred the bypolls as the state went into Covid-19 lockdown amid rising cases till last month, when the EC decided to hold the election on September 30.BJD had fielded deceased MLA Pradip Maharathy’s son Rudra Pratap Maharathy, an administrative officer in a city-based management institute while BJP had fielded Asrit Pattanayak who contested unsuccessfully against Pradip Maharathy in the 2019 assembly polls. Congress nominated Biswokeshan Harichandan Mohapatra, an advocate and former district president of Congress Seval Dal.The Pipili bypoll victory is significant for BJD as this was the first major election in which the party candidate won despite Naveen Patnaik not campaigning. It is also the last major polls ahead of the panchayat polls scheduled in February next year and urban body polls due to be held soon after. Last year, the BJD had won the bye-election to two assembly constituencies of Balasore Sadar and Tirtol following the death of the sitting MLAs there.BJD had stationed at least a dozen ministers and two dozen MLAs in the constituency at the panchayat level to woo the voters. The BJP campaign was led by Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan and party spokesperson Sambit Patra. The Congress campaign was led by OPCC president Niranjan Patnaik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjd-retains-pipili-assembly-constituency-in-odisha-notches-up-bigger-margin-101633272179260.html
03-10-2021||India||'Won’t let this sacrifice go in vain’: Rahul on farmers’ death in Lakhimpur||Eight people, including four farmers protesting against the Centre’s contentious farm laws were allegedly run over by two SUVs at the Tikonia-Banbirpur road while they were demonstrating against the visit of Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya in the Lakhimpur Kheri district. Several other farmers were left injured in the incident. The incident happened after angry protesters allegedly forced the two vehicles to stop and set them on fire.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted a story link related to the incident, and said that the party will not let the sacrifice of the farmers “go in vain.”जो इस अमानवीय नरसंहार को देखकर भी चुप है, वो पहले ही मर चुका है।लेकिन हम इस बलिदान को बेकार नहीं होने देंगे- किसान सत्याग्रह ज़िंदाबाद!#FarmersProtest pic.twitter.com/z1NRlGJ8hqMeanwhile, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait also took to the micro-blogging site to give an update regarding the matter, citing that he is en route Lakhimpur Kheri and will reach late at night on Sunday.“People were attacked using vehicles, and firing was also done on them. As per latest reports that we have, several people have died in the incident,” he said in a video message on Twitter, which tagged Hindustan Times as well.
03-10-2021||India||Stubble burning: Bhupendra Yadav says states cooperating constructively||Union environment minister Bhupendra Yadav said on Sunday that the Centre received constructive cooperation from four northern states- Delhi, Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh on the issue of stubble burning. His remark came a month after he held an important meeting with the governments of these states regarding the action plan to reduce air pollution caused due to stubble burning.Speaking to reporters, Yadav said that talks were held in September over the implementation of action plans by Delhi, Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to reduce pollution due to stubble burning and other factors including vehicular pollution, dust, construction and demolition waste. The environment minister added that with regard to the machinery needed to deal with stubble burning, the Union agriculture ministry allocated nearly ₹7,000 crores to these states.Farmers from Haryana and Punjab and some other states set their farmlands on fire to quickly clear off the crop residue left after harvesting and before cultivating crops such as wheat and potato.While farmers in Delhi burn only 1% of stubble, the smoke from stubble burning in Haryana and Punjab contributes majorly to the air pollution in the national Capital and the NCR region during winters. In Delhi, the government has come up with solutions such as the odd-even system for private vehicles on roads and issuing restrictions on construction activities to ensure the air quality doesn’t degrade.Bhupendra Yadav told reporters on Sunday that with the availability of technology, there is the economic viability of stubble at present. He said the NTPC previously floated a tender to purchase farm stubble for use as fuel at power plants. Some private organisations too came up with experiments by which stubble or crop residue can be turned into manure, Yadav also said.Last week, the Delhi government developed a bio-decomposer solution in association with the Indian Agricultural Research Institute, Pusa, to combat stubble burning in the national capital. Once sprayed into the farmlands, the solution decomposes the stubble into compost in 15-20 days.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on September 24 that the solution costs less than ₹1,000 per acre and it will be entirely borne by the government. He also urged neighbouring Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Punjab to support their farmers by providing them with the bio-decomposer solution.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stubble-burning-bhupendra-yadav-says-states-cooperating-constructively-101633271617573.html
03-10-2021||India||Man in selfie with Aryan Khan not an officer: NCB clarifies as picture goes viral||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has categorically clarified that the man in a widely circulated picture with Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son, Aryan Khan, is not an officer or employee of the NCB. The clarification comes amid a local Mumbai court hearing the case of three members from a cruise party, including Aryan Khan, Arbaz Seth Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha, who were arrested in a drug case on Sunday. The trio has been produced before a metropolitan magistrate's court and remanded to NCB custody till October 4.The picture, purportedly taken at the NCB custody ahead of questioning, went viral shortly after the NCB raid came to light.Advocate Satish Maneshinde represented Aryan Khan in court, who has been booked under various sections of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) for possession and consumption of banned substances.A total of eight people were detained late on Saturday night by NCB sleuths after they raided Goa-bound Cordelia cruise ship on Mumbai coast and seized 13gm cocaine, 21gm charas, 22 pills of MDMA (ecstasy), 5gm MD, and ₹1.33 lakh in cash.The NCB received a tip-off that a rave party was going to be held on the cruise ship and few people associated with the film industry might be present. They narcotics watchdog had information that drugs will be used at the party.Meanwhile, the cruise ship owners said that they were in no way involved in organising the rave party."Cordelia Cruises is in no way, directly or indirectly, connected to this incident. Cordelia Cruises had chartered its ship for a private event to a Delhi-based event management company,” Jurgen Bailom, Chief Executive Officer and President, Waterways Leisure Tourism Pvt Ltd said in the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-in-selfie-with-aryan-khan-not-an-officer-ncb-clarifies-as-picture-goes-viral-101633269429493.html
03-10-2021||India||SRK's son Aryan Khan, 2 others sent to 1-day NCB custody in cruise rave party case||Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan, has been sent to NCB custody for a day in connection with the cruise rave party for which he was arrested earlier on the day. Apart from Aryan Khan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha have been remanded to NCB custody till October 4 and the next hearing will be held on Monday afternoon. Aryan's lawyer Satish Maneshinde said his client was not linked with the organisers of the event as he was just invited as a guest. No contraband was found on him, Maneshinde said agreeing to settle for one-day custody for the sake of the investigation. Maneshinde, during his argument, also mentioned that Shah Rukh Khan's son was treated well by the NCB. SRK's son Aryan was produced before additional chief metropolitan magistrate RK Rajebhosale on Sunday evening and the counsel of the NCB told the court that primary investigation reveals a nexus with suppliers and peddlers on a regular basis through WhatsApp chats.  Watch: Suniel Shetty reacts to Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan being questioned by NCB after 'rave' raidThe NCB counsel sought remand of the arrested persons till October 5. The counsel said the quantum of the contraband found at the party is significant. "I am not venturing into the merits of the matter...I also know the offences are bailable, I understand," NCB counsel Advait Sethna said. "People may have their own status but the law and yardsticks should be applicable for everyone and we should not be accused of pick and choose," he said during the hearing. Satish Maneshinde, Aryan's lawyer,  contested that his client Aryan Khan was invited to the party by the organisers and no contraband was found on him. As the NCB appealed for a remand of two days, Maneshinde said he was ready to settle for one day remand for the sake of the investigation. "Your honour may take me in custody and remand me for one day so that whatever investigation needs to be done is done. Because, I am neither found in possession nor is there an allegation of consumption. None of the sections attracts the embargo under sec 37 of the NDPS," Maneshinde said, as reported by Livelaw.After an overnight raid on a cruise, the NCB first detained eight persons, including Aryan Khan, for interrogation. Later, Aryan Khan, Munmun Dhamecha and Arbaaz Merchant were arrested. Aryan has been charged with the consumption of drugs while the other two with procurement, reports said. In the raid, officials seized 13 gram of cocaine, five gram of MD (mephedrone), 21 gram of charas, 22 pills of MDMA (ecstasy)apart from ₹1.33 lakh.Maneshinde said he will tender the bail application on Monday before the regular court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aryan-khan-produced-in-court-ncb-says-nexus-with-drug-suppliers-on-whatsapp-101633269207652.html
03-10-2021||India||Got positive help from Punjab, Haryana on stubble burning: Environment minister||Union environment minister Bhupender Yadav on Sunday that the Centre has got “constructive cooperation” from Punjab, Haryana, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh governments on the issue of stubble burning. Yadav had held a key meeting last month with the governments of Delhi and its neighbouring states Haryana, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan on the action plan to mitigate air pollution caused by stubble burning. Yadav said discussions were held last month over the implementation of action plans by states to mitigate pollution due to agriculture stubble burning, dust, construction and demolition waste, and vehicular pollution, according to news agency PTI. The environment minister said with technologies available now, there was economic viability of stubble nowadays. “The state-run NTPC had earlier floated a tender to buy farm stubble for use as fuel at power plants,” the minister said, adding that several private firms showed interest to conduct experiments under which stubble or crop residue is turned into manure. Yadav said the agriculture ministry has allotted close to ₹7,000 crore to states such as Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to mitigate the impacts of air pollution. Farmers in Punjab, Haryana and some other states set their fields on fire to clear off crop residue left after harvesting and before cultivating wheat and potato, a practice which experts have claimed is one of the main reasons for the spike in pollution in Delhi ahead of the winter season.The minister said equipment to monitor air quality has been set up in 132 cities across the country. “Climate change is a global challenge. India recognises the urgency of strong climate action to stay within the temperature goal of the Paris Agreement,” Yadav was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. “India has taken many steps on clean energy, energy efficiency and biodiversity. We have set an ambitious renewable energy target of 450 gigawatts by 2030,” Yadav stressed while speaking on India’s climate action plan ahead of the United Nations climate change conference (COP26) scheduled in Glasgow, Scotland in November.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/got-positive-help-from-punjab-haryana-on-stubble-burning-environment-minister-101633268657940.html
03-10-2021||India||Congress MLA held in Assam for ‘provocative comments’ remanded to police custody||Congress MLA from Assam, Sherman Ali Ahmed, who was arrested on Saturday for ‘provocative statements’ in connection with last month’s violent eviction drive that claimed two lives was on Sunday remanded to two days police custody by a city court. Ahmed, who was arrested by Panbazar police in Guwahati from the MLA’s hostel under Sections 153 and 153A of IPC for promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language etc., was remanded to police custody by the court of chief judicial magistrate. “The police had sought 10 days custody of the MLA, but following our arguments, the court decided to send him for two days of police remand,” a lawyer representing Ahmed told journalists outside the court. Last week, the Congress MLA from Baghbar had justified the killing of 8 people in Darrang district, near the same place where the recent eviction drive took place, around four decades back at the height of the state-wide agitation against illegal infiltrators. Those killed are regarded as martyrs in Assam. On Sunday, the Assam Congress legislature party (CLP) recommended disciplinary action against Ahmed for “repeatedly violating party discipline”. The party had earlier issued a show cause notice to the MLA for “damaging the party’s image” ahead of by-polls in the state and also for “giving communally sensitive comments with the intent to destroy social harmony”. “I have received the recommendations of the CLP seeking disciplinary action against Ahmed. We will be meeting on Sunday evening to take a decision on that. In the meantime, we are also waiting for his reply to the show cause notice,” Assam Pradesh Congress Committee president Bhupen Kumar Borah said. Two people had died and nearly 20 others including 11 policemen were injured in the eviction drive carried out on September 23 at Dholpur-3 village in Darrang district. The district administration have evicted around 1200 families in the area who were residing on government land for decades in order to implement an ambitious agriculture project in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-mla-held-in-assam-for-provocative-comments-remanded-to-police-custody-101633268519912.html
03-10-2021||India||90% Covid victims in Tamil Nadu in past 2 mths those who didn’t get single dose||The Tamil Nadu government said on Sunday that 90% of people who died due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state in the last two months, did not even get a single vaccine dose against the viral disease, according to news agency PTI.Addressing reporters after inspecting the fourth mega vaccination camp in the capital city of Chennai, J Radhakrishnan, the principal secretary of the health and family welfare department, told reporters that vaccination is the prime strategy to combat Covid-19.“In government-run hospitals during the last two months, 90% of deaths occurred because the patient did not get vaccinated even partially,” Radhakrishnan said. He also added that patients who are in the intensive care unit after they were detected Covid-19 positive, are among those who have not received the jab at all.Also Read| Tamil Nadu plans to vaccinate 15mn against Covid in October mega drive: GovtThe principal secretary of the health department also said that in the last two months, 7.4% of Covid deaths in government hospitals were those people who received only the first vaccine while 3.6% were fully vaccinated, i.e received both doses. “The severity of the virus was high on people who have not been vaccinated. And those who died after receiving both the shots was not only due to Covid-19 but due to other health complications,” he further told reporters.Authorities in Tamil Nadu have so far administered 47,698,052 vaccines to eligible beneficiaries. Of these, 36,259,199 have received the first dose and the remaining 11,438,853 have received both doses. On Sunday, the state government conducted its fourth-ever vaccination drive. Health minister M Subramanian said on Friday that the government aims to inoculate 15 million beneficiaries in October. Last month, 14.2 million beneficiaries were vaccinated in Tamil Nadu.Also Read| Covid vaccines via Covax to be sent only to least covered nations in Oct: WHOMeanwhile, Principal secretary of the health department J Radhakrishnan also told reporters on Sunday that it has become challenging to vaccinate residents above the age of 60 because of vaccine hesitancy and urged people under this age group to make use of the mega vaccination camps. He also said that only 42% of people above 60 have received vaccination against Covid-19 till now.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/90-covid-victims-in-tamil-nadu-in-past-2-mths-those-who-didn-t-get-single-dose-101633266701900.html
03-10-2021||India||'Desi Angrez': Chhattisgarh MLA slams BJP, RSS for destabilising Congress||Amid speculations of a leadership change in Chhattisgarh, Congress MLA Brihaspati Singh has launched a new attack on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) terming them akin to the British Raj and alleging that the saffron camp and its hindutva ally Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) have adopted the “divide and rule” policy to destabilise the Congress government.“In Chhattisgarh, the BJP is called 'desi angrez'. RSS workers are trying to mislead our MLAs. They targeted the Madhya Pradesh government, which led to its collapse. In Punjab, they did the same. They've adapted the divide and rule policy,” the Congress leader from Chhattisgarh was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The attack comes at a time when several Congress MLAs from Chhattisgarh are joining their colleagues in the national capital. More than 35 party MLAs are currently stationed in Delhi after visiting Rajghat and Vijay Ghat on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti.Although chief minister Bhagel said there was no political movement involved, reports of infighting in Chhattisgarh Congress have attested to the possibility that the grand old party in the state is split between two camps -- one led by the chief minister and the other by state health minister TS Singh Deo -- something we have already witnessed in Punjab.“Earlier, RSS workers tried to destabilize the Chhattisgarh government. Now they are provoking TS Singh Deo. But he is an intelligent and sensible leader, he will not fall for BJP's conspiracy,” said Brihaspat Singh.However, Bhupesh Baghel seems to have secured the post of Chhattisgarh Chief Minister at least for now with his appointment as the All India Congress Committee (AICC) senior observer for the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/desi-angrez-chhattisgarh-mla-slams-bjp-rss-for-destabilising-congress-101633264406272.html
03-10-2021||India||'After consultation with party chief': Charanjit Singh Channi placates Sidhu on appointment issue||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Sunday said the name of the DGP will be finalised after consultation with state president Navjot Singh Sidhu, all ministers and MLAs. Channi said that the new DGP would be appointed as per the law and the state government has forwarded the panel of all senior police officers with 30 years of experience to the Centre. Channi said that no decision has been taken yet.The appointment of Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota is a flashpoint between Channi and Sidhu as Sidhu stepped down from the post of the Punjab Congress chief expressing his objection to the DGP appointment.Channi took a step back and said he was not rigid about the appointments. Navjot Sidhu can give his feedback and the party will consider those, he said and invited Navjot Sidhu for a talk. Following the meeting, Sidhu was reportedly satisfied and decided to continue in his post.‘Salt on wounds of victims...’: Sidhu again calls for removal of new Punjab advocate general, DGPOn Sunday, Sidhu reiterated his demand to review AG/DG appointments as he said the Congress will have no face. "Demand for justice in Sacrilege cases and for the arrest of main culprits behind the drug trade brought our Govt in 2017 & due to his failure, people removed the last CM. Now, AG / DG appointments rub salt on wounds of victims, they must be replaced or we will have No face!!" Sidhu tweeted referring to Captain Amarinder Singh, but without mentioning his name.Channi on Sunday said the state government is functioning with dedication, sincerity and honesty and he will ensure transparency in his administration. Organisational work of the party is being looked after by the party chief and the coordination committee which has been set up will act as a bridge between the government and the party.On the issue of retiring the government employees above 58 years, Channi said any employee who has attained the age of over 58 years would not be allowed to serve anymore so that the youth could be given chance for government jobs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-consultation-with-party-chief-charanjit-singh-channi-placates-sidhu-on-appointment-issue-101633265770736.html
03-10-2021||India||Let's 'have a race': Kamal Nath's challenge to MP CM amid debate over his health||Senior Congress leader Kamal Nath has thrown a challenge at Shivraj Singh Chouhan to "run a race" with him to see who is more fit after the former repeatedly targeted him over his age and health. In a media statement, Nath, who is 12-years older than Chouhan, said, "there is a lot of debate over my health. Shivraj ji is saying that Kamal Nath ji is sick and old. Shivraj ji, I throw a challenge to you, come let us have a race."Nath's challenge comes as 62-year-old Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader repeatedly made remarks about his health and claimed that he is resting in Delhi.Further clarifying on the same, Nath also said that he was in Delhi for work and not because he is unwell. "I have many responsibilities (of the Congress) to discharge. This does not mean I was in Delhi because I was unwell and resting," news agency PTI quoted him as saying."I did go for my post-Covid check-up because I had pneumonia - which anyone can have," Nath also said, adding, "I got all the tests done. All reports came out good."Both Chouhan and Nath have contracted the viral Covid-19 in the past and recovered successfully. Chouhan was infected by the virus last year, was discharged from a private hospital after being hospitalised for 11 days.Meanwhile, reacting to the challenge, Congress spokesperson Bhupendra Gupta in Madhya Pradesh, said it is an "apt reply to chief minister Chouhan." He "was repeatedly needling Nathji that he had grown old, sick and resting in Delhi. Chouhan should keep in mind that he has been defeated in the 2018 MP Assembly poll race by Nathji," PTI quoted Gupta as saying.The BJP's senior leader Deepak Vijayavargiya also reacted to the challenge and took a swipe at Congress, saying, "The BJP runs races for the development and well being of people." He also said Congress sits in "drawing rooms and runs races on Twitter and falls."Nath is currently in Bhopal. He will leave for the national capital on Sunday along with the list of candidates for the October 30 by-polls to three Assembly seats and one Lok Sabha constituency in Madhya Pradesh.Nath became the chief minister of Madhya Pradesh in December 2018, however, his government lasted for only 15 months after it collapsed in March 2020 with the resignation of 22 MLAs of the then ruling Congress. Subsequently, Chouhan returned as the state's chief minister for the fourth time.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lets-have-a-race-kamal-nath-s-challenge-to-mp-cm-amid-debate-over-his-health-101633264800167.html
03-10-2021||India||Digvijaya Singh raises questions over Amazon-Future deal, alleges corruption||In a veiled allegation against the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Union government, senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh on Sunday levelled corruption charges over the Amazon-Future Retail business deal. He further demanded an investigation into the matter."As per reports, Amazon paid legal fees of ₹8,546 crore, following its dispute with Future group. Who did the company pay the fees to? It is being said that corruption has been done. We demand a committee headed by the Chief Justice of India (CJI) to investigate this matter," news agency ANI quoted the Congress leader as saying during a press briefing in Gujarat.As per reports, Amazon paid legal fees of ₹8546 cr, following its dispute with Future group. Who did the company pay the fees to? It is being said that corruption has been done. We demand a committee headed by CJI to investigate this matter: Congress leader Digvijaya Singh pic.twitter.com/xheFeJqCqUSingh further claimed that the way the Goods and Services Tax (GST) was structured and implemented by the Central government affected the economy of our country. "The way the GST was structured and implemented by the Central government affected the economy of our country."He added, "According to Reserve Bank of India (RBI) data in September 2016, there was 17.8 lakh crore currency in the market. According to RBI data, today this currency has increased to 27 lakh crores. It is not being clarified how this nine lakh crore currency came into our market."He said, "From then till today, if digital transactions were more, then the cash liquidity in the market should have been less. Corruption, black money and terrorism should have ended, the fake currency should have ended but it did not happen. Today when banks have a liquidity crunch, where has it gone?"Slamming the Centre, Singh further said the Prime Minister wants to end the medium and small scale businessmen and establish a "multi-national capitalist" country, reported ANI. This shows the ideological differences between the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/digvijaya-singh-raises-questions-over-amazon-future-deal-alleges-corruption-101633263301536.html
03-10-2021||India||Christian prayer house vandalised in Uttarakhand’s Roorkee||A group of people vandalised a Christian prayer house in Roorkee on Sunday morning while prayers were being offered there, alleging that the place was used for religious conversions. The incident occurred at Solanipuram Colony in Roorkee where the prayer house is located. According to people offering prayers there, around 10 am, a group of people comprising some women also, arrived at the prayer hall raising slogans against the people running the prayer house. The mob alleged Christian missionaries and worshippers of carrying out religious conversion of some Hindus in the name of charity and religious gathering. The mob vandalised the prayer house and also physically manhandled some Christian devotees and representatives who tried to calm them down and intervene. Station house officer, Civil Lines, Amarchand Sharma said that police arrived at the place as soon as they got the information about the violence taking place there. “The matter has come to light and the police is preparing to lodge a case against the culprits, with an inspector rank officer probing the matter,” said Circle Officer Roorkee, Vivek Kumar. Representatives of both sides’ were present at the police station filing their complaints, till the filing of this report. N Wilson, who is associated with the Christian prayer house for the past few years, denied allegations of religious conversion or any such activity taking place at the religious place of worship. He said for the past two decades regular prayers, mass meetings and charity related activities were being carried out from the prayer house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/christian-prayer-house-vandalised-in-uttarakhand-s-roorkee-101633261258328.html
03-10-2021||India||Plan to catch Mudhumalai tiger alive even as it evades traps||A day after orders were issued to hunt a “problematic tiger”, forest officials on Saturday began operations to track and capture the big cat identified as MDT-23 or Mudumalai Division Tiger-23 in Tamil Nadu’s Nilgiris district. Unconfirmed reports say that the male tiger said to be over 12-years-of age has killed four people in a week while forest officials confirm two such human deaths. Since the region has three more tigers, the forest team has identified eccentric stripes on the tiger for identification. Some of the forest department staffers were perched on treetops for at least six hours. “We put up a bait under the tree to lure the tiger towards us to tranquilize him but it was sighted only once in the morning and now he is inside the forest patch in Masinagudi,” said an officer of the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve, not wishing to be named. “Except for his age, nothing will slow his movement and IQ down. The tiger is moving nicely and smartly so that he’s not sighted.” The search operations were suspended at 6 pm at the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve, home to 103 tigers.“More than 75 of us are on the ground. The aim is to capture the tiger alive without harming him by using tranquilizer darts,” said another forest official. There are elaborate measures on the ground to capture the tiger. Five cages have been placed in vital locations. Special teams including forest veterinarians have been formed under the supervision of the conservator of forests and the field director of the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve. “Highly trained forest personnel including officers from Kerala’s forest division in Wayanad district have been brought in,” said the officer. Drones and sniffer dogs are also part of the search operations. The tiger has not been declared as a man-eater but as “problematic” and as an animal that has “become very dangerous to human life in the area”. These declarations require field evidence according to the standard operating procedures for dealing with emergency arising due to straying of tigers in human dominated landscapes laid out by the National Tiger Conservation Authority in January 2013. Also Read: VTR can accommodate 60-65 tigers, says chiefTamil Nadu chief wildlife warden Shekar Kumar Niraj issued an order on Friday to hunt the tiger under Section 11 (1) (a) of Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. The tiger is present in the human habitation of Gudalur and has been preying on livestock too since July 2021. Since then, various teams have tried to capture the tiger but haven’t succeeded and the tiger has been elusive. “The presence of thick tea bushes, inclement weather, challenging terrain and disturbances by the local public had rendered the capture operation very difficult,” Niraj said.Forest officials said that people in the area have been protesting demanding either the capture or killing of the tiger. On Friday, as per the reports from conservator of forests and field director, Mudumalai Tiger Reserve, it was confirmed that the tiger killed one person in the Masinagudi area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plan-to-catch-mudhumalai-tiger-alive-even-as-it-evades-traps-101633260898293.html
03-10-2021||India||Khela Holo: Bhabanipur votes Didi back to power, helps her retain Bengal CM's post||Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee will remain the chief minister of West Bengal, for the third consecutive time, and the voters of the Bhabanipur assembly constituency ensured that.On Sunday, Mamata Banerjee won the bypolls to Bhabanipur assembly constituency by a massive margin of 58,835 votes against her closest contender, Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) Priyanka Tibrewal.Bypolls to three assembly constituencies in West Bengal, including Bhabanipur, were held on September 30. The south Kolkata constituency with 2,06,389 voters, however, saw a low voter turnout of 53.32% during the bypolls.At the end of the 21st round of counting of votes polled for the Bhabanipur byelection, Mamata Banerjee secured 85,263 votes while Priyanka Tibrewal clinched 26,428 votes, including the postal ballots. CPM's Shrijeeb Biswas managed to bag only 4,226 votes to come a distant third.According to the Election Commission, Mamata has secured 71.9% of the votes polled in the Bhabanipur assembly constituency while Priyanka Tibrewal managed only 22.29%.Supporters of Trinamool Congress broke into celebrations outside the residence of Mamata Banerjee as early trends showed their leader inching towards a clear victory.Expressing her gratitude towards the people of her constituency, Mamata Banerjee asked her party workers to help the flood-affected people in districts in the form of celebration."I thank the people of Bhawanipore and people of this state and the country who had been waiting for this election result. Our victory inspires me to work more for people. If our workers want to celebrate, they should do so by helping the flood-affected people in the districts. That will be the real celebration," Mamata Banerjee said during an impromptu meeting with the supporters and the media outside her house.Early trends throughout the day as well as roundwise data by the Election Commission showed Mamata Banerjee leading with a comfortable margin from the beginning.As many as 1,453 — or 1.23 % of the total votes polled — went to NOTA which was more than the votes secured by the nine other candidates in the fray. While six of them are independent candidates, three represent the Bahujan Maha Party, Bharatiya Nyay Adhikar Raksha Party and the Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular).Mamata Banerjee said the electorate of Bhowanipore has voted for her despite 46% of the people of the constituency being non-Bengalis.“The people of Bhabanipur gave a befitting reply to the conspiracy that was hatched in Nandigram," the Trinamool Congress chief said.Mamata Banerjee also broke her previous records of winning margin. The Trinamool Congress leader had won the Bhabanipur assembly bypoll in 2011 by 52,213 votes and by 25,301 votes in the 2016 elections.BJP's Priyanka Tibrewal conceded defeat and said she has congratulated the chief minister."I gracefully accept the defeat. I congratulate Didi. I have sent my message to her," the youth leader of the party said.She, however, called herself the “man of the match” for contesting the election in Mamata Banerjee's stronghold and securing more than 25,000 votes."If people were allowed to vote then the result would have been different. Even I got hold of fake voters on the polling day. In several booths, polls were rigged. But I will admit that our organisation was weak in Bhabanipur. We have to improve this," Priyanka Tibrewal told the media after her defeat.ALSO READ | Bhabanipur bypoll: EC rejects BJP claim of booth rigging, cites mock poll delayBhabanipur assembly constituency has always been a strong fort for the Trinamool Congress, and the party has been winning it consecutively since the 2011 assembly elections.Trinamool's Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay won the assembly polls from the Bhabanipur constituency by 28,719 votes earlier this year. But, Mamata Banerjee has crossed that margin as she was leading by 45,738 votes in the 17th round of counting.The bypoll to Bhabanipur assembly constituency was necessitated after Trinamool Congress MLA Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay vacated the seat after the assembly elections earlier this year, to pave the way for party supremo Mamata Banerjee to contest the bypoll to retain her chief ministerial post.Even though Trinamool Congress came back to power in West Bengal for the third consecutive time following a landslide victory in the assembly elections, Mamata Banerjee faced defeat in the Nandigram assembly constituency against her former protégé Suvendu Adhikari by a thin margin of 1,956 votes. A former state minister and a close aide of Mamata Banerjee, Adhikari switched to BJP ahead of the West Bengal assembly elections.Mamata Banerjee was required to win on any seat in the state to have the chance of becoming a member of the state assembly, and retain the chief minister's post, before November 5.Along with Bhabanipur, bypolls were also held in two other assembly constituencies in West Bengal, including Jangipur and Samserganj assembly constituencies on September 30. The Trinamool Congress was leading in all three seats, the latest data from the Election Commission show.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhabanipur-bypoll-result-mamata-banerjee-victory-trinamool-congress-west-bengal-101633251609911.html
03-10-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Meet NCB officer who unearthed Bollywood-drugs nexus and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Following the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput on June 14 in 2020, a Bollywood-drugs nexus is on the radar of the Narcotics Control Bureau as the agency called and questioned several celebrities in the past year. News of seizure of drugs, contraband from Mumbai and surrounding areas came regularly as the Bollywood-drug link is a serious pursuit of the NCB and the man behind this is believed to be NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede, who is again in the news after the NCB on Saturday raised a cruise rave party in Mumbai. Read moreWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee was leading by 56,388 votes against her closest contender, Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) Priyanka Tibrewal, at the end of the 20th round of counting of votes polled at the byelection to Bhabanipur assembly constituency on Sunday. Read moreAhAs Cyclone Shaheen drifted from India and approached the coast of Oman on Sunday, bringing gusty winds and rain to the sultanate, a child was killed in floodwaters while another person went missing. Flights have already been stopped across Oman, which is located on the eastern edge of the Arabian Peninsula. Read moreFormer England captain Kevin Pietersen feels for David Warner and what he is going through at Sunrisers Hyderabad. Captain of the franchise for four and a half seasons, Warner led SRH to their maiden IPL title win in 2016. However, things went awry and following poor form and the team's abysmal campaign in the first half of IPL 2021, the left-handed batsman was removed from captaincy. Read moreSuniel Shetty has voiced his support for Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan after he was detained and questioned by the Narcotics Control Bureau on Saturday. The NCB raided a cruise party off the shore of Mumbai where Aryan had arrived as a guest. It also reportedly found drugs on board. Read moreAudi is all set to launch its all-new Q5 sport utility vehicle (SUV) in India next month and with this move, the automaker is aiming to increase its sales growth in the country, PTI reported. Bookings for the upcoming SUV which is one of the brand's volume drivers, will open in the next couple of weeks. Read moreIf you are someone who follows Smriti Irani on Instagram, you may be aware of the different posts she often shares. From inspiring to funny, her shares are of different tastes. The same is also reflected in her Instagram stories. Just like her recent shares where she took netizens on a trip around ‘Dilli.’ Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5pm-know-about-ncb-officer-who-unearthed-bollywood-drugs-nexus-and-all-the-latest-news-101633258857324.html
03-10-2021||India||SRK's son Aryan Khan arrested in rave party case: Here's what happened||Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Sunday at around 2pm after being interrogated over the cruise rave party that the agency raided on Saturday night. Aryan has been arrested under Section 8C, 20B, 27 read with 35 of the NDPS Act. Early on Sunday, it was reported that Aryan Khan, along with seven others, was detained for interrogation. In the afternoon, it was confirmed that Aryan Khan was booked in connection with the rave party case from where 13 gm cocaine, 21 gm charas, 22 pills of MDMA (ecstacy), 5 gm MD, and ₹1.33 lakh in cash were recovered. Also Read: Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan, 7 others detained. How NCB busted rave partyFrom Saturday evening to Sunday noon-- Here's what happened> The NCB said it had raided the cruise as it had information that a rave party was going to be held at the cruise and some people associated with the film industry might be present. The NCB had information that drugs will be used at the party.> The raid went on for long and on Sunday morning it was reported that children of famous Bollywood personalities were present at the party. They were detained for questioning.> The name of Aryan Khan, Shah Rukh Khan's son, emerged later.> When Aryan Khan was detained along with Munmun Dhamecha, Nupur Sarika, Ismeet Singh, Mohak Jaswal, Vikrant Chhoker, Gomit Chopra and Arbaaz Merchant, officials said that it was only for interrogation and no charge was pressed against them.'Not our job to see who is son of..': What we know about Mumbai's cruise rave party so far> Aryan Khan was then taken to JJ Hospital for a medical check-up. Then the agency arrested Aryan Khan along with two others. Not all who were detained for questioning have been arrested. >  In his written statement, Aryan Khan has reportedly denied purchasing drug. Aryan is likely to be represented by Satish Maneshinde who had represented Rhea Chakraborty. Watch: Suniel Shetty reacts to Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan being questioned by NCB after 'rave' raidAs the name of Aryan Khan, and therefore Shah Rukh Khan, got linked with the case, it suddenly became a high-profile case, though the NCB has interrogated several Bollywood personalities in the past year regarding their link to drugs.The NCB said it only did its job and its job does not include finding out who is the son of a celebrity or not. "It is not the job of NCB to find out from which industry and who are joining. Who is the son of an industrialist, who is the son of a film star, this is not our work. Our job is to take action on an equal scale and we are taking action on the same scale and this action will continue in the future also. Whoever is found involved in this network, irrespective of the industry they belong to, we will take action," NCB chief SN Pradhan told ANI.What do the sections under which Aryan Khan has been arrested say?Section 8(c) of The Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 prohibits "produce, manufacture, possess, sell, purchase, transport, warehouse, use, consume, import inter-State, export inter-State, import into India, export from India or tranship any narcotic drug or psychotropic substance."The act says the punishment for this can be rigorous imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months, or a penalty, or both if the amount of seized drugs is small.If the quantity is lesser than commercial quantity but greater than small quantity, punishment can extend up to ten years with a fine which may extend to one lakh rupee. The section brought against Aryan falls under this category. If the quantity is commercial, then the punishment may include rigorous imprisonment for a term not less than 10 years and can extend to 20 years.The punishment for the consumption of drugs mentioned in the NDPS act is rigorous imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year, or with fine which may extend to twenty thousand rupees; or with both.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/srks-son-aryan-khan-arrested-in-rave-party-case-here-s-what-happened-101633259407515.html
03-10-2021||India||Who is Sameer Wankhede, the NCB officer, who unearthed Bollywood-drugs nexus?||Following the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput on June 14 in 202o, a Bollywood-drugs nexus is on the radar of the Narcotics Control Bureau as the agency called and questioned several celebrities in the past year. News of seizure of drugs, contraband from Mumbai and surrounding areas came regularly as the Bollywood-drug link is a serious pursuit of the NCB and the man behind this is believed to be NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede, who is again in the news after the NCB on Saturday raised a cruise rave party in Mumbai. Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryaan Khan was present at the party and was detained for interrogation.Who is Sameer Wankhede? Why is he 'after' Bollywood?>Sameer Wankhede is a 2008 batch Indian Revenue Service office. Before he joined the NCB, he was in the National Investigation Agency. He had also served in the Air Intelligence Unit.> Wankhede is apparently known for his no-nonsense attitude. When he was with the customs of the Mumbai Airport, he reportedly faced the tantrums of several celebrities attempting to evade customs duties and fines, but he used to make sure that there is no exception for anyone.Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan, 7 others detained. How NCB busted rave party> Wankhede is reportedly known for booking many celebrities for tax evasion.> A report said that Wankhede caught singer Mika Singh with foreign currency.> Sameer Wankhede was the person who made sure that the World Cup trophy in 2011 was released from the Mumbai airport after paying duty.> Wankhede is an ardent Bollywood fan and has no personal grudge against the industry. He is married to Marathi actor Kranti Redkar.The Mumbai film industry is on the radar regarding its links with a drug nexus but with Aryan Khan being questioned leading eventually to his arrest links Bollywood A-listers directly to the supposed scandal. Among top Bollywood stars, Deepika Padukone was questioned by the NCB while comedian Bharti Singh and her husband Haarsh Limbachiyaa were arrested briefly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-is-sameer-wankhede-the-ncb-officer-who-unearthed-bollywood-drugs-nexus-101633258499696.html
03-10-2021||India||Mamata's 1st message to supporters after record win, ‘If you want to celebrate’||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee addressed the supporters assembled outside her Bhabanipur residence and thanked them for the record-breaking numbers. If Trinamool supporters want to celebrate the victory, they should support the people of the flood-affected districts of the state, Banerjee said. "I will not show V because I am not winning alone. We are contesting from three seats. So I will show three fingers," Banerjee, who gets to retain her chief minister post after the resounding victory from the Bhabanipur assembly seat said."I have won the Bhabanipur Assembly bypolls with a margin of 58,832 votes and have registered the victory in every ward of the constituency," the chief minister said. According to the latest information, Mamata has won by 58,835 votes including the postal ballots.I gracefully accept defeat, says BJP's Priyanka Tibrewal as Didi sets recordThe Election Commission asked the government to make sure that there is no victory celebration anywhere in the state following BJP candidate Priyanka Tibrewal's letter to the Chief Justice of the Calcutta High Court, expressing apprehension over possible violence after the results are declared."... no victory celebrations/ procession during/after the counting shall be allowed in the ongoing elections in West Bengal, for which counting is being taken place on October 3, 2021," EC secretary Rakesh Kumar said in a letter to the West Bengal government.Mamata said Bhabanipur residents are not all Bengalis. In fact, 46% of people in Bhabanipur are non-Bengalis. "They all have voted for me. People of West Bengal are watching Bhabanipur, which inspired me," she said adding that the victory is a befitting reply to the conspiracy that was hatched in Nandigram. Bhabanipur was a prestige issue for the Trinamool and the chief minister as she had to win this seat to continue in the CM post,  because of her defeat in the Nandigram seat, while her party recorded a landslide victory in the state assembly election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamatas-1st-message-to-supporters-after-record-win-if-you-want-to-celebrate-101633254115916.html
03-10-2021||India||NDA aims to improve tally in bye-elections to 10 assembly seats||The Bharatiya Janata Party and its allies in the northeast are aiming to increase their strength by winning big in the bye-election to 10 assembly seats in four northeastern states including Assam(5), Meghalaya(3) and one each in Nagaland and Mizorams, scheduled on October 30. BJP and its allies are in government in Assam and Meghalaya. In Mizoram, the Mizo National Front (MNF), which is part of the National Democratic Alliance, is in power, however, the BJP is not part of the government in the state. With half of the 10 seats heading to bypolls being in Assam, the focus is on the performance the BJP-led ruling coalition that includes Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) and United Peoples Party Liberal (UPPL) will put up against an Opposition in disarray. Tamulpur and Gossaigaon assembly seats fell vacant due to deaths of Bodoland Peoples’ Front (BPF) and UPPL legislators. The other 3 seats fell vacant after two Congress MLAs, from Mariani and Thowra, and an All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) MLA from Bhabanipur resigned and joined the BJP. Congress, AIUDF and eight other parties, which were part of an opposition grand alliance for this year’s assembly polls, have decided to fight the bye-elections independently or in tie-ups with new allies. On the other hand, the BJP and its allies are contesting the bypolls as a team. At present all the major parties are engaged in meetings and names of candidates are expected to be announced within the next 2-3 days. “We are confident of winning all five seats. BJP would be contesting at least 3 of the 5 seats while our ally UPPL will field candidates in the rest. No decision has been taken either on division of seats or on the candidates yet,” BJP Assam state president Bhabesh Kalita said. At present the ruling BJP has 59 MLAs, UPPL 5 and AGP 9, while opposition Congress has 27, AIUDF 15, BPF-3, CPM 1 and the newly floated Raijor Das has 1 MLA in the 126-member lower house. Bye-election to the Majuli seat, which fell vacant after Union minister Sarbananda Sonowal resigned last week, will take place later. “We will contest from 3 or 4 of the 5 seats and names of candidates will be announced soon. I appeal to voters to defeat those who got elected on the Congress symbol and ditched the party and joined the BJP within a few months,” Assam Congress president Bhupen Kumar Borah said. AIUDF organising secretary Mohammad Aminul Islam said his party would field candidates in two seats and could offer support to “like-minded parties” in the other three seats in order to defeat the BJP’s “communal and divisive agenda”. In Meghalaya, three seats had fallen vacant after deaths of sitting MLAs. While two of these seats including Mawryngkneng and Rajabala were earlier with the Congress, the party in Opposition , the Mawphlang seat was represented by SK Sunn, an independent legislator. According to leaders in the Congress, who didn’t wish to be named, the party has finalised candidates for the two seats and will take a call on the third in a few days. A final decision on the candidates will be taken by the party high command in Delhi. The Congress, which has 15 members in the lower house at present, is struggling to keep its camp in order following reports that former chief minister and current leader of opposition Mukul Sangma mayl quit the party and join the Trinamool Congress with nearly a dozen MLAs. Sangma has denied these as ‘rumours’. The National People’s Party (NPP) which heads the ruling Meghalaya Democratic Alliance has 21 seats in the 60-member house while the BJP, which is part of the government, has 2 seats. The alliance is yet to finalise a list of candidates or a seat sharing deal. In Nagaland, the ruling Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party (NDPP) is expected to win the Shamtorr-Chessore seat comfortably. The seat had fallen vacant following the death of the sitting NDPP legislator. BJP is part of the ruling coalition in the state and last month Naga Peoples’ Front (NPF) also joined the government making the state ‘opposition-less’. In Mizoram, except the BJP all other major parties have decided on their candidates for the Tuirial constituency which fell vacant in August following the death of Opposition Zoram Peoples’ Movement (ZPM) MLA. While ruling Mizo National Front (MNF) will field K Laldawngliana from the seat, Congress and ZPM have decided on the names of Chalrosanga Ralte and Laltlanmawia respectively. MNF has 27 MLAs in the 40-member house while the Congress has 5, ZPM-6 and the BJP has 1. Filing of nominations for the bye-elections will end on October 8 and counting of votes will be on November 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nda-aims-to-improve-tally-in-bye-elections-to-10-assembly-seats-101633254237555.html
03-10-2021||India||'Not our job to see who is son of..': What we know about Mumbai's cruise rave party so far||The Narcotics Control Bureau has detained eight persons including Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aaryan Khan for questioning, in connection with a rave party onboard a cruise ship that was busted by the agency on Saturday night. Apart from Aryan Khan, the detained include Munmun Dhamecha, Nupur Sarika, Ismeet Singh, Mohak Jaswal, Vikrant Chhoker, Gomit Chopra and Arbaaz Merchant. The raid has created a stir as it once again brings the Bollywood-drugs connection to the fore as the agency said it recovered drugs like MDMA, ecstasy, cocaine, MS, charas etc.Here is what we know about what happened> The raid on the cruise was conducted on Saturday night. At night, the agency did not disclose many details about who all were involved with the party. It only said the involvement of the children of prominent Bollywood actors were being investigated.> The raid was based on a tip-off that the agency received from its sources. The NCB had information that a party was going to be held on the cruise where people with Bollywood links would be present.> The agency said that the investigation went on for two weeks and further action will be taken based on what comes out from those who are detained, the agency said.Watch: Shah Rukh Khan's son in trouble? Aryan questioned by drug agency NCB after 'rave party' raidThe Narcotics Control Bureau has detained eight persons including Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aaryan Khan for questioning, in connection with a rave party onboard a cruise ship that was busted by the agency on Saturday night. Apart from Aryan Khan, the detained include Munmun Dhamecha, Nupur Sarika, Ismeet Singh, Mohak Jaswal, Vikrant Chhoker, Gomit Chopra and Arbaaz Merchant. The raid has created a stir as it once again brings the Bollywood-drugs connection to the fore as the agency said it recovered drugs like MDMA, ecstasy, cocaine, MS, charas etc.Here is what we know about what happened> The raid on the cruise was conducted on Saturday night. At night, the agency did not disclose many details about who all were involved with the party. It only said the involvement of the children of prominent Bollywood actors were being investigated.> The raid was based on a tip-off that the agency received from its sources. The NCB had information that a party was going to be held on the cruise where people with Bollywood links would be present.> The agency said that the investigation went on for two weeks and further action will be taken based on what comes out from those who are detained, the agency said.|#+|> During the operation, the suspects were searched and different drugs were recovered from them, which they had hidden in their clothes, undergarments and purses (by women.> On the high-profile Bollywood connection, the NCB chief said the agency does not find out who is the son of an industrialist or a film star. "It is not the job of NCB to find out from which industry and who are joining. Who is the son of an industrialist, who is the son of a film star, this is not our work. Our job is to take action on an equal scale and we are taking action on the same scale and this action will continue in the future also. Whoever is found involved in this network, irrespective of the industry they belong to, we will take action," he said.Who arranged the rave party? What did the cruise authorities say?Jurgen Bailom- CEO and President, Waterways Leisure Tourism Pvt Ltd, said Cordelia Cruises, the cruise company, was in no way connected to the rave party. It said that the ship was chartered for a private event to an event management company that is Delhi-based. “Cordelia Cruises is extremely mindful of providing wholesome entertainment to families who choose to travel with us. This incident is contrarian and far from the culture that Cordelia Cruises represents. We, at Cordelia Cruises, condemn all acts such as these and will strictly refrain from letting our ship out for similar events in the future. Nonetheless, Cordelia Cruises is extending our full support and cooperating with the authorities,” the cruise company said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-cruise-rave-party-shsh-rukh-khan-son-ncb-aryaan-khan-drugs-101633252571564.html
03-10-2021||India||I gracefully accept defeat, says BJP's Tibrewal, but has a message on the ‘game’||Priyanka Tibrewal, who was fielded by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) against Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee in the Bhabanipur by-election, on Sunday congratulated the Bengal chief minister and said she gracefully accepted her defeat."I gracefully accept the defeat. I congratulate Didi. I have sent my message to her," said the lawyer-turned-politician.She, however, added that she was the “man of the match” of the bypoll game as she had contested against a heavyweight candidate like Banerjee and still got more than 25,000 votes.Also read | It's game on in Bhabanipur: Didi leads by more than 52,000 votes at 19th round“I am 'Man of the Match' of this game because I contested the election in Mamata Banerjee's stronghold and got more than 25,000 votes. I will continue doing the hard work,” she said.According to last available reports, the BJP leader has managed to win 26,320 against Banerjee’s 58832 votes. The TMC supremo is well on her way to break her own victory record margin.‘Khela hobe’ (game on) has been The Trinamool Congress' campaign slogan since the April-May election. Earlier in the day, Tibrewal wrote to the Calcutta High Court apprehending violence following the announcement of election results and had sought the court's intervention in the matter.Also read | No victory celebrations after counting of votes: EC tells Bengal govtBy-election to the Bhabanipur seat was help along with three other constituencies, including two in Bengal – Jangipur and Samserganj – and Pipili in Odisha on October 30. Tibrewal had levelled allegations of booth rigging at a polling centre during the day, but the election commission had said there a delay in the booth due to a mock poll drive and rejected her concerns.Several top BJP functionaries, including several central top leaders, had campaigned for Tibrewal in the run-up to the election.The election was a must-win for Banerjee to retain her chief minister's post as she had lost the April-May Assembly election from Nandigram against her aide-turned-rival Suvendu Adhikari from Nandigram. Her party had, however, romped back to power for the third straight term.The Bhabanipur election was won by Trinamool leader Shobhandeb Chattopadhyay who then vacated the seat for Banerjee to ensure her way to the Assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhabanipur-bypoll-bjp-s-priyanka-tibrewal-congratulates-didi-on-record-win-101633251380215.html
03-10-2021||India||Bhabanipur bypoll: Mamata Banerjee on way to break her own record||Trinamool Congress supremo and West Bengal chief minister is well on her way to script history by winning the Bhabanipur Assembly constituency with a record margin. According to latest trends from the 20th round of counting for the by-election, Banerjee is ahead of her closest opponent, Priyanka Tibrewal of the Bharataiya Janata Party (BJP), by more than 58,000 votes.With this, the TMC chief has broken her own record of victory margin -- she had won the seat by 52,213 votes in the 2011 bypoll and 25,301 votes in 2016. Tibrewal has so far managed to garner 26,320 votes.Also read | No victory celebrations after counting of votes: EC tells Bengal govtThe by-election in the keenly watched south Kolkata constituency was necessitated after Banerjee’s aide Shobhandeb Chattopadhyay vacated the seat for the chief minister.Banerjee had to win this election to retain her chair of the chief minister as she had lost the April-May Assembly election from Nandigram to her aide-turned-rival Suvendu Adhikari.Meanwhile, celebrations have begun near Banerjee's Kalighat residence even though she has asked her party leaders to ensure there is no violence following announcement of the results.(With inputs from bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhabanipur-bypoll-mamata-banerjee-on-way-to-break-her-own-record-101633250564944.html
03-10-2021||India||Mumbai cruise rave party: All you need to know about NDPS Act||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Saturday busted a rave party being held on a cruise in Mumbai. Among prominent names, Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan has been detained and is being questioned by the Narcotics Control Bureau.Aryan Khan and at least seven others are being quizzed at the NCB's Ballard Estate office in south Mumbai. The party was being attended by several high-profile guests and the cruise was headed towards Goa. The NCB, during the raid which went on past midnight, found several drugs like cocaine, MDMA, Mephedrone and charas from those who were detained after the raid.Here’s more on the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act under which eight persons have been arrested so far and several detained in connection with the raid.The NDPS Act was enacted in 1985 with an aim to comply with the guidelines of international conventions relating to drugs and their abuse. The act prohibits “the manufacture, production, trade, use, etc. of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances", except for medical and scientific purposes. Just a year after the enactment of the act, the Narcotics Control Bureau was set up under the Union home ministry.The Act lists down stringent provisions on manufacturing, sale, purchase, possession, consumption, abuse and trafficking of drugs.As prescribed under the NDPS Act, the punishment depends on the quantity of drugs seized. Going by the Section 31A of the act, the maximum punishment that can be granted under this anti-drug law is death penalty. The stringent punishment under the act is applicable if a person is found guilty of being involved with commercial quantities of drugs.On the other hand, the act empowers courts to grant immunity to an addict if they are found involved in a case dealing with trace amounts of the drug. But, this can be done on a condition that the accused agrees to take a medical treatment for de-addiction as mandated under Section 64A.Bail can be granted in cases where someone has only consumed banned drugs or narcotics but has not been found to be involved in trading. However, for this, the accused will need to sign a bond.The law, which came into effect in 1985, was amended thrice- in 1989, 2001 and 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-cruise-rave-party-all-you-need-to-know-about-ndps-act-101633249940726.html
03-10-2021||India||Trans-LoC trade, NIA raids multiple locations in Jammu and Kashmir||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Sunday raided multiple locations in Jammu and Kashmir in connection with unauthorised trade through Line of Control (LoC), which was purportedly being used to fund terrorism.“Today NIA with the assistance of Jammu and Kashmir Police, CRPF (Central Reserve Police Force) and ITBP (Indo Tibetan Border Police), conducted searches at nine locations in Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir at the premises of the suspected LoC traders in relation to the cross-LoC trade case,” said an official spokesperson.​The case was registered on December 9, 2016 by NIA under Section 17 of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act 1967 or UA(P) Act.The LoC trade was started in the year 2008 as a part of confidence-building measure between Jammu and Kashmir and Pak Occupied Kashmir or PoK. It was based on barter system and third party origin goods were not allowed. “The instant case is related to the large scale transfer of funds from Pakistan to India through the import of California Almonds (badam-giri) and other items via the cross LoC Trade Facilitation Centres (TFCs) located at Salamabad in Uri area of Baramulla district and Chakkan-Da-Bagh in Poonch district.“These funds were purportedly being used for fomenting terrorism and separatism in Jammu and Kashmir,” said the spokesperson. “Investigation into the case revealed that some of the traders having excess imports were channelizing the surplus profit generated to terror organisations while others are suspected to have links and connections with proscribed terrorist organisations,” he added.During the searches conducted on Sunday, documents, digital devices and other incriminating materials have been recovered from the premises of the suspects, he said .Further investigation in the case continues..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/transloc-trade-nia-raids-multiple-locations-in-jammu-and-kashmir-101633249077419.html
03-10-2021||India||No victory celebrations after counting of votes: EC tells Bengal govt||The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Sunday asked the West Bengal government to ensure that no victory celebration or procession takes place during or after the counting of votes for the ongoing by-polls in the state. The EC order comes as counting of votes for the by-polls in Bhabanipur, Jangipur and Samserganj assembly constituencies in West Bengal is underway amid tight security.It also comes after Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate Priyanka Tibrewal's wrote to the Chief Justice of the Calcutta High Court, seeking measures to prevent possible violence after the results are declared. According to a report by HT’s sister publication Live Hindustan, Priyanka Tibrewal has sought strict orders to Kolkata Police to take all precautionary measures to prevent any kind of violence after the Bhabanipur bypoll results are declared."... no victory celebrations/ procession during/after the counting shall be allowed in the ongoing elections in West Bengal, for which counting is being taken place on October 3, 2021," EC secretary Rakesh Kumar said in a letter to the West Bengal government."All necessary actions must be taken to ensure the strict compliance of Commission's direction where in all such activities have already been prohibited in view of pandemic. Further, state government must ensure that adequate steps are taken so that no post poll violence takes place," he added.Shortly after the orders by the panel, Mamata Banerjee asked her party leaders to follow the directives and not allow any victory procession or rally in Kolkata and other districts, said transport minister Firhad Hakim.Several TMC workers and supporters were spotted celebrating outside the residence of West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee in Kolkata following her lead in the 9th round of counting of votes in the Bhabanipur bypolls. As per the Election Commission, Mamata Banerjee was leading by 42,292 votes in the Bhabanipur bypoll after the 16th round of counting on Sunday afternoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-victory-celebrations-after-counting-of-votes-ec-tells-bengal-govt-101633246233957.html
03-10-2021||India||Tej Pratap alleges father being kept ‘hostage’, Tejashwi rubbishes it||Fissures in Bihar’s principal opposition party, the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) came to the fore with party chief Lalu Prasad’s elder son Tej Pratap Yadav suggesting that his father was being kept ‘hostage’ in New Delhi and someone was trying to ‘usurp’ the post of the party's president. The comment was widely interpreted to be aimed at Tej Pratap’s younger brother and leader of Opposition in the Bihar Assembly, Tejashwi Yadav .Tejashwi responded by saying that living like a hostage was out of character for the 74 year old former railway minister.“Laluji has been the chief minister of Bihar for a long time and also a Central minister. He was instrumental in the election of two former Prime Ministers . He had also ordered the arrest of BJP patriarch Lal Krishna Advani. So, such allegations do not fit in with the personality of the RJD chief,” Tejashwi said, while talking to reporters at Patna airport soon after returning from New Delhi.When prodded further if Tej Pratap was venting his frustration, Tejashwi evaded a direct reply and repeated that the RJD chief cannot be kept under any influence .On Saturday, Tej Pratap had blurted out against the top party leadership and taken oblique potshots at his younger brother during an event of his newly formed Chhatra Janshakti Parishad in Patna.“ Laluji is not being allowed to come to Patna and those dreaming of becoming the party’s president are keeping him hostage in New Delhi. The RJD chief is not being allowed to come to Patna despite having spent several months in the national capital after being released from jail in April. I do not want to take names as everybody knows them,” Tej Paratp said.The RJD chief has been recuperating at the New Delhi residence of elder daughter Misa Bharti. In a recent interaction, he had said he would soon come to Patna and tour every district in the state.For the last few months, Tej Pratap has been at loggerheads with his younger brother and party’s state president Jagdanand Singh apparently over his diminishing clout in the party. A month back, he had called the state president Singh authoritarian and accused him of acting in an arbitrary manner. Reports said Singh, hurt by the barbs, had offered to resign but was persuaded to stay on by the RJD chief . It is said that Tej Pratap is also angry with Tejashwi and RJD state president’s decision to remove the president of the party’s youth wing, Akash Yadav , who was considered close to him.“ The way the party is functioning, it will not help in strengthening its organisation but only weaken it,” Tej Pratap said yesterday.Meanwhile, the state Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson Nikhil Anand said the allegation that the RJD chief was ‘hostage’ in New Delhi was of serious nature. “ Though it is an internal matter of Lalu’s family, our concern about the RJD chief’s health and well being is natural. We feel, Tejashwi should give a clarification so that we can be assured of Lalu Prasad’s well being,” Anand said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tej-pratap-alleges-father-being-kept-hostage-tejashwi-rubbishes-it-101633247697050.html
03-10-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 1pm: Punjab CM's son seen at official meeting with father and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.The ruling Congress in Punjab is staring at yet another controversy after new chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi's son was seen present at an official meeting. The meeting was chaired by DGP Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota at which the chief minister himself was present. Read moreAt least three workers died and over 70 were seriously injured while working at the Dubai's Expo 2020 site, officials said while insisting that safety standards were "world-class". According to news agency AP, this is the first time that the Dubai Expo is revealing statistics for worker fatalities during the construction of the massive world’s fair. Read moreJason Gillespie did not agree with former Australia teammate Shane Warne's assessment that spinner R Ashwin hampered the spirit of cricket when he attempted a second run after the ball had deflected off batting partner Rishabh Pant's bat during an IPL 2021 match between Delhi Capitals and Kolkata Knight Riders earlier this week. Read moreTata Motors is all set to introduce its latest offering Punch micro SUV in flesh tomorrow October 4. The homegrown automaker has already started accepting bookings for the Punch SUV. This is going to be Tata Motors' entry into the micro SUV segment, where Mahindra currently has its KUV100. Tata Punch will also target Maruti Suzuki Ignis and the upcoming Citroen C3 as rivals. Read moreAfter stunning the crowds in a completely sheer crystal-embellished Gucci gown at the Venice Film Festival, Dakota Johnson is turning the streets of New York City into her personal runway. And we are not complaining. Read morePriyanka Chopra is currently filming for her next series with Russo Brothers, Citadel, in Spain. The actor has shared a behind-the-scene picture, carrying a gun on a beach.Sharing the picture, Priyanka wrote, “Facing fears like the warrior she is…can’t wait for you to meet her. #BTS #Citadel.” A fan wrote, "An awesome look." Another commented, “So super.” Many called her "beautiful.' Read moreIn the latest edition of The Interview, author Kishwar Desai speaks to Hindustan Times and takes on criticisms over Partition Museum. On asking if the creators of the museum are trying to rewrite history, she says Partition Museum is not only about violence and adds that it is more about the great loss that was imposed upon people. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1pm-punjab-cm-s-son-seen-at-official-meeting-with-father-and-all-the-latest-news-101633244243949.html
03-10-2021||India||Farmers gather outside Haryana mandis, demand out of turn paddy procurement||The government claims to have begun procurement of paddy beginning Sunday even as hundreds of Haryana farmers lined up outside Mandis in the state without an invitation and demanded that their paddy produce is procured out of schedule.As per the laid down procedure, sms were sent to registered farmers inviting them to Mandis on a pre-scheduled date and time for procurement of their harvest. However, scores of farmers have arrived at the mandis with their produce without any invitation and are pressuring the administration to accommodate them out of turn“I had brought my produce of 4 acres on September 19 as the government had earlier announced to start the procurement from September 25 but later it was delayed, now it should procure our produce on priority as we were waiting here for more than a week, ”farmer Jasmer Singh of Ladwa of Kurukshetra district said.Scheduled procurement is a pre-condition for direct payment of the minimum support price (MSP) to paddy farmers.Vinay Yadav, chief administrator of Haryana State Agriculture Marketing Board said fresh directions have been issued that the farmers who have already brought their produce to the mandis out of schedule will have to obtain an invite or schedule on the e-kharid portal. In the interim, to avoid long queues outside mandis. temporary gate passes were being issued to farmers but procurement will only take place as per the schedule, he added.The officials providing temporary gate passes to farmers said they didn’t know when their produce will be procured. Thousands of quintals of paddy has already arrived in the mandis but the government said it will give priority to farmers who had received message inviting them to Mandis for procurement. District authorities had been told to start the procurement of Parmal varieties from Sunday morning.Gurdeep Singh of Bansa village of Karnal district alleged that the government was harassing in the name of schedule and gate pass. “I had come with my produce of three acres at 4 am after waiting for around 4 hours in the queue I got a temporary gate pass to bring my produce inside the mandi,” he added.Gagandeep Singh, zonal administrator of Haryana State Agriculture Marketing Board said, “We are fully prepared and the procurement has started in all the grain markets in Karnal as per the schedule issued to the farmers and if a farmer missed his scheduled procurement slot then alternate arrangements will be made as per the government’s directions.”Also Read: Ambala: 17 protesting farmers booked for rioting, unlawful assemblyThe state government has set a target of procuring around 60 lakh MT of paddy from around 200 purchase centres this year. But officials associated with the agencies say that procurement may exceed the target following an increase in the area under cultivation of parmal varieties. As per official data, over 40% of area under paddy cultivation, that is 584,000 hectares, is growing the Parmal varieties.According to the commission agents the delay in procurement and lifting may create a glut in the mandis. Haryana BKU president Gurnam Singh Charuni has demanded that the order for scheduled procurement in all the Mandis is withdrawn.In a videos message, Charuni also asked farmers to break the gates of the mandis if the officials do not allow them to enter the grain markets in the name of schedule or gate passes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-gather-outside-haryana-mandis-demand-out-of-turn-paddy-procurement-t-101633245057047.html
03-10-2021||India||It's game on in Bhabanipur: Didi widens winning gap in final round of counting||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee was leading by 58,389 votes against her closest contender, Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) Priyanka Tibrewal, at the end of the 21st round of counting of votes polled at the byelection to Bhabanipur assembly constituency on Sunday. Early trends show Mamata Banerjee was leading by 58,832 votes in the final round, securing victory in the bypoll, although the Election Commission was yet to officially confirm the data. The Trinamool Congress supremo was in the fray from the Bhabanipur assembly seat with BJP's Priyanka Tibrewal and CPM's Shrijeeb Biswas.According to the latest data by the Election Commission, Mamata Banerjee got 84,709 votes against Priyanka Tibrewal's 26,320 votes while Shrijeeb Biswas got 4,201 votes at the end of the 21st round of counting for the Bhabanipur assembly bypolls.The Trinamool Congress workers and supporters broke into celebrations outside the chief minister's residence as the margin by which Mamata Banerjee led grew with each round of counting.Based on the votes counted so far, Mamata has secured 71.9% of the votes polled in the Bhabanipur assembly constituency while Priyanka Tibrewal managed only 22.29%.However, state transport minister Firhad Hakim said Mamata Banerjee instructed party leaders not to allow any victory procession or rally in Kolkata and the districts. The message from the chief minister comes close on the heels of the Election Commission writing to the West Bengal government, asking it to ensure that no victory celebration or procession is carried out during or after the counting of votes for bypolls.The bypoll to Bhabanipur assembly constituency was necessitated after Trinamool Congress MLA Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay vacated the seat after the assembly elections earlier this year, to pave the way for party supremo Mamata Banerjee to contest the bypoll to retain her chief ministerial post.Even though Trinamool Congress came back to power in West Bengal for the third consecutive time following a landslide victory in the assembly elections, Mamata Banerjee faced defeat in the Nandigram assembly constituency against her former protégé Suvendu Adhikari by a thin margin of 1,956 votes. A former state minister and a close aide of Mamata Banerjee, Adhikari switched to BJP ahead of the West Bengal assembly elections.Mamata Banerjee has to win on any seat in the state to have the chance of becoming a member of the state assembly, and retain the chief minister's post, before November 5.ALSO READ | At 53.32%, Bhabanipur bypoll sees low voter turnoutThe BJP fielded Priyanka Tibrewal, the vice-president of the party's state youth wing, against the chief minister in the Trinamool Congress bastion. Tibrewal played a key role in the BJP’s battle in the Calcutta high court on alleged post-poll violence, which led a five-judge bench to order for a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation. Tibrewal had contested from Entally seat in the assembly elections but lost to Trinamool's Swarna Kamal Saha by more than 58,000 votes.Meanwhile, Priyanka Tibrewal wrote to the Calcutta high court ahead of the counting, casting aspersions over “post-poll violence”, and seeking preventive measures. A clash reportedly broke out between the supporters of the Trinamool Congress and the BJP on the day of polling.Bhabanipur assembly constituency has always been a strong fort for the Trinamool Congress, and the party has been winning it consecutively since 2011 assembly elections.Trinamool's Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay won the assembly polls from the Bhabanipur constituency by 28,719 votes earlier this year. But, Mamata Banerjee has crossed that margin as she was leading by 58,389 votes in the final round of counting.Mamata had won the Bhabanipur assembly bypoll in 2011 by 52,213 votes and by 25,301 votes in 2016 elections.ALSO READ | Bhabanipur bypoll: EC rejects BJP claim of booth rigging, cites mock poll delayAlong with Bhabanipur, bypolls were also held in two other assembly constituencies in West Bengal, including Jangipur and Samserganj assembly constituencies on September 30. The Trinamool Congress was leading in all three seats, the latest data from the Election Commission show.The counting for the bypolls began at 8am on Sunday amid tight security. Twenty four companies of central forces have been deployed at the counting centres, and the entire area has been put under CCTV surveillance. Poll officials were allowed inside the counting centre with only pen and paper and only the returning officer and observer are allowed to use phones.Bhabanipur constituency will see 21 rounds of counting, while votes polled in Samserganj will be counted in 26 rounds and 24 rounds for the Jangipur constituency at Sakhawat Memorial School in Kolkata.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhabanipur-bypolls-mamata-banerjee-trinamool-congress-bjp-west-bengal-assembly-elections-results-101633236265518.html
03-10-2021||India||Bharat Biotech submits data from Covaxin's trials on children to DCGI: Report||Bharat Biotech International Limited, which has developed Covaxin, India’s first indigenous vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), has reportedly submitted data from the jab’s trials on children to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI). “We have submitted the data from trials on volunteers in the age group of 2-18 to the DCGI,” Dr Krishna Ella, the Hyderabad-based firm’s chairman and managing director, told India Today on Saturday.The development comes after the biotechnology company, last month, completed phase 2/3 trials of Covaxin on kids. Bharat Biotech was expected to submit data to the drugs regulator “very soon.” Also Read | Bharat Biotech completes phase 2/3 trials of Covaxin in children, to submit data by next weekAt present, citizens below 18 years of age are not eligible for the nationwide vaccination drive against the viral illness. Of the six vaccines to have received emergency use authorisation (EUA) from the DCGI thus far, only one, ZyCoV-D, will be applicable to an age group below 18, having received approval to be administered on everyone aged 12 and above.ZyCoV-D is the country’s second home-made shot against Covid-19. The jab has been prepared by Zydus Cadila, located in Ahmedabad.Though a countrywide inoculation drive for children is yet to be announced, fears over a potential third wave of infections have triggered calls in this regard. The reopening of schools in most states amid the declining second wave has only added to those calls.Thus far, more than 900 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines have been administered across the country since the exercise began on January 16 this year, according to the Union health ministry's dashboard. Of these, 7,376,846 were used in the last 24 hours. On at least five occasions, more than 10 million beneficiaries were jabbed in a single-day, including more than 20 million shots on September 17, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s 71st birthday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-submits-data-from-covaxin-s-trials-on-children-to-dcgi-report-101633235555587.html
03-10-2021||India||Covid-19: India logs 22,842 new infections, active cases at 199-day low||Fresh infections related to coronavirus disease on Sunday fell by a little over 1,500 from Saturday’s figures with the country reporting 22,842 new infections in the last 24 hours. On Saturday, India had logged 24,354 cases.According to latest updates with the Union ministry of health and family welfare, active cases now stood at 2,70,557, lowest in 199 days and accounted for less than one per cent of the total cases registered so far.Kerala continued to remain at the top of the worst-hit states, having recorded 13,217 cases and 121 deaths during the day.Also read | Covid can 'come back with vengeance': AIIMS task force chief warns against lowerAlso, 25,930 patients were cured from the viral disease in the last 24 hours taking the total number of recoveries to 3,30,94,529. This pushed the recovery rate to 97.87 per cent, a high since March 2020.As many as 244 people passed away during the day due to related complications taking the total death toll to 4,48,817.The weekly positivity rate, which has remained less than 3 per cent for the last 100 days, stood at 1.66 per cent.Also read | Covid vaccines via Covax to be sent only to least covered nations in Oct: WHOThe government has so far tested 57.32 crore samples for the virus of which 12,65,734 were tested in the last 24 hours.Meanwhile, 73,76,846 doses of vaccines against the virus were administered in the last 24 hours taking the nationwide total to 90,51,75,348.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-india-logs-22-842-new-infections-active-cases-at-199-day-low-101633235373242.html
03-10-2021||India||Son of Bollywood star detained for questioning about rave party on cruise ship||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested eight people in a raid on an off shore rave party held on a cruise ship along Mumbai coast on Saturday night, and also detained a few including son of a Bollywood star, officers aware of developments said.Three women were also brought to the NCB office in early hours from the cruise ship and were being questioned, said a NCB official, who preferred anonymity. He added that the crew of the cruise ship, several event organisers and some foreign nationals were under NCB’s scanner for the event.Zonal director Sameer Wankhede of the NCB said, “We are questioning several people, including Bollywood star’s son in NCB office in connection with the rave party.”The agency claims to have found multiple drugs such as Cocaine, MDMA (commonly known as ecstasy), Mephedrone and Charas from the detained people during the raid.A NCB officer aware of the developments said this was the first instance of a NCB raid on a cruise ship. The operation continued past midnight. Since the NCB officers could not interrogate the apprehended women at night, therefore three were brought to the agency’s office in Mumbai in the morning and were being questioned. Their roles are still not clear, he said.Also Read: Jalandhar man held for drug peddling, 35g heroin seizedNCB officials said they were present among the revelers in decoy after learning that the rave party was being organised on a cruise ship. A Delhi-based event company is believed to have organised parties on passenger cruise ships on October 2, 3 and 4. The cruise ship was to go to GOA on Saturday night and scheduled to return to Mumbai by Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/son-of-bollywood-star-detained-for-questioning-about-rave-party-on-cruise-ship-101633234975996.html
03-10-2021||India||Pipili by-poll result 2021: Counting of votes in Odisha assembly seat begins||The counting of votes for the by-poll to the Pipili assembly constituency in Odisha's Puri district began at 8am on Sunday amid tight security, officials said. The electoral fate of 10 candidates, including ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) nominee Rudrapratap Maharathy, the BJP's Ashrit Pattnaik and Congress candidate Bishwokeshan Harichandan Mohapatra, will be decided. The Pipili assembly segment is considered as the bastion of the BJD—party leader Pradeep Maharathy won the seat five times in a row from 2000.West Bengal, Odisha bypolls results. Catch live updates hereNews agency PTI cited an election official as saying that a three-layer security arrangement is in place at the counting centre at Penthakota Warehouse. Odisha's Chief Electoral Officer SK Lohani said as many as 72 government officials are involved in the counting process in Pipili.An official told PTI that the counting of votes in EVMs began in two halls at 8.30am after postal ballots were counted in another hall. The counting process in the halls is being broadcast on large screens outside the centre to avoid crowding at the counting tables. The results of five Voter Verifiable Paper Audit Trails (VVPATs) and EVMs will be randomly matched after the counting is over, the official added. Three additional returning officers have been appointed for the counting and the process will be supervised by an election observer, he said. Candidates have been authorised to engage one counting agent at each table, he said.Also read | Former Odisha minister Pradeep Maharathy dies of Covid-19"Only the Election Commission-authorised media personnel will be allowed to enter the counting centre in batches. They will be escorted by the polling staff. They can visit the counting centre without a camera or any recording device and return after observing it," the official was quoted as saying by PTI.The by-election to the Pipili constituency was held on September 30 and the seat was vacant for about a year, following the death of sitting BJD MLA Pradeep Maharathy in October 2020. The Election Commission countermanded or deferred the by-election thrice due to various reasons. The Pipili by-poll was scheduled to take place on April 17 but was countermanded after Congress candidate Ajit Mangaraj succumbed to Covid-19 three days before polling. Voting was scheduled to be held on May 13 and May 16 but was deferred again.A police officer told PTI that security has been tightened in Pipili and Delang as a precautionary measure as the areas have a history of poll violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pipili-by-poll-result-2021-counting-of-votes-in-odisha-assembly-seat-begins-101633230395868.html
03-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: TMC predicts big win for Mamata Banerjee despite low voter turnout and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.TMC predicts big victory for Mamata Banerjee despite lower voter turnoutTMC leaders said hours before counting of votes on Sunday that Mamata Banerjee will win the bypoll by a higher margin than Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay, who won the seat in the March-April assembly elections. Read moreMadhya Pradesh records surge in dengue, viral fever cases among kidsMadhya Pradesh is seeing an increasing number of children suffering from dengue, pneumonia and viral fever being hospitalised, leading to a shortage in beds in paediatric wards in some places. Read more'250 would have been closer to a par score': Dhoni's sarcasm after RR chase down 190 in 17.3 overs"250 would've been closer to par, given the way they were going," Dhoni said sarcastically when Rajasthan Royals chased down the 190-run target in 17.3 overs with seven wickets in the bank. Read moreBigg Boss 15 contestant and doctor Umar Riaz believes 'the intellect on the show will be higher this year’In an interview conducted ahead of his entry inside the Bigg Boss house, Umar Riaz said that the intellect on the show will be higher this year. Umar is a qualified doctor. Read moreMalaika Arora's shimmery gown with leg-baring slit will make your heart skip a beat, see picsMalaika Arora's recent red-carpet ensemble for the Grand Finale of Miss Diva Miss Universe India 2021 not only made our hearts skip a beat but also ramped up the glam quotient at the event. Read moreHow a private plane helped Indra Nooyi as a motherIn the latest episode of On the Record, Indra Nooyi speaks to Hindustan Times' National Political Editor, Sunetra Choudhury about how a private plane helped her as a mother. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-tmc-predicts-big-win-for-mamata-banerjee-despite-low-turnout-and-all-the-latest-news-101633228765111.html
03-10-2021||India||Engineering graduate selling fruit on train, beaten up by RPF jawan||A 30-year-old engineering graduate from Dharwad district of Karnataka has lodged a complaint with the Government Railway Police (GRP) in Odisha that a railway protection force constable beat her up and tried to molest her while she was selling fruits in Gitanjali Express without a ticket.Anitharaj Shirahatti, an engineering graduate in computer science from Dharwad in Karnataka, alleged in her complaint to GRP in Rourkela that constable Ajit Nayak assualted her with a baton on Saturday, leading to a head injury and also abused her in filthy language.Inspector of GRP Rourkela, Ranjan Patnaik said Anitharaj didn’t have money and had boarded the train at Gondia station in Maharashtra to travel to Howrah. “At Panposh station near Rourkela, RPF constable Ajit Nayak asked her to show her ticket following which an altercation ensued. The RPF constable hit her with his baton causing bleeding injury on her head and then forcibly deboarded the profusely bleeding girl at Rourkela,” said Patnaik.Also Read: Girl from primitive Bonda tribe in Odisha digs up well in her village, inspires othersThe GRP registered an FIR against constable Nayak and got the girl examined for her injuries. A case was registered under sections 341 (wrongful restraint), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).“Had a TTE questioned me, I would not have protested as I was travelling without ticket. But who gave the authority to a RPF constable to beat me in such an inhuman way. I want to know what authority does RPF has to beat and abuse,” Anita asked. The accused constable is posted with the RPF unit at Jamshedpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/engineering-graduate-selling-fruit-on-train-beaten-up-by-rpf-jawan-101633230415543.html
03-10-2021||India||In Japan, man diagnosed with ‘restless anal syndrome’ after recovery from Covid-19||In what is possibly the first such case of a post-Covid complication, a 77-year-old man in Japan reported “deep anal discomfort” just days after recovering from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Doctors at the Tokyo University Hospital diagnosed him with “restless anal syndrome.”According to Business Insider, which reported the case citing BMC Infectious Diseases, doctors noted that the symptoms shown by the man were consistent with those shown by patients with restless leg syndrome (RLS). Additionally, in yet another feature common with RLS, he was able to get some relief via exercise, the report noted.Tests, however, concluded that except a few haemorrhoids, the senior citizen was absolutely fine. There were no issues such as brain abnormalities, bladder disturbances etc. Restless feeling, anxiety and insomnia were the only health issues that he faced after recovering from Covid-19, the Business Insider report said.The “anal discomfort” was resolved through a course of Clonazepam, a drug used to treat seizures, it further stated.Earlier, the man was hospitalised with mild Covid-19 that included sore throat, cough and fever. He received treatment for mild pneumonia after developing low-grade fever for 10 days. He was discharged after his respiratory functions improved to normal 21 days after hospitalisation.Restless leg syndrome:BMC describes restless leg syndrome as a “common neurological, sensorimotor” disorder, caused by the dysfunction of the central nervous system. An urge to move is perhaps the most common symptom of this disorder. The symptoms worsen if the body is at rest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-japan-man-diagnosed-with-restless-anal-syndrome-after-recovery-from-covid19-101633227802552.html
03-10-2021||India||Bhabanipur bypolls: Mamata leads by 42,292 votes after 16th round of counting||Counting of votes for the keenly watched Bhabanipur bypoll seat has begun along with the constituencies of Samserganj and Jangipur in West Bengal and Pipili in Odisha. West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee is looking at winning the south Kolkata seat by a comfortable margin to make her way to Assembly, months after losing the election to aide-turned-rival Suvendu Adhikari from Nandigram. Here are the latest updates:- West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is leading by 42,292 votes after 16th round of counting for the Bhabanipur by-election. - The Trinamool Congress supremo is ahead by 36,457 votes following 13th round of counting.- Banerjee has crossed her colleague Shobhandeb Chattapadhyay's winning margin of 28.719 votes from the Bhabanipur seat. She is ahead by 31,645 votes after the 10th round of counting.- Banerjee now has a leading margin of 34,000 votes following 11th round of counting.- Banerjee is leading by 25,318 votes after seventh round of counting.- Banerjee is leading by 12,435 after fourth round of counting.- Images have started pouring in of celebrations outside the CM's Kalighat residence as her lead against BJP's Priyanka Tibrewal increases.West Bengal: TMC supporters celebrate outside CM Mamata Banerjee’s residence in Kolkata as she leads in the Bhabanipur Assembly by-election pic.twitter.com/roWsaX9moK  - Reports suggested Banerjee leading by 6,146 votes after the third round of counting.- News agency ANI said Banerjee is leading against BJP candidate Priyanka Tibrewal by 2,377 votes after second round of counting, as per Election Commission data.- Banerjee is leading with 3,680 votes against BJP candidate Priyanka Tibrewal's 881 votes after first round of counting, as per Election Commission data. - According to some reports, Banerjee is leading by over 2,500 votes after two rounds of counting.- Some images from outside a counting centre in Bhabanipur Assembly constituency.West Bengal: Counting of votes begins for by-elections in Bhabanipur Assembly constituency; outside visuals from Sakhawat Memorial Govt Girls' High School counting centre pic.twitter.com/5so3lzD9pH- Priyanka Tibrewal, whom the BJP has fielded against Banerjee, has written to Chief Justice of the Calcutta High Court expressing her fears of post-poll violence and sought measures to prevent the same. Read more- The official Twitter handle of the chief electoral office (CEO) shares images of counting at centres in Bhabanipur. Decoding display for counting personnel at 159 Bhabanipur Assembly constituency of Kolkata South District. @SpokespersonECI @ECISVEEP @rajivkumarec pic.twitter.com/jTCs2jGMXD - Counting begins at 8am at all the four constituencies where the by-election was held on Thursday.- In Bhabanipur, the counting is being held in 21 rounds. The constituency witnessed a meager 57.09 per cent voter turnout despite a high-voltage campaign by both the ruling camp and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).- The Trinamool Congress has predicted the party supremo's win by a massive margin. Read more- Banerjee has twice represented the Bhabanipur seat in the Assembly between 2011 and 2021 and looking for a third term through the bypoll.  - Twenty-four companies of central forces have been deployed at the counting centres in Bhabanipur and the entire area has been put under the surveillance of close-circuit cameras.Read this for more updates on bypolls in all four seats- The Election Commission has said officials would be allowed to use pen and paper, while the returning officer and observer have been given the permission to bring mobile phones. - The weather department has predicted an increase in thunderstorms with lightning activity in south Bengal on October 3 and 4. Read more- The BJP had earlier complained of a lack level-playing field in the seat. - On the day of polling, Tibrewal had complained of rigging in a booth, but the polling body had said election began late due to delay in a mock drill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhabanipur-bypolls-live-updates-south-kolkata-counting-mamata-banerjee-101633227253014.html
03-10-2021||India||TMC predicts big victory for Mamata Banerjee despite lower voter turnout||Three days after low turnout of voters troubled election managers of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at south Kolkata’s Bhabanipur, leaders of the ruling party said hours before counting of votes on Sunday that Mamata Banerjee will win the bypoll by a higher margin than Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay, who won the seat in the March-April assembly elections.Only 57.09 % of Bhabanipur’s 2,06,389 voters turned up during the September 30 bypoll, whereas on April 26, when Chattopadhyay contested, the figure stood at 61.79 %. He won by a margin of 28,719 votes. TMC leaders claimed on Saturday night that the chief minister was going to win by more than 50,000 votes.Though TMC bagged 213 of Bengal’s 294 seats and stopped the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) tally at 77, Banerjee was defeated at East Midnapore district’s Nandigram by her protégé-turned-adversary, BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari.As the setback left TMC leaders stunned, Chattopadhyay vacated the Bhabanipur seat so that Banerjee could contest again from her old constituency and continue as chief minister.The bypoll was held alongside elections in Murshidabad district’s Samserganj and Jangipur, where polls could not be held in April due to the death of two candidates.Despite intermittent rain in Murshidabad - the district with Bengal’s highest Muslim population of 66.28% - the final turnout at Samserganj was 79.92 % while in Jangipur, the figure touched 77.63 %.In sharp contrast, at Bhabanipur, where the weather was clear till around 3 pm, only 57.09 % voters reached polling booths despite the hype and intense campaigning by both sides.Also Read: Will Mamata retain her CM chair? Counting of votes to Bhabanipur by-poll todayIn the April 26 polls, the BJP came second, securing 35.16 % votes. Its candidate, actor Rudranil Ghosh, who made his debut in electoral politics, was defeated by 28,719 votes.“Mamata Banerjee will win by a margin of anything between 50,000 to 75,000 votes,” transport minister Firhad Hakim, who took the lead in campaigning for the chief minister, said on Saturday night.TMC leaders claimed before the polls that Banerjee would win by at least 0.1 million votes.“We will definitely do well. Our candidate Priyanka Tibrewal worked hard during the campaign,” said BJP state president Sukanta Majumdar.Bhabanipur’s cosmopolitan character has always posed a challenge for election managers.The constituency has 2,06,389 voters. According to TMC and BJP leaders, more than 20% residents are Muslims while Sikhs and non-Bengali Hindus comprise around 34% of the local population. The Congress did not contest the seat this year as its electoral ally, the CPI(M), fielded Srijeeb Biswas.“Whenever turnout was high in the past, the BJP did well in Bhabanipur. The low turnout on September 30 should worry the TMC more,” said Shishir Bajoria, a member of the BJP’s election committee.Even the chief minister apprehended a low turnout while addressing her first campaign meeting on September 22 as the weather office had predicted the arrival of Cyclone Gulab which later moved towards southern India.“Cast your vote even if it rains. I will suffer if I don’t get even one vote. Don’t be complacent and assume that my victory is ensured. If I do not win, someone else (from the TMC) will become chief minister since we are in the majority,” Banerjee said at the meeting in Ekbalpore, an area with a sizeable Muslim population.Though there was no violence during the bypoll, the TMC was repeatedly accused by the BJP of bringing in fake voters at some booths. The Election Commission received around 60 allegations but all were found to be baseless, officials said.Tibrewal, a lawyer who lost the March-April polls from Entally in central Kolkata, wrote a letter to the Calcutta high court’s acting chief justice Rajesh Bindal on Saturday, requesting him to direct law enforcement agencies to ensure that there is no violence after the election results are declared.Tibrewal is representing many of the petitioners who moved the high court alleging post-poll violence that the Central Bureau of Investigation is now probing on the court’s order.With 2,55,998 voters, Jangipur did not witness an election on April 26 as Pradip Kumar Nandi, the Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP) candidate, died of Covid-19. Jakir Hossain, the former deputy labour minister who bagged the seat in 2016, contested against the BJP’s Sujit Das and the RSP’s Jane Alam Mian. The Congress left the seat for the Left parties as part of the poll alliance.“We will surely win,” Hossain said after polling was over.Samserganj, which has 2,37,750 voters, could not go to the polls with the rest of the state earlier this year because Rezaul Haque, the Congress candidate, died of Covid-19 in early April. TMC fielded Amirul Islam who won the seat in 2016.The local Congress unit ignored the alliance by fielding Jaidur Rahaman, brother of the TMC’s Jangipur Lok Sabha MP Khalilur Rahaman, against the CPI(M)’s Md Modassar Hossain. The BJP fielded Milan Ghosh, a debutant. The TMC is confident of winning the Murshidabad seats||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-predicts-big-victory-for-mamata-banerjee-despite-lower-voter-turnout-101633227775399.html
03-10-2021||NA||Bypolls results Highlights: BJD retains Pipili assembly constituency in Odisha||Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo Mamata Banerjee and officials at the counting centre and have claimed that the former has won the Bhabanipur bypoll by 58,835 votes, with BJP’s Priyanka Tibrewal receiving more than 26,000 votes. However, the returning officer of Election Commission (EC) is yet to make an official announcement. In the other two constituencies of West Bengal – Jangipur and Samsergang — TMC candidates Jakir Hossain Amirul Islam, respectively, are also leading at the moment. In Odisha’s Pipili, ruling party BJD’s candidate Rudrapratap Maharathy is leading the bypoll.Since morning, all eyes have been on the crucial Bhabanipur bypoll, which Mamata had to win in order to remain in the chief minister’s chair. As per the latest updates, she has surpassed her own record in Bhabanipur by leading by more than 58,000 votes. Mamata had won by 52,213 votes in 2011 bypoll, and by 25,301 votes in 2016.The EC has asked the TMC-led state government to refrain from taking out any victory processions following the counting of votes. However, as news of Mamata’s triple triumph in Bhabanipur spread, TMC workers in large numbers gathered outside her home in south Kolkata’s Kalighat. However, Mamata has asked them to celebrate by helping the flood-affected districts in West Bengal. Meanwhile, BJP’s Bhabanipur candidate Priyanka Tibrewal said that she has gracefully accepted the defeat and has also congratulated Mamata.The wait now begins for an official confirmation from the EC regarding the bypoll winners in Bhabanipur and all other constituencies in West Bengal and Odisha.Follow all the updates here:TMC wins in both Jangipur and SamserganjTMC wins in both Jangipur and Samserganj; TMC’s Jangipur nominee Jakir Hossain wins by a massive margin of 92,480 votes.BJD retains Pipili assembly constituency in Odisha with bigger marginBJD has Biju Janata Dal's electoral juggernaut continued to roll after the party won the bypolls to the Pipili assembly constituency in Puri district on Sunday signifying the party's readiness to take on its opponent BJP in next yea's panchayat and urban body polls.Bypolls in Pipili were held on September 30 with a record 78 per cent of the 2.29 lakh voters in the largely rural constituency flocking the polling booths amid Covid protocol.‘Accept it gracefully': BJP after TMC wins by-poll electionsThe outcome of three Assembly by-polls in West Bengal aren't in line with our expectation but we accept it gracefully... Mamata Banerjee may have survived in Bhabanipur for now, but it has never happened that a losing candidate chose to thrust herself as the chief minister, says Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in West Bengal. Mamata Banerjee retains CM post as she wins Bhabanipur BJD leads by 20,751 votes after 18th round of countingThe BJD maintains a lead at Pipili constituency by 20,751 after 18th round of counting.Banerjee secures 85,263 votes till 4:15 pm According to Election Commission's official data, Banerjee secured 85,263 votes till 4:15 pm in Bhabanipur. This included 554 postal ballots.BJP rival Tibrewal got 26,428 votes which included 108 postal ballots. Till 4.15 pm, Banerjee got 71.9 % votes against the BJP's 22.29 %.CPI(M)'s Srijeeb Biswas was in third position with only 4,226 or 3.56 % votes.BJD secured lead by 17,435 votesBJD continues to lead by 17,435 votes after 16th round of counting.BJD's Rudrapratap Maharathy leads by over 15,640 votes in Odisha's PipiliThe ruling BJD's Rudrapratap Maharathy leads by more than 15,640 votes in Odisha's Pipili by 15th round. There are 10 more rounds of counting to be done.Mamata leads in Bhabanipur bypoll by 58,835 votes; EC's declaration awaitedTMC chief Mamata Banerjee is only a few steps away from retaining the chief minister's chair by leading the Bhabanipur bypoll by 58,835 votes, according to officials at the counting centre. Mamata herself has also said that she has won the bypoll.Mamata thanks Bhabanipur, says supporters can celebrate by helping flood-affectTalking to supporters outside of her home, Mamata Banerjee thanked the people of Bhabanipur. "Our victory inspires me to work more for people. If our workers want to celebrate, they should do so by helping the flood-affected people in the districts. That will be the real celebration," she added.TMC  workers assembled outside Mamata Banerjee's houseAs TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee is near to a victory in Bhabanipur bypoll, party workers have gathered in large number outside of the chief minister's house in south Kolkata. Mamata was also seen coming out of her house to address the party workers.BJP’s Priyanka Tibrewal says ‘I gracefully accept the defeat’BJP’s Bhabanipur candidate Priyanka Tibrewal says "I gracefully accept the defeat." She added that she has congratulated ‘Didi’ (Mamata Banerjee) and has sent her message to the the TMC chief as well. Mamata has won by 58,389 votes in Bhabanipur; BJP's Tibrewal got 26,320 votesAccording to latest updates, Mamata Banerjee has won by 58,389 votes and has been declared winner as per people familiar with the development. BJP's Priyanka Tibrewal has got 26,320 votes in Bhabanipur. Mamata has broken her own record as she has won more votes this time as opposed to her earlier victories in Bhabanipur. She had won by 52,213 votes in the 2011 bypoll and 25301 votes in 2016.With 2 rounds of counting left, Mamata ahead by over 52,000 votesWith only two rounds of vote counting remaining, Mamata Banerjee builds a lead of more than 52,000 after 19 rounds. TMC on course to create record in Bhabanipur.‘CM has given instructions not to allow any victory march’: Bengal minister Firhad Hakim“CM Mamata Banerjee has given instructions to all party leaders not to allow any victory procession or rally in Kolkata and the districts,” said state transport minister Firhad Hakim.Mamata Banerjee secures 58,503 votes till round 15TMC chief 's tally stands at 58,503 votes till 15 rounds of counting of votes. Party ahead by 33612 and 7691 votes in Jangipur and Samserganj respectively.EC directs Bengal govt to disallow post-counting victory celebrationsElection Commission directs West Bengal government to ensure that no victory celebration/procession takes place during or after the counting of votes for byelections. Commission asks the govt to take all necessary steps to ensure that post-poll violence doesn't happen.West Bengal CM builds commanding lead in BhabanipurMamata Banerjee extends her lead to 36,457 after 13 rounds of counting of votes.TMC's Jakir Hossain extends lead in JangipurAfter nine rounds of counting of votes, TMC's Jakir Hossain extends lead to 26,786 from Jangipur.Watch: Celebrations outside Mamata Banerjee's residence#WATCH | TMC workers & supporters celebrate outside the residence of West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee in Kolkata as she leads by 28,825 votes in Bhabanipur bypolls after 9th round of counting pic.twitter.com/XlZhaJPB0nTMC supporters celebrate as Mamata Banerjee extends lead from Bhabanipur.BJD's Maharathy extends lead to close to 6000 after five roundsBy the end of the fifth round of counting, BJD's Rudra Pratap Maharathy leads by 5787 votes in Pipili.After 10 rounds of counting, Mamata Banerjee ahead by over 31,000 votesMamata Banerjee leads by more than 31,000 votes after 10 rounds of counting. Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay, who vacated the seat for the TMC supremo, won by a margin of 28,719 votes during the assembly polls.Celebrations begin outside Mamata Banerjee's residenceWest Bengal: TMC supporters celebrate outside CM Mamata Banerjee’s residence in Kolkata as she leads in the Bhabanipur Assembly by-election pic.twitter.com/roWsaX9moKTMC supporters congregate for celebrations outside the West Bengal CM's residence as she leads in Bhabanipur.Odisha: BJD candidate leading by over 5000 votesBJD candidate from Pipili, Rudrapratap Maharathy, leading by 5044 votes after third round of counting of votes for Pipili assembly bypolls.7 rounds of counting done, Mamata leads by over 25,000 votesMamata Banerjee surges ahead in Bhabanipur, establishes a lead of more than 25,000 votes over BJP's Priyanka Tibrewal.Mamata Banerjee consolidates lead after 4th roundAfter four rounds of counting, Mamata Banerjee further consolidates her lead. West Bengal CM (16,397 votes) leads BJP's Priyanka Tibrewal (3962) by more than 12,000 votes.BJD's Maharathy leading in PipiliBiju Janata Dal (BJD) candidate Rudrapratap Maharathy leading by 2441 votes after the second round of counting of votes for Pipili assembly byelection.After 3 rounds, Mamata Banerjee extends lead to 6146 votesMamata Banerjee leading in Bhabanipur after three rounds of counting; ahead of second-placed Priyanka Tibrewal by 6146 votes.TMC leads in Jangipur after 2 roundsTMC's Jakir Hossain (4542) ahead in Jangipur after two rounds of counting. BJP and RSP candidates at 2825 and 255 respectively.TMC ahead in Samserganj after 2 rounds of countingTMC candidate leading in Samserganj after two rounds of counting. TMC's Amirul Islam at 4235 ahead of Congress (3095) and BJP (995).Mamata Banerjee ahead by nearly 3000 votes in BhabanipurMamata Banerjee leading by 2799 votes in second round of counting of votes for byelections to the Bhabanipur assembly constituency.BJP's Priyanka Tibrewal writes to Calcutta HC fearing post-counting violenceBJP's Bhabanipur candidate, Priyanka Tibrewal, writes to Calcutta high court seeking measures to prevent violence once the counting of votes is over.‘Sufficient force deployed in Pipili and Puri’: Puri SPWe've deployed sufficient force in Pipili and Puri city. Only authorised persons are allowed in the strong room. We are doing intensive patrolling in sensitive areas of the constituency: Dr Kanwar Vishal Singh, SP, Puri5 platoons of forces deployed for counting in Odisha's Pipili, says Puri SP“In Pipili, we have deployed five platoons of forces along with an additional SP and two DSPs,” says Kanwar Vishal Singh, Superintendent of Police, Puri, as counting of votes begins for bypolls to Odisha's Pipili assembly seat. Assembly bypolls: Counting of votes underwayWest Bengal: Counting of votes begins for by-elections in Bhabanipur Assembly constituency; outside visuals from Sakhawat Memorial Govt Girls' High School counting centre pic.twitter.com/5so3lzD9pHCounting of votes is underway for West Bengal and Odisha assembly byelections.TMC predicts ‘big victory’ for Mamata Banerjee despite low turnoutDespite low turnout in Bhabanipur (57% on September 30-the day of voting), the ruling TMC has projected a “big victory” for party supremo Mamata Banerjee.Counting of votes for West Bengal, Odisha bypolls beginsCounting of votes for four assembly constituencies – three in West Bengal and one in Odisha – begins at counting centres in the two states.3-cornered contest in JangipurFormer Bengal minister Jakir Hossain is the ruling TMC's candidate from Jangipur. Sujit Das is the BJP candidate, while Jane Alam Mian is contesting for the Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP).Bengal CM Mamata, in fray from Bhabanipur, needs to winMamata Banerjee, who is among candidates in the fray from Bhabanipur, needs to win to retain her chair as she lost to BJP's Suvendu Adhikari from Nandigram in the March-April assembly polls. The BJP has fielded Priyanka Tibrewal against her.Bypoll results: Counting of votes to begin at 8amCounting of votes for bypolls to four assembly constituencies, of which three are in West Bengal and one in Odisha, will begin at 8am today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/live-updates-counting-of-votes-in-bhabanipur-jangipur-pipli-samserganj-today-101633221036607.html
03-10-2021||India||CJI seeks government’s cooperation on picks made by collegium||Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana on Saturday asked the Union government to lend its “support and cooperation” in clearing appointments of judges quickly to facilitate “access to justice and to strengthen democracy,” as around 100 names await the Centre’s nod.Justice Ramana was speaking at the launch of Pan India Legal Awareness and Outreach Campaign of National Legal Services Authority (NALSA) in the capital, when he highlighted the staggering pendency of cases amid “large vacancies” across all courts, and the need to hasten appointments in the high courts.Delivering his address in the presence of President Ram Nath Kovind, law minister Kiren Rijiju and several other SC judges, the CJI underlined that the apex court collegium, which comprises the CJI and the four most senior judges, has recommended the appointment of 106 judges and nine new chief justices to various high courts since May.“The government has cleared seven names out of the 106 judges and one out of the nine chief justices, so far. I expect that the government will clear the rest of the names very soon. These appointments will take care of pendency to some extent. I seek the cooperation and support of the government to enable access to justice and to strengthen democracy,” said justice Ramana.During his speech, the CJI said that he spoke to Rijiju about the pending names. “The law minister has informed me that rest of it (names) are going to come in one- or two-days’ time. I thank the central government for clearing these vacancies and (ensuring) quick access to justice,” he said.The sanctioned strength of judges in 25 high courts in India is 1,098. Of these, 465 posts (more than 42% of total strength) were vacant as on September 1.The collegium, which includes justices Uday U Lalit, AM Khanwilkar, Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and L Nageswara Rao, recently cleared the appointment of regular chief justices in eight high courts to make administration of constitutional courts more efficient. At present, eight out of 25 high courts are working without regular chief justices.The collegium also set in motion a major shake-up by recommending the transfer of five chief justices, besides reshuffling more than two dozen other judges of the high courts. Most of these recommendations are yet to be approved by the Centre, prompting the CJI to comment on it on Saturday.Laying emphasis on the pivotal role played by the judiciary in ensuring access to justice to vitalise democracy, the CJI said that socio-economic justice would be impossible to achieve without providing equal access to justice, which essentially entails creating legal awareness.The constitutional guarantee of equal justice will be rendered meaningless if vulnerable sections cannot enforce their rights, said justice Ramana, pointing out that equality and access to justice complement each other, especially in a country like India where socio-economic gaps and inequities remain widespread.This is why today all the three organs of the state – the executive, the legislature and the judiciary – have come together to strive for a future based on inclusion, equality and fairness, said the chief justice, who is also patron-in-chief of NALSA.Justice Ramana announced that NALSA is embarking on an ambitious six-week programme beginning Saturday to “carry the flag of justice to the remotest corner and to the weakest person in this country”, to enable people to realise the goals of true freedom and independence.Justice Ramana thanked President Kovind for his constant support to legal reforms and for supporting having more women judges in the constitutional courts. “It is his (Kovind’s) strong belief in gender justice that was instrumental in the recent appointment of judges to the Supreme Court. With him at the helm, the positivity will spread across all the high courts.”Out of the sanctioned strength of 34 judges, the Supreme Court currently has four women judges — justices Indira Banerjee, Hima Kohli, BV Nagarathna and Bela M Trivedi — which is the highest ever number in its history.At the event, justice Uday U Lalit, executive chairman of NALSA, implored senior lawyers to take up at least three cases pro bono (free of cost for the public good) every year. “If well-established and senior lawyers think that it is time to give back to the system and take up pro bono cases, then people will develop this confidence in the free legal aid... Please, do pro bono work on your own. This is my request to all the senior lawyers.”The judge also favoured including paralegal work in the curriculum of the law schools. “If internships are compulsory in medical colleges, why cannot such a system be made compulsory also in the law colleges?...”At the event, justices Chandrachud and Sanjay Kishan Kaul underscored the need to improve the quality of legal aid, lamenting it was a collective failing of the legal fraternity. They appealed prominent lawyers to come forward to provide free legal aid to the needy.President Kovind calls for women-led developmentIndia must graduate from women’s development to women-led development, President Ram Nath Kovind said on Saturday, raising the pitch for increasing the number of women in National Legal Service institutions.“As a country, our aim is to graduate from ‘women development’ to ‘women-led development’. Therefore, increasing the number of women in National Legal Services institutions is as important as reaching out to the largest possible number of women beneficiaries,” Kovind said at the NALSA event.Of the 47,000 panel lawyers working at district legal services authorities, nearly 11,000 are women, he said. There are close to 44,000 para-legal volunteers associated with the 3,000-odd legal services institutions in the country, of which about 17,000 are women volunteers.Laying stress of spreading legal awareness, the President also took note of the dearth of best legal talent for the poor and marginalised, who cannot afford the services of senior advocates.With inputs from Abraham Thomas||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cji-seeks-government-s-cooperation-on-picks-made-by-collegium-101633212174325.html
03-10-2021||India||Revival of Mahatma Gandhi’s commune Tolstoy Farm in South Africa continues||The revival of Tolstoy Farm, the commune started by Mahatma Gandhi during his tenure in Johannesburg a century ago, received a further boost with contributions from the Indian government on his 152nd birthday on Saturday.High Commissioner for India Jaideep Sarkar and Consul General Anju Ranjan were the chief guests at an event at the once-thriving self-sufficient establishment, which had been vandalised over several decades, with only the foundation of Gandhi’s original house remaining.Efforts by the Mahatma Gandhi Remembrance organisation (MGRO), started by Gandhian follower Mohan Hira, have led to gradual steps to revive the venue as a tourist attraction, with funding from mainly the Indian government and the expatriate Indian community.The greening of the area for the past few years continued on Saturday with almond, pecan nut and olive trees being planted in the first phase of restoring the orchard that once supplied the people on Tolstoy Farm and neighbouring areas.The Indian missions also donated a generator to provide power, while the India Club is providing monthly contributions towards security and maintenance.Pledging continued support from the Indian government, Sarkar called for Tolstoy Farm to be turned into a major tourist attraction that would attract visitors from all over the world.“It was here at Tolstoy Farm that some of the methods and techniques used so successfully in our freedom struggle were conceived, developed and refined.  It was also the place where some of the values that would later inspire, motivate and inform independent India was developed by Gandhiji,” Sarkar said.“So, Tolstoy Farm can be called one of the cradles of India’s freedom struggle and nation-building. “We must make this a place of pilgrimage. We should not only come here once a year,” Sarkar added.Ranjan commended MGRO for having put in place a master plan to develop a replica of Gandhi’s original house, museum and library on Tolstoy Farm. She also made a plea to the South African Indian community to support these efforts.“Let us recreate Tolstoy Farm to the full glory that Bapu wanted to see. That will be a real tribute to Bapu,” Ranjan said.Ranjan announced a week-long programme put together by the High Commission and Consulates in Johannesburg, Durban and Cape Town to celebrate India’s 75th anniversary with a Gandhi Trail tour by 75 people that will start at Tolstoy Farm on Sunday and end at the Phoenix Settlement that Gandhi started near Durban.The tour will also take in important Gandhian sites in a number of towns and cities along the route.Among the historic sites is the train station at Pietermaritzburg where young lawyer Gandhi was thrown off a train, which started his path of fighting discrimination and oppression through peaceful resistance in both South Africa and India.The prison where Gandhi’s wife Kasturba was held and the court in Dundee where Gandhi was sentenced to nine months in prison with hard labour are among the other sites to be visited.After returning to Johannesburg, the Consulate will host a musical evening on Wednesday with Gandhiji’s favourite bhajans rendered by singers from the Indian diaspora.The programme will conclude on Thursday with a special screening of the film ‘The Making of the Mahatma’ by Shyam Benegal. The movie is based on a book by renowned South African activist, the late Professor Fatima Meer. PTI FH AMS AMS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/revival-of-mahatma-gandhi-s-commune-tolstoy-farm-in-south-africa-continues-101633209478980.html
03-10-2021||India||Temple desecrated in Jammu and Kashmir’s Anantnag district, matter being probed: Police||Srinagar: Police on Saturday registered a case after a temple was allegedly desecrated in Anantnag district of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said.Senior officials of the police and civil administration visited the Bargheshekha Bhagwati Mata Temple in the Mattan area of the south Kashmir district for an on the spot inquiry, they said.Police have registered a case and the matter is being investigated, the officials said.Anantnag Deputy Commissioner Piyush Singla said the culprits will be punished and no one will be allowed to harm social and communal harmony.“Such immoral and illegal acts will not be tolerated and the culprits will be penalised as per relevant provisions of the law. Nobody will be allowed to harm or disrupt the social and communal harmony in society,” he said.Singla said the police has registered an FIR and investigation is underway.National Conference (NC) vice president Omar Abdullah condemned the incident and urged police to prosecute the culprits.“Unacceptable. I strongly condemn this vandalism and urge the administration, especially @JmuKmrPolice police to identify the culprits so they can be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law,” he tweeted.PDP leader Naeem Akhtar also condemned the incident.“Condemn strongly! The persons responsible should be punished and the society helped to ensure such incidents dont recur,” Akhtar said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/temple-desecrated-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-anantnag-district-matter-being-probed-police-101633206221692.html
03-10-2021||India||Nitin Gadkari has shown how power can be used, says NCP chief Sharad Pawar||Pune: NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Saturday lauded Union road transport minister Nitin Gadkari for using power effectively to carry out development.The two leaders from rival parties shared the dais at a function at Ahmednagar in Maharashtra. “I am attending this function because I was told that Gadkari was going to inaugurate many projects in Ahmednagar which would solve long-pending issues of the city, and he wants me to be present,” Pawar said.Very often nothing happens once the stone-laying ceremony takes place for a project, the NCP leader said, adding, “But when it comes to Gadkari’s projects, within a few days of the function one sees the work starting.“Gadkari is a great example of how a people’s representative can work for the development of the country,” Pawar added.“I remember that before Gadkari took over this responsibility (of the ministry of road transport and highways), about 5,000 km of work had been done. But after he took over, the figure has crossed 12,000 km,” the NCP chief said.The former Union agriculture minister advised farmers in the region that the use of sugarcane will not remain limited only to sugar production and they should think of it as the raw material for ethanol too.In his speech, Gadkari said while executing road projects in Buldhana district of Maharashtra, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) also de-silted local rivers and streams.“I suggest (Maharashtra Rural Development Minister) Hasan Mushrif to think of focusing on water conservation in Ahmednagar district,” he said.Mushrif, an NCP leader who is also the guardian minister of this parched district, was present at the function.Increasing the depth of streams and ponds helps increase the groundwater level, Gadkari said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitin-gadkari-has-shown-how-power-can-be-used-says-ncp-chief-sharad-pawar-101633205982089.html
03-10-2021||India||Over 900 million Covid vaccine doses administered in India: Health minister Mansukh Mandaviya||New Delhi: The cumulative COVID-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 900 million, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Saturday.The country-wide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers (HCWs) getting inoculated in the first phase. The vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) started on February 2.“Shastri ji gave the slogan ‘Jai Jawan - Jai Kisan’. Revered Atal ji added ‘Jai Vigyan’ and PM @Narendra Modi Ji gave the slogan ‘Jai Anusandhan’. Today the result of anusandhan is this corona vaccine.#JaiAnusandhan,” Mandaviya tweeted.The next phase of COVID-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for people over 60 years and those aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions.The country launched vaccination for all people aged more than 45 from April 1.The government then decided to expand the vaccination drive by allowing everyone above 18 to be vaccinated from May 1. Have received Covishield from India: UNGA prezPresident of the 76th session of the UN General Assembly Abdulla Shahid has said he had received the two doses of the Covishield vaccine manufactured in India, as have a “large portion” of other countries around the world.“On vaccines, that’s a very technical question you have asked me. I got Covishield from India, I’ve got the two doses. I don’t know how many countries would say that Covishield is acceptable or not, but a large portion of the countries have got Covishield,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-900-million-covid-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-health-minister-mansukh-mandaviya-101633205681687.html
03-10-2021||India||Bihar bypolls: EC freezes LJP name, symbol amid dispute between Chirag Paswan & Pashupati Paras||New Delhi: The Election Commission of India on Saturday barred Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) factions led by Chirag Paswan and Pashupati Kumar Paras from using the party name and symbol until the dispute between the rival groups to control the political entity is resolved. “Neither of the two groups led by Pashupati Kumar Paras and [the] other led by Chirag Paswan shall be permitted to use the name of the party Lok Janshakti Party and neither of the two groups shall also be permitted to use the symbol bungalow,” the Commission said in its order. The decision comes a day after the Paswan faction announced that they will be contesting the upcoming two assembly bypolls in Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan in Bihar. The seats were earlier represented by the ruling Janata Dal (United), which will also be contesting the constituencies. “We will abide by the EC order and submit papers by Monday,” Ashraf Ansari, the spokesperson of the Paswan-led group said. The LJP has been in a crisis since June, when a faction headed by Hajipur MP Pashupati Kumar Paras removed his estranged nephew Chirag Paswan as party chief, prompting Paswan’s loyalists to respond by stripping five rebel parliamentarians of the party’s primary membership. The party, which has six MPs but no MLAs, split after the five lawmakers rebelled against Paswan’s leadership and chose Paras as the new leader of the parliamentary party. The MPs consequently met Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla, and the Lok Sabha secretariat recognised Paras as the parliamentary party chief hours later. Paswan has already shown his willingness to take up a legal battle to regain control of the party. The Commission said that it had taken into account the letters sent by both the factions and expedited its decision in view of the upcoming by polls in Bihar, which are scheduled to be held on October 30. Both factions had claimed the exclusive use of the party name LJP and the symbol bungalow. “The Commission takes note of the urgency involved with regard to use of party symbol and party name due to the schedule of the by-elections announced. Accordingly, in order to place both the rival groups on even keel and to protect their rights and interests, and going by the past precedence, the Commission hereby makes the Interim Order, to cover the purpose of the current by-elections, including 78-Kusheshwar Asthan (SC) and 164-Tarapur Assembly Constituencies in Bihar, and to continue till the final determination of the dispute in the matter,” the Commission said in its order. The warring groups have been asked to submit alternative names and three symbols in order of preference by October 4. The Commission’s decision to bar both factions of LJP from using the party name and symbol until the dispute is finally resolved has been taken at the behest of ruling alliance, said Mritunjay Tiwary, spokesperson of opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal. “The decision has been taken as the JD (U) is going to face defeat in the assembly bypolls,” Tiwary said. The decision is obvious given the political and personal dispute within LJP, said Bharatiya Janata Party spokesperson Nikhil Anand. “There are two factions in the LJP party and the party’s symbol were being claimed by both the leaders. So, ECI has freezed the symbol till the final judgement is announced,” Anand said. JD(U) spokesperson Neeraj Kumar said the decision was within EC’s jurisdiction. Two days ago, LJP (Chirag faction) had announced it would contest from the two assembly constituencies – Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan -- going for bypolls on October 30, much to the discomfort of the JD (U), which is contesting both the seats. The LJP during the 2020 assembly polls (it was a united party then) had damaged JD (U)’s prospect in at least 30-35seats. “To ensure no such damage is done this time, NDA (National Democratic Alliance) leaders from all alliance parties assembled to declare candidates for the two seats and even announced that the Pashupati Paras faction would campaign for the NDA candidates,” said a senior NDA functionary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-bypolls-ec-freezes-ljp-name-symbol-amid-dispute-between-chirag-paswan-pashupati-paras-101633204781596.html
03-10-2021||India||Isro scientists scramble to meet Gaganyaan deadline||Scientists at the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) are hard at work to get all the systems in place, including a human-rated launch vehicle, crew and service modules, a crew escape system, and the environment control and life support systems (ECLSS), to meet the launch timeline of the Gaganyaan mission slated for late 2022 or early 2023, according to people familiar with the matter at the space station.The Gaganyaan mission — India’s first manned space flight — aims to carry three crew members to an orbit about 400km above the earth for five to seven days, and get them back safely. Here is the tech being developed specifically for the mission, according to Isro annual report and a webinar.Launch VehicleThe mission plans to use the newly operationalized GSLV MkIII launch vehicle that carried Chandrayaan-2. However, it will need to be “human rated”, or get enough systems and redundancies built in so that it becomes safe to carry humans, rather than just satellites.To do this, the vehicle itself has undergone a redesign, including changes in the shape of its solid motor nozzles and use of a more aerodynamic 4m ogive (bullet-shaped) payload fairing where the crew module will be housed. The vehicle’s digital and intelligence systems are also being enhanced for better integrated monitoring of the vehicle’s health. “It’s not that the rockets are going to be new, but it has to be extra reliable. We have to build in high levels of redundancy and also high levels of intelligence into it. The GSLV MKIII is being re-engineered and most of the work is in electronics and algorithms and in building higher levels of reliability in the mechanical and propulsion systems,” said director of Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre, S Somnath, in a webinar on launch vehicles last month.“The system will be such that it will decide when the rocket has to be destroyed by itself. So far, this intelligence was not given to any of the rockets and it was decided by someone on ground. The vehicle health management system will run a model internally, compare the actual flight with the model flight on the on-board computer, and see whether there is perturbation. Depending on the extent of perturbation, decision will be taken to abort the emission and go for crew escape,” he added.The space agency has completed testing two of the three stages of the human-rated launch vehicle, with only the testing and qualification of the upper cryogenic stage remaining, according to the agency.Test Vehicle ProjectA key element to making the launch vehicle safe for travel of humans is to create a crew escape system (escape from the crew module in case of emergency) pad abort system (to stop the flight on the launch pad in case of an emergency).The design of the escape system has been finalised with five “quick-acting” solid fuel motors with a high burn rate propulsion system, and fins to maintain stability. The crew escape system will separate from the crew module by firing explosive nuts.To test these escape systems, Isro has designed a new rocket called the Test Vehicle, which will take the crew module up in space and then switch off to see how the escape system functions. “We can’t put the crew module in an actual rocket and then make it fail to see what happens. So we have made a rocket that will take the module in space and then terminate the vehicle to demonstrate the crew escape system. This is a fully autonomous rocket. This is almost completed and the first flight vehicle is undergoing integration...,” Somnath explained at the webinar. He said the vehicle design will be used to develop future reusable launch vehicles.Crew and service moduleThe crew module will be a conical structure with a height of 3m and a diameter of 3.5m. It will house three crewmembers, their seats, electronics for aviation, and ECLSS meant to maintain the pressure, temperature, humidity, and composition of gasses. The space agency has finalised the configuration of a human metabolic simulator that will mimic the crew’s heat release, breathing, and sweating to check the working of the ECLSS systems.The space agency has created a life-size mock-up of the module to test integration with other systems. The layout for ECLSS, electronics, and other subsystems have been finalised. The crew module and a hexagonal service module are together called the orbital module, which will remain in space during the mission. The number of solar panels, wings, power requirements, antennae, and sensors have been finalised, and the space agency has started fabrication of the module for the first unmanned mission; it will carry out two unmanned missions before sending men to space.Supporting technologiesIn addition to the main modules of the mission, scientist are also developing parachutes to slow down the crew module during its return, shields to protect the modules from space debris, and a crew health monitoring system, space food, and emergency survival kits. Isro, along with the Indian Navy, is also planning for multiple scenarios for quick and efficient recovery for the crew once they return to earth.“...The mission will solve several critical challenges that come with putting humans in a launch vehicle, chief among them is designing a crew module that can absorb the vibrations created during lift-off and keep the crew members safe,” said Dr SM Ahmed, head of central instruments laboratory at University of Hyderabad and former scientist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/isro-scientists-scramble-to-meet-gaganyaan-deadline-101633203581692.html
03-10-2021||India||UAE to invest $75bn in India, partner on clean energy: Piyush Goyal at Dubai expo||The UAE government has committed to invest $75 billion sovereign funds in India and the two partners have shared vision for clean energy as they are working together to start manufacturing of equipment for solar power, commerce minister Piyush Goyal said in Dubai on Saturday.Addressing a news briefing on the second day at Expo 2020 Dubai, Goyal said his engagements with UAE businessmen and investors on Friday were “truly fabulous”.“There is a commitment from the rulers of the UAE to invest $75 billion from their sovereign funds in India. This is over and above what other businesspersons in the UAE may want to invest,” he said. HT reported on May 25 that over 15 sovereign wealth funds (SWFs) and pension funds have sought tax benefits for investing in Indian infrastructure projects – the ₹111 lakh crore National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP).Later in the day, at the ninth meeting of a joint task force on investments, the two nations discussed exploring mutually beneficial methods and incentives to facilitate further investment from UAE sovereign investment entities in key priority sectors in India, a commerce ministry statement said.The meeting was co-chaired by Goyal and Sheikh Hamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, member of the executive council of the Emirate of Abu Dhabi. “The positive steps made by the Indian government in this context were noted and both sides agreed to continue to focus on ways of providing tax incentives to certain UAE sovereign investment entities,” the statement added.Goyal said the UAE is an important partner of India. “Given the strong growth prospects of the Indian economy, we look forward to increased investment from the UAE in diverse sectors of India. We are sure that the world will continue to witness greater achievements in the India-UAE partnership in the future.”At the briefing earlier, Goyal said that besides SWF, other investors from the UAE want to participate in India’s infrastructure development initiatives, invest in the asset monetisation programme, and are extremely keen to partner with India on promoting tourism.Speaking about the potential for cooperation in environment protection, Goyal said India and the UAE support each other’s vision for clean energy, and the two partners are working together to start manufacturing of equipment for solar power.Citing Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision of “one world, one grid”, he said that renewable energy can flow across the world 24 hours through a worldwide grid that will continuously harness solar energy as the sun always shines in one or the other part of the planet. “It will have a transformation impact on climate,” he said.Replying a question on India’s commitment for environment protection and achieving the net zero target, Goyal said: “The developed countries who are asking us to make a ‘net zero’ commitment on a particular... up to any date are not recognising that the work India has done is far more than what we had committed in Paris and the COP 21.” In fact, India has exceeded its commitments, he added.However, the developed world has actually let the developing world down, he said. They made commitments of providing technology, or providing climate finance – concessional, grant-based funds to enable the developing world to promote renewable energy at affordable prices, he added. “Sadly, they’ve let the world down.”“I don’t think, anybody, who meets us off and on, has anything but praise for the efforts of India led by PM Modi. They are certainly asking us to make a commitment on net zero. But it should be linked to what the rest of the world will do. It cannot be in isolation,” he said.They must find technological solutions at scale, he said, adding that “PM Modi and India are never going to make false commitments. When we make a commitment, we mean it.”Speaking about the trade relations with the UAE, Goyal said that there are many areas of interest for Indian businesses such as textiles, leather accessories, footwear, pharmaceuticals and health care. “India and the UAE share a lot of complementarities. We are not in competition with each other. We actually can collaborate to serve large parts of the world,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uae-to-invest-75bn-in-india-partner-on-clean-energy-piyush-goyal-at-dubai-expo-101633202924039.html
03-10-2021||India||Theatres to reopen in Kerala from Oct 25||Cinemas and auditoriums in Kerala will reopen on October 25, the Kerala government said on Saturday as it granted permission with a few riders, including allowing only 50% occupancy.The high-level Covid-19 evaluation meeting, chaired by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, directed that entry to cinemas will be to those who have taken two doses of vaccine.The staff should also be fully vaccinated, a release issued by the chief minister’s office said.“Only 50% of the seating capacity will be allowed in cinemas and auditoriums,” it said.Colleges will reopen from October 18 with staff and students who are fully vaccinated.The meeting also decided that the number of people for marriages and funerals be increased to 50. Theatres and auditoriums in Kerala have remained shut for over one and half years due to pandemic. The film industry recently expressed concern over the continuing closure of cinemas as it affects the livelihood of several persons.After remaining shut since March last year, the Kerala government had decided to reopen schools in the state from November 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/theatres-to-reopen-in-kerala-from-oct-25-101633200883011.html
03-10-2021||India||Need to ensure communal forces don’t demolish Mahatma’s vision, says Kerala CM||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday paid tributes to Mahatma Gandhi on his 152nd birth anniversary, saying we need to make sure that the communal forces do not demolish his vision of India where everyone is treated equally.Vijayan paid tributes and garlanded the Gandhi statue inside the Gandhi park at East Fort in the capital city.“Mahatma Gandhi envisioned India to be a true democracy where everyone is treated equally irrespective of his religion, caste and creed. Today, let’s stand together to fulfill his dream and make sure that communal forces can’t demolish our legacy. Hearty #GandhiJayanthi wishes,” Vijayan tweeted.Later, in a Facebook post, Vijayan said a fascist nationalism, based on violent communalism is being presented as the real nationalism”A fascist nationalism, which focuses on violent communalism that divides people, is being presented as real nationalism these days. There are situations where people are attacked in the name of religion and caste. There are attempts to undermine democratic values and it’s the responsibility of every democratic believer to stop these attempts,” Vijayan said.Vijayan said, on the occasion of the birthday of Mahatma Gandhi, we need to fulfill our responsibility to uphold the welfare peace in the country and realise his dream.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-to-ensure-communal-forces-don-t-demolish-mahatma-s-vision-says-kerala-cm-101633200881498.html
03-10-2021||India||Job creation mantra of Mahatma still relevant in 21st century: Karnataka CM Bommai||Underscoring the need to imbibe the teachings of Mahatma Gandhi in our lives, Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday said the freedom fighter’s mantra on job creation makes it more relevant in the 21st century.“We don’t need mass production, but we need production by masses,” he said quoting Gandhi.“He wanted jobs for all, which is very relevant in the 21st century. It is my firm belief that if we tread on his philosophy, we have a great future,” Bommai said after paying tributes to Mahatma Gandhi and former Prime Minister Late Lal Bahadur Shastri.The CM said Mahatma Gandhi brought freedom to India with the weapon of truth and non-violence, which the world is aware of and respects him for it. On Gandhi’s vision of village development, the chief minister said India needs to vouch for materialising Gandhi’s dream of ‘Gram Rajya, Ram Rajya’.Noting that Gandhi’s simple and unblemished personal and public life was the guiding force of India, Bommai pointed out that Gandhi’s idea of nationalism was humane, which needs to be strengthened across the nation. He added that Gandhi and Shastri had many similarities as the former believed in truth while the latter walked on it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/job-creation-mantra-of-mahatma-still-relevant-in-21st-century-karnataka-cm-bommai-101633200823736.html
03-10-2021||India||Rajiv Case convict moves HC, seeks release without TN's governor’s consent||Nalini Sriharan, one of the seven life convict in the assassination of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi, has once again moved the Madras high court, seeking to be released without the governor’s consent.In her plea, Nalini has urged the HC to declare as “unconstitutional” the “failure” on the part of the Tamil Nadu Governor to act on the state government’s earlier recommendation for the release of all seven convicts.The high court has issued a notice to the Tamil Nadu government on the writ petition. The first bench of chief justice Sanjib Banerjee and justice P D Audikesavalu directed the state to file a counter-affidavit.The state’s previous AIADMK regime in 2018 passed a unanimous resolution in the Assembly for the release of the seven convicts and recommended it to the then Governor Banwarilal Purohit. Purohit did not act on the recommendation for two years which even the SC termed as an “extraordinary” delay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajiv-gandhi-assassination-case-convict-moves-hc-seeks-release-sans-tn-governor-s-consent-101633200822631.html
03-10-2021||India||Kerala PCC chief Sudhakaran under scanner over disproportionate assets case||Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) President K Sudhakaran on Saturday landed in fresh trouble after the state Vigilance wing submitted its preliminary report against him on a complaint regarding a disproportionate assets case with regard to a Trust in the name of former chief minister K Karunakaran.The Vigilance submitted its report to the government against the Kannur MP after conducting preliminary investigation, vigilance sources said. It’s learnt that the vigilance wing has sought legal advice to probe against Sudhakaran as he is a member of Parliament. The preliminary investigation was conducted by Kozhikode vigilance SP on a complaint filed by Sudhakaran’s former driver Prasanth Babu.Meanwhile, Sudhakaran said he was ready to face any probe by any agency as he was not a tainted politician.“I am not a tainted politician. I am ready to face any probe. Let any investigation agency probe the case. Even I want somebody to probe the matter so that I can prove to the people that I have not done any wrong,” Sudhakaran told the media.He said Babu, his former driver, was employed for a few days and as a temporary appointment. Leader of Opposition in the State Assembly V D Satheesan came out in support of Sudhakaran and said if the vigilance department was being used as a political tool, then Congress will deal with the matter politically.“Let them probe. We will cooperate. But if they are using vigilance as a political tool against us, we will fight it,” Satheesan said.Babu on Saturday alleged that Sudhakaran had indulged in corruption of ₹2 crore.As per his complaint, Sudhakaran collected ₹32 crore fund even from abroad for the K Karunakaran Trust but misused ₹18 crore for personal purposes. Babu raised fresh allegations that when Sudhakaran was the Forest minister during 2001 to 2004, he went to examine the seizure of sandalwood oil and took away oil worth crores of rupees.Sudhakaran, who took over as the party chief recently, has been facing multiple allegations from various quarters including his party. Many senior leaders in Congress have allegedly expressed displeasure over his working style.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-pcc-chief-sudhakaran-under-scanner-over-disproportionate-assets-case-101633200821412.html
03-10-2021||India||Centuries old festival of dolls remains integral to Dasara in Karnataka||Mysuru/Bengaluru Nazarbad is a quaint locality, about two kilometres from the famed Mysuru Palace lit up in its glory, with most of its residents seated on the roads, no wider than 10 feet, chatting away with the neighbours. Amid a power outage in the area, one building stands out in the darkness: Bombe Mane or the dollhouse.Every Dasara, a festival organised in the state since the times of Maharajas to celebrate Goddess Durga’s victory against the demons, the unique art of dolls representing the rich heritage of Indian culture comes to life. Customers take their time in this shop, bedazzled by the vivid colour and collection of craftsmanship on display. “The culture of dolls began during the Vijayanagar Empire and came into Mysore (now Mysuru) after Raja Wodeyar took to the throne in 1610,” RG Singh, the secretary of Ramsons Kala Pratishtana that runs the Bombe Mane told Hindustan Times. A Rajput by origin, Singh’s forefathers were brought to Mysuru by 18th-century ruler Tipu Sultan. He is part of several small yet significant groups that represent Karnataka’s rich cultural heritage.Dasara dolls or Bombe is a common sight in most households in Karnataka, especially during the ten days of Dasara. The main dolls of the festival are a pair depicting a husband and wife and figurines of various deities. This festive display of dolls is known as Golu. Each family or individual choose a theme or ensemble to display with a mix of deities, persons in different occupations and a doll from one of the various mythologies. Singh said that different festivals support a different kinds of occupations like the buying of agricultural produce during Sankranti. He said that the Bombe Habba (doll festival) supports artisans and pot makers involved in making them. “During my grandmother’s time, we didn’t have the kind of readymade collapsible ‘steps’ you get in the market today. So I remember my mother and grandmother made use of anything available at home to build the steps – which always had to be in odd numbers – like bricks, books, planks, etc. They would then start by keeping the kalasam (metal pot) first, followed by the marapaachi bommais (rosewood dolls), and then arrange the other dolls, of which the dasavatharam set and the old Chettiyar couple was a must,” said Nithyashri Govind, retired school teacher, who religiously celebrates this festival. She added that there was a culture to sow mustard seeds either on the floor on top of a sheet or a tray and watch as the seeds sprung into the grass during that time. “Once the ‘grassland’ was ready, we’d add sand and make a small pond and add animal figurines to it. After I got married, my sister-in-law started keeping a more elaborate set-up and would even pick particular scenes from the Ramayana etc as the theme of that year’s Golu,” she added. “These toys represent the culture of the people, which they worship, including occupations, deities and recreations of historical events,” NV Narasimaiah, a Bengaluru-based historian said. There is also a culture of buying a pair of dolls of the king and consort, as a way of keeping in touch with the royalty and prosperous past in their homes and to pass the heritage on to the next generation. However, over the years, different styles of doll making and models have seeped into the culture, allowing the traditional industry and its practitioners to sustain their way of life. Singh said that there was a factory where their store stands today since they were forced to move their manufacturing operations from a residential area. History has it that Tipu Sultan had moved his palace when he took over as the ruler of Mysuru and set up a Mint in this locality, which came to be known as “Nazarbad”, which means gold in Persian. Historians attribute the introduction of various doll making styles to Tipu Sultan, who had brought in these from Persia. However, there is no documented evidence to show the connection. These included the famed Channapatna toys, which has a market globally now. Professor Narasimhaiah said that though there is a varied version of Tipu’s contribution to this form of art, it is clear that the 18th-century ruler of Mysore “did not destroy the worship of dolls.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centuries-old-festival-of-dolls-remains-integral-to-dasara-in-karnataka-101633200761604.html
03-10-2021||India||Punjab CM Channi seeks withdrawal of railways cases against farmers||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Saturday urged the chairman of the Railway Board to withdraw cases registered by the Railway Protection Force against members of farmers’ organisations.Thousands of farmers, farm labourers, commission agents and others blocked the railway tracks in at least six districts of Punjab against the Central government’s contentious agriculture bills on the first day of the three-day-long ‘rail roko’ protest.The chief minister has impressed upon the Railway Board chairman to take a sympathetic view of the matter and consider the withdrawal of cases against members of various farmers’ organisations, a spokesperson of the Chief Minister’s Office said.The RPF had registered 30 cases against the farmers’ organisations in 2020 and 2021 during the ‘dharnas’ staged by them on the railway tracks in Punjab, agitating against the three farm laws, the CMO informed. On Friday, Channi had asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to resolve the matter of farmers’ protest and resume dialogue with the agitating farmers. “I asked the PM to resolve the matter of farmers’ protest and resume dialogue with the protesting farmers. I demanded that the three laws should be withdrawn,” he told reporters here after the meeting. The farmers from all across the country, mainly from the states of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh have been protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act passed by Parliament last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-cm-channi-seeks-withdrawal-of-railways-cases-against-farmers-101633200161773.html
03-10-2021||India||J&K: Civilian killed in suspected terror attack||A civilian was killed and another sustained injuries in Jammu & Kashmir’s Srinagar on Saturday, after suspected terrorists opened fire in two separate incidents, police said.Suspected terrorists also hurled a grenade at a CRPF bunker in Anantnag district, but it missed the target and exploded nearby without causing any loss, an official added.According to the police, the first incident took place around 5.30 pm at Srinagar’s Karan Nagar area, when the suspected terrorists fired at Majid Ahmad Gojri, a resident of Chattabal. “The injured was immediately evacuated to a nearby hospital, but he succumbed to his injuries,” the police said.In the second incident, at about 8 pm, suspected terrorists shot at Mohammad Shafi Dar, at SD Colony Batamaloo in Srinagar.Dar received critical gunshot injuries and was immediately shifted to a nearby hospital where he is undergoing treatment, an official told news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/civilian-killed-in-suspected-terror-attack-in-srinagar-101633199325916.html
03-10-2021||India||Congress appoints Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel as UP poll observer||The Congress party on Saturday appointed Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel as observer for the upcoming assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, even as 25 lawmakers from the state camp in the capital amid speculation that there might be a change of guard in the central Indian state.“Honorable National President Sonia Gandhi ji has instructed me to be the party observer for the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections… It is a big responsibility and I will try my best to live up to the expectations of the top leadership,” Baghel tweeted.Earlier this year, Baghel was appointed as observer of Assam assembly elections, in which Congress won 50 out of 126 seats.The Congress high command on August 28 held back its decision over the reported power-sharing agreement between Baghel and health minister TS Singh Deo.It is unclear how the latest development will affect political equations in Chhattisgarh. Baghel’s supporters say the appointment reflects the party high command’s faith in him, while Singh Deo’s supporters are hoping for a change in the state government. “Baghel’s ji appointment is positive indication amid the current political scenario of the state… Secondly, the move also puts a halt on any type of speculation about change of guard (in Chhattisgarh),” a leader close to Baghel said.People close to Singh Deo said the appointment should not be seen as a relief for Baghel. “It is still not clear from today’s appointment whether it is some kind of package deal or a promotion of Baghel ji,” a Congress leader close to Singh Deo said on condition of anonymity.More than 25 MLAs close to Baghel are camping in Delhi to express solidarity.Meanwhile, Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday appointed additional office-bearers in the party’s Chhattisgarh unit, replacing four vice-presidents as well as three general secretaries. Arun Singhania, P R Khunte, Ambika Markam and Vani Rao were appointed vice-presidents in the Congress’ state unit, replacing Girish Devangan, Atal Srivastava, Bhanu Pratap Singh and Padma Manhar, according to a party statement.Earlier in the day, Baghel asserted that his state can never become Punjab, and said the two states bear only one similarity - that of having numbers in their names. “Chhattisgarh will always remain Chhattisgarh. It cannot become Punjab. The two states have only one similarity that both have numbers in their names,” Baghel told reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-appoints-chhattisgarh-chief-minister-bhupesh-baghel-as-uttar-pradesh-poll-observer-101633198841323.html
03-10-2021||India||‘Opposition practising intellectual dishonesty’: PM Modi||The Opposition in India is practising “intellectual dishonesty”, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in an interview to Open magazine, in the context of opposition parties campaigning against the three farm laws enacted by the Centre last year.“There are political parties which will grandiosely make promises before elections, even put them in their manifestos,” Modi said. “When the time comes to deliver on the same promises, these same parties and people do a complete U-turn.’’“If you look at those who are opposing the pro-farmer reforms today, you will see the real meaning of intellectual dishonesty and rajneetik dhokhadhadi (political deceit),” he said.The PM also discussed a range of issues, including the criticism of his policies, the trade-off between pro-business and pro-poor measures, and his government’s response to the Covid-19 pandemic.The interview comes soon after the Bharat Bandh on Monday by farmers’ collective Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) that marked the first anniversary of the enactment of the farm laws that the group opposes. Several political parties, including the Congress, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Samajwadi Party (SP) and others, had voiced support for the nationwide strike.“These were the same people who wrote letters to chief ministers, asking them to do the exact same thing that our government has done,” Modi said. “Yet, just because some other political party is enacting the same reforms, they have made a complete U-turn, and in a brazen display of intellectual dishonesty, completely disregard what will benefit the farmers and only seek what they think will benefit them politically.”“You can see the same rajneetik dhokhadhadi when it comes to Aadhaar, GST, farm laws and even crucial matters such as arming our security forces. Promise something and make arguments for it but oppose the same thing later without any moral fibre,” he said.The Prime Minister also discussed his view of the criticism that he and his policies have received over the course of his leadership. “I attach a big importance to criticism. I, with an honest mind, respect critics a lot. But, unfortunately, the number of critics is very few. Mostly, people only level allegations…”He also dismissed the perceived trade-off between pro-poor and pro-business policies. “According to me, policymaking should be pro-people. By creating these artificial categories, you are missing out on interdependence in society. Business and people are not working with opposing objectives.”While criticising the Congress governments before him, Modi said, “All governments formed in our country were fundamentally formed under the leadership of a person from Congress gotra. And that is why, for each of them, there was no difference between their political thought process and economic thought process...”On India’s fight against Covid-19 pandemic, Modi said, “The biggest lesson from the Covid-19 fight is that India has an unparalleled ability to unite and a tremendous capacity to deliver.”“In this scenario, India has done better than its peers and many developed countries, notwithstanding such negative campaigns. I have trust in our people and they have set an example for the world."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-practising-intellectual-dishonesty-says-prime-minister-narendra-modi-101633198605902.html
03-10-2021||India||Paddy procurement in Haryana, Punjab from today after stir||The Centre on Saturday issued an order to begin paddy procurement in Punjab and Haryana from October 3 after farmers, protesting against the delay in the procurement, clashed with police personnel in parts of the states.The decision was taken “in the interest of farmers”, the food ministry said in its order, days after it postponed the procurement of kharif paddy in Punjab and Haryana to October 11.The decision came hours after protesting farmers broke police barricades and faced water cannons, including near Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s house in Karnal, as they laid siege to residences of legislators and ministers in Punjab and Haryana.“I am directed to inform that, in the interest of the farmers, it has been decided to start procurement of paddy from October 3, 2021, in the state of Haryana and Punjab for 2021-22 kharif marketing season,” said a letter written by a Union food ministry official to the governments of Punjab and Haryana.Paddy should be procured as per the FAQ (fair and average quality) norms prescribed for the 2021-22 kharif marketing season, the letter said.In its earlier order on Thursday, the government said the procurement, which usually begins on October 1, will be postponed as the crop maturity is delayed and moisture content in fresh arrival is beyond permissible limits owing to heavy rainfall.The government “believes that the decision to start the procurement of paddy under MSP (minimum support price ) from October 3 in Punjab and Haryana is in the overall interest of farmers and consumers as well so as to accept paddy stock as per FAQ specifications to ensure quality procurement for millions of consumers under PDS of National Food Security Programme”, the food ministry said in a separate statement.The procurement operation is undertaken by the central government’s nodal agency Food Corporation of India (FCI) along with state agencies.The decision to revoke the earlier order was taken at a meeting of Union minister of state Ashwini Kumar Choubey and, Khattar and Haryana agriculture minister JP Dalal in Delhi. “The procurement (of kharif crops) will start from tomorrow in Haryana as well as Punjab,” Choubey told reporters after the meeting.In Karnal, the Haryana Police used water cannons to disperse protesting farmers as they tried to gherao Khattar’s residence, while in Shahabad and Panchkula, the agitators used tractors to break police barricades to reach houses of Bharatiya Janata Party leaders, including Haryana minister Sandeep Singh, officials said.The situation became tense in a few places in Haryana and Punjab after clashes broke out between farmers and the police.In several places in these states, farmers after reaching residences of ministers, legislators and MPs, parked their food grain-laden trolleys in front of their houses.In Punjab, farmers gathered outside the residences of several Congress legislators, including state assembly speaker Rana KP Singh in Rupnagar and MLA Harjot Kamal in Moga.While the BJP, in alliance with the Jannayak Janata Party, is in power in Haryana, the Congress is the ruling party in Punjab, and both state governments have urged the Centre to ensure farmers do not face any problem in paddy procurement.Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to ask government agencies to begin paddy procurement.The police said that there was no report of any “major” untoward incident from the two states. Police personnel were deployed in strength to maintain law and order, the officials said.Saturday’s protests have come on the back of a months-long stir by hundreds of thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, against the Centre’s three farm laws. Several rounds of discussions between the farm unions and the government have failed to resolve the impasse.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmer unions which is also spearheading the agitation against the farm laws, gave a call on Friday for holding protests outside the residences of legislators in Punjab and Haryana to register their protest.After the Centre issued fresh orders, SKM called off that protest. “This is a victory of farmers’ united struggle,” the farmers’ body said in a statement.Haryana minister Anil Vij targeted the farmers, and said: “Farmers’ agitation is getting violent day by day. Violent movement in the country of Mahatma Gandhi cannot be allowed…”Paddy crop, though in small quantity, started arriving in mandis (markets) especially in border areas of Punjab, farmers said later in the day.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/paddy-procurement-in-haryana-punjab-from-today-after-stir-101633198181279.html
03-10-2021||India||Delimitation panel seeks feedback of top J&K officials||The delimitation commission has sought feedback from district magistrates, census commissioner and chief secretary of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K), as it redraws the assembly constituencies of the newly formed Union territory.“The district magistrates will know the problems of the locals better,” a person familiar with the developments said on condition of anonymity. “Many have suggested better demarcation of constituencies to ensure equitable access for everyone. It shouldn’t be that people have to travel long distances if they want to vote.”The delimitation commission -- set up by the government in March 2020 -- met representatives of all major political parties in Srinagar in July, except the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), which boycotted the process.The panel is headed by former Supreme Court judge Ranjana Prakash Desai and includes chief election commissioner Sushil Chandra.The commission will be redrawing assembly segments based on the 2011 census, and has nearly nine months left to do so. It will also carve out reserved constituencies for the first time in the region, and add seven new constituencies. The panel met several stakeholders in the union territory earlier this year to assess the needs of constituents.The commission has sought feedback regarding discrepancies in demarcating areas of present constituencies. “In Dodha and Kishtwar, the commission felt that the areas were not depicted properly in the present map. To be able to carve new constituencies will require that the areas are properly marked on the map,” said the person cited above.The district officials are expected to get back to the commission with details of whether or not new constituencies are required in their area, the infrastructure problems, including issues of accessible roads, and other difficulties faced by the electors.“The visit to J&K to interact with the people, officials and political stakeholders has greatly benefited the commission,” the person said. “The commission has also sought feedback regarding each representation it has received to evaluate their implementation.”The commission will for the first time circulate its final proposal for public feedback once it is drawn up.The unfreezing of constituencies is beyond the “ambit of the commission’s mandate”, the person said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delimitation-panel-seeks-feedback-of-top-jkofficials-101633197823226.html
03-10-2021||India||We are united despite our diversity: RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat in Jammu||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat on Saturday said the people of India were united despite religious and cultural diversities.“Despite diversities, we are united. We are one. We may have different systems as per regions, religions and beliefs. We have several regions and states in the country. We have different rituals and beliefs. We also have different gods and goddesses but all these diversities don’t change our unity,” he said while addressing a gathering of intellectuals in Jammu on the penultimate day of his four-day visit to the region.Bhagwat also alluded to the revocation of Article 370 and said that mentality has to change before any change is made in the system.“The system changed, like here (in J&K). Article 370 is not anymore but has it gone away from the heart?…why states fight against each other, like Kaveri river water issue. What good would be done by changing the system…mentality has to change,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-are-united-despite-our-diversity-rss-chief-bhagwat-in-jammu-101633197462583.html
03-10-2021||India||Paris rulebook, finance goal to top agenda: Bhupender Yadav||India will focus on pushing for a new collective long-term climate finance goal and finalisation of the Paris rulebook at the upcoming United Nations Climate Change negotiations in November in Glasgow (COP 26), Union environment minister Bhupender Yadav said in a statement on Saturday.More than 195 countries had evolved and adopted the Paris rulebook – a set of guidelines for implementing the 2015 Paris Agreement at COP 24 in Katowice, Poland in 2018. But all issues related to the rulebook were not finalised in Poland. “India will engage constructively at COP 26 and evaluate bridging proposals to conclude the Paris rulebook, which can be done by delivering on the climate finance promises of the developed countries,” Yadav said, following his presentation at a pre-COP meeting underway in Milan.“It is high time that we conclude years of protracted discussions on the Paris rulebook so that countries can get on with the business of implementing the Agreement and holding each other accountable for their pledges. Also, once these rules are decided, there can be carbon trading between countries and a share of the proceeds can go to fund adaptation and resilience to climate hazards,” said Ulka Kelkar, director of the climate programme at the think tank World Resources Institute in India.One of the unresolved issues of the Paris rulebook is the carbon trading mechanism. “The Paris Agreement allows countries to transfer emissions reductions among themselves. The rulebook needs to specify the rules for how countries will do so – such as by selling credits for their emissions reductions to another country –0 but also ensure that these reductions are not counted twice,” added Kelkar.“India emphasised on strong climate action in this decade to ensure that the world is on track to stay within the temperature goal of the Paris agreement, as well as to adapt to its impacts, and minimise loss and damage. Hence, the COP 26 outcome must emphasise the need to plug the ambition gap by delivering the means of implementation support that will allow developing countries to enhance their climate actions,” a statement from the environment ministry said on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/paris-rulebook-finance-goal-to-top-agenda-at-cop-26-bhupender-yadav-101633197461394.html
03-10-2021||India||Next round of LAC row talks soon: Army chief General Naravane||The next round of talks with the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) to cool tensions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh could take place in the second week of October, Indian Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said on Saturday.The situation on the contested LAC was under control and outstanding problems with the Chinese army could be resolved through talks, Naravane told reporters in Leh, Ladakh’s capital. The dialogue will be held at the level of brigade commanders, division commanders and corps commanders, he said.Naravane was in Ladakh for a security review. His itinerary included visits to forward areas. The Indian and Chinese armies have been locked in a border standoff for almost 17 months. Both sides are negotiating to reduce tensions.
03-10-2021||India||Jal Jeevan is ‘women-driven’ plan of decentralisation: PM Modi||The mass participation of women is crucial to the success of the government’s aim to provide tap water in every household in the country, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday.He launched the Jal Jeevan Mission app on the occasion of the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. The app is expected to boost awareness and increase transparency and accountability of the government’s water and sanitation schemes.“This (Jal Jeevan Mission) is a village-driven, women-driven movement. Its main base is a mass movement and public participation,” Modi said. “It has been my constant effort that this thinking of gram swaraj (village republic) should move forward towards accomplishment.”From India’s Independence in 1947 to 2019, only 30 million households had access to tap water, he said. “Since the launch of Jal Jeevan Mission in 2019, 5 crore households have been connected with water connections,” Modi said. “Today, water is reaching every household in about 1.25 lakh villages in about 80 districts of the country. In the aspirational districts, the number of tap connections have increased from 31 lakh to 1.16 crore.”Modi also launched the Rashtriya Jal Jeevan Kosh, a government charitable trust. “Any individual, institution, corporation, or philanthropist, be it in India or abroad, can contribute to help provide tap water connection in every rural household, school, anganwadi (day care) centre, ashram shala, and other public institutions,” the government said in a statement.The Prime Minister spoke with members of village councils and water committees from across the country to assess the issues they face to make clean water available.Girijakant Tiwari of Umaree village in Banda district of Uttar Pradesh said safe and clean water is now available in his village, which has improved the lives of women.Sudha from Vellery in Tamil Nadu told Modi that all houses in her area have received a piped water connection. The availability of water improved their lives, giving them time for other productive activities, including construction of check dams and ponds, she told the Prime Minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jal-jeevan-mission-a-women-driven-movement-says-pm-modi-101633183660666.html
