04-10-2021||India||‘Will hold NEET-SS exam on Jan 10-11’: Centre tells Supreme Court after rebuke||NEW DELHI: The Centre has decided to defer the National Entrance Eligibility Examination for super speciality courses (NEET-SS) scheduled to be held in November to January 2022 to give postgraduate doctors time to prepare for the new examination pattern.About 41 postgraduate doctors have approached the top court, complaining about they were informed about the change in the examination pattern only on August 31 when the Information Booklet was released by the National Board of Examinations. The examination was notified on July 23.The government’s decision to defer the examination comes a week after the Supreme Court told the Union government not to “treat doctors like footballs” and asked the government to reconsider its decision on last-minute changes in the entrance examination pattern for super specialty medical courses. In its response filed before the Supreme Court on October 1, the Centre said: “With the modification of 100% weightage to the questions pertaining only to the feeder course of the broad speciality (MD, MS) where they have already undergone those courses, in the circumstances, it was decided that the NEET-SS be deferred by a period of two months and be held on January 10-11, 2022, so as to provide ample or sufficient time and opportunity to all of them for their preparation for the entrance examination under the revised scheme/pattern.”The doctors were aggrieved that since 2018, 60% questions were from the super speciality stream that they applied for while the remaining 40% questions came from the broad super speciality courses or feeder course, i.e. MD or MS.The super speciality examinations are conducted for filling more than 4,200 seats in Doctorate of Medicine (DM), Master of Surgery (M.Ch) and Doctorate of National Board (DrNB).This year, the examination had 100% questions from the feeder course, thus placing students who prepared for their respective super speciality stream at a disadvantage.On September 27, the court told the Centre, NBE and National Medical Commission to devise a solution. “Don’t treat these doctors as footballs in this game of power,” the court said, even urging the Centre and NBE to consider conducting the examination this year on the old pattern.The Centre was unwilling to change the examination pattern stating that any change now will affect those students who have prepared as per the revised scheme. Moreover, NBE told the court that the pattern was changed to avoid wastage of precious DM/MCh/DrNB seats that go vacant each year.The Centre said 545 seats remained vacant in 2019, while last year, this number rose to 805. “The NEET-SS in the revised scheme seeks to assess the candidate’s competence in his/her broad speciality and not in a super speciality that he/she, as yet has no training, whatsoever in…Therefore, the modified scheme has not mandated the applicant candidates to study something different from what they have not studied earlier,” the affidavit stated.So far, the NBE has received 11,911 applicants for NEET-SS and this number is expected to rise to about 18,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-hold-neet-ss-exam-on-jan-10-11-centre-tells-supreme-court-after-rebuke-101633371912748.html
04-10-2021||India||Yogi making ‘Ram Rajya’: Suvendu reacts to Mamata's ‘killing rajya’ remark||Bharatiya Janata Party MLA and leader of opposition in West Bengal assembly Suvendu Adhikari on Monday reacted to Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee's remark condemning the death of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri, by saying that Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath is making a ‘Ram Rajya’.West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee slammed BJP earlier in the day over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in which at least eight people, including four farmers and a local journalist, were killed. Condemning the incident, Banerjee said the BJP government doesn't believe in democracy and only wants autocracy.“This is a very sad and unfortunate incident. I have no words to condemn this incident. They (BJP government) don't believe in democracy, they only want autocracy. Is this 'Ram rajya'? No, this is 'killing rajya',” news agency ANI quoted Mamata Banerjee as saying.Responding to Banerjee's comment, Suvendu said, “The one who has made Bengal killings hub should not question Uttar Pradesh's CM Yogi Adityanath, who's making a 'Ram Rajya'."At least eight people, including four farmers and a local journalist, died on Sunday in violence that broke out after at least one car, allegedly driven by Union minister of state for home Ajay Kumar Mishra Teni’s son Ashish Mishra, hit protesting farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri, prompting an angry crowd to burn two vehicles and widen their agitation. The minister and his son have denied involvement in the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yogi-making-ram-rajya-suvendu-reacts-to-mamata-s-killing-rajya-remark-101633369030372.html
04-10-2021||India||AIUDF chief urges President Kovind to halt evictions in Assam’s Darrang district||All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) president and Lok Sabha MP Badruddin Ajmal on Monday urged President Ram Nath Kovind to stop evictions at Assam’s Darrang district. The area saw violent clashes on September 23 which led to the death of two people and injured over 20. The deceased included a 12-year-old boy and the injured included 11 police personnelIn a memorandum to President Kovind, Badruddin Ajmal expressed concerns that the eviction drive might lead to social instability in the state. Ajmal also sought people who were already evicted and demanded compensation to the families of those who died and were injured in last month’s clashes. He described the evictions as inhumanAjmal also claimed that the evicted people were citizens of India and had all requisite documents to support their citizenship. He accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) led government in Assam of targeting the linguistic minority community.The AIUDF president also appealed that an IDP (Internally displaced person) certificate be given to people who were hit by erosion of land by the shifting course of the Brahmaputra river and a high level judicial inquiry into the firing incident, according to news agency PTI.Earlier, Hindustan Times reported that several residents of Darrang received the eviction notice from the administration just hours before the drive began.However, Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma stated that talks were held for more than four months before the eviction drive began.Meanwhile, a report by a non-governmental organisation on Monday stated that the police resorted to unprovoked attacks and used excessive force against the displaced people in Darrang. According to the Association for Protection of Civil Right, the police and administration blamed a large mob for attacking them with sticks and stones which led to the clashes.“They (Police) first fired tear gas shells and rubber bullets to disperse them. When it didn’t deter them, they fired live bullets in self-defense.” the report added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiudf-chief-urges-president-kovind-to-halt-evictions-in-assam-s-darrang-district-101633365861938.html
04-10-2021||India||HT This Day: October 5, 1947 — Indian Land, Air And Naval Units Move To Porbandar||A small Indian Military Force is being moved to Porbandar and will be landed there today (Sunday morning) from ships of the Royal Indian Navy, says a Press ‘communique issued from the Prime Minister’s Secretariat.This decision was taken in response to a request from certain of the Kathiawar States, the ‘communique’ adds. In making this a movement of troops, it is explained, opportunity has been taken to carry out combined operation training to practise inter-service co-operation.The Naval Forces taking part include three sloops (H.M.I.S. Kistna, H.M.I.S. Cauvery and H.M.I.S. Jumna), two fleet mine-sweepers (H.M.I.S. Konkan and H.M.I.S. Madras), M.L. 420 and Tank Landing Craft of the Royal Indian Navy. The Naval Forces are under the command of Commander R. D. Katari, R.I.N.The Land Forces comprise a Company Group of the 1st Battalion the Mahratta Light Infantry with detachments of the Royal Indian Engineers, Indian electrical and mechanical engineers, Indian Corps 0f Signals and Indian Army Medical Corps, and troop of Light tanks. These forces are under the command of Major V.S. Jog.The Royal Indian Air Force units participating in this exercise include No. 8 Squadron R.I.A.F. composed of Tempest aircraft under the command of Squadron Leader P.S. Gill, R.L.A.F. and will co-operate with both the Naval and the Military Forces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-october-5-1947-indian-land-air-and-naval-units-move-to-porbandar-101633367110258.html
04-10-2021||India||Farm laws 'reason' behind Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Punjab CM Channi||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Monday presented a memorandum to repeal the three contentious farm laws that have triggered massive protests in parts of the country. It came in the wake of the latest developments in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri, where at least eight people died including four farmers after a jeep allegedly ran over some farmers during the protest.The incident has led to countrywide condemnation, mainly led by the opposition parties. Fellow farmers also held a demonstration in Punjab and Delhi's Singhu border to express their anger over the clashes.Speaking on the same, Punjab chief minister also termed the clashes an "unfortunate incident" and said those who are "guilty should be arrested," news agency ANI reported. "The reason behind this incident is three farm laws... I along with my ministers met Governor Banwarilal Purohit and gave him the memorandum to repeal the three farm laws," Channi said, as per the ANI report.On Sunday, a jeep allegedly ran over some farmers while they were protesting against the Centre's three agricultural legislation. The farmers claimed that the vehicle which ran over their brothers was part of the convoy of Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni's son Ashish — a charge the minister has denied.A case against Mishra's son has been registered and the UP government-led by Bharatiya Janata Party's Yogi Adtiyanath has promised a probe by a retired high court judge. The state government has also turned the district into a fortress as it deployed heavy security around the area. Opposition leaders including COngress' Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, and Akhilesh Yadav were also stopped from reaching the site. Punjab CM Channi was also among those who were stopped from reaching Lakhimpur Kheri.Meanwhile, the Uttar Pradesh government has announced a compensation of ₹45 lakh and government job to the next of kin of four deceased farmers, while the injured will receive a compensation of ₹10 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-reason-behind-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-punjab-cm-channi-101633366746030.html
04-10-2021||India||Kerala’s daily Covid-19 tally falls below 10,000 in weeks; 149 new deaths added||Kerala on Monday saw a major reduction in its daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after 8,850 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the caseload to 4,729,083, according to the health department’s bulletin. This is the first time in weeks that the daily cases were below the 10,000-mark.As many as 17,007 patients recovered and 149 succumbed to the viral disease in the same period. With this, the cumulative count of recoveries and deaths has climbed to 4,574,206 and 25,526 respectively. The active cases in the southern state stand at 128,736, the bulletin also showed.On Sunday, Kerala saw 12,297 cases while on Saturday 13,217 people were detected as Covid-19 positive. However, the fall in cases on Monday can be attributed to the lower number of cases carried out during the previous day. In the past 24 hours, only 74,871 samples were tested for Covid-19.Of Monday’s case count, 50 were health workers, 42 were from outside Kerala and 8,368 were infected with Covid-19 through contact, with the source of it not clear in 390. Over 415,000 patients are under surveillance in the state of which 399,228 are in home or institutional quarantine and 16,261 in hospitals.Thiruvananthapuram contributed the maximum towards Monday’s tally with 1,134 cases, followed by Thrissur with 1,077 cases and Ernakulam at 920 cases.Authorities have so far administered 35,877,274 vaccine doses to eligible beneficiaries of which 24,750,569 have received the first dose while the 11,126,705 are fully vaccinated — given both doses.Colleges in Kerala reopened on Monday after a gap of more than one year, with adherence to all Covid-19 related norms. Classes for the final year degree and postgraduate students began on Monday while the rest of the classes will start from October 18. College authorities checked the temperature of the students and hand sanitisers were provided at the entrance. They also ensured that students entering colleges were vaccinated with at least one dose.From November, the state government will resume physical classes for all schools across Kerala and guidelines for these will be issued by Tuesday, education minister V Sivankutty had said on Sunday.Students of classes 1 to 7 and 10 and 12 can come back to school from November 1. Education minister Sivankutty said on Sunday that extensive preparations have commenced for resuming offline classes. “Some schools have a lack of infrastructure facilities, so the government is planning to accommodate those students in nearby schools within the stipulated day of schools reopening so that they can follow all the Covid-19 guidelines,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/keralas-daily-covid-19-tally-falls-below-10-000-in-weeks-149-new-deaths-added-101633364780360.html
04-10-2021||India||Protests, detentions, FIR against minister's son: 10 points on Lakhimpur Kheri||A day after eight people were killed in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday after violence erupted during a farmers’ protest, opposition parties and farmer groups have strongly censured the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government at the Centre and in Uttar Pradesh.The deceased included four farmers and four occupants of the vehicles that allegedly ran over the farmers, who were protesting against the Centre’s three new farm laws. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) alleged that one of the deceased farmers was shot dead by Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni’s son and others were allegedly run over by the vehicles of his convoy. An FIR has been registered against Teni’s son Ashish Mishra and others.Throughout Monday, several opposition leaders including the likes of Priyanka Gandhi, Akhilesh Yadav, tried going to Lakhimpur Kheri to meet the families of the deceased farmers but were stopped and later detained by the police. While Akhilesh Yadav was released, Priyanka Gandhi still continues to remain under detention.Opposition leaders have also condemned Sunday’s violence on their social media handles and have questioned the silence of Prime Minister Narendra ModiHere are the latest updates on the Lakhimpur Kheri incident:1. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi lashed out at Bahujan Samajwadi Party (BSP) chief Mayawati and Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav over Sunday’s tragic incident. Gandhi told HT that it is only the Congress party which has raised issues in Uttar Pradesh.2. Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi said that the reason behind Sunday’s violence was the three new farm laws and submitted a memorandum to Governor Banwarilal Purohit to repeal the laws.3. Opposition parties have demanded that Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni should be sacked from the post while his son Ashish should be arrested.4. Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Randhawa and Congress leader Kuljit Nagra along with other party leaders have been detained by the police in Saharanpur.5. The BJP on Monday claimed that the Congress and the SP are doing politics under the pretense of farmers' protest. BJP’s IT-Cell chief Amit Malviya said that SP workers were involved in Sunday’s violence.6. Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu was released from Sarangpur Police Station on Monday hours after he was detained while protesting outside Punjab Raj Bhavan, demanding Ashish Mishra’s arrest.7. Trinamool Congress Supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Monday that ‘Killing Raj’ is going on instead of Ram Rajya in Uttar Pradesh.8. The SKM claimed that farmer-led protests were held across the country on Monday to express ire over the incident in Lakhimpur Kheri.9. The Uttar Pradesh government and farmer unions reached an agreement on Monday, where the former will provide ₹45 lakh as ex-gratia to the families of the four deceased farmers. While, the injured will get ₹10 lakh each.10. The Uttar Pradesh government said that a retired high court judge will probe the incident.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protests-detentions-fir-against-minister-s-son-10-points-on-lakhimpur-kheri-101633356848994.html
04-10-2021||India||Harsh Shringla meets Lankan leadership, reaffirms support to post-Covid recovery||Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla held talks with Sri Lanka’s top leadership, including Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa, on Monday to review bilateral ties and development cooperation during a visit aimed at giving impetus to relations against the backdrop of China’s growing presence in the island nation.Ten Sri Lankan ministers, including foreign minister GL Peiris, joined Shringla for the inauguration of several India-funded development projects in the housing and education sectors. Shringla reaffirmed that India will stand with the Sri Lankan government in its efforts for post-Covid-19 recovery.Two days before Harsh Shringla began his visit to Sri Lanka on October 2, state-owned Sri Lanka Ports Authority (SLPA) inked a deal with India’s Adani Group to develop and run the strategic Colombo Port’s West Container Terminal. This came some eight months after Sri Lanka reneged on a 2019 deal with India and Japan to operate the East Container Terminal, angering both countries.Adani Group and its local partner John Keells Holdings will jointly have an 85% stake in the West Container Terminal, giving India a much-needed strategic presence at Colombo port, where almost 70% of operations involve shipments bound for India.The foreign secretary’s visit to Colombo is being seen as an opportunity to get bilateral ties back on track after recent problems such as the scrapping of the MoU on the East Container Terminal, and to assess Sri Lanka’s development assistance requirements. Peiris, who was recently appointed foreign minister, and Basil Rajapaksa, the younger brother of the premier, who was appointed the finance minister, are seen as strategists who understand the importance of India at a time when Sri Lanka is facing financial pressures due to declining forex reserves and shortages of food items.India’s relationship with Sri Lanka is seen as one of the most important in the neighbourhood, though there has been some heartburn in New Delhi over Colombo speedily clearing China-funded projects amid the Covid-19 pandemic while going slow on India’s proposals such as the development of the oil storage facility at Trincomalee.The Indian high commission said the four projects in the housing and education sectors that were jointly inaugurated by Shringla Peiris exemplified “India’s strong and multifaceted development cooperation profile”.The Indian side handed over 1,235 houses built under the third phase of the Indian Housing Project (IHP), which is part of the largest grant aid project for constructing 50,000 houses at a cost of ₹1,372 crore. A total of 4,000 houses will be built in the third phase, and more than 3,500 have already been completed. The Indian side also handed over 24 houses built for low-income families in Vavuniya district under the Model Village Housing Project. A total of 600 houses will be built in 25 districts under this project. The two sides also inaugurated the Vada Central Ladies College at Vadamarachi in the Northern Province and Saraswathi Central College at Pusellawa in Kandy district. Shringla reviewed bilateral cooperation during a delegation-level meeting with Sri Lankan foreign secretary Jayanath Colombage, and discussed economic and commercial ties and post-pandemic economic recovery during his meeting with finance minister Rajapaksa.During his meeting with foreign minister Peiris, Shringla focused on the early conclusion of projects and enhancing connectivity to help accelerate Sri Lanka’s economic recovery. The Indian high commission also tweeted that Shringla had a productive discussion with the Sri Lankan premier on “further consolidating the multifaceted India-Sri Lanka partnership”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shringlas-meets-sri-lankan-leadership-reaffirms-india-s-support-to-post-covid-19-recovery-101633361229937.html
04-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: Choose 'court or road,' says SC to farmers protesting against three laws and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Choose 'court or the road': SC to farmers protesting against three lawsThe Supreme Court on Monday asked farmers agitating against the Centre's new agricultural laws what their protest is against, since the contentious legislations have "already been stayed." Read MorePriyanka Gandhi says Mayawati, Akhilesh failed to raise their voices for UPSenior Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday criticised Samajwadi party chief Akhilesh Yadav and Bahujan Samajwadi Party supremo Mayawati for not raising issues concerning citizens of Uttar Pradesh. Read MoreDrugs case: Aryan Khan, 2 others sent to NCB custody till October 7A Mumbai court on Monday denied the petition of Aryan Khan and two others opposing extension of Narcotics Control Bureau's (NCB) custody and sent them in remand till October 7. Read More'Get them out and India will fall under pressure': Gul names 2 players Pakistan need to remove cheaply to win T20 WC tieIndia and Pakistan open their T20 World Cup campaign by facing each other on October 24. This will make the first time since the 2019 World Cup that the two teams will meet in international cricket. Read More5 reasons crash dieting is bad for youThe prospect of quick weight loss by following a crash diet is tempting and many fall for it due to its promise of an instant result. Crash dieting or yo-yo dieting is basically a very low-calorie diet that helps you lose weight in a short period of time. Read MoreSalman Khan's sister Alvira Khan visits Shah Rukh Khan's Mannat after Aryan Khan's arrest, see picsAfter Salman Khan, his sister Alvira Khan Agnihotri visited Shah Rukh Khan's Mumbai home to show her support. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-choose-court-or-road-says-sc-to-farmers-protesting-against-three-laws-and-all-the-latest-news-101633360490066.html
04-10-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi says Mayawati, Akhilesh failed to raise their voices for UP||Senior Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday criticised Samajwadi party chief Akhilesh Yadav and Bahujan Samajwadi Party supremo Mayawati for not raising issues concerning citizens of Uttar Pradesh. This is 'killing rajya': Mamata attacks BJP over Lakhimpur Kheri violenceThe Congress general secretary said whether it was the Hathras case or the recent death of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri, it was only her party that raised its voice against the government on every occasion.“Where is Akhilesh Yadav and Mayawati? For the last two years, whether it was the Hathras incident or (recent incident in) Lakhimpur Kheri, it's only Congress which raised issues in Uttar Pradesh,” Priyanka Gandhi said.Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Union min Ajay Mishra, son and others booked for murderPriyanka Gandhi Vadra was detained on Monday while she was on her way to Lakhimpur Kheri where on Sunday an SUV belonging to the convoy of Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni's son, Ashish, ran over the protesting farmers.Congress alleged that their leader was detained without any arrest warrant. The Uttar Pradesh police, however, said that the arrest was made since the situation around Lakhimpur was restive at the moment. Congress workers also held a candlelight vigil protesting against the detention of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra.Lakhimpur Kheri: The cauldron boils overEarlier in the day, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s video, shared by the Congress, showed the leader sweeping the floor of the guest house where she was being detained. Her brother Rahul Gandhi, former Congress president, applauded the leader for following the path of Mahatma Gandhi and his rule of non-violent Satyagraha.Eight people, four of them protesting against the three farm laws and four BJP members, died on Sunday after a car allegedly belonging to the convoy of Union minister of home affairs Ajay Mishra Teni's son Ashish, mowed down four protesting farmers. The other four were allegedly thrashed to death by the farmers.Earlier on Monday, the Uttar Pradesh government reached an agreement with farmers and decided to give ₹45 lakh compensation to the next of the kin of the four farmers killed in the incident. It also registered two FIRs in connection with Sunday's violence. The state government also booked Ashish Mishra and said that a retired high court judge will probe the Lakhimpur Kheri violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-gandhi-says-mayawati-akhilesh-failed-to-raise-their-voices-for-up-101633357489617.html
04-10-2021||India||Delhi logged 217 cases of dengue in September, highest for the month in 3 years||The national capital has reported 341 cases of dengue this year, more than half of which were reported in September itself, multiple news agencies reported citing official data. According to a civic report, there were 217 cases of Dengue in September, the highest count for the month in the last three years. In 2020, the city had registered 188 dengue cases in the entire month of September.In 2020, the city had reported 266 cases between January and October, while during the entire year, there were a total of 1,072 cases and one related death, the report stated.The report was released by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation, which is the nodal agency for tabulating data on vector-borne diseases in the city.In preceding years, the corresponding figures stood at 374 in 2018, 1,103 in 2017, 1,362 in 2016 and 6,775 in 2015, according to the data shared by the Delhi health department on September 22.Dengue is a mosquito-borne viral disease that spreads widely during the monsoon season. Its symptoms include high fever, headache, rash, muscle and joint pain.This year, the city reported an uptick in cases, however, doctors say that despite the prevalence of serotype 2 dengue virus associated with a higher risk of severe disease, most people are not showing severe symptoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-logged-217-cases-of-dengue-in-september-highest-for-the-month-in-3-years-101633355716363.html
04-10-2021||India||ICMR asks states to impose protocol for tourists over fears of Covid-19 3rd wave||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Monday warned the third wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) could peak during the festival season and may occur two weeks earlier than previously estimated.The top biomedical research agency has asked states with tourists hotspots, such as Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, and those in the northeast, to enforce protocol necessitated to check the spread of Covid-19  infection strictly and make vaccination certificates and RT-PCR tests mandatory, Hindustan Times' sister publication LiveMint reported.The ICMR observed that that ‘second wave’ of the Covid-19 pandemic that struck India in April was severe, but showed varying impact in different states. It noted that smaller states with rarefied population witnessed not only less intense spread of the deadly virus than was witnessed at the national level, but also contributed in slowing down the attainment of the second peak.Amongst these ‘smaller states’ are popular tourist destinations such as Himachal Pradesh and Assam, that are currently seeing an upsurge of visitors from elsewhere in the country, the ICMR said.The ICMR said even though no national guideline exists on restrictions regarding domestic travel it may be helpful for states with holiday destinations to receive guidance on how they could best mitigate travel-related risks.“These observations indicate increasing opportunities for transmission in areas where population-level immunity has not yet accumulated to the same levels as elsewhere in the country. Against a backdrop of increasing anticipation of a third wave of covid-19 in India, it is important to recognize the potential risks associated with such an escalation in travel," the ICMR said.After taking mathematical models into account that chart the course of pandemic in future, the ICMR warned that a sudden increase in population density due to incoming tourists or mass congregation due to social, political or religious reasons can worsen the third-wave scenario, LiveMint reported.Clearly making it important for tourist destination states to demand evidence of a recent covid-19 negative test or vaccination certificates, the ICMR said that vaccine status could also play an important role in eligibility to travel, with some caveats.The recommendations prepared by Dr Balram Bhargava, director general, ICMR and Dr Samiran Panda, head, epidemiology and communicable diseases, ICMR were also published in the International Journal of Travel Medicine published by Oxford University Press. The ICMR has recommended that people instead of doing revenge travel should do responsible travel.“First, ‘vaccine passports’ have limitations, arising from uncertainties about how the nature and strength of vaccine-induced immunity would change over time. Second, despite being the world’s largest producer of covid-19 vaccines, India also faces the challenge of having the world’s second-largest population to vaccinate; it is estimated that roughly 20% of India’s eligible population has been fully vaccinated," said the ICMR. The country has administered over 91 crore doses of covid-19 vaccines so far.At least 20,799 new coronavirus cases were reported in the last 24 hours. The active caseload is presently 2,64,458, which is the lowest in 200 days. Active cases presently constitute 0.78% of the country's total positive cases. The daily positivity rate was reported to be 2.10%. The daily positivity rate has remained below 3% for the last 35 days and below 5% for 118 consecutive days now, according to the union health ministry data.The scientists further said that it will also be important to maintain surveillance in at-risk settings, ensuring that virological testing is maintained even in periods of apparent low infection activity.In addition, information on genomic surveillance in other countries and vigil at international airports will be valuable for early identification of hitherto unrecognized variants that could later gain a foothold across the country, the ICMR said.“There are undoubtedly important benefits as society gradually returns to normal, in India and elsewhere; domestic travel to holiday destinations provides benefits not just for visitors, but also for local economies that have been under considerable stress for over a year," the recommendations said.“Nonetheless, with the possibility of a severe third wave in India still looming, it remains critical to recognize and mitigate the risks involved. A shared sense of responsibility, amongst visitors, residents and local authorities, will go a long way towards protecting the welfare of the country as a whole," it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-asks-states-to-impose-protocol-for-tourists-over-fears-of-covid-19-3rd-wave-101633350752215.html
04-10-2021||India||This is 'killing rajya': Mamata attacks BJP over Lakhimpur Kheri violence||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday came down heavily on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in which at least eight people, including four farmers and a local journalist, were killed. Condemning the incident, Banerjee said the BJP government doesn't believe in democracy and only wants autocracy.“This is a very sad and unfortunate incident. I have no words to condemn this incident. They (BJP government) don't believe in democracy, they only want autocracy. Is this 'Ram rajya'? No, this is 'killing rajya',” news agency ANI quoted Mamata Banerjee as saying.Kolkata | This is a very sad & unfortunate incident. I have no words to condemn this incident. They (BJP govt) don't believe in democracy, they only want autocracy. Is this 'Ram rajya'? No, this is 'killing rajya': West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee on Lakhimpur Kheri violence pic.twitter.com/ZQ7CgiMsrFWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday came down heavily on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in which at least eight people, including four farmers and a local journalist, were killed. Condemning the incident, Banerjee said the BJP government doesn't believe in democracy and only wants autocracy.“This is a very sad and unfortunate incident. I have no words to condemn this incident. They (BJP government) don't believe in democracy, they only want autocracy. Is this 'Ram rajya'? No, this is 'killing rajya',” news agency ANI quoted Mamata Banerjee as saying.|#+|This came after many opposition leaders were detained on their way to the violence-hit district to meet the families of the victims. Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav was detained following a sit-in protest outside his Vikramaditya Marg residence in Lucknow, after he was not allowed to go to Lakhimpur.Likewise, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel was not given permission for his plane to land at the Lucknow airport.Priyanka Vadra and other Congress leaders accompanying her, including Deepender Hooda, had reached the Lakhimpur border in the morning but were not allowed to meet the families of the farmers who died in the violence during a protest a day earlier.On Sunday, Mamata had taken to Twitter to lash out at the BJP over the Lakhimpur incident. "I strongly condemn the barbaric incident in Lakhimpur Kheri. The apathy of @BJP4India towards our farmer brethren pains me deeply. A delegation of 5 @AITCofficial MPs will be visiting the families of the victims tomorrow. Our farmers will always have our unconditional support," Banerjee tweeted on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/this-is-killing-rajya-mamata-attacks-bjp-over-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-101633350963131.html
04-10-2021||India||Kerala’s Pinarayi Vijayan rejects call for all-party meeting on narcotic jihad row||Thiruvananthapuram: Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday rejected the opposition demand to call a meeting of religious heads and community leaders over the controversy around Pala Bishop Mar Joseph Kallarangatt’s statement on ‘narcotic jihad’.Vijayan told the state assembly that there was no need to call any such meeting in the present scenario, the state’s communal fabric was very strong, and that nobody can vitiate the atmosphere and instigate hatred.“I don’t find any need to call such a meeting. Kerala is known for its communal amity and brotherhood, and nobody can dent it,” he told the assembly.The Congress-led opposition United Democratic Front and a section of religious heads have been demanding that the government convene an all-party and all-religion meeting.On 23 September, Bharatiya Janata Party leader Suresh Gopi claimed that the Centre will call a meeting of Christian leaders in view of the statement by the Bishop of Pala Diocese of the Syro-Malabar that after “love jihad”, Catholic girls and youth were becoming victims of a “well-orchestrated narcotic jihad” in Kerala.‘Love jihad’ is a term right-wing groups use to describe relationships between Muslim men and non-Muslim women, claiming that this was a conspiracy to force non-Muslim women to convert.Pinarayi Vijayan, who earlier described the religious leader’s statement as “unfortunate and uncalled for”, told the assembly that there was no need to discuss “a non-issue”.Addressing a church ceremony in Kottayam on September 9, the Bishop appeared to target people from the Muslim community.“Wherever arms are not used, narcotic drugs are being used and Catholic girls turn victims. Some groups are functioning in the state to support them. To understand this, one needs to analyse how women from other religions landed in the Islamic State camps,” he said. The Bishop was referring to the trip of 21 people, including five people who converted to Islam, from north Kerala to Afghanistan in 2016. The Bishop later sought to justify his statement in the church mouthpiece, ‘Deepika’, and attack his critics. “Those who insist that once should not talk about the evils that befall his own community are silently encouraging such things to flourish. Instead of ignoring the warnings, attempts should be made to discuss and study these issues to prevent such social evils,” he said, adding that pseudo secularists were trying to suppress voices that point out evils in the society. He said while secularism remained the core of the country pseudo-secularism will destroy the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/keralas-pinarayi-vijayan-rejects-call-for-all-party-meeting-on-narcotic-jihad-row-101633350847526.html
04-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan in NCB custody till Oct 7: What happened inside Mumbai court||A Mumbai court on Monday sent actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan and two of his friends to the custody of Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) till October 7. The 23-year-old was arrested by the NCB on Sunday. He was detained by the agency after raid at a rave party on a cruise ship on Saturday night.The magistrate's court accepted NCB's plea that more investigation is needed after the seizure of drugs.ALSO WATCH | Aryan Khan drugs case: How NCB officials went undercover to raid ‘rave party’ on cruise ship Aryan Khan was picked up along with seven others during the NCB raid. These include his fiends Arbaz Seth Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha. Khan's lawyer, however, said nothing was found in his client's possession and he was arrested only based on WhatsApp chats.The NCB had sought a longer custody of Khan, Merchant and Dhamecha (till October 13) to take forward the investigation, which it said has bigger ramifications. The lawyers of the trio, however, opposed NCB's plea saying the agency has not been able to prove anything and arrested their clients because they are "high profile people".Here is what happened in the Esplanade court during the hearing:• Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, appearing for the NCB, told the court that one person was detained on Monday morning in connection with the case.• Seeking the trio's custody for nine days, he further said, "NCB seized Aryan Khan’s phone and there are several suspected chats which shows the connection with the dealers. It is, therefore, necessary to confront all accused in the custodial remand."• He further argued that WhatsApp chats show the discussions about cash transactions and that there are mention of international transactions also. Singh claimed code names were used by the accused in the chats to communicate with peddlers.• As per NCB, the three have been booked under Section 8C, 20B, 27 (Punishment for consumption of any narcotic drug or psychotropic substance) and 35 (Presumption of culpable mental state) of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS Act). ASG Anil Singh argued that offences under NDPS Act are non-bailable and cited judgement in Rhea Chakraborty case.• Aryan Khan's lawyer Satish Maneshinde opposed the extended custody plea of NCB and said the agency can't rely on WhatsApp chats. He said that no material on record has been found against his client. Maneshinde also said that bail for non-bailable offence is provided by Supreme Court and read an old judgement.• Khan also said through his lawyer that he only knows Merchant from whom six grams of Charas was found. "I don't know anybody else apart from him who is name as an accused in the case."• Aryan Khan further claimed that he was invited to the cruise as a guest and that he doesn't have any contact with the organisers, dealers or any other people on the cruise ship. His lawyer also said that the agency downloaded Khan's WhatsApp chats and claimed they indicated link with "so-called" international drug trafficking network when he was abroad.• Khan clarified that he never indulged in supply or consumption of drugs during his foreign trips and said that during raid at cruise ship, the contraband seized by the NCB did not belong to him or his friends.• "I am not seeking bail as a matter of right. I was detained by NCB not on the cruise ship. I was special invitee. I landed there with another friend of mine," Khan's lawyer said on his behalf.• Merchant's lawyer Tareq Sayed also opposed furthr custody saying there is no clarity on where the recovery is made, from whom and how much. "There are only chats that are recovered."• Sayed also said that the NCB arrested Khan and his client because they are high profile people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aryan-khan-in-ncb-custody-till-oct-7-what-happened-inside-mumbai-court-101633349688425.html
04-10-2021||India||Drugs case: Aryan Khan, 2 others sent to NCB custody till October 7||A Mumbai court on Monday denied the petition of Aryan Khan and two others opposing extension of Narcotics Control Bureau's (NCB) custody and sent them in remand till October 7. The 23-year-old, son of actor Shah Rukh Khan, was arrested by the NCB after a raid at a rave party on a cruise ship off the coast of Mumbai.The court accepted NCB's plea that Khan and his friends' further custody is needed after the seizure of drugs from the rave party. The NCB had presented WhatsApp chats, where discussions were held about cash transactions involving drugs.Those sent to extended custody today are Khan, his friend Arbaaz Merchant and fashion designer Munmun Dhamecha. They were arrested on Sunday after a lengthy questioning by the NCB.Khan and his friends were produced before a local court in Mumbai on Monday afternoon after having spent one day in NCB custody. They were earlier sent for a medical checkup at Mumbai's JJ Hospital.During the court hearing on Monday, Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh (representing the NCB) said that WhatsApp chats found in Aryan's phone, which was seized by the NCB, “clearly shows the nexus”. “It is necessary to confront all accused in the custodial remand,” Singh pointed out, adding that the chats have code words that need to be decoded.He also said that code words were used for peddlers which need to be decoded.Aryan's lawyer Satish Maneshinde opposed the NCB's plea arguing that the NCB “cannot simply rely on WhatsApp chats” for the case and seek extension of the custody.“I was arrested by the NCB before and not on the cruise…I was invited as a guest…I don't have any contacts with the organisers, dealers or any other people on the cruise. Nothing has been found in my bag during search,” Aryan informed the court via Maneshinde.“They've interrogated me for the last 48 hours and have found nothing. I [have]…no criminal antecedents. I have cooperated with them (NCB) so any prayer for further custody should be rejected,” Aryan's statement to the court added.Also Read | Aryan Khan in NCB custody till Oct 7: What happened inside Mumbai courtBefore producing Khan and others in the court, NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede said that the agency raided the Goa-bound cruise ship after disguising themselves as passengers, and busted the rave party where several drugs were being used. Officials of the agency learnt about the rave party after being tipped off about the same, and this was the first time they raided such a party on a cruise ship.A company based in Delhi is believed to have organised the party. It was slated to reach Goa on Saturday night, and return to Mumbai by Monday.Maneshinde, told the magistrate court on Sunday that his client was invited to the cruise party. He further stated that Aryan didn’t have a “boarding pass…any seat or cabins.” “Secondly, according to the seizure, nothing has been found in his possession. He is arrested only based on chats,” Maneshinde said.Meanwhile, NCB chief SN Pradhan told news agency PTI on Sunday that the agency is probing the matter from “all angles” and that there is a “Bollywood connection.” “We are looking at the main supplier and the entire cartel behind this drugs case,” he was quoted as saying by PTI.Pradhan said that the investigation of the matter will be carried out professionally despite it being high-profile.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/court-sends-srk-s-son-aryan-khan-2-others-to-ncb-custody-till-october-7-101633342566368.html
04-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Why Priyanka Gandhi Vadra swept floor of a guest house||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was on Monday seen sweeping the floor of a guest house in the Sitapur district of Uttar Pradesh. It is the same guest house where the Congress leader is being detained following an attempt to visit Lakhimpur Kheri, where eight people, including four farmers, were killed in violent clashes on Sunday.In a clip posted by the Congress party on its various handles, Priyanka Gandhi can be seen sweeping the floor using a broom. The 42-second-long video was praised by the Congress, which said that their leader has chosen the path shown by the father of the nation Mahatma Gandhi when he launched a non-violent Satyagraha against the British occupation of India."On the path shown by Mahatma Gandhi inside Sitapur Police Line, Mrs Priyanka Gandhi started her fast in custody with Shramdan," the party wrote on Twitter. "Until the killers of farmers are not arrested, the protest will continue," it added.So why was Priyanka Gandhi Vadra seen sweeping the floor? According to those persons HT spoke to, Gandhi chose this unique way of protest after she was refused entry to meet the families of the farmers killed yesterday.Why is PGV sweeping the floor? She arrived at #lakhimpurkheri at 2am, spent night fighting with police. While other leaders left after being stopped by police, PGV says that she won't go till she meets victims' families.Visuals are of her cleaning her detention centre/guest house https://t.co/f0s5D5XPtmThe Congress has also alleged that her detention is illegal as no warrant was produced, while police officials maintain that prohibitory orders are in place in the area, due to which the leader was detained.She was stopped near Hargaon on the Sitapur-Lakhimpur Kheri border. During her detention, dramatic visuals emerged of Gandhi coming head-to-head with police officials.Priyanka Gandhi was seen questioning the police for stopping her without any order for detention or arrest and accused the officers of misbehaving with her. She said the police treatment amounted to kidnapping and molestation.According to a Congress spokesperson, Priyanka Gandhi is firm on her demand and she won't go back without meeting the victims’ families and farmers. A large number of Congress workers have also assembled outside the place of detention in her support.Violence erupted in the Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday, when a jeep allegedly ran over farmers, who their leaders said were protesting against the Centre's three laws. The farmers claimed that the vehicle which ran over their brothers was part of the convoy of Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni's son Ashish - a charge the minister has denied. While the protesters claimed four farmers were killed in the incident, the police said that four others died after being thrashed by the farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-why-priyanka-gandhi-vadra-swept-floor-of-a-guest-house-101633349310049.html
04-10-2021||India||Protest held in west UP over Lakhimpur Kheri incident||Farmers, students, and members of opposition parties took to the streets across western Uttar Pradesh against the violence during a farmer protest in Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday. Eight people were killed in the violence that was triggered after a car hit protesting farmers.Bharatiya Kisan Union chief Naresh Tikait convened an emergency meeting in Muzaffarnagar on Sunday night to discuss and decide the future course of action. Addressing the gathering, he appealed to people to continue their protest peacefully. He said the Lakhimpur Kheri violence showed the insensitive face of the government and ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). “After failing to crush the movement, they have now started mowing down farmers,” said Tikait. He said the incident would prove the last nail in the BJP’s coffin.Tikait warned BJP ministers and lawmakers against entering and organising programmes in villages as people are angry and anything could happen. “If anything happens with them, the government and their representatives would be responsible for it.”Also Read: Choose ‘court or the road’: SC to farmers protesting against three lawsThe BKU decided to follow Sanyukt Kisan Morcha ( SKM)’s directions and directed farmers to launch protests and sit-ins at district headquarters on Monday. SKM is an umbrella group of farm unions spearheading the agitation against the three farm laws enacted last yearAngry farmers held a protest at Sivyaya toll plaza on Sunday night and raised anti-government slogans. Students took out candle March in Meerut. Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) workers blocked a road at Kisanpur Baral in Bagpat and also blocked Muzaffarnagar-Shamli road. Members of the Kisan Union led by Sambit Malik blocked a road in Shamli.RLD workers also took out a procession in Hapur on Sunday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protest-held-in-west-up-over-lakhimpur-kheri-incident-101633349107429.html
04-10-2021||India||Health minister Mansukh Mandaviya launches drone-based Covid-19 vaccine delivery||Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Monday launched Indian Council of Medical Research's (ICMR) drone response and outreach (called i-Drone) for the Northeast region. The project was launched from Nagaland and marks the government's first step towards undertaking delivery of Covid-19 vaccine in the remote corners of the country using drones.The ICMR-led pilot project has been approved for Nagaland, Manipur and Andaman and Nicobar Islands."This is the first commercial flying of a drone in South Asia. A distance of 31km was covered in 13-15 minutes," said Mandaviya after the virtual ceremony."It's not only for vaccine supply, we'll also transport blood samples and essential medicines using drones in the future," he added.The minister further said that 9.1 million vaccine doses have been administered in the country so far.Earlier this year, the ministry of civil aviation (MoCA) and directorate general of civil aviation (DGCA) granted conditional exemption to ICMR for conducting feasibility study of Covid-19 vaccine delivery using drones. The ICMR has partnered with IIT-Kanpur for the project.The Centre said that the exemption will be valid for a period of one year or until further orders.After the approval, HLL Infra Tech Services Limited, on behalf of ICMR, began testing delivery of medical supplies (vaccines/drugs) by Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) at select locations in India.The company said that ICMR will engage UAV operators to operate beyond visual line of site (BVLOS) in fixed pre-defined or pre-approved flight paths and deliver Covid-19 vaccine.BVLOS drone flights are those that go beyond 500-700 metres from the eye's vision or beyond the visual line of sight.Drones have been very useful in providing last mile deliveries, and reaching places which are difficult to access. In India, they have been used by authorities in some cities to keep a check at crowd when the Covid-19 pandemic spread last year.In Ghana, a delivery service Zipline has been using drones to give Covid-19 vaccines to people living in remote areas. According to a report in Forbes, Zipline has partnered with the government of Ghana to provide these vaccines which have been received as part of COVAX - a global initiative to give equitable access to Covid-19 vaccines. The initiative is supported by the World Health Organization (WHO).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-minister-mansukh-mandaviya-launches-drone-based-covid-19-vaccine-delivery-101633347554316.html
04-10-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Congress announces protest over Lakhimpur Kheri violence and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.The Congress on Monday demanded the immediate release of party leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra who, the party alleged, was detained illegally by the Uttar Pradesh Police. Addressing a press conference, the Congress said “the practice of preventing political leaders from free movement is very hazardous”. The Congress stressed said they would hold protests outside the offices of district magistrates in all districts of the country on Tuesday to protest against the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. Read moreFormer Nehru Memorial Museum and Library (NMML) director and personal secretary to late prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Shakti Sinha, 63, passed away on Monday. Read moreRohit Sharma, one of the biggest highlights of the five-Test series between India and England, feels that although the final result is awaited, he would like to believe that India are the winners of the Pataudi Trophy. With the series tilted 2-1 in favour of India, the fifth and final Test match, scheduled to be played in Manchester, was called off following a Covid-19 scare. Read moreMany of us are leading stressful lives, especially in pandemic times when things can get unpredictable at times. We may feel lonely, isolated, overburdened, trapped, and that adds to the stress build-up. Many people who struggle with chronic stress are further at a risk of getting several health troubles from cardiovascular diseases, insomnia, depression, anxiety, headaches, high blood pressure to diabetes. Read moreTwo years after premiering at the Tribeca Film Festival, director Bhaskar Hazarika’s irresistibly insane Assamese film Aamis has found its way onto SonyLIV. Which means that if you signed up for the service to watch Scam 1992 a year ago, you probably still have a few days left on your subscription to watch this. Win-win. Read moreHonda Motorcycle and Scooter India Pvt. Ltd. on Monday has announced that it has sold more than 5 crore two-wheelers in India since 2001. The Honda Activa scooter has played a crucial role in achieving this milestone. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-congress-announces-protest-over-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-and-all-the-latest-news-101633345569134.html
04-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri incident: Priyanka Gandhi illegally detained, says Cong||The Congress on Monday lashed out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) led Union government over the detention of Priyanka Gandhi, who was on her way to Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri.As many as eight people were killed in Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday after violence erupted during a farmers’ protest ahead of a visit by Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. The deceased included four farmers and four occupants of the vehicles that allegedly ran over the farmers.Priyanka Gandhi, along with other leaders of the Congress, including Deepender Hooda, reached the Lakhimpur border on Monday morning but were not allowed to meet the families of the deceased farmers.Demanding an immediate release of Gandhi, the Congress claimed that she was illegally detained by the Uttar Pradesh police. Addressing reporters on Monday, party leader Rajiv Shukla said, “We demand the immediate release of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra who has been illegally detained. We also demand action against the policemen who misbehaved with her. ”Gandhi alleged the treatment meted out to her by the police was equivalent to kidnapping.Following her detention, she went on a hunger strike. In a 42-second video tweeted by Congress, Gandhi was seen sweeping the floor of the room where she was detained. The party described the video by saying that Priyanka’s hunger strike is for the rights of the farmers and the protection of constitutional rights. “The Bharatiya Janata Party-led government cannot crush our democratic and constitutional rights. The fight for rights will continue following the path of Mahatma Gandhi,” Congress further wrote on the microblogging site.Several senior leaders of the Congress including the likes of Mallikarjun Kharge, Salman Khurshid and Pramod Tiwari slammed Priyanka Gandhi’s detention by the Uttar Pradesh Police. Mallikarjun Kharge said the Congress general secretary was detained without any warrant.“For three times, we tried reaching Sitapur to help Priyanka Gandhi in our capacity as advocates. We were stopped, this is a gross injustice,” Salman Khurshid and Pramod Tiwari said in a joint video statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-incident-priyanka-gandhi-illegally-detained-says-cong-101633346378001.html
04-10-2021||India||Alleged post-poll violence: HC pulls up Bengal govt for not compensating victims||The Calcutta high court on Monday pulled up the West Bengal government for its failure in compensating the victims of the alleged post-poll violence in the state this year even as the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) filed a status report of its investigation into the violence. “This shows a total casual attitude of the State in a serious matter,” said a division bench of acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Rajarshi BharadwajA five-judge high court bench in August ordered separate probes by the CBI and a three-member Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the state police into the alleged violence. The court also directed the government to process the compensation for the victims of the violence.The bench said to date, the CBI has filed 40 first information reports and charge sheets related to seven of the cases. The CBI on Monday filed the first status report of the probe that the high court is monitoring.The bench also objected to the state government’s move to appoint 10 Indian Police Service officers to assist the SIT. The government told the court the officers were appointed after due consultation with the SIT members even though it failed to produce the minutes of the meeting in this regard. “No minutes of the meeting of SIT is on record,” the bench said. It added Manjula Chellur, a former chief justice of the high court who would head the SIT, was not taken into confidence before the officers were appointed.Also Read: Kolkata Police to start inspection of pandalsThe matter will be heard next on November 8.Allegations of post-poll violence started pouring from across the state after the assembly election results were declared in May. In June, the court directed the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) to constitute a committee to examine cases of alleged violence. The seven-member panel submitted its final report on July 13 slamming the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government while recommending a CBI probe and trials in the cases of violence outside the state. The NHRC report said at least 1,934 police complaints were lodged with the state police between May 2 and June 20. They included 29 complaints related to murder, 12 to rape and sexual assault, and 940 of loot and arson. The committee received around 1,979 reports involving 15,000 alleged victims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/alleged-post-poll-violence-hc-pulls-up-bengal-govt-for-not-compensating-victims-101633346107037.html
04-10-2021||India||With the corporatisation of the OFB, uncertainty and fear run high among workers||Last Wednesday was a holiday at Rifle Factory, Ishapur (RFI), 40 km from Kolkata, one of the 41 government-owned ordnance factories that will be corporatised and become units of seven State-owned companies from Thursday.
04-10-2021||India||Choose 'court or the road': SC to farmers protesting against three laws||The Supreme Court on Monday asked farmers agitating against the Centre's new agricultural laws what their protest is against, since the contentious legislations have "already been stayed." The court was hearing a petition by farmers' body, seeking permission to stage a demonstration at Jantar Mantar in Delhi."Where is the question of going on protest once a party has already approached the court challenging the validity of the laws," a bench of Justices AM Khanwilkar and CT Ravikumar asked while hearing the plea, according to a report by news agency PTI.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta also argued, "Once the matter is before the highest constitutional court, nobody can be on the streets on the same issue."Advocate Ajay Chaudhary, who was arguing on behalf of the petitioner, Kisan Mahapanchayat, clarified his stand and said that the protests are not limited to the enactment of the laws. They "also seek the implementation of Minimum Support Price as a statutory right, among other issues," Chaudhary reportedly said.Referring to the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in which at least eight people, including four farmers, were killed India’s Attorney General KK Venugopal argued that the protests cannot go on forever. The bench agreed with the Attorney General and said, "exactly! Nobody takes responsibility when such incidents happen."The bench further said that the petitioner could "either challenge the law in court or protest on road," LiveLaw reported. “Either choose the court or the road," the bench reportedly remarked.The court October 21 as the next date of hearing.‘Kisan Mahapanchayat’, a unified body of farmers and agriculturists, and its president are seeking directions to the authorities to provide space to at least 200 protesters at Jantar Mantar for a peaceful and non-violent demonstration.They are protesting against the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 and Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020.The three legislations were enacted last year in September and since then the farmers have taken to the streets, demanding repeal of the laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/choose-court-or-the-road-supreme-court-to-farmers-protesting-against-3-laws-101633344118228.html
04-10-2021||India||No mention of Covid-19 as cause of death in certificate not sole ground to deny ex-gratia: SC||The Supreme Court said that state governments cannot deny ex-gratia compensation of ₹50,000 as per the recommendations of the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) to the kin of those who succumbed to Covid-19 on grounds that the death certificate does not mention it as cause.“No states shall deny ex gratia on ground that in the death certificate cause of death is not mentioned that ‘died due to Covid’,” the bench said.A bench of Justices MR Shah and AS Bopanna also ordered the states and the Centre to publicise the scheme widely in print and electronic media for larger reach. The bench on Monday also said that the compensation will reach the next of the kin of the deceased within 30 days after an application is submitted while highlighting that the compensation will be disbursed from the state disaster relief funds.The bench, while approving the NDMA guidelines, also said that in cases where the death certificate has been issued and a family member is aggrieved, they are allowed to approach appropriate authority.The authorities can also modify death certificates on production of essential documents, such as the RT-PCR test, and said that if families still face grievances they can approach the Grievance Redressal Committee.The apex court ordered that the Grievance Redressal Committee can examine medical records of deceased patients and take a call within 30 days and order the compensation. The NDMA earlier recommended that ₹50,000 be given to the kin of those who died due to Covid-19.The NDMA said that the ex-gratia assistance will also be given to the family members of those who died of the virus due to involvement in Covid-19 relief operations or activities associated with the preparedness for dealing with the coronavirus pandemic.The government said that NDMA issued the guidelines on September 11 in compliance with the directions given by the Supreme Court on June 30 wherein it directed the authority to recommend the guidelines for ex-gratia assistance.In its affidavit, filed on a batch of pleas by advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal and intervenors represented by advocate Sumeer Sodhi seeking ex-gratia assistance to family members of Covid-19 victims, the Centre said the NDMA has already started discussions and consultations on the recommendation of the 15th Finance Commission regarding insurance intervention.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cant-deny-ex-gratia-if-death-certificate-lacks-mention-of-covid-19-as-cause-sc-101633344522427.html
04-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Congress announces protest across country tomorrow||The Congress on Monday demanded the immediate release of party leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra who, the party alleged, was detained illegally by the Uttar Pradesh Police. Addressing a press conference, the Congress said “the practice of preventing political leaders from free movement is very hazardous”. The Congress stressed said they would hold protests outside the offices of district magistrates in all districts of the country on Tuesday to protest against the Lakhimpur Kheri violence."Tomorrow, there will be a gherao of DM's office in every district across the country. It will become a countrywide movement. I demand the Prime Minister and UP chief minister take strict action against those responsible," Congress leader Rajiv Shukla said in Delhi.The Congress also demanded the immediate dismissal of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra and the arrest of his son, who has been named in the FIR lodged by Uttar Pradesh Police after the death of eight persons including four farmers in violent clashes in Lakhimpur Kheri."We demand that union minister Ajay Mishra should be dismissed immediately and his son be arrested forthwith. We also demand the immediate release of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra who has been illegally detained. We also demand action against the policemen who misbehaved with her," Congress leader Rajiv Shukla told reporters.The party went on to demand a probe on how other people died in the violence, asserting farmers should not be held responsible.The Congress leader also said Priyanka Gandhi should be released immediately and allowed to go to Lakhimpur Kheri and meet the affected farmers."Chief minister of Punjab Charanjit Singh Channi and Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel should also be allowed to visit the affected families," Shukla said. This came after the Uttar Pradesh administration denied permission to Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh to visit the violence-hit district. The Chhattisgarh chief minister was also denied permission to land his plane at the Lucknow airport earlier in the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-congress-announces-protest-across-country-tomorrow-101633339398126.html
04-10-2021||India||Congress, AIUDF turncoats get BJP tickets for Assam by-elections||An All-India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) and two Congress lawmakers, who resigned from the assembly to join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), have been allotted the ruling party’s tickets for October 30 by-elections in Assam. By-polls are being held for five seats. The BJP has left two seats for its alliance partner United Peoples Party Liberal (UPPL).Arun Singh, a BJP national general secretary, said Phanidhar Talukdar will contest from Bhabanipur while Rupjyoti Kurmi and Sushanta Borgohain from Mariani and Thowra. Kurmi, an influential leader from the tea-tribe community who has won the Mariani seat four consecutive times since 2006, was the first lawmaker to quit Congress in June this year after the assembly polls. He joined the BJP the same month. Borgohain, a two-time lawmaker from Thowra quit the Congress and joined the BJP days later. The two said they were unhappy with Congress’s functioning and wanted to develop their constituencies by joining the ruling party. With their departure, Congress’s strength in the 126-member House came down to 27.In August, Talukdar, the lone Hindu AIUDF lawmaker from Bhabanipur, quit the party and switched sides to the BJP. The move left AIUDF with 15 seats.Also Read: Assam Congress suspends MLA arrested for provocative statementsUPPL has named Jiran Basumatary and Jolen Daimary as its candidates for by-polls from the Gossaigaon and Tamulpur seats. The seats fell vacant due to the deaths of Bodoland Peoples’ Front lawmaker Majendra Narzary (Gossaigaon) and UPPL’s Leho Ram Boro (Tamulpur).The opposition parties are yet to finalise their candidates for the by-polls. The Congress is planning to contest four of the five seats and AIUDF two. The two parties, which were part of an alliance for the assembly polls, are contesting the by-elections separately.October 8 is the last date for filing nominations for the by-elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-aiudf-turncoats-get-bjp-tickets-for-assam-byelections-101633344067022.html
04-10-2021||India||Pandora papers: Oxfam India calls for abolishing tax havens||Oxfam India called for immediately abolishing tax havens after a leak of millions of documents, dubbed the 'Pandora Papers', revealed offshore financial assets of wealthy individuals across 91 countries and territories, including India.The leaked documents and a worldwide journalistic partnership on Sunday claimed to have uncovered financial secrets of current and former world leaders, politicians and public officials.The 'Pandora Papers' have named 300 Indians, including Sachin Tendulkar, Anil Ambani, Nirav Modi and Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw.Calling for abolishing tax havens, Amitabh Behar, CEO of Oxfam India, said this is another shocking exposé of the oceans of money sloshing around the darkness of the world's tax havens that must prompt immediate action, as has long been promised. Whenever a politician or business leader claims there is 'no money' to pay for health, education, climate damage, innovation and for a fair post-Covid recovery, they know where to look, he said."Tax havens cost governments around the world USD 427 billion each year. Developing countries are being hardest hit, proportionately. Corporations and the wealthiest individuals that use tax havens are outcompeting those who don't. Tax havens also help crime and corruption to flourish," he said.Behar said such tax havens continue to stretch global inequality to the breaking point while the world experiences the largest increase in extreme poverty in decades. "Abolishing tax havens can go a long way towards ensuring that government actually have the access to tax revenue they need to fund quality public expenditure, however at the same time governments must continue to spend more on social welfare and public services as a larger proportion of existing budget allocations to at least provide the bare minimum of services of health and education for all," he said. Oxfam demanded ending tax secrecy on individuals, offshores and multinational corporations. "Set up a public register on the real owners of bank accounts, trusts, shell companies and assets. Require multinational corporations to publicly report their accounts where they do business, country-by-country. Increasing the use of automatic exchange, allowing revenue authorities access to information they need to track the money," the Oxfam said in a statement.The International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ), which involved the BBC and 'The Guardian' newspaper in the UK and 'The Indian Express' in India among 150 media outlets in its investigation, claims it obtained the trove of more than 11.9 million confidential files to find secret financial dealings of many super rich.The 'Pandora Papers' are a follow-up to a similar project released in 2016, called the 'Panama Papers' compiled by the same journalistic group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pandora-papers-oxfam-india-calls-for-abolishing-tax-havens-101633342978623.html
04-10-2021||India||Continuous dialogue needed between farmers, party and govt: Varun Gandhi||Three-time Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Member of Parliament Varun Gandhihas said communication between farmers protesting against the three farm laws and the government has to be a continuous process. In an interview with HT a day after eight people died in violence that erupted in Lakhimpur Kheri during a farmer protest, he sought action against the perpetrators and cautioned against using pejorative terms for any community. Edited excerpts:In a letter to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, you have sought strict action against those responsible for violence in Lakhimpur Kheri. Earlier too you wrote to the chief minister for adopting a more humane approach towards the farmers. Has the BJP erred in its outreach to break the logjam with the protesting farmers?At no point in time should there be a break in communication with our farmers. There has to be non-stop dialogue between the farmers, the party, and the government. These farmers are our own and we cannot view them as the other. Doing so will have far-reaching consequences on both national and food security. We must bend over backwards as a government and as a party to see their concerns are addressed. It is possible that some concerns may appear difficult to achieve in the short term but attempts to redress their concerns has to be a non-stop process.Does the government need to revisit its outreach?There cannot be an antagonistic posture. The farmers need to feel that they are equal stakeholders in the government, in shaping the national agenda and in setting the narrative on issues that concern them. Today, if they feel they are not equal stakeholders, then we must work doubly hard to reinvigorate this relationship.Does the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri point towards administrative failure?The violence was a result of crime by an individual or by a group of individuals. It is not an administrative failure nor is it the administration hitting out at the farmers or being aggressive. People who are behind this should be jailed and I am confident that they will be punished. However, I can also say with confidence that this is not a breakdown of law and order.Leaders of opposition parties who tried to reach the area were stopped by the administration. Whether it is leaders from the Congress or the Samajwadi Party, they are not being allowed to move freely...I support the free movement for anybody and the freedom to voice their concern on anything they have to say. However, since I know the area very well, the situation is a little fragile right now and the opposition leaders must understand that while they have to speak on the issue…they need to be careful about their reactions because they should not further inflame or aggravate the situation.Also Read: ‘Nobody takes responsibility when…’: Supreme Court on Lakhmipur Kheri incidentThere is a section of people in your party who have linked the ongoing farmers’ agitation to extremist movements. A party spokesperson blamed Khalistani elements for the violence on Sunday...This is not just unfair but also dangerous. This is a community that has laid down lives for the country, generation after generation. There is a historical record of their sacrifices. Punjab has had a troubled history but has been peaceful for the past decade and a half. When we talk of a community in derogatory or pejorative terms, it could act as a provocation for the younger generation. What we say for narrow political gains can have far-reaching consequences. This community has a disproportionately high percentage of people in the army and has always stood to protect the nation. Those who called them traitors should be ashamed of themselves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nonstop-dialogue-needed-between-farmers-party-and-govt-varun-gandhi-101633343408163.html
04-10-2021||India||Governor puts Rajasthan marriage Bill on hold amid objections||Governor Kalraj Mishra has put the Rajasthan Compulsory Registration of Marriages (Amendment) Bill on hold for further scrutiny amid objections to it that the proposed law seeks to legalise child marriages.Rights groups have called the bill passed last month retrograde. The government has maintained the bill does not legalise child marriages or prevent courts from declaring them void. The bill seeks the registration of all marriages in the state irrespective of age since 2006 as per a Supreme Court order.An official familiar with the matter said Mishra decided to have the bill examined in view of the objections from the civil society as well as opposition Bharatiya Janata Party, which staged a walkout from the assembly against it on September 17.Jodhpur-based NGO Saarthi Trust has filed the plea against the bill in the Rajasthan high court challenging the constitutional validity of the proposed legislation.Kriti Bhati, who works for Saarthi Trust that campaigns against child marriages, said the provisions of the bill are unacceptable. “It seems that the government has wrongly interpreted the Supreme Court order, which nowhere seeks to register child marriages. If the government has doubts, it should approach the court for clarification.”Also Read: Not going anywhere for 20 years, govt will complete tenure and return, says GehlotBhati, who said she has prevented 1,500 child marriages and has had 43 annulled, said the court mandated seeking public opinion and objections before amending the law, which was not done.Bhati claimed child marriages have not reduced in the state but were being underreported. “The number of such marriages would increase now with the amendment...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/governor-puts-rajasthan-marriage-bill-on-hold-amid-objections-101633342687044.html
04-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan bail hearing updates: 'NCB can't rely on WhatsApp chats', says lawyer||Actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan was produced before a local court in Mumbai on Monday for bail in connection with a drugs case. Khan, along with seven others, were arrested after a Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) raid on a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast on Saturday.Track Live Updates of the court proceedingsThe NCB brought Aryan Khan, his friends Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha to the Esplanade court on Monday afternoon after a medical checkup. A doctor at Mumbai's JJ Hospital also took their swab for RT-PCR test during the medical examination.During the hearing, Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, appearing for the NCB, sought extended custody of Khan and his two friends. “We need custody of the three accused to verify facts and their links. In a society, youngsters are worst affected by the drug menace,” he said.Aryan Khan's lawyer, Satish Maneshinde, however, said the NCB can't simply rely on WhatsApp chats and seek extended custody. He said that there is no material on record found from Khan or people related to him. Maneshinde had earlier said that his client was invited for the cruise party. "However, he did not have a boarding pass. He didn't have any seats or cabins there. Secondly, according to the seizure, nothing has been found in his possession. He is arrested only based on chats."An NCB team busted a rave party on the cruise ship which was on its way to Goa at mid-sea on Saturday night. The raid was carried out after a tip-off, an NCB official said.Eight persons were detained for questioning by the NCB in connection with the drug seizure on the cruise ship, according to NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede. All of them were arrested on Sunday.The three accused including Aryan Khan, Arbaz Seth Merchant, and Munmun Dhamecha were produced before Mumbai's Esplanade Court which sent them to NCB custody till October 4.As per the NCB, three persons have been booked under Section 8C, 20B, 27 (Punishment for consumption of any narcotic drug or psychotropic substance) and 35 (Presumption of culpable mental state) of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS Act).Section 8C of NDPS Act refers to prohibition to produce, manufacture, possess, sell, purchase, transport, warehouse, use, consume, import inter-State, export inter-State, import into India, export from India or tranship any narcotic drug or psychotropic substance while Section 20B deals with punishment for producing, manufacturing, possessing, selling, purchasing, transportation, imports inter-State, exports inter-State or use of cannabis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-aryan-khan-get-bail-hearing-begins-in-mumbai-court-101633342017747.html
04-10-2021||India||Exclusive: Need visa to go to UP, asks Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Monday wondered if a visa was required to enter Uttar Pradesh after the Yogi Adityanath government refused to allow his flight to land at Lucknow airport on their way to Lakhimpur Kheri where at least eight persons, including four farmers, were killed in violent clashes on Sunday.In an exclusive interview with Hindustan Times, Baghel, who has been appointed as a senior observer of the All India Congress Committee (AICC) for the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly elections, said the visit of Congress leaders to violence-hit district to express solidarity with the families of aggrieved farmers should not be seen through the prism of politics.The UP administration asked the Lucknow airport authorities to now allow the flights of Baghel and Punjab deputy CM Sukhjinder S Randhawa to land on its premises, following which the leaders have decided to take the road route on their way to the poll-bound state where the Congress is looking to make a comeback, led by Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and team.When asked about the BJP government’s claims that the Opposition was indulging in tragedy tourism, Baghel said, “The first thing is nobody can deny the incident happened. The BJP government has been exposed. Now, when political leaders are trying to go there, they are being stopped. This is wrong. Priyanka Gandhi is being harassed without any warrant for going there. ”Also read |  ₹45L and job for victim’s kin, judicial probe: Lakhimpur Kheri farmers agree to cremate bodies“Is there no right of citizens? Do we need a visa to go to UP? When something happens in other states, do the BJP leaders don’t pay a visit? When they do, it’s fine, when others do, it’s politics?” he further said.When asked about the impact of Congress leaders taking a stand on issues like the farm laws and the Hathras gangrape, but the same not having any impact electorally, he said, “Why should everything be linked with elections? Wherever there is injustice, the Congress is fighting there. We stand in solidarity with farmers and that’s why Congress leaders are heading to Lakhimpur Kheri.”He also hit out at Haryana chief minister for asking party workers to pick up sticks against protesting farmers, adding that it was on the same day that eight persons were killed in their neighbouring state. “The three black farms laws passed by have been opposed by several states like Chhattisgarh, Punjab, Rajasthan and West Bengal. Farmers have been protesting against the same for months now and their CM makes such a statement. The killing of farmers was a horrible incident and we cannot criticise it enough. Rahul Gandhi was the first person to raise his voice against it,” he added. He, however, refused to say much about the recent political developments in Punjab, while asserting the same would not happen in Chhattisgarh.“No question of Punjab situation replicating in Chhattisgarh. All issues are being looked into,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/exclusive-need-visa-to-go-to-up-asks-chhattisgarh-cm-bhupesh-baghel-101633339310922.html
04-10-2021||India||Mufti claims govt uses Section 144 to stifle dissent over violation of rights||Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti on Monday said the imposition of Code of Criminal Procedure’s Section 144, which prohibits the gathering of over four people, wherever “human rights and dignity is trampled” has emerged as the government’s preferred approach. “This government shows no hesitation in using an iron fist with its own people but welcomes Chinese troops with open arms,” Mufti said in a tweet.She did not provide the context to her tweet. But it came as Section 144 was imposed in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri to prevent opposition leaders from going there to meet families of people killed in the violence during a farmer protest on Sunday. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was detained en route to Lakhimpur Kheri on Monday.Also Read: Panel to look into Mehbooba Mufti’s letter over ‘harassment’ of scribesMufti said the situation cannot even be compared with the “oppression unleashed” in Jammu and Kashmir since the nullification of the region’s semi-autonomous status in 2019 but the “common denominators” are obvious. “What started in J&K (Jammu and Kashmir) was sadly met with an air of indifference & has now engulfed the entire country. When will we speak up?” she said in another tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mufti-claims-govt-uses-section-144-to-stifle-dissent-over-violation-of-rights-101633336626517.html
04-10-2021||India||'Nobody takes responsibility when…': Supreme Court on Lakhmipur Kheri incident||The Supreme Court on Monday expressed regret over the violence in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri, calling it unfortunate. The top court said that nobody takes responsibility when something like this happens.Track Live Updates"Nobody takes responsibility when such unfortunate incidents take place," the court said in its observation. It was hearing a petition filed by Kisan Mahapanchayat seeking permission to hold protest (which it calls Satyagrah) at Jantar Mantar in Delhi.Attorney General KK Venugopal, who was appearing for the Centre, said that there should be no further protests to prevent incidents like Lakhimpur Kheri.Venugopal also expressed regret at Sunday's violence. "Such unfortunate incidents should not happen. The protests must stop," he said.The top court, meanwhile, said that it will examine whether a person/party who has moved a constitutional court be also allowed to protest against the same issue, and posted the matter for hearing on October 21.The Uttar Pradesh government on Monday suspended internet services and barred politicians from entering Tikonia in Lakhimpur Kheri where eight people were killed in a deadly escalation of a year-long demonstration against contentious agriculture laws.Tikonia is nearly 70 kilometres from the Lakhimpur Kheri district headquarters and very close to the India-Nepal border.Eight people were killed in the violence - four of them farmers. The protesters have claimed that a car from the convoy of the son of Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni ran over the protesters who were returning after staging a protest against the Centre’s new farm laws. The other four were beaten up by the protesters, according to the police.The minister has denied that his son was in the car when it ran over the protesters.Meanwhile, the Uttar Pradesh government held negotiations with the protesting farmers, led by farmer leader Rakesh Tikait, and agreed to fulfill all their demands, including compensation for the families of the farmers killed and government job for kin. The minister and his son have been booked by the police based on a complaint by the farmers.After the agreement, the farmers have allowed the administration to go ahead with the final rites of the protesters who were killed on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nobody-takes-responsibility-when-supreme-court-on-lakhmipur-kheri-incident-101633335255896.html
04-10-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra detained on her way to Lakhimpur Kheri||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was on Monday detained in Uttar Pradesh’s Sitapur even as she managed to evade police deployed at multiple points en route to neighbouring Lakhimpur Kheri, where she planned to meet the families of the people killed in the violence during a farmer protest on Sunday. The violence was triggered after a car hit protesting farmers.There was a brief altercation when police tried to stop Priyanka Gandhi in Lucknow and later near Hargaon along the Sitapur-Lakhimpur border. She was eventually detained along with Congress leaders including Member of Parliament Deepender Singh Hooda. In a video Congress spokesperson Anshu Awasthi released to the media, she is seen questioning police for stopping her without any order for detention or arrest and allegedly misbehaving with her. She wondered why police were stopping them even as the number of people going with her to Lakhimpur Kheri was only four.Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which prohibits the gathering of over four people, was imposed in Lakhimpur Kheri after the violence.Priyanka Gandhi said the treatment meted out to her amounted to kidnapping. “Are you going to kidnap me? Does this have legal status? ...I do not understand this. Arrest me if you want. I will readily go with you. You are trying to forcibly push me. This is physical assault, attempt to kidnap, attempt to molest, attempt to harm. You dare not touch me. Get an arrest warrant from your officers and ministers,” she said. “You should know how to behave with the women. You may have not the rule of law in your state. But there is the rule of law in this country. You have tried to push me. You have no right to do this.”Also Read: After Lakhimpur Kheri incident, Ghaziabad police shuts UP-GatePriyanka Gandhi, who flew to Lucknow on Sunday, was initially stopped at her residence. As she tried to leave for Lakhimpur Kheri around midnight, police were deployed outside her house. Congress workers shouted slogans such as “awaz do hum ek hain (we are united)” as the police refused to allow her vehicle to leave for Lakhimpur Kheri. After a brief altercation, Priyanka Gandhi managed to cross a police cordon and walked some distance as the workers continued to raise slogans. She later got into her vehicle and left for Lakhimpur Kheri. By about 12.30 am, she crossed Ataria and entered the Sitapur district. “As she changed her vehicle on the way, the police were unable to stop her at Itaunja, where most of Congress leaders following her stopped around 12.50 am. She changed the route and reached Hargaon via Sidhauli and Biswan,” said Awasthi.Uttar Pradesh Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu said police misbehaved with and pushed Priyanka Gandhi and Hooda. “...detained us at Hargaon (Sitapur) near the Sitapur-Lakhimpur border in early hours on Monday. We have been brought to a PAC (Provincial Armed Constabulary) training camp in Sitapur district.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-gandhi-detained-at-sitapur-en-route-to-lakhimpur-kheri-101633335666340.html
04-10-2021||India||Supertech's plea to save one Emerald Court tower rejected by Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Monday dismissed real estate major Supertech's application to save one of the two 40-storey towers in its Emerald Court project in Noida, that were ordered to be razed over grave illegalities.The company had sought modification in the court's order to allow it to only partially demolish 224 flats of one tower along with its community area on the ground floor to conform with the building norms.The apex court said that grant of such a relief is in the nature of a review of the judgement of this court and in various decisions.“The underlying basis of the proposed modifications is that if the same are allowed, it would save crores of resources from going to waste inasmuch as the applicant has already put materials worth crores of rupees in the construction of the Towers T-16 (Apex) and T-17 (Ceyane),” the company has said, while clarifying that it was not seeking review of the top court's order.But the bench of Justices DY Chandrachud and BV Nagarathna said that there is no substance in the application filed by Supertech Ltd and hence it is dismissed.The order to demolish the towers in Noida's Sector 93A was given by a Supreme Court bench led by Justice Chandrachud-led bench on August 31. In its order, the top court had said that it was a result of “nefarious complicity” between Noida Authority and the real estate developer.The court had also directed Supertech to refund money to all the existing home-buyers in Emerald Court’s Apex and Ceyane towers within two months, along with an interest of 12 per cent per annum from the date of their deposits.Supertech later approached the Supreme Court to stop the demolition, saying that it has an alternative plan that could save several crores of rupees from going waste and also prove to be “beneficial for the environment”.Two days after the Supreme Court gave the demolition order, the Uttar Pradesh government constituted a special investigation team (SIT), which found 26 officials of Noida Authority guilty in the case. Of these, 20 have retired, two are dead and four are still serving.Based on SIT report, the state government suspended three officials on Sunday. It also directed that an FIR be lodged with the state vigilance commission against these officials, four directors and two architects of Supertech Limited.The SIT said in its report that Supertech encroached a "green belt" which was part of the layout plan, measuring 7,000 square metres as "land plots", for which a departmental inquiry against Noida Authority officials is already in progress.Residents of the housing project claimed their consent was not taken for the twin towers which were being built in violation of norms, and moved court.The Allahabad high court had in 2014 ordered demolition of the twin towers - an order which the Supreme Court upheld this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supertechs-plea-to-save-one-emerald-court-tower-rejected-by-supreme-court-101633333940565.html
04-10-2021||India||Assam Congress suspends MLA arrested for provocative statements||The Congress suspended Assam legislator Sherman Ali Ahmed from the party for making provocative statements after party MLAs sought he be disciplined following the Baghbar MLA’s arrest on Saturday. Assam Congress general secretary Bobbeeta Sharma said on Monday that state unit president Bhupen Kumar Borah suspended the MLA “with immediate effect for repeatedly violating party discipline”. On Sunday, Assam Congress Legislature Party (CLP) had recommended disciplinary action against Ahmed on the same charge. The Congress had earlier issued a show cause notice to Ahmed for “damaging the party’s image” ahead of by-polls in the state and for “making communally sensitive comments with the intent to destroy social harmony”. Ahmed was arrested on Saturday for making provocative statements over last month’s violent eviction drive in Darrang district that claimed two lives. He was remanded to two days in police custody by a city court on Sunday. Also Read: NDA aims to improve tally in bye-elections to 10 assembly seatsThe legislator has been charged under Section 153 and 153 A of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language etc. Last week, Ahmed had justified the killing of 8 people in Darrang district around four decades back at the height of the statewide agitation against illegal infiltrators. Those killed are regarded as martyrs in Assam. The killings had taken place near the site of the recent eviction drive on September 23 at Dholpur-3 village in Darrang district. Two people died and nearly 20 others including 11 policemen were injured in the eviction drive. Around 1,200 families, most of them Bengali-speaking Muslims residing on government land for decades, were evicted from the area to establish an ambitious agriculture project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-congress-suspends-mla-arrested-for-provocative-statements-101633334166137.html
04-10-2021||India||₹45L and job for victim’s kin, judicial probe: Lakhimpur Kheri farmers agree to cremate bodies||Talks between the administration and protesting farmers, led by Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait, ended on a “positive note” on Monday as agitations continued to spread across parts of north India over the deaths of at least eight persons, including four ryots, in a violent clash that erupted at Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh on Sunday.According to the agreement reached, the government will give ₹45 lakh and a job to families of the four deceased farmers, while the injured will receive an aid of ₹10 lakh each. The jobs will be given in tandem with the qualifications of the family members. The farmers have now allowed the administration to go ahead with the final rites of the deceased.Also read | Detained on her way to Lakhimpur Kheri, Priyanka Gandhi offers ‘shramdaan’Additional director general of police (law and order) Prashant Kumar, who was part of the five rounds of negotiations, said, the first information report (FIR) will be registered based on the farmers' complaint. The demand on FIR has already been met. Also, a retired high court judge will investigate the violence, he added.Tikait was one of the very few prominent faces allowed to enter the restive area since Sunday evening even as leaders of Opposition parties continued to make several efforts to meet the aggrieved families. Among them Priyanka Gandhi has decided to continue her agitation in detention, while Samajwadi Party leaders Akhilesh Yadav and Ramgopal Yadav have been taken into police custody as they staged a sit-in over Akhilesh’s house arrest.Also read | Missing local journalist among victims of violence in Lakhimpur KheriPunjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi also vowed to visit Lakhimpur Kheri “in solidarity with bereaved families of farmers,” while his Chhattisgarh counterpart Bhupesh Baghel asked whether civil rights have been suspended in Uttar Pradesh on being denied permission to land at Lucknow airport. Also read | 'Political tourism': UP minister says politics over bodies won't help oppositionOfficials said political leaders like Gandhi and Yadav others were not being allowed to come to Lakhimpur Kheri because of the prohibitory orders in place, adding Tikait and other farmer leaders were engaging in negotiations.Among senior officials present for the talks were additional chief secretary (agriculture) Devesh Chaturvedi, inspector general (Lucknow) Laxmi Singh and ADG (Lucknow) SN Sabat.(With inputs from bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-45l-and-job-for-victim-s-kin-judicial-probe-lakhimpur-kheri-stalemate-ends-101633333343533.html
04-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Haryana farmers to protest at district headquarters||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella group of farm unions spearheading the agitation against the three farm laws enacted last year, has asked farmers of Haryana to hold protests at district headquarters against the violence that broke out during a farmer protest in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri. Eight people were killed in the violence that was triggered after a car hit protesting farmers on Sunday.In a video message, Bhartiya Kisan Union’s Haryana chief Gurnam Singh Charuni called for three-hour protests. He asked farmers to submit memoranda to the deputy commissioners addressed to President Ram Nath Kovind seeking action against the Bharatiya Janata Party leaders allegedly involved in the violence. He asked the farmers to demand the resignation of Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar for seeking tit-for-tat action against the farmers opposing the farm laws.Also Read: Punjab CM seeks permission to go to Lakhmipur Kheri, 6 taken into custodyHoshiar Singh Gill, a farmer leader, said they will hold a protest at the Kaithal district headquarters and wait for further order in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-haryana-farmers-to-protest-at-district-headquarters-101633332366063.html
04-10-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Bhupesh Baghel not allowed to land at Lucknow airport and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Monday slammed the Uttar Pradesh government for denying his plane permission to land at the Lucknow airport as he was scheduled to visit Lakhimpur Kheri a day after eight people were killed there in violence that broke out after a car hit protesting farmers. He questioned whether civil rights have been abolished in Uttar Pradesh. Read moreThe incident of violence in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri is resonating politically in Punjab, whose farmers have been protesting at national capital Delhi's borders against the three farm laws passed by the Centre. Read moreJapan’s Fumio Kishida was appointed prime minister by parliament Monday, and is set to reveal a new cabinet lineup as he seeks to revive support for his ruling party ahead of a general election that could likely come this month. Read moreThe Indian Premier League 2021 contest between Royal Challengers Bangalore and Punjab Kings saw a controversial moment played out when opener Devdutt Padikkal was handed a lifeline by the third umpire. The moment took place in the 8th over when Padikkal appeared to nick a delivery from spinner Ravi Bishnoi to PBKS captain and wicketkeeper KL Rahul behind the stumps. Read moreTata Punch was officially unveiled on Monday and is gearing up for an India launch on October 20. Tata Motors underlined the growing preference for SUVs in the country and added that Punch SUV would be able to cater to the needs of a vehicle with a solid road presence, feature-packed cabin and ability to navigate varied terrains, all in a compact overall proportion. Read moreShardiya Navratri is just round the corner and many of us will be fasting on all nine days dedicated to Goddess Durga's nine avatars. While fasting is a good way to detox, it can also make us sluggish or sleepy as we are not having enough salt or food. But we certainly don't want to feel that way as there is so much to do in Navratri and a lot of get-togethers and events to attend. Read moreAishwarya Rai Bachchan walked the ramp for a cosmetic brand at the Paris Fashion Week on Sunday. With the Eiffel Tower in the background, a host of stars congregated in celebration of ‘women all over the world’ and walked the ramp for the Le Defile L'Oreal Paris 2021 Womenswear Spring/Summer 2022 show in Paris, France. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-bhupesh-baghel-not-allowed-to-land-at-lucknow-airport-and-all-the-latest-news-101633331149883.html
04-10-2021||India||After Lakhimpur Kheri incident, Ghaziabad police shuts UP-Gate||In the aftermath of the Lakhimpur Kheri violence which led to death of eight persons including four protesting farmers on Sunday, the Ghaziabad police on Monday shutdown UP-Gate border with Delhi as a precautionary measure. The UP-Gate is a major protest venue for farmers opposed to the Central farm laws and the Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway of the Delhi Meerut Expressway, passing through the site, has remained close since December last year. Farmers’ leaders from UP-Gate rushed to Lakhimpur Kheri after four farmers, who were among a group protesting against the Central farm laws, were allegedly mowed down by a convoy of vehicles linked with a Union minister on Saturday evening. Police say in retaliation, farmers beat four occupants of one of the vehicles in the convoy to death. The incident has led to hightened tensions and generated of a lot of political heat over the matter. Farmers protesting at the UP Gate too were reported anguished at the developments. The Ghaziabad police said movement of traffic on Delhi-Ghaziabad carriageway has been stopped as a precautionary measure. “We have shut down the expressway with the help of barricades and it has been done to maintain law and order. The barricading will continue, and we will take stock of the situation before removing them. Commuters can enter Ghaziabad using the Anand Vihar-Kaushambi border and there is no restriction there. Our teams are in touch with the protesting farmers at UP-Gate and the situation is peaceful,” said Gyanendra Kumar Singh, superintendent of police (city 2). The Delhi traffic police have also issued an alert about the closure of National Highway 9 and the Delhi Meerut Expressway at the UP-Gate. The farmers in Ghaziabad, on a call given by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, will also gather at the district headquarters to protest against the death of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri. “Many of our leaders including Rakesh Tikait and others are already there in Kheri and here we are keeping an eye over the developments. There is a sense of anger among protesting farmers here, but we have asked them to remain peaceful. Our Dharna at district headquarters will start soon,” said Rajbir Singh, state vice-president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU). Also Read: Punjab CM seeks permission to go to Lakhmipur Kheri, 6 taken into custodyThe farmers have been protesting at the UP-Gate since November last year, demanding rollback of the three farm laws and passage of a new law to strengthen the minimum support price (MSP) regime. As national highway number 24 and 9 have been closed because of farmers’ protests over Lakhimpur Kheri deaths, the Delhi Traffic police have made some traffic diversions for motorists travelling between Delhi and Ghaziabad through the UP Gate and issued an advisory. As per the advisory, motorists coming from Sarai Kale Khan have been asked to use Vikas Marg via road numbers 57 A and 56 to reach Anand Vihar, from where they can take the Ghazipur paper market stretch to enter Ghaziabad. A traffic police officer said motorists going towards Ghaziabad are being allowed to use the Delhi-Meerut Expressway till Ghazipur roundabout and are then diverted towards Anand Vihar railway station road. The carriageways of the expressway coming towards Delhi are closed since November last year due to the farmers’ protest at the UP Gate. (with inputs from Karn Pratap Singh)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-lakhimpur-kheri-incident-ghaziabad-police-shuts-upgate-101633331885984.html
04-10-2021||India||Detained on her way to Lakhimpur Kheri, Priyanka Gandhi offers ‘shramdaan’||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was taken into custody on Monday morning along with party lawmaker Deependra Singh Hooda and others as she was on her way to Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri district to visit the families of those who were killed during Sunday’s violence, according to officials. After an altercation with the police, Priyanka Gandhi was detained and taken into custody near Hargaon on the Sitapur-Lakhimpur border. President on the Congress’ Uttar Pradesh unit, Ajay Kumar Lallu, said Priyanka Gandhi, Hooda, MLC Deepak Singh were brought to a PAC training camp in Sitapur.“A picture of struggle. Mrs Priyanka Gandhi has been kept in custody at this guesthouse in Sitapur,” the Congress party’s media arm tweeted along with a video of the leader. Priyanka Gandhi was seen sweeping the floor of the room in the guesthouse in the 42-second clip. According to a Congress spokesperson, Priyanka has said she won't go back without meeting the victims’ families and farmers. A large number of Congress workers were seen assembling outside the place of detention in her support.संघर्ष की तस्वीर....सीतापुर के इसी गेस्टहाउस में श्रीमती प्रियंका गांधी को हिरासत में रखा गया है।#Lakhimpur#किसान #lakhimpurkhiri pic.twitter.com/pWLNgItMsxAjay Kumar Lallu said earlier that the police misbehaved with and pushed Priyanka Gandhi “unnecessarily”. Priyanka Gandhi was also seen questioning the police for stopping her without any order for detention or arrest and accused the police officers of misbehaving with her. She said the police treatment amounted to kidnapping and molestation. Also read | Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Union min Ajay Mishra, son booked for murder“Are you going to kidnap me. Is it your legal status? Don’t think, I don’t understand this? Arrest me if you want. I will readily go with you,” she was heard saying in one of the videos tweeted by the party. “You are trying to forcibly push me. This is physical assault, attempt to kidnap, attempt to molest, attempt to harm. You dare not touch me. Get an arrest warrant from your officers and ministers,” she said.Also read | Lakhimpur Kheri violence resonates in Punjab, protests held across statePriyanka, who landed at Lucknow airport on Sunday night, was initially stopped at her residence and as she tried to leave for Lakhimpur Kheri. Later, a large posse of police was deployed outside and a brief altercation ensued. She came out of the house and soon left for Lakhimpur Kheri.Several opposition leaders, including Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, are scheduled to visit Lakhimpur Kheri. The Uttar Pradesh government has urged Lucknow airport authorities not to allow Bhupesh Baghel to land. Meanwhile, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav and senior leader Ram Gopal Yadav were detained in Lucknow.As many as eight people, including four farmers and four others, died in the Lakhimpur Kheri during violence after a farmers protest on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/detained-on-her-way-to-lakhimpur-kheri-priyanka-gandhi-offers-shramdaan-101633330701159.html
04-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Varun Gandhi writes to Adityanath, demands probe||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Varun Gandhi has urged Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath to take strict action against the culprits of the Lakhimpur Kheri incident and suggested a Supreme Court-monitored probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in a time-bound manner. In a letter addressed to Adityanath, the lawmaker from UP's Pilibhit also paid tributes to farmers killed in the incident and said that ₹1 crore compensation should be given to families of victims. Varun Gandhi requested Adityanath to "identify all suspects in the incident and take strict action against them by registering a murder case under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code." "In this regard, it will be suitable to bring all culprits to justice by a Supreme Court-monitored CBI probe in a time-bound manner," he said in the letter in Hindi on Sunday.The BJP leader also paid his tribute to those killed in the incident and expressed condolences to their families. "The incident of brutal mowing down of farmers protesting in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3 is heart-wrenching. It has caused rage and pain among citizens in the country... The incident is unforgivable. Protesters are our citizens. If they have problems with some issues and are protesting within their democratic rights then we should keep restraint and be patient while dealing with them," Gandhi said.लखीमपुर खीरी की हृदय-विदारक घटना में शहीद हुए किसानों को श्रद्धांजलि अर्पित करता हूँ। इस प्रकरण में उत्तर प्रदेश के मुख्यमंत्री जी से सख्त कार्यवाही करने का निवेदन करता हूँ। pic.twitter.com/e2tE1x4z3TMeanwhile, the district magistrate of Lakhimpur Kheri has imposed section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) prohibiting the assembly of five or more people at a time in the district.The UP police took to Twitter early on Monday to describe the incident as “unfortunate” and said eight casualties have been reported till now as per the district administration. Many opposition leaders who had planned to visit Lakhimpur Kheri district today were stopped by the Uttar Pradesh administration. Samajwadi Party President Akhilesh Yadav was detained following a sit-in protest outside his Vikramaditya Marg residence in Lucknow, after he was not allowed to go to Lakhimpur. Likewise, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel was today not given permission for his plane to land at the Lucknow airport. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who was on her way to Lakhimpur Kheri to visit the kin of the victims, was arrested from Hargaon. Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party (Lohia) leader Shivpal Singh Yadav was detained by the Lucknow Police.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-varun-gandhi-writes-to-adityanath-demands-probe-101633326617029.html
04-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri violence resonates in Punjab, protests held across state||The incident of violence in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri is resonating politically in Punjab, whose farmers have been protesting at national capital Delhi's borders against the three farm laws passed by the Centre.Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi has sought permission from Uttar Pradesh government to visit Lakhmipur Kheri, where eight people were killed in violence on Sunday. "Expressing solidarity with bereaved families of farmers, I'm leaving for Lakhimpur Kheri to be with my brothers & sisters in this hour of grief. I've also sought permission from UP Govt to allow landing/taking off of chopper at the site," Channi said.Lakhimpur Kheri is under Section 144 of the CrPC, which prohibits gathering of two or more people. The local administration and Uttar Pradesh Police have stopped a number of leaders from visiting the area where farmers were holding a protest. They claim that a convoy of Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni's son Ashish ran over four farmers which caused their deaths.The police say the farmers thrashed the rest of the people in the convoy which led to four more deaths.In Chandigarh, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal announced postponement of party's programme in Jalandhar for Tuesday. He has convened a meeting of core committee - SAD's top decision making body - tomorrow to decide on the further action course.Badal condemned the killing of four farmers in Lakhimpur Kehri and accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of being stubborn. He demanded that in light of the sad incident which has sparked nationwide outrage, the government should scrap the thee controversial farm laws with immediate effect.Speakign during a roadshow in Ludhiana, Badal further said that a case under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) must be registered with immediate effects against the culprits and a high-level probe should be carried out for free and fair investigation.The SAD had left the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) last year after the passage of the three farm laws. Since then, it has been supporting the farmers in their protest.A number or protests have been organised across Punjab on the call of farmer organisations to condemn the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri.The Uttar Pradesh government has, meanwhile, asked Punjab chief secretary to not let anyone from the state go to Lakhimpur Kheri, news agency ANI reported.The Uttar Pradesh Police have registered booked the Union minister and his son based on a complaint against them. Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella organisation of farmer, has sent a letter to President Ram Nath Kovind seeking the dismissal of Teni.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-resonates-in-punjab-protests-held-across-state-101633329405699.html
04-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: SKM writes to President, seeks dismissal of MoS Teni||Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Monday wrote a letter to President Ram Nath Kovind demanding the dismissal of Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra Teni from the Union Council of Ministers and constitute a Special Investigation Team (SIT) under the supervision of the Supreme Court in the brutal killing of farmers in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri.In a letter to Kovind, SKM, an umbrella body of several farmer unions, also said that the Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who is "inciting violence while holding a constitutional post, should be sacked from his post"."Union Home Minister Ajay Mishra Teni should be immediately dismissed from his post and a case should be filed against him for inciting violence and spreading communal hatred and the Union Minister's son Ashish Mishra "Monu" and his fellow goons should be immediately booked for 302 (murder) and arrested immediately," the letter reads.The farmers union further said that the whole country is outraged by the incident of the alleged brutal killing of farmers in broad daylight by mowing them down with vehicles in Lakhimpur Kheri yesterday."Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Kumar Mishra "Teni's son and his goon accomplices carried out this murderous attack in a brazen manner which shows a deep conspiracy of Uttar Pradesh and Central Governments," it said.It further said that Ajay Mishra had already built a context to this attack by giving inflammatory and derogatory speeches against the farmers.The SKM alleged, "It is no coincidence that on the same day, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar is publicly inciting his party workers to take up lathis and indulge in violence against farmers.""It is clear from these incidents that these persons sitting on constitutional posts are using their positions for planned violence against "Annadatas" doing peaceful agitation. This is a crime as per the laws of the country, against the Constitution and the country," it said.As many as eight people died in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident on Sunday, said Uttar Pradesh police.MoS Teni also said that his son was not present at the spot, adding that some miscreants mingled with protesting farmers and pelted the stones at the car which lead to the 'unfortunate incident'.Earlier on Sunday, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar asked the state unit of BJP's Kisan Morcha to 'pick up sticks' and to use 'tit for tat' methodology against the protesting farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-skm-writes-to-president-seeks-dismissal-of-mos-teni-101633328682561.html
04-10-2021||India||Baghel slams UP govt for denying him permission to land at Lucknow airport||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Monday slammed the Uttar Pradesh government for denying his plane permission to land at the Lucknow airport as he was scheduled to visit Lakhimpur Kheri a day after eight people were killed there in violence that broke out after a car hit protesting farmers. He questioned whether civil rights have been abolished in Uttar Pradesh.Baghel, who was named as Congress’s senior observer for the Uttar Pradesh polls over the weekend, questioned if Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which prohibits the gathering of over four people, is in force in Lahkimpur Kheri. “Are there no civil rights in Uttar Pradesh?… Whether a separate visa is required for going to Uttar Pradesh,” Baghel said. He added he was headed to Delhi and the strategy for visiting Uttar Pradesh will be decided after discussions with senior leaders there.A person aware of the matter said Baghel will try to reach Lucknow by Monday evening by road. “The exact plan is yet to be finalised.”Also Read: Punjab CM seeks permission to go to Lakhmipur Kheri, 6 taken into custodyEarlier in a tweet in Hindi, Baghel called unforgivable the “brutal treatment meted out to farmers in Uttar Pradesh”. “…I am a farmer… I understand the pain of the farmers. I will go to Lakhimpur tomorrow (Monday) morning to stand by them in these difficult circumstances.”Chhattisgarh health minister TS Singh Deo hit out at the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the violence. “Inhumanity is at its peak... They tried to scare the protesting farmers.... mowing down farmers... is murder in cold blood. This deserves the highest punishment for both the guilty and the instigators.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/baghel-slams-up-govt-for-denying-him-permission-to-land-en-route-to-lakhimpur-101633328587049.html
04-10-2021||India||Punjab CM seeks permission to go to Lakhimpur Kheri, 6 taken into custody: 10 points||The Uttar Pradesh government has imposed Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) in Lakhimpur Kheri to prevent huge gathering in the area where eight people were killed in violence on Sunday. The violence took place when the farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri were protesting against Centre's three farm laws; they claimed that a convoy of vehicles belonging to Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni's son Ashish "ran over" some of the protesters killing four of them.ALSO WATCH | 'Babbar Khalsa terrorists...': On Lakhimpur Kheri deaths charge, Union minister & son's defenceTrack Live UpdatesThe local police said that the other four were beaten to death by the farmers.Since the incident came to light, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led UP government has been facing the heat from opposition parties. A number of leaders who were headed to Lakhimpur Kheri have been stopped and a case registered against Teni and his son.Here are the latest developments on this big story:• A senior police officer said that the Special Task Force (STF) has been roped in to probe the Lakhimpur Kheri violence incident. He said the STF have taken as many as six people in custody in connection with the incident.• Punjab government civil aviation director has sought permission from Uttar Pradesh's additional chief secretary Awanish Awasthi for the landing the chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi's helicopter in Lakhimpur Kheri, news agency ANI reported. Channi has expressed his willingness to visit the site of the violence and meet the farmers, the Punjab official said in his letter.• The Uttar Pradesh government has, meanwhile, written to Punjab chief secretary, urging not to let anyone from the state go to Lakhimpur Kheri, ANI reported.Also Read| Chhattisgarh CM lashes out after UP govt stops him from going to Lakhimpur Kheri• Shivpal Yadav and Ramgopal Yadav, brothers of Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Mulayam Singh Yadav, were stopped by the police near Lucknow while they was heading to Lakhimpur Kheri along with their supporters. They were put on a city bus, and sent to police lines.• Earlier, his nephew and former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Akhilesh Yadav was also stopped from going to Lakhimpur Kheri. Yadav was taken into custody outside his residence where he staged a sit-in protest.• "We're taking this matter seriously and it is under investigation. The chief minister has said that culprits will be punished. Opposition is using the incident for political tourism and political competition as polls are around the corner," Uttar Pradesh minister Sidharth Nath Singh said.• The Uttar Pradesh government has started negotiations with the farmers, requesting them to end their protest. Additional chief secretary Devesh Chaturvedi is leading the negotiations from government's side.• The farmer groups have put forward four main demands during the negotiations. These are: Resignation of Ajay Mishra Teni, arrest of his son, ₹10 million compensation for the families of each of the four farmers killed in the incident, and government job for one member from each family of the deceased farmers. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella group of farmers, has even written to President Ram Nath Kovind, seeking the dismissal of the Union minister.• The Union minister has, however, claimed that his son was not present at the spot and only the jeep owned by him ferrying BJP workers was present there.• A police vehicle was earlier set on fire by a mob near Samajwadi Party office on Vikramaditya Marg in Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhmipur-kheri-punjab-cm-seeks-permission-to-visit-site-6-taken-into-custody-101633327597897.html
04-10-2021||India||Sheep farm allotment to Jammu and Kashmir tribal youth begins||To encourage sheep rearing among tribal youths, the Jammu and Kashmir government has allotted them 800 mini sheep farms.Officials said this was Union Territory’s Tribal Affairs Department’s “ambitious” project to create employment for 10,000 youths in different districts of Jammu and Kashmir. Every year more than 20 lakh sheep are slaughtered for meat in Kashmir and more than 60% of these are procured from different states of the country. “In phase-I of the sheep farming scheme, 1,500 youth have been selected for setting up of 1,500 mini sheep farms this year and it will be raised by 30% every subsequent year. The scheme aims to establish more than 10,000 such sheep farming units in the next 4 years,” said secretary, Tribal Affairs Department, Shahid Iqbal Choudhary.He said that sheep husbandry department was implementing the scheme with active participation of tribal farmers. “An awareness programme has also been initiated by the sheep husbandry department to elicit greater response in tribal areas. More than 6,000 applications were received in various districts under the flagship scheme which was launched in 13 districts for establishment of 835 mini sheep farms,” Choudhary said.He added that the scheme was 100% funded by Jammu and Kashmir Tribal Affairs Department. “5,225 applicants were found eligible under the scheme and a draw of lots was conducted in all the 13 districts to select 835 tribal youth for establishment of sheep farms. Further, every district has also maintained a small waiting list of eligible tribal youth.”Also Read: Covid warriors in Jammu and Kashmir to get weightage during recruitment of healthcare staffChoudhary said his department was working to establish 500 dairy farms and 700 additional mini sheep farms apart from 17 milk villages with support for procurement of milk chilling plants, packaging units and transportation. ”The Agriculture Skill Council of India has been roped in to impart training to 1,500 youth in phase-I of the scheme in coordination with Mission Youth and J&K Skill Development Mission. “Financial institutions have also been roped in for providing financial support to tribal youth desirous of establishing bigger sheep farms with 200-500 livestock,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sheep-farm-allotment-to-jammu-and-kashmir-tribal-youth-begins-101633327805830.html
04-10-2021||India||'Political tourism': UP minister says politics over bodies won't help opposition||Uttar Pradesh minister Sidharth Nath Singh on Monday hit out at Opposition leaders trying to make their way to Lakhimpur Kheri where at least eight persons, four among them being farmers, were killed in clashes on Sunday.While stating chief minister Yogi Adityanath had promised punishment for all the culprits, Singh said the Opposition was exploiting the tragedy to earn political points as it seemed there was a competition to visit the violence-hit district. Uttar Pradesh is set to see Assembly election next year.“We are taking this matter seriously and it is under investigation. The CM has said that culprits will be punished. The Opposition is using the incident for political tourism and political competition as polls are around the corner,” Singh was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.There is no issue in presenting your opinion. But if they want to complete their journey till 2022 election over dead bodies, then it won't happen: UP Minister Sidharth Nath Singh pic.twitter.com/2grFTbR8tLSpeaking about Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra who had a heated exchange with police personnel before her arrest in Lakhimpur Kheri early on Monday, Singh said the former was indulging in political tourism.“We've seen Priyanka Gandhi Vadra doing political tourism earlier. It is an attempt to hamper the probe and manipulate public opinion. This should not happen. They should at least wait for 24 hours or visit after there is a result of the probe,” Singh added.Also read | Priyanka Gandhi Vadra arrested from UP's Hargaon, says youth Congress leader Srinivas BVHe said that while there was no problem in expressing opinions, but trying to complete the election journey through the tragedies would not help the Opposition.“There is no issue in presenting your opinion. But if they want to complete their journey till 2022 election over bodies, then it won't happen,” Singh added.Earlier, the minister took to Twitter to term the political leaders’ visit to Lakhimpur Kheri was meant for “photo op”. "Political Tourism" and "Political Competition" of opposition parties will start with "Photo Ops" in an unfortunate incident at Lakhimpur. Law will prevail in UP," he said.Barring farmer leader Rakesh Tikait, the administration has barred all politicians from going ahead with their visit to Lakhimpur Kheri. While Samajwadi Party leaders Akhilesh Yadav and Ramgopal Yadav have been taken into custody in Lucknow, the UP administration has written to the airport authorities in the state capital to not allow Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Bhaghel and Punjab's deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa to make a landing on their premises. The duo are making efforts to go ahead with their visit by road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/political-tourism-up-minister-says-politics-over-bodies-won-t-help-opposition-101633326056545.html
04-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Here's what the farm groups are demanding||After the death of eight people in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday during a farmers' protest, the farm groups are demanding the resignation of Union minister for state home Ajay Kumar Mishra Teni. The incident happened when the farmers were protesting against the three central farm laws.According to the police, as many as eight people were killed as violence erupted after a car hit protesting farmers. They said that four farmers were killed after allegedly being hit by a convoy and four others who were travelling in one of the vehicles were beaten to death. The incident was reported minutes before Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya was to visit the area. The farmers who were agitating against the new farm laws blocked the road to oppose the deputy CM’s visit. They got infuriated after two SUVs reportedly belonging to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers hit them, leaving a number of farmers seriously injured.The Uttar Pradesh police on Monday booked Teni, his son Ashish Mishra and others for murder and other charges based on the complaint lodged by farmers who claim that the convoy belonged to Union minister's son Ashish Teni. Lakhimpur Kheri superintendent of police (SP) Vijay Dhull said the first information report (FIR) was filed under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 302 for murder, 120-B for criminal conspiracy and 147 for rioting at Tikunia police station.Here's what the farm groups are demanding:1. Resignation of Ajay Mishra.2. Arrest of Union minister's son Ashish Mishra and his accomplices.3. ₹10 million compensation for the families of each of the four farmers killed in the incident.4. Government job for a family member of the deceased farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-here-s-what-the-farm-groups-are-demanding-101633324722505.html
04-10-2021||India||Do I need visa?: Chhattisgarh CM lashes out after UP govt stops him from going to Lakhimpur Kheri||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Monday lashed out at the Uttar Pradesh government after it urged authorities at the airport in Lucknow not to allow him and Punjab deputy CM Sukhjinder S Randhawa to land ahead of their scheduled visit to Lakhimpur Kheri. Baghel questioned the order and asked whether civil rights have been suspended in Uttar Pradesh. "The government of Uttar Pradesh is issuing an order not to allow me to come to the state. Have civil rights been suspended in Uttar Pradesh? If Section 144 is in place in Lakhimpur, then why is the dictatorial government stopping someone from landing in Lucknow?" Baghel tweeted in Hindi.“Why are people being stopped from visiting Lakhimpur Kheri? Section 144 has been imposed in Lakhimpur Kheri then why isn't one allowed to land in Lucknow? Do people no longer have rights in UP? Does one need a visa to visit UP?” the Chhattisgarh chief minister also told news agency ANI.
04-10-2021||India||Delhi Traffic Police divert vehicles due to closure of National Highways 9, 24||The Delhi Traffic Police announced on Monday it is continuing traffic diversion due to closure of National Highways 9 and 24, both of which, it said, were closed by the Ghaziabad Traffic Police due to protests. “Diversion being continued is informed as under: Commuters/motorists coming from Sarai Kale Khan should take alternate roue for Ghaziabad, i.e., Vikas Marg via road 57 A, road number 56, Anand Vihar and Paper Market for Ghaziabad and Noida via DND,” it announced on its official Twitter handle.
04-10-2021||India||Akhilesh Yadav taken into custody over sit-in to protest Lakhimpur Kheri deaths||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav was taken into custody on Monday after he staged a sit-in outside his residence for being stopped from going to Lakhimpur Kheri where at least eight lives, including that of four farmers, were lost due to violence on Sunday.  The SP’s national general secretary, Ramgopal Yadav, was also detained along with Akhilesh.The duo were taken to the nearby Gautampalli police station. The former Uttar Pradesh chief minister asked what was it the BJP government in the state had to hide as it did not want any political leader to go to the violence-hit district. “Even the Britishers would not have committed the kind of atrocities this government is committing against farmers. Union Minister of State (Home) Ajay Mishra and deputy chief minister (Keshav Prasad Maurya) should resign. ₹2 crore and government jobs should be given to the next of kin of the farmers who died,” Yadav was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also read | On expected lines: Priyanka Gandhi Vadra arrested from UP's Hargaon, says youth Congress leader Srinivas BVFollowing heavy police deployment outside his house, Yadav sat on a protest with the SP’s national general secretary. A police vehicle was set on fire amid a massive gathering of SP workers.Meanwhile, his estranged uncle and Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party-Lohia (PSP-L) chief Shivpal Yadav managed to give police a slip while they were focused on Akhilesh. Shivpal's motorcade is now headed towards Lakhimpur Kheri. The duo’s house are located on the same same stretch in Lucknow -- Vikramaditya Marg.Later, Shivpal and his supporters were put on a city bus and taken to police lines.On Sunday, Akhilesh had said running over farmers who were peacefully protesting the three new central farm laws by the son of a Union minister of state was inhuman and cruel. “UP will not tolerate atrocities by arrogant BJP members...and if this state of affairs continue then in UP BJP members will not be able to travel in vehicles or get out of them,” he added in a tweet.Also read | Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Union min Ajay Mishra, son booked for murderViolence erupted after a car hit protesting farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri, according to police. They said four farmers were killed after allegedly being hit by a convoy, while some others who were travelling in one of the vehicles were beaten to death. The incident was reported minutes before Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya was scheduled to visit the area. The farmers were protesting against the three central farm laws. Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of dozens of farmers unions, has alleged one of the four farmers was shot dead by Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni's son and others were allegedly run over by the vehicles of his convoy. The minister, however, said that his son was not present at the spot and only the jeep owned by him ferrying BJP workers were there.Teni, his son and some others have been named in an FIR and charged with murder and other allegations based on the complaint lodged by farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akhilesh-yadav-taken-into-custody-over-sit-in-to-protest-lakhimpur-kheri-deaths-101633323949978.html
04-10-2021||India||Missing local journalist among victims of violence in Lakhimpur Kheri||A local journalist, who was missing since Sunday’s violence at Lakhimpur Kheri district in Uttar Pradesh, is said to have been identified as one of the victims of the clashes. While locals said the journalist’s family members had ascertained his identity when his body was taken for post mortem, official confirmation on the same was yet to be made. The deceased was identified as Raman Kashyap.At least eight persons, four among them being farmers, died in the violence that broke out in the district on Sunday following a protest to block deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya’s visit to Banbirpur village. Soon after violence and arson broke out in the area.Also read | Union minister Ajay Kumar Mishra's son, others named in FIRViolence erupted after a car hit protesting farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri, according to police. They said that four farmers were killed after allegedly being hit by a convoy and four others who were travelling in one of the vehicles were beaten to death.The violence broke out after the two SUVs allegedly ran over a group of anti-farm law protesters who were demonstrating against Maurya's visit at the Tikonia-Banbirpur road on Sunday.Also read | Cops in talks with Rakesh Tikait to help take bodies of farmers for post-mortemThe two vehicles were set ablaze by the angry farmers, reports said. They also allegedly thrashed some passengers of the vehicles.The farmers have alleged that Union minister of state Ajay Mishra Teni’s son Ashish Mishra was driving one of the vehicles that allegedly ran over the protesters.Mishra and his aides have been named in an FIR that has been filed based on complaints from the farmers.The Union minister has however, refuted all allegations against his son. The administration has barred most politicians from visiting the district even as farmer leader Rakesh Tikait made his way to the village late on Sunday night.While Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was arrested after she reached the district, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav was put under house arrest in Lucknow. (With inputs from bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-missing-journalist-among-deceased-101633319898661.html
04-10-2021||India||Mundra port seizure had a dry run on June 9, govt alarmed over drug menace||The massive Mundra port drug seizure on September 15 was a result of a painstaking investigation of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) after the same drug runners did a dry run on the Kutch port on June 9. On the night of September 14-15, the DRI seized nearly 3000 kilogrammes of Afghan heroin mixed up with talcum powder from the Mundra port, feeding a drug network extending all over India including New Delhi and Noida.According to top North Block officials, the DRI, working on the leads provided by the June 9 dry run, was able to identify the drug runners, mode of payments and principals behind the Mundra port seizure with the help of central agencies like IB, RA&W and NIA. With the seizure highlighting the extent of the drug network of Afghan nationals in India, the central government is expected to hand over the entire case to the NIA.With the links of Mundra seizure reaching the Capital, the Delhi Police have also started a new drugs-terror-underworld unit in the Special Cell with the appointment of three new DCPs in the unit. Working with the central agencies, the Delhi Police is trying to explore the deadly triad link in the Capital city where Nigerian and Afghan drug runners are active.According to security agencies, the capture of Afghanistan by the Taliban will lead to a serious drug situation in the Indian sub-continent as opium cultivation and heroin processing will be the main source of revenue for these Pakistan backed Sunni Islamists. “Presently there is more than three lakh hectares of opium cultivation in Afghanistan. We expect a super bumper crop under the Taliban this year as a result of which the global markets will be flooded with drugs, making the youth and children extremely vulnerable,” said an NCB official.India has a prevalence of use of opioids, which according to a government study is as high as 2.1 per cent as compared to .70 per cent global average and 0.46 per cent Asian average. If we extrapolate these percentages into numbers, the daily requirement of heroin in India is around one metric ton per day or 360 metric tons in a year, which is valued at ₹1,44000 crore in the international market. It is quite evident that this money is used in other organized crime activities and for terror.Over a period of time, India has become a favourite destination of cocaine, the supply of which is controlled by the powerful drug cartels of South American countries. The NCB has found that while Mumbai is the cocaine capital of India, the country is used as a route for the transition of cocaine to other parts of the world too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mundra-port-seizure-had-a-dry-run-on-june-9-govt-alarmed-over-drug-menace-101633319368139.html
04-10-2021||India||‘Saddening and condemnable...’: Mayawati on BSP MP Satish Chandra Mishra's 'house arrest'||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati claimed on Monday that party general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra's “house arrest” by the Uttar Pradesh Police was still underway as he was scheduled to leave for Lakhimpur Kheri where eight people, including four farmers, lost their lives in violence that broke out in the district on Sunday.Also Read | Eight killed in violence during protest against ministers in UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri: Police“BSP's national general secretary and Rajya Sabha MP Satish Chandra Mishra was, last night, put under house arrest, which is still underway so that a party delegation, under his leadership, cannot leave for Lakhimpur to gather correct details on killings of farmers there. This is saddening and condemnable,” a rough translation of the former chief minister's tweet, who posted it in Hindi, read.She also called for a judicial probe into the incident. “Due to involvement of two Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ministers, unbiased government probe, justice to victims and punishment for culprits look impossible,” Mayawati tweeted. 2. यूपी के दुःखद खीरी काण्ड में भाजपा के दो मंत्रियों की संलिप्तता के कारण इस घटना की सही सरकारी जाँच व पीड़ितों के साथ न्याय तथा दोषियों को सख्त सजा संभव नहीं लगती है। इसलिए इस घटना की, जिसमें अब तक 8 लोगों के मरने की पुष्टि हुई है, न्यायिक जाँच जरूरी, बीएसपी की माँग।Earlier, Congress' youth wing president BV Srinivas said that party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was arrested from Hargaon while on her way to Lakhimpur Kheri. Meanwhile, Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav, too, was put under house arrest at his residence in Lucknow as he, too, was scheduled to leave for Kheri.Also Read | Cops in talks with Rakesh Tikait to help take bodies of farmers for post-mortemA host of politicians, including Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, Punjab deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randahwa, Rashtriya Lok Dal's (RLD) Jayant Chaudhary and a delegation of Trinamool Congress (TMC) have announced they will arrive in the district today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/saddening-and-condemnable-mayawati-on-bsp-mp-sc-mishra-s-house-arrest-101633315717546.html
04-10-2021||India||Extortionists arrested in joint ops by Bihar, Chandigarh Police||A joint team of Chandigarh and Raxual police on Saturday arrested three people for allegedly trying to extort ₹10 lakh from a Chandigarh-based businessman recently.Shashi Bhushan Thakur, Raxaul inspector said the police team from Chandigarh came here on September 3 in search of the extortionists. “While two of them were arrested from Raxaul in Bihar’s East Champaran district, one was arrested from Ramgarhwa,” said Thakur. Another police officer confirmed that all the three were wanted by Chandigarh police in connection with a case of attempted extortion of ₹10 lakh from businessman Manish Tiwari. Also Read: RJD’s decision to field candidate in bypoll latest flashpoint in ties with CongThose arrested were identified as Shambhu Prasad, a resident of Srirampur, Ramgarhwa’s Ram Surat Patel, and Ayan Khan, a resident of Islampur in Raxaul subdivision. Manish Tiwari, who hails from Raxaul, runs his business in Chandigarh, said a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/extortionists-arrested-in-joint-ops-by-bihar-chandigarh-police-101633318805132.html
04-10-2021||India||Cops in talks with Rakesh Tikait to help take bodies of farmers for post-mortem||Senior officials in Lakhimpur Kheri were holding talks with farmer leader Rakesh Tikait, who is among the very few known faces to have been allowed to visit the violence-hit district, to urge protesting farmers to end the impasse and let the bodies of their compatriots be taken for post-mortem.The leader of Bharatiya Kisan Union had reached the district late on Sunday night to meet the farmers and families of victims of violence. At least eight people, including four farmers, died in violence that broke out in the Uttar Pradesh district on Sunday following a protest to block deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya’s visit to Banbirpur village for an event. Soon after, violence and arson broke out in the area. Also read | ‘On expected lines’: Priyanka arrested, claims youth Congress leader Srinivas BVA first information report (FIR) has been registered based on a complaint from farmers and Union minister of state (home) Ajay Mishra Teni’s son Ashish Mishra and his aides have been named in it. Lakhimpur Kheri superintendent of Police (SP) Vijay Dhull said the FIR was resigisterd under Indian Penal Code sections 302 (murder), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and 147 (rioting).The Union minister has refuted the allegations that his son was driving the vehicle that allegedly ran over the protesters in Lakhimpur Kheri. "Had my son been there, he would not have come out alive," he said.Lakhimpur Kheri district magistrate AK Chaurasia said they have received a memorandum from farmers demanding Mishra's dismissal, payment of ex gratia and government jobs for families of the deceased. He said they also demanded a judicial probe into the Sunday incident.Meanwhile, the authorities are trying to push back political leaders, including Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav and Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi, from making their way to the district.However, the administration has allowed Tikait, who heads the Bharatiya Kisan Union, to reach the area and meet the protesters and families of aggrieved farmers.A local police officer said the violence broke out minutes ahead of Maurya’s visit to Banbirpur village under Tikonia police station limits. He said the incident took place on Tikonia-Banbirpur road when the farmers, who were agitating against the new farm laws and had blocked the road to oppose the deputy CM’s visit, got infuriated after two SUVs reportedly belonging to BJP workers hit them, leaving a number of farmers seriously injured.He said the farmers in retaliation overturned and set on fire two SUVs, besides thrashing people in the convoy.In a tweet, Tikait had said on Sunday the farmers were attacked when they were returning after staging a protest against the Centre’s new farm laws. He also alleged that people in the convoy had opened fire.(With inputs from bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cops-in-talks-with-rakesh-tikait-to-help-take-bodies-of-farmers-for-postmortem-101633317767786.html
04-10-2021||NA||Lakhimpur Kheri Live: Punjab deputy CM detained in Saharanpur||At least eight people were killed as violence erupted in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday during a farmers' protest over the three farm laws. A local police officer said that the violence broke out minutes ahead of state deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya's visit to Banbirpur village. He said that the farmers who were agitating against the new farm laws blocked the road to oppose the deputy CM’s visit. They got infuriated after two SUVs reportedly belonging to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers hit them, leaving a number of farmers seriously injured.Follow all the updates here:Members of Youth Congress protest in Delhi against violencePunjab CM gives memorandum to repeal the three farm laws to GovernorWe condemn the unfortunate incident happened in Lakhimpur Kheri and guilty should be arrested. The reason behind this incident is three farm laws... I along with my ministers met Governor Banwarilal Purohit and gave him the memorandum to repeal the three farm laws, says Punjab chief minister CS Channi.Karnataka Congress hold protest against Lakhimpur KheriLeader of Opposition in Karnataka Assembly Siddaramaiah, State Congress president DK Shivakumar along with other party leaders staged a protest in Bengaluru against the Lakhimpur Kheri violence incident and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra's detentionBJP, Centre have 'no business to not allow' political leaders to visit Lakhimpur Kheri: CPI(M)The CPI(M) on Monday hit out at the BJP and the central government, saying they have "no business to not allow" political leaders to visit Lakhimpur Kheri where violent clashes left four farmers dead.West Bengal youth Congress workers protest over Lakhimpur Kheri incidentKolkata | West Bengal youth Congress workers staged a protest outside the Governor house today over the Lakhimpur Kheri incident & detention of Priyanka Gandhi by UP police pic.twitter.com/lHXzsRkhESWest Bengal youth Congress workers seen staging a protest outside the Governor house today over the Lakhimpur Kheri incident.Congress stages protest in LucknowCongress today staged a protest infront of a Gandhi statue in Lucknow. State Congress President Nana Patole, Congress leader Sachin Pilot and Mumbai Congress chief Bhai Jagtap were among those present at the protest site.Punjab deputy CM, other Congress leaders detained in SaharanpurPunjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Randhawa and other Congress leaders were today detained by UP police in Saharanpur while they were on their way to Lakhimpur Kheri to meet families of farmers who lost their lives in violence.BJP govt doesn't believe in democracy: Mamata BanerjeeWest Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee lashed out at the BJP, saying the party doesn't believe in democracy and only wants autocracy.“Is this ‘Ram rajya’? No, this is ‘killing rajya’,"  she remarked.KC Venugopal calls Lakhimpur Kheri incident ‘shocking’Congress General Secretary KC Venugopal calls the Lakhimpur Kheri incident “shocking” and says there is a need for a sitting judge to investigate the matter.“Where is our democracy? Now you're (UP Govt) announcing a judicial inquiry with a retired HC judge, we can't accept it. Because there is a need for a sitting judge to investigate the matter,” he said.Sachin Pilot demands judicial inquiry into Lakhimpur Kheri violenceHaryana CM ML Khattar's statement is unfortunate. Priyanka Gandhi wants to go to Lakhimpur Kheri & sympathise with farmers but the state (UP) govt is afraid and didn't allow her. We demand a judicial inquiry into the incident: Rajasthan Congress leader Sachin PilotChhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel lashes out at BJP over detention of Oppn leadersChhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel lashes out at the BJP, saying the party “cannot tolerate any voices against them”. “Most opposition leaders have either been detained or put under house arrest. We demand the Union Minister be removed. This was not an ordinary incident but murder,” he added.Punjab CM Channi denied permission to visit Lakhimpur Kheri“Due to imposition of Section 144 in Lakhimpur Kheri, it's not possible to grant permission for the visit of Punjab CM & Deputy CM,” the UP government wrote back to the Punjab Civil Aviation department. UP govt conducting fair probe into matter: Union minister Kaushal Kishore Union Minister Kaushal Kishore said the UP government is conducting a fair investigation into the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, adding that the opposition should also lend support. “No one should give provoking statements till truth comes out. It shouldn't be exaggerated or politicised,” he added.Sedition case must be filed against Khattar: SidhuNavjot Singh Sidhu said that people who ran vehicles on peacefully protesting farmers in Lakhimpur “should be arrested.” “A case of sedition should be registered against Haryana CM ML Khattar for his statement,” he added during Congress protest in Chandigarh.SP chief Akhilesh Yadav released from police detentionPolice has released Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav from detention at Eco Gardens (5 km from his home) according to latest updates. Modi govt should withdraw the 3 farm laws: Asaduddin OwaisiI'll be visiting Lakhimpur Kheri, UP to show solidarity with the people who've been murdered by Union Minister's son. It's a heinous crime. It's high time, Modi govt should withdraw the 3 farm laws and he should remove this Minister: AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi Navjot Singh Sidhu, other Congress MLAs detained by policeChandigarh Police has detained Navjot Singh Sidhu and other Congress MLAs who were protesting in support of farmers outside Raj Bhavan.Delhi traffic police takes to Twitter to inform commuters about the diversionTraffic coming from Delhi to Ghaziabad has been diverted from Akshardham Setu towards Noida and Vikas Marg for Ghaziabad. Traffic on road no 57A has been diverted to Hasanpur Karkari Mod for Shahdara, Anand Vihar and Ghaziabad, it said in a tweet.Traffic has been diverted from Ghazipur roundabout to Anand Vihar, Bhopura Border Ghaziabad via road no 56, from Murga Mandi roundabout to Dr Hadgewar Marg then Nala Road up to UP Gate Ghaziabad for Vaishali, Vasundhara, Ghaziabad via Paper Market, Ghazipur, it added.Police misbehaved with Priyanka Gandhi and stopped her without any warrant: Bhupesh BaghelWhy are not we allowed to go there (Lakhimpur Kheri) and meet victim families? Yesterday, police misbehaved with Priyanka Gandhi and stopped her in Sitapur without any warrant. Is sympathizing with anyone now a crime?: Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel in Raipur.Talks between farmers' leaders led by Rakesh Tikait and UP government end on "positive note"People familiar with the development said that negotiations between farmers' leaders led by Rakesh Tikait and the UP government have ended on a "positive note".  What has been agreed to:1) ₹45 lakh each to kins of deceased farmers2) ₹10 lakh each to those injured3) Government jobs to a family member of each of the four deceased farmers subject to their qualifications4) An FIR into the matter  5) Judicial probe by a retired HC judgeAAP leaders to visit Lakhimpur Kheri todayAam Aadmi Party (AAP) delegation led by Punjab Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema along with Raghav Chadha, Kultar Sandhwa and Baljinder Kaur to visit Lakhimpur Kheri today.UPCC President dismisses reports of Priyanka Gandhi observing fast under detentionUPCC president Ajay Kumar Lallu has dismissed reports about Priyanka Gandhi observing fast under detention in Sitapur. Earlier, it was reported that the Congress leader had begun a fast to protest against the detention.Punjab CM Channi says he is leaving for Lakhimpur Kheri Expressing solidarity with the families of farmers who were killed in Sunday's violence, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi said he would be visiting Lakhimpur Kheri to be with his “brothers & sisters in this hour of grief”. He mentioned he has sought permission from the UP government for the same.  Bhim Army Chief Chandrashekhar Azad reaches Tikunia"It is a sad moment for the farmers of this country. The death of farmers shows that the government has crossed all limits," Azad said from a makeshift stage at the protest site."I assure you that farmer's struggle will triumph. I extend my full support to this fight to get justice for the families who have lost their family members here," he added.Punjab's Civil Aviation director writes to UP Additional Chief Secretary seeking permission for CM Channi's visit to Lakhimpur KheriPunjab Govt's Civil Aviation director writes to UP Additional Chief Secretary Awanish Awasthi, informing him that CM Charanjit Singh Channi wants to visit Lakhimpur Kheri; seeks permission for landing of the CM's chopper pic.twitter.com/r6V9kRkmPKPunjab government's Civil Aviation director has sought permission from Uttar Pradesh Additional Chief Secretary Awanish Awasthi if the Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi can visit the violence-hit Lakhimpur Kheri district.6 people taken into custody in connection with Lakhimpur Kheri violence, say policeA senior UP police official at DGP headquarters, Lucknow, said that the STF have taken as many as six people in custody in connection with the incident.Farmers stage protest against Lakhimpur Kheri violence outside BJP leader's residenceFarmers under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) are staging a protest against Lakhimpur Kheri violence outside the residence of BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh in Amritsar.Matter under investigation: UP minister on Lakhimpur Kheri violenceUttar Pradesh Minister Sidharth Nath Singh today said that the government is taking the matter seriously and the culprits will be punished.  He lashed out at the Opposition for using the incident for “political competition” ahead of upcoming assembly polls in UP. "We're taking this matter seriously & it is under investigation. CM has said that culprits will be punished. Opposition is using the incident for political tourism & political competition as polls are around the corner: UP Minister Sidharth Nath Singh on Lakhimpur Kheri violenceDon't let anyone from state go to Lakhimpur Kheri: UP govt to Punjab chief secretaryUttar Pradesh Govt writes to Punjab chief secretary, urging not to let anyone from the state go to Lakhimpur Kheri where Section 144 of CrPC was imposed following death of 8 people in violence on Sunday.Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav taken into custody#WATCH | Lucknow: Police take Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav into custody outside his residence where he staged a sit-in protest after being stopped from going to Lakhimpur Kheri where 8 people died in violence yesterday pic.twitter.com/VYk12Qt87HPolice take Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav into custody outside his residence where he staged a sit-in protest.BJP's Varun Gandhi pays condolences to farmers killed in Lakhimpur Kheri violenceलखीमपुर खीरी की हृदय-विदारक घटना में शहीद हुए किसानों को श्रद्धांजलि अर्पित करता हूँ। इस प्रकरण में उत्तर प्रदेश के मुख्यमंत्री जी से सख्त कार्यवाही करने का निवेदन करता हूँ। pic.twitter.com/e2tE1x4z3TBJP leader Varun Gandhi offers condolences to farmers martyred in Lakhimpur Kheri violence.  He further requested Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath to take a strict action in the matter. "I pay homage to the farmers who were martyred in the heart-wrenching incident of Lakhimpur Kheri. I request the Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh to take strict action in this matter," he tweeted.Police force deployed in Lakhimpur Kheri's Tikonia areaHeavy police force deployed in Lakhimpur Kheri's Tikonia area after eight people including farmers and a local journalist were killed in a violence over the three farm laws.  Local journalist among 8 dead in Lakhimpur Kheri violenceAt least eight people were killed in a violence that erupted in  Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri over the farm laws on Sunday. A local journalist Raman Kashyap was one among the eight dead.Samajwadi Party begins agitation at Vikramaditya MargThe Samajwadi Party has begun agitation at Vikramaditya Marg. Heavy police force and barricades seen at the site.Yogi Adityanath cancels his scheduled visit to Shravasti & Bahraich Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has cancelled his scheduled visit to Shravasti and Bahraich districts today in the backdrop of violence in Lakhimpur Kheri.Priyanka Gandhi Vadra arrested from UP's HargaonCongress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who was on her way to Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri district to visit the families of the victims of Sunday’s violence, has been arrested in Hargaon on Monday, according to the party's youth wing national president Srinivas BV.Punjab deputy CM, Chhattisgarh denied entry at Lucknow airportUP govt denies entry to Punjab deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel at Lucknow airport on arrival. Randhawa plans to go by road.Farmers lodge complaint against Ajay Mishra and his sonFarmers lodge complaint against Union Minister of State for Home, Ajay Mishra Teni and his son Ashish Mishra Teni in Tikunia, Lakhimpur Kheri over yesterday's incident, reports news agency ANI.Akhilesh Yadav put under ‘house arrest’ in LucknowFormer Uttar Pradesh chief minister and Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav was put under house arrest on Monday ahead of his scheduled visit to Lakhimpur Kheri to meet families of victims who were killed in a violence that broke out in the district a day ago.Police files FIR against Union minister Ajay Mishra's sonLakhimpur Kheri Superintendent of Police (SP) Vijay Dhull said an FIR under Indian Penal Code sections 302 for murder, 120-B for criminal conspiracy and 147 for rioting has been registered on the complaint of farmers at Tikunia police station.Another local police officer stated that Union Home minister for state Ajai Kumar Mishra's son Ashish Mishra and his aides have been named in the FIR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-incident-live-updates-101633317141781.html
04-10-2021||India||SC imposes ₹7 lakh cost on UP for lax probe in ‘encounter’ death case||The Supreme Court has imposed a cost of ₹seven lakh on the Uttar Pradesh government over a lax probe in a case involving four policemen, who evaded arrest for 19 years in an “encounter” death case cocking a snook at the trial court’s repeated arrest warrants and a direction passed by the top Court in 2016 to complete the trial within a year.Appalled at the manner in which the state police made the father of the victim run from pillar to post for almost two decades, a bench of Justices Vineet Saran and Aniruddha Bose said, “The laxity with which State has proceeded in the present case speaks volumes of how state machinery is defending or protecting its own police officers.”Directing an interim compensation to the victim’s father, Yash Pal Singh, who filed a writ petition seeking arrest of the accused policemen, the bench said, “Keeping in view the totality of the circumstances and the sufferings which the petitioner has undergone, we direct the state of Uttar Pradesh to deposit a sum of ₹7 lakhs with the Registry of this Court towards interim costs within one week.”The order was passed on Thursday but was uploaded on the court’s website on Friday. The bench added that on deposit of the money, the petitioner shall be entitled to withdraw the same.The case involves the killing of a teenager by the police in an alleged “encounter” while he was on his way to Delhi on August 4, 2002, with regard to his father’s dairy business. The medical report showed policemen battered him, made him kneel down, and shot him dead. Eight policemen were involved in the incident of which four were arrested while the others remained at large.On September 1, the top court issued notice on the petition following which two of the accused were arrested while the third surrendered. The fourth accused was reported to be still absconding.“….unfortunately, the manner in which the State has proceeded, the petitioner has been compelled to file this writ petition...,” the bench observed.Additional advocate general (Uttar Pradesh) Garima Prasad told the court the state ordered an inquiry to ascertain why steps were not taken at the appropriate stage. The accused cops are Sanjeev Kumar, Manoj Kumar, Randheer Singh, and Jitendra Singh.Advocate Divyesh Pratap Singh, appearing for the petitioner, blamed the state for allowing the matter to come to this pass. He added repeated orders by the trial judge to secure the presence of the accused was frustrated by the state police. Also Read: SC declines plea to keep pvt liquor vendors in Delhi open till November 16Within two years of the incident, the state submitted a closure report in May 2004 before the trial court and allegedly forged the signature of the petitioner’s wife to show that they were served notice of the same. The father moved a protest petition to ensure the probe into his son’s death continues. The closure report was set aside.In October 2005, the Allahabad high court ordered a stay of the trial on a petition filed by one of the accused. This order was vacated in 2017. The trial court passed several orders to secure the arrest of the four but not a single warrant was executed. The petitioner approached the Supreme Court seven times to ensure a fair trial. In November 2016, the top court directed the trial be completed within a year.In May 2018, the trial judge directed the police chief to stop the salaries of the accused. The order was not honoured. One of the accused, who retired in 2019, was even paid retirement benefits.The bench said in the ordinary course, the top court is hesitant to admit writ petitions filed directly before it. But in the present case, the bench said, “In the extraordinary circumstances of this case, we have entertained this petition to ensure that justice is given to the petitioner, which has been denied for about two decades.”The bench posted the matter for further hearing on October 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-imposes-rs-7-lakh-cost-on-up-for-lax-probe-in-encounter-death-case-101633317664888.html
04-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: India-Sri Lanka joint military exercise from today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India, Sri Lanka to begin joint military exercise from today; counter-terror ops on agendaIndia and Sri Lanka will carry out a 12-day military exercise from Monday with a focus on improving counter-insurgency and counter-terror cooperation. Read moreClasses 8 to 12 to reopen in urban Maharashtra as Covid cases declineFrom Monday, schools in urban areas are set to reopen for students of classes 8 to 12. In rural areas, physical classes will resume for students of classes 5 to 7. Read moreFrom today, British nationals arriving in India to undergo mandatory 10-day quarantineStarting today, visitors arriving in India from the United Kingdom will have to undergo go a mandatory 10-day quarantine even if they are fully vaccinated against Covid-19. Read more'What nobody asked is, why did Pant run? He could have stepped in and defused the situation': Gavaskar on Ashwin rowAfter the off-spinner got involved in a heated exchange with Tim Southee and Eoin Morgan during an IPL 2021 match between Delhi Capitals and Kolkata Knight Riders, several former cricketers have weighed in on the issue. Read moreSalman Khan visits Shah Rukh Khan's residence post Aryan Khan's arrest. See picsHours after Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau and sent to one day custody, the actor's close friend from the industry, Salman Khan visited him at his residence. Read moreBarack Obama says he can't imagine life without Michelle Obama on 29th wedding anniversaryFormer President and the First Lady of the United States of America, Barack Obama and Michelle Obama, are celebrating their 29th wedding anniversary by sending immense love to each other with adorable posts on social media. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-india-sri-lanka-joint-military-exercise-from-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101633314991310.html
04-10-2021||India||Widespread rain likely in east and south peninsular India till Oct 6||Monsoon is likely to start withdrawing from northwest India from October 6 but there is likely to be widespread rain over parts of east India and peninsular India till October 6, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).A low pressure area is lying over east Bihar and neighbourhood with the associated cyclonic circulation extending up to mid tropospheric levels. It is very likely to move east-northeastwards and become less marked during the next 48 hours, the weather department said. A north-south trough is running from this low pressure area to north interior Odisha. Under its influence, isolated heavy to very heavy falls with extremely heavy falls are very likely over the Sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim and west Assam, Meghalaya region during the next 24 hours, and isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is expected during the subsequent 24 hours. Isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely over Bihar on October 3 and 4 and over Jharkhand and Gangetic West Bengal today, it added. Also Read: Partly cloudy sky but no rain forecast for Monday in DelhiA cyclonic circulation is lying over southwest Bay of Bengal and adjoining Tamil Nadu. A trough in easterlies is running from this cyclonic circulation to eastcentral Arabian Sea off Karnataka coast across the cyclonic circulation over Southeast Arabian Sea off Kerala coast in lower tropospheric level. It is likely to persist during the next 2-3 days. Under its influence, isolated heavy to very heavy rain is very likely over Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Coastal and South Interior Karnataka till October 6; isolated heavy rainfall is very likely over south Konkan, Goa and south Madhya Maharashtra till October 6. A cyclonic circulation is also lying over Southeast Arabian Sea off Kerala coast. Under its influence, a low pressure area is likely to form over Eastcentral & adjoining Northeast Arabian Sea during the next 48 hours, the forecast said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/widespread-rain-likely-in-east-and-south-peninsular-india-till-oct-6-101633315084458.html
04-10-2021||India||Akhilesh Yadav put under ‘house arrest’ in Lucknow ahead of his visit to Lakhimpur Kheri||Former Uttar Pradesh chief minister and Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav was put under house arrest on Monday ahead of his scheduled visit to Lakhimpur Kheri to meet families of victims who were killed in a violence that broke out in the district a day ago.A large number of policemen were deployed outside the former chief minister’s residence in Lucknow. Atul Pradhan a Samajwadi Party leader said Yadav was "house arrested" late last night.Also read | ‘On expected lines’: Priyanka arrested, claims youth Congress leader Srinivas BVOn Sunday, Yadav had demanded chief minister Adityanath Yogi’s resignation over the brutal clashes that led to death of eight, including four farmers, following a protest over blocking deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya’s visit to Banbirpur village.In a tweet in Hindi, Yadav wrote running over farmers who were peacefully protesting the farm law (three new central farm laws) by the son of a Union minister of state was inhuman and cruel. “UP will not tolerate atrocities by arrogant BJP members...and if this state of affairs continue then in UP BJP members will not be able to travel in vehicles or get out of them,” he added in the tweet.Also read | ‘Unforgivable, barbaric, cruel’: How politicians reacted to Lakhimpur incidentMeanwhile, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi, who reached Lakhimpur Kheri early on Monday, to meet the aggrieved families, was arrested in Hargaon, her party leader BY Srinivas wrote on Twitter. She had earlier alleged police were trying to stop her from going to the village.'मैं उन लोगों से Important नही हूँ, जिनको तुम लोगों ने गाड़ी के नीचे कुचलकर मारा है'~ @priyankagandhi#लखीमपुर_किसान_नरसंहार pic.twitter.com/Q3BEC8ZpyRGandhi had reached Lucknow late on Sunday night with party leader Deepinder Singh Hooda. The UP government has barred most political leaders from visiting Lakhimpur Kheri. So far, among the known faces only Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait has been able to make his way to the restive district. Internet services have also been partially banned in the district after the incident.In a tweet, Tikait had said on Sunday the farmers were attacked when they were returning after staging a protest against the Centre’s new farm laws. He also alleged that people in the convoy had opened fire.A local police officer said the violence broke out minutes ahead of Maurya’s visit to Banbirpur village under Tikonia police station limits. He said the incident took place on Tikonia-Banbirpur road when the farmers, who were agitating against the new farm laws and had blocked the road to oppose the deputy CM’s visit, got infuriated after two SUVs reportedly belonging to BJP workers hit them, leaving a number of farmers seriously injured.He said the farmers in retaliation overturned and set on fire two SUVs, besides thrashing people in the convoy.Union minister of state Ajay Mishra Teni has refuted allegations that his son Ashish Mishra was driving the vehicle that allegedly ran over the protesters in Lakhimpur Kheri.(With inputs from bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akhilesh-yadav-put-under-house-arrest-ahead-of-lakhimpur-kheri-visit-101633314064533.html
04-10-2021||India||On expected lines: Priyanka Gandhi Vadra arrested from UP's Hargaon, says youth Congress leader Srinivas BV||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who was on her way to Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri district to visit the families of the victims of Sunday’s violence, has been arrested in Hargaon on Monday, according to the party's youth wing national president Srinivas BV. "Finally what was expected from the BJP has happened. In the democratic country of 'Mahatma Gandhi', the worshipers of 'Godse' have arrested our leader @priyankagandhi Ji who fought heavy rains and the police force to meet the 'Annadata', from Hargaon. This is just the beginning of the fight!! Kisan Ekta Zindabad,” Srinivas tweet, roughly translated from Hindi, read.Srinivas also shared a video along with the tweet and has called on people to reach the Sitapur police line where Priyanka Gandhi has been taken. The Congress general secretary has said she will meet the families of those killed on Sunday after violence during a protest in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri. The farmers were protesting three farm laws enacted by the central government last year.आखिरकार वही हुआ, जिसकी BJP से उम्मीद थी'महात्मा गांधी' के लोकतांत्रिक देश में 'गोडसे' के उपासकों ने भारी बारिश और पुलिसबल से संघर्ष करते हुए अन्नदाताओं से मिलने जा रही हमारी नेता @priyankagandhi जी को हरगांव से गिरफ्तार किया..ये लड़ाई का सिर्फ आरंभ है!! किसान एकता जिंदाबाद pic.twitter.com/vehKIxh87BPriyanka Gandhi reached the Lucknow airport on Sunday evening following the incident and was stopped by the police several times on her way to Lakhimpur Kheri. The party released several videos and in one of them, she is heard saying that she was stopped several times while she was on her way to Lakhimpur. “I’m not committing any crime by deciding to meet victim's kin...Why are you stopping us? You should have a warrant...?" she is heard saying in one of the videos.Also read | Farmers to protest outside DM offices across country today against Lakhimpur incident: SKMMeanwhile, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait also reached Lakhimpur early on Monday. “We will first meet the farmers and villagers and discuss the situation with them. The future course of action will be done on the basis of the discussion with the villagers and farmers. Their decision will prevail,” Tikait told reporters at Banbirpur village, according to news agency PTI.Tikait’s associates said the farm leader delayed and blamed it delay on multiple police checks. “En route to Lakhimpur, we were stopped at multiple places by the UP Police. Somehow we have managed to reach here at Banbirpur village and Tikait ji will now be meeting the farmers here,” BKU's media in-charge Dharmendra Malik told PTI over the phone.Also read | 'Won’t let this sacrifice go in vain’: Rahul on farmers’ death in LakhimpurThe UP police tweeted early on Monday, saying the incident in Lakhimpur Kheri was “unfortunate” and that eight deaths have been reported till now as per the district administration. “ADG LO, ACS Agriculture, IG Range & Commissioner are on the spot & situation is under control. Adequate deployment has been done to prevent any untoward incident,” it added.Mobile internet services have been snapped in parts of the violence-hit district, where prohibitory orders under section 144 of the CrPC has also been imposed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-expected-lines-priyanka-arrested-claims-youth-congress-leader-srinivas-bv-101633313454034.html
04-10-2021||India||Classes 8 to 12 to reopen in urban Maharashtra as Covid cases decline||Maharashtra recorded 2,692 fresh Covid-19 infections, pushing the overall count to 6,559,349 on Sunday. The tally of active cases further reduced to 35,888 as 2,716 recoveries were reported in the past 24 hours. There has been a gradual, but constant drop in active cases, reaching its lowest tally in the past seven months.It also reported 41 fresh Covid-19 casualties taking the toll to 139,207. Ahmednagar reported 19 deaths on Sunday, the most in the state.From Monday, schools in urban areas are set to reopen for students of classes 8 to 12. In rural areas, physical classes will resume for students of classes 5 to 7 and a detailed standard operating procedure (SOP) has been released for the same.In-person offline classes in schools were shut in Maharashtra from March 2020 when the Covid-19 pandemic first hit the state. Schools in rural areas were allowed to resume offline classes for students of classes 8 to 12 from July 12. Nearly 17,701 schools resumed offline classes in rural areas where Covid-19 cases are on decline, as per government data.Also Read: Maharashtra schools to open from today: Check SOPs hereThe Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra is under control as the average daily cases are on a decline for the past few months. In September, the daily average of new infections came down to 3,368 cases against 4,944 in August, 7,737 in July and 10,542 in June. However, officials are still worried about the impact the festive season, spanning October and November, is likely to have on the situation.“The situation is under control at present as our daily cases are declining, but we are not allowed to be complacent. It may reverse if people do not follow Covid protocols strictly. We are closely monitoring the situation as the state has also decided to lift most of the curbs from this month,” said a senior official from the state health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/classes-8-to-12-to-reopen-in-urban-maharashtra-as-covid-cases-decline-101633312804443.html
04-10-2021||India||Colleges in Kerala to reopen today: Check all guidelines here||Colleges in Kerala will reopen on Monday after a gap of more than a year, adhering to Covid-19 health protocols. While classes will begin for final year degree and post-graduate students who have taken both doses of Covid-19 vaccination from Monday, regular classes for all batches will begin from October 18. State higher education department joint secretary Sajukumar, in an order in September, said classes for the final semesters of degree and post-graduate courses will be started, strictly adhering to Covid-19 health protocols.Post-graduate courses will be held with full attendance while it would be 50 per cent for final-year degree courses. The schedule of the classes can be decided by college councils.Kerala on Sunday recorded 12,297 fresh Covid-19 cases and 74 deaths, taking the caseload to 47,20,233 and the toll to 25,377 respectively. The number of people who recovered from the infection since Saturday was 16,333, which brought the total recoveries to 45,57,199 and the number of active cases to 137,043, an official press release said.Check the latest guidelines here:1. All students must have taken both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine. Those who got the first dose of the vaccine at least two weeks before can also come to the college. Students who are unable to take the vaccine due to any medical reasons like allergies must bring a medical certificate.2. Importance should be given to practical classes for science subjects, an order from the state health department said, adding that the classes for other semesters will continue online.3. The classrooms, libraries and laboratories should be sanitised well before the commencement of classes and the institutions can seek assistance from the local self-government bodies concerned, health workers or NGOs.4. The state government asked the respective institutional heads to ensure that the students follow strict Covid-19 health protocol. "The institutions should ensure availability of adequate number of masks, sanitisers and hand wash facilities. Gatherings should be avoided," the order added.5. The order also directed the institutions to approach the health department to arrange vaccination drives for students and staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/colleges-in-kerala-to-reopen-today-check-all-guidelines-here-101633306534274.html
04-10-2021||NA||Breaking| Working to get things back to normal: WhatsApp after global outage||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:‘Working to get things back to normal as quickly as possible’: Facebook“We’re aware that some people are having trouble accessing our apps and products. We’re working to get things back to normal as quickly as possible, and we apologize for any inconvenience,” Facebook said on Monday. Working to get things back to normal: WhatsApp after global outage"We’re aware that some people are experiencing issues with WhatsApp at the moment. We’re working to get things back to normal and will send an update here as soon as possible," WhatsApp said on Monday.WhatsApp, Instagram and Facebook down for usersWhatsApp, Instagram and Facebook is currently down for users. ED arrests Unitech founder Ramesh Chandra, his daughter-in-law Preeti in money laundering probeThe Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday arrested Unitech founder Ramesh Chandra, his daughter-in-law Preeti in money laundering probe.‘Papers were leaked during BJP rule too’: Rajasthan CM Gehlot on REET scandalAs the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Rajasthan alleged that test paper of the Rajasthan Eligibility Examination for Teachers (REET) was leaked before the exam took place, and flagged other irregularities during the exam, chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday dismissed the allegation by saying the Congress-led state government managed the entire process of REET very well. Read morePriyanka Gandhi slams Mayawati, Akhilesh Yadav over Lakhimpur incidentCongress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi on Monday slammed Bahujan Samajwadi Party (BSP) chief Mayawati and Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav over the Lakhimpuri Kheri incident. Speaking to Hindustan Times, Gandhi said that it is only the Congress party which has raised issues in Uttar Pradesh. US oil prices hit highest level since 2014 as OPEC+ meets#BREAKING US oil prices hit highest level since 2014 as OPEC+ meets pic.twitter.com/XE5ovTb8RhCases related to Pandora papers will be investigated, says CBDTThe Government has directed today that, investigations in cases of Pandora Papers leaks will be monitored headed by the Chairman, CBDT, having representatives from CBDT, Enforcement Directorate, Reserve Bank of India & Financial Intelligence Unit: Official spokesperson, CBDTThe Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) said on Monday that cases related to the Pandora papers will be investigated.Kerala records 8,850 fresh Covid-19 cases, 149 more deathsKerala on Monday recorded 8,850 new cases and 149 more deaths due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), taking the caseload and death toll to 4,729,083 and 25,526 respectively. The number of people who recovered from the infection since Sunday was 17,007, which brought the total recoveries to 4,574,206 and the number of active cases to 128,736.Actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan, 2 accused sent to NCB custody till October 7Actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha have been sent to the custody of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) till October 7 in connection with their involvement in the cruise ship rave party case. Jan Adhikar Party chief Pappu Yadav acquitted in 32-year-old kidnapping caseFormer MP and Jan Adhikar Party president Rajiv Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav has been acquitted in a 32-year-old kidnapping case. Reopening schools with determination we won’t have to shut them again: Maharashtra CM ThackerayChief minister Uddhav Thackeray said schools were reopened in Maharashtra from Monday after a lot of deliberations with a determination that they will not be shut again. Read moreWorld Trade Organization revises up trade forecasts for 2021, 2022#BREAKING WTO revises up trade forecasts for 2021, 2022, says global economic resurgence has lifted merchandise trade above pre-pandemic peak pic.twitter.com/OKV4HhuwvNNCB interrogated me for the last 48 hrs but found nothing: Aryan KhanAryan Khan also said that the NCB interrogate him for the last 48 hours in connection with the cruise ship rave party case but found nothing. “I am a twenty-four-year-old-boy with no criminal antecedents. I have co-operated with them so any prayer for further custody should be rejected,” Khan said. Mumbai cruise ship rave party case: Was invited as a guest, nothing found in my bag, says Aryan KhanShah Rukh Khan's son Aryan, who has been produced before a magistrate court in Mumbai for bail in connection with cruise ship rave party case, said on Monday that he was invited as a guest in the party nothing was found in his bag during the search by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB). Covid-19 restrictions in Uttarakhand extended till Oct 19#COVID19 restrictions in Uttarakhand to continue from 6 am of 5th October to 6 am of 19th October. pic.twitter.com/jxLx5ZEbyqCoronavirus disease restrictions in Uttarakhand, which were in place till October 5 (Tuesday), have now been further extended till October 19. NCB seeking custody of SRK's son Aryan, 2 others till Oct 13As Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha were produced before a magistrate court in Mumbai in connection with their involvement in the cruise ship rave party case, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has sought custody of the trio till October 13. Hours after Kabul mosque blast, Taliban destroy IS cell in Afghan capitalHours after a blast killed several people outside a mosque in Afghanistan’s capital Kabul on Sunday, the Taliban destroyed an Islamic State cell in Kabul, according to news agency AFP on Monday. Read moreNCB brings SRK's son Aryan Khan, 2 others to Esplanade CourtThe Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Monday afternoon brought Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha to the Esplanade Court in Mumbai. All three were remanded to NCB custody in connection with the Mumbai cruise ship rave party case.David Julius, Ardem Patapoutian awarded Nobel Prize in Medicine 2021BREAKING NEWS:The 2021 #NobelPrize in Physiology or Medicine has been awarded jointly to David Julius and Ardem Patapoutian “for their discoveries of receptors for temperature and touch.” pic.twitter.com/gB2eL37IV7The 2021 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine has been awarded jointly to David Julius and Ardem Patapoutian “for their discoveries of receptors for temperature and touch.”SAD president Sukhbir Badal urges PM Modi to repeal farm lawsI want to request PM Modi to leave his arrogance and accept farmer's demands & repeal the three laws. So that the lives of farmers could be saved: SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal pic.twitter.com/bZinAkn5oIShiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Monday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to accept the demands of the farmers and repeal the three new farm laws enacted by the Centre. Lakhimpur Kheri incident: SP chief Akhilesh Yadav released by police after being detainedHours after Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav was taken into custody after he staged a sit-in outside his house for being stopped from going to Lakhimpur Kheri, the police on Monday afternoon released him. No cancellation of NEET exam, rules SCSupreme Court dismisses a plea seeking cancellation of the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test undergraduate exam (NEET-UG), held on September 12, 2021, due to alleged paper leak and malpractices.SC rejects Supertech's plea against tower demolition in NoidaSupreme Court dismisses Supertech's application to save one of the two 40-storey towers in its Emerald Court project in Noida, that were ordered to be razed over grave illegalities.Foreign secretary meets Sri Lanka president RajapaksaForeign minister Harsh Vardhan Shringla meets Sri Lankan president Gotabaya Rajapaksa in Colombo.Kejriwal releases action plan for Delhi ahead of pollution seasonDelhi CM Arvind Kejriwal releases a 10-point winter action plan for the city ahead of the pollution season.SC okays ₹50,000 ex-gratia payment for Covid-19 deathsSupreme Court approves ₹50,000 ex-gratia payment for Covid-19 deaths and directs that even those people who suffered from the illness and die by suicide within a month of testing positive will be entitled to get compensation to be paid from State Disaster Response Fund.Air New Zealand to make vaccination mandatory from February 2022Air New Zealand announces international travelers should be vaccinated against Covid-19 when flying with the carrier starting from February 1 next year.PM Modi pays tribute to revolutionary Shyamji Krishna Vermaमहान क्रांतिकारी और स्वतंत्रता सेनानी श्यामजी कृष्ण वर्मा को उनकी जयंती पर श्रद्धांजलि। देश को गुलामी से मुक्त कराने के लिए उन्होंने अपना जीवन समर्पित कर दिया। कृतज्ञ राष्ट्र आजादी की लड़ाई में उनके योगदान को कभी भुला नहीं पाएगा।Tributes to Shyamji Krishna Varma on his Jayanti.Prime Minister Narendra Modi pays tribute to freedom fighter Shyamji Krishna Verma on the latter's 164th birth anniversary.Japan lawmakers elect Fumio Kishida as new PMJapanese lawmakers vote for Fumio Kishida as the island's new prime minister after incumbent Yoshihide Suga resigned last month.1 new Covid-19 case in Andaman and NicobarAndaman and Nicobar Islands reported one new Covid-19 case in the last 24 hours, pushing the tally in the union territory to 7,623, a health department official said.Delhi Traffic Police announce closure of NH9 and NH24pic.twitter.com/jKc2XA1Mcz“Due to closure of national highways NH9 and NH24 by Ghaziabad Traffic Police, traffic diversion is being continued,” tweets Delhi Traffic Police.India records 20,799 new Covid-19 cases and 180 deathsIndia's daily Covid-19 tally falls to 20,799 as cumulative cases mount to 33,834,702. New recoveries at 26,718 while toll rises by 180 deaths.991,676 Covid-19 tests on October 3: ICMRCOVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes @PIB_India @mygovindia @COVIDNewsByMIB #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/1NI7hkjkyU574,252,400 samples tested for Covid-19 till October 3, 2021, including 991,676 on Sunday: Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)Lakhimpur incident: FIR filed on farmers' complaintLakhimpur Police file FIR in connection with Sunday's violence in which eight people, including four farmers were killed. Union minister Ajay Mishra's son Ashish and his aides named.UP ACS directs Lucknow airport not to let Chhattisgarh CM and Punjab deputy CM to land UP Additional Chief Secretary Awanish Awasthi asks Lucknow airport not to allow Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel & Punjab Deputy CM Sukhjinder S Randhawa to land at the airportBaghel & Randhawa have announced to visit Lakhimpur Kheri today, where 8 people died in clashes pic.twitter.com/KEdDZOHyLDUttar Pradesh additional chief secretary Awanish Awasthi instructs Lucknow airport not to allow Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel and Punjab deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa to land at the airport.Germany records over 3000 fresh Covid-19 infectionsGermany logs 3088 fresh Covid-19 infections and seven deaths. Tally mounts to 4,255,388 including 93,793 deaths.Lakhimpur incident: Akhilesh Yadav put under house arrestUP Police put SP chief Akhilesh Yadav under house arrest in Lucknow as he was scheduled to leave for Lakhimpur Kheri to meet families of farmers allegedly run over by car of Union minister Ajay Mishra's son.Australia logs 2029 new Covid-19 casesAustralia reported 2029 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, including 1377 from its second-most populous province of Victoria.Priyanka Gandhi arrested while on way to Lakhimpur: Congressआखिरकार वही हुआ, जिसकी BJP से उम्मीद थी'महात्मा गांधी' के लोकतांत्रिक देश में 'गोडसे' के उपासकों ने भारी बारिश और पुलिसबल से संघर्ष करते हुए अन्नदाताओं से मिलने जा रही हमारी नेता @priyankagandhi जी को हरगांव से गिरफ्तार किया..ये लड़ाई का सिर्फ आरंभ है!! किसान एकता जिंदाबाद pic.twitter.com/vehKIxh87BPriyanka Gandhi Vadra arrested by UP Police from Hargaon while on way to meet families of farmers killed in Lakhimpur Kheri, claims Youth Congress president BV Srinivas.North and South Korea restore border hotlineNorth Korea and South Korea restore cross-border hotline, reports AFP quoting officials in Seoul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-october-04-2021-101633307143475.html
04-10-2021||India||Govt mowing down farmers: Priyanka reaches Lakhimpur Kheri, says not allowed to meet victims’ families||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra reached Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh early on Monday where eight people were killed as violence broke out after a car hit protesting farmers on Sunday. Priyanka Gandhi, who reached Lucknow on Sunday night with party leader Deepinder Singh Hooda, earlier alleged that police tried to stop her from going there. “Smt. Priyanka Gandhi has entered #Lakhimpur, and along with other congress leaders will meet Martyrs family soon,” the Congress party tweeted.The Congress party's media platform later tweeted that Priyanka Gandhi was been arrested and taken from Hargaon to Sitapur Police Line.
04-10-2021||India||India, Sri Lanka to begin joint military exercise from today; counter-terror ops on agenda||India and Sri Lanka will carry out a 12-day military exercise from Monday with a focus on improving counter-insurgency and counter-terror cooperation. The defence ministry has said that an all arms contingent of 120 personnel of the Indian Army will participate in the exercise along with a battalion-strength contingent of the Sri Lankan Army. "The aim of the exercise is to promote close relations between armies of both countries and enhance inter-operability and sharing best practices in counter-insurgency and counter-terrorism operations," the statement said.The eighth edition of the Mitra Shakti exercise will be conducted at Combat Training School in Sri Lanka's Ampara from October 4-15, the defence ministry said in a statement on Saturday. The Indian Army contingent reached Sri Lanka on Sunday to participate in the Mitra Shakti exercise. “Exercise #MitraShakti21. #IndianArmy contingent participating in Exercise Mitra Shakti 21 reached Sri Lanka and received a traditional welcome by the Sri Lankan Army,” the Indian Army tweeted on Sunday.The joint exercise is designed for incorporating the current dynamics of United Nations' peacekeeping operations through tactical exercises and practical discussions, the defence ministry has said. The ministry informed that the exercise will involve tactical level operations at the sub-unit level in an international counter-insurgency and counter-terrorism environment and will go a long way in further strengthening the relationship between both nations. It will act as a catalyst in bringing synergy and cooperation at the grass-root level between both armies, the ministry also said.The seventh edition was conducted in Pune in December 2019 at Foreign Training Node located at the Aundh Military Station. In that edition, a contingent from the Kumaon Regiment of the Indian Army and the Gemunu Watch infantry regiment of Sri Lanka participated. The contingents received lessons in perception management and information warfare, human rights and humanitarian law, along with the counter-insurgency and counter-terrorism (CI-CT) operations in urban and rural environments, reports news agency PTI.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sri-lanka-to-begin-joint-military-exercise-from-today-counter-terror-ops-on-agenda-101633304001053.html
04-10-2021||India||From today, British nationals arriving in India to undergo mandatory 10-day quarantine||Starting today, visitors arriving in India from the United Kingdom will have to undergo go a mandatory 10-day quarantine even if they are fully vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), as announced by the Union government on October 1.Also Read | India hits back at UK with quarantine rulesUnder the norms, which do not apply on Indian nationals flying in from Britain, British nationals arriving in India will have to quarantine at home or at their destination address. Additionally, UK citizens also need to undergo an RT-PCR test 72 hours before their flight, a second RT-PCR test on arrival in India, and a third on eighth day of arrival. At present, they have to take a test before departure and on arrival, and have to quarantine for seven days.The Centre has directed states and Union territories to strictly enforce the new arrival rules.The central government's decision stems from new rules announced by the Boris Johnson government under which Indian nationals travelling to the UK will have to undergo mandatory quarantine for 10 days even if they are fully vaccinated against the viral illness. This was because of the Johnson administration's failure to recognise Covishield, the British version of Astrazeneca's Covid-19 vaccine, despite recognising four other jabs, including another one from AstraZeneca.Though the shot was later included by the UK on its list of approved vaccines, the process for accepting India's vaccine certification is likely to take more time.Responding to New Delhi's move, the British high commission said that its government is “continuing to engage” with their Indian counterparts to resolve the impasse.Also Read | Engaging with India on vaccine certification: UK reacts to reciprocal moveThe new British travel rules, too, will come into effect from October 4. Serum Institute of India (SII) CEO Adar Poonawalla, whose company manufactures the Astrazeneca shot in India as Covishield, has described these as "total chaos."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-today-mandatory-10-day-quarantine-for-british-nationals-flying-to-india-101633304197160.html
04-10-2021||India||Zydus proposes ₹1,900 for its vaccine; talks on to cut price||With talks underway between the central government and Zydus Cadila over the pricing of the Covid-19 vaccine ZyCov-D, the pharma company is learnt to have proposed a price of ₹1,900 for its three-dose jab that can be given to those above 12 years of age.However, the government is negotiating for a reduction in price and a final decision on it is likely to be taken this week, people aware of the developments told PTI.The government had on Thursday said that the indigenously-developed, world’s first DNA-based needle-free COVID-19 vaccine by Zydus Cadila will be introduced in the nationwide anti-coronavirus vaccination drive shortly.“The company has proposed a price of ₹1,900 inclusive of taxes for its three-dose jab... Negotiations are on. The company has been asked to reconsider all the aspects regarding the cost of the vaccine. A final decision on the price of the vaccine is likely to be taken this week,” the people said.Another person aware of the matter said the ZyCoV-D has to be differently priced than Covaxin and Covishield as, apart from being a three-dose vaccine, there is a needle-free jet injector used for administering the vaccine that costs ₹30,000.That jet injector can be used for administering around 20,000 doses. The vaccine is to be given on days zero, 28 and 56.According to the people quoted above, around three rounds of meetings have taken place so far between the Centre and the company, the last one on Thursday.Meanwhile, the ministry is also waiting for the recommendations from the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI ) for introducing ZyCoV-D in the inoculation drive and prioritising beneficiaries focusing on those aged 12-18 years with comorbidities.On the price of the vaccine, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said on Thursday that the government is in conversation with the manufacturers.“Since this is a three-dose vaccine and comes with a needleless delivery system, it would have a differential pricing than the existing vaccines which are being used in the Covid vaccination programme,” he said.ZyCoV-D received Emergency Use Authorisation from the drug regulator on August 20 making it the first vaccine to be administered in the age-group of 12 to 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zydus-proposes-1-900-for-its-vaccine-talks-on-to-cut-price-101633301546736.html
04-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Opposition looks to corner govt, Yogi vows justice||The violence in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri triggered a political slugfest on Sunday, with the Opposition parties looking to corner the state government and chief minister Yogi Adityanath promising to punish the guilty.Eight people were killed as clashes broke out in the region after a car hit protesting farmers, prompting an angry crowd to burn two vehicles and widen their agitation.Several opposition leaders, including those from the Congress and Trinamool Congress (TMC), said they will go to Lakhimpur Kheri to meet the families of the deceased.“The brutal treatment meted out to farmers in Uttar Pradesh is unforgivable. I am a farmer. I understand the pain of the farmers. I will go to Lakhimpur tomorrow morning to stand by them in these difficult circumstances,” Chhattisgarh chief minister and Congress UP incharge Bhupesh Baghel said. UP Congress spokesperson Ashok Singh party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will also visit the region on Monday. “Priyankaji has left for Lakhimpur Kheri,” news agency PTI quoted him as saying.West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee condemned the incident, calling it barbaric. “I strongly condemn the barbaric incident in Lakhimpur Kheri. The apathy of @BJP4India towards our farmer brethren pains me deeply. A delegation of 5 @AITCofficial MPs will be visiting the families of the victims tomorrow.,” Banerjee tweeted.Adityanath maintained that the state government will carry out an in-depth probe into the incident and take strict action against the guilty, according to a government statement. “Chief minister had expressed grief in the Lakhimpur incident. He called the incident very unfortunate. Uttar Pradesh government will investigate the matter in detail and will take strict actions against the culprits,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-violenceeightopposition-looks-to-corner-govt-yogi-vows-justice-101633297560302.html
04-10-2021||India||‘Going after small fish,’ Congress accuses NCB of ignoring heroin haul from Mundra||The Congress on Sunday accused the ruling BJP and its agencies including the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) of trying to protect the people involved in the drug trade while diverting attention from the ‘main haul’ at the Mundra port. Goa Congress spokesperson Dr Shama Mohammed said that the NCB was “very busy arresting small fish” while simultaneously ignoring the 3,000 kg heroin that was smuggled into the country through the Adani Mundra Port. “Why is NCB protecting the kingpins of the organised drug cartel and on whose orders? These lethal drugs are now in our country. Never in the history of India has such a large quantity of drugs been smuggled inside our borders without any intervening check from the government,” Dr Mohammed, said. The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence on 15 September 2021 seized nearly 3,000 kg of heroin branded as ‘Semicut Talcum Powder’ from Gujarat’s Mundra port — the largest consignment caught by the DRI so far. This haul is estimated to be worth over ₹21,000 crore in the international market. The heroin was found in two containers that landed at Mundra port from Afghanistan via Iran, exported from the Afghanistani firm M/s Hassan Hussain Limited, and imported in the name of Aashi Trading Company of Vijayawada, Andhra Pradesh.“It is impossible for such a massive shipment of drugs to be brought in without political patronage. Where are the NCB, IB, CBI and Customs Departments when such an organised drug syndicate is operating freely from the Mundra port?” she asked.The party demanded that the drug nexus operating from Adani’s Mundra port be investigated by a Commission composed of two sitting Supreme Court judges. Until the drug cartel is behind bars, the threat to India’s youth and national security will remain.“The Narcotics Control Bureau has been tasked with the matter of drug law enforcement in the country. It is the primary responsibility of the NCB to monitor, investigate, and prevent the movement of drugs into India. This is the same agency which went into overdrive over 59 gm of marijuana in the Sushant Singh death case, but is now missing in action when thousands of kilograms of hard drugs are being smuggled into the country,” she said. “The NCB has been without a full time head for the past 18 months, which is very concerning. An agency of such vital importance cannot function efficiently without a full-time chief. Had the DRI, whose primary job isn’t that of intercepting drugs, not caught the recent shipment, it would have gone through like previous ones,” Dr. Shama Mohammed said.Goa Congress president Girish Chodankar pointed out that the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence had also chanced upon a haul of 200 kgs of banned drug ketamine that was seized from the premises of a BJP office bearer. In 2018 Goa BJP office bearer Vassudev Parab was questioned by the DRI after a haul of 308 kgs of ketamine was seized from his godown. He was never arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/going-after-small-fish-congress-accuses-ncb-of-ignoring-heroin-haul-from-mundra-101633292281470.html
04-10-2021||India||Congress shows willingness to enter into ‘like-minded’ alliances in Goa ahead of polls||The Congress on Sunday announced its intention to align with like-minded parties ahead of the upcoming polls with AICC observer Dinesh Gundu Rao saying that the High Command has given the state leadership the green light to begin negotiating with “like-minded” parties ahead of the polls. “We are willing to come together with like-minded people and parties who hold secular principles, who have been in Goa for a long time. We are willing to talk and have been talking. In the interest of Goa we are ready for this,” Rao told the media on Sunday. “The High Command has given us the mandate. At the last meeting we held in Delhi the message was given by the high command -- including Chidambaram, myself, all leaders were there -- and that was the mandate given. We are in talks and it should be in the interest of Goa and to give a stable government,” Rao added. Rao said that the party was now fighting a two-front war against two forces. “There are two forces working -- one force is the fascist force of the BJP which wants to completely control this country and keep everything under its command and using the power of money and using the power they are trying to create an authoritarian state. The second thing that is happening in Goa is parties which are operating here to ensure that the BJP wins,” he said. “They are not working here to see that they win or that the secular front wins. They are here to ensure that the BJP gains an upper hand. Today the anti-BJP vote because there is huge anti-incumbency against this government and people want to see that the BJP loses the polls in Goa. But there are forces in collusion with various other forces which are again trying to destabilise this and divide this vote. That is what Goa people should be very careful and aware about,” he said. When asked whether he was referring to the Trinamool Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party, Rao said: “100%”. “Trinamool, AAP have the same agenda. These parties are offering money. Where is this money coming from? And what kind of government can these people give when they are trying to purchase ... they don’t have their own workers; they don’t have their own leaders. They are trying to hire, purchase, and auction. More and more the price is going up. They will completely destroy Goa,” he said. “We cannot have this situation again where instability leads to corruption. To form a government if you are basing it on corruption, then the government itself will become corrupt later. That is the way this government has been formed,” Rao further said. Asked if the Congress was worried about a possible splintering of the non-BJP vote, Rao said there was nothing to be afraid of. “There is nothing to be scared of, you fight elections, you win elections, and you lose elections. This is nobody’s personal property. But come in a healthy manner. You can’t come and say I will make you CM face, I will make you MLA, I will give you so much money. This is inducement. What kind of government you will give when you are doing this kind of politics even before becoming anything,” he said. “This is being backed by people who want to weaken the secular front. This is being done by people ultimately wanting to see that the secular forces are divided. There is a big conspiracy here. Not only here in Goa but across the country to see that if Congress is weakened, it can become one authoritarian state in this country. That is the politics being played across the country,” he added. Besides the Congress which is seeking to regain its lost glory, Goa’s electoral fray has seen the re-entry of the Trinamool Congress, the Aam Aadmi Party which established its presence in Goa since 2014 as well as local parties the Goa Forward Party, the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party and other regional activist collectives which have already announced they will contest the polls. The Goa Forward Party has been very publicly angling for an alliance with the Congress arguing that only a ‘team’ effort which provides a clear alternative to the BJP will ensure the defeat of the BJP. The Congress on the other had has until now given no indication that it was eager for an alliance with state Congress president Girish Chodankar taunting the Goa Forward’s Vijai Sardesai that he should have shown such enthusiasm to align with the Congress back in 2017 when the party emerged as the single largest party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-shows-willingness-to-enter-into-like-minded-alliances-in-goa-ahead-of-polls-101633290840988.html
04-10-2021||India||Differing strategies for Andhra Pradesh bypoll widen BJP-Jana Sena fissures||The alliance between the Bharatiya Janata Party and Jana Sena Party led by actor Pawan Kalyan in Andhra Pradesh appears to be on rocks with both the parties adopting independent lines in their political strategies in the state.The BJP’s decision on Sunday to contest the upcoming by-election to Badvel assembly constituency in Kadapa district scheduled to be held on October 30, ignoring the plea of the Jana Sena Party not to field any candidate, is a clear indication that all is not well between the two alliance partners.The bypoll to Badvel seat is necessitated with the demise of sitting YSR Congress MLA G Venkata Subbaiah on March 28. Initially, the Jana Sena Party wanted to contest the bypoll and asked the BJP to leave the seat to it, but there was no response from the latter.Later, the Jana Sena announced that it won’t contest the bypoll as YSRC has given the ticket to Dasari Sudha, widow of Venkata Subbaiah, and as per the tradition that if any family member of the deceased MLA contests the elections, other political parties should keep away from the contest.The main opposition Telugu Desam Party, too, initially announced the candidature of its senior leader Obulapuram Rajasekhar for Badvel, but the party’s politburo at its meeting held under the leadership of party president N Chandrababu Naidu on Sunday, decided that it would pull out of the contest, respecting the tradition.But the BJP decided to field its candidate for the Badvel bypoll. “Yes, we are contesting the bypoll to test our strength. It is not the question of winning or losing the election. Contesting the election is a democratic process,” a senior BJP leader said on condition of anonymity.The BJP’s independent stand has irked the Jana Sena, which has been facing a virtual non-cooperation from its alliance partner for quite some time. In the latest episode of the confrontation between Pawan Kalyan and the YSRCP over the Jagan Mohan Reddy government’s decision to take over online cinema ticket sales, too, the BJP has not come to the support of Pawan Kalyan.“Neither BJP state president Somu Veerraju nor any other BJP leader from the state issued a single statement or posted a tweet supporting Pawan Kalyan, when the ministers in the Jagan cabinet and other YSRCP leaders were using abusive language against the Jana Sena chief. It is thoroughly disappointing,” a Jana Sena Party leader said.The BJP leaders also stayed away from Pawan Kalyan’s much-publicised programme of “Shramadan” of repairing bad roads on Saturday, coinciding with Gandhi Jayanti day, in Rajahmundry in East Godavari district and Anantapur.The Jana Sena chief announced last month that his party cadre would take up road repairs across the state on October 2, if the Jagan government failed to repair badly damaged roads during monsoon. “Before announcing the programme, Pawan Kalyan did not consult us. So, there is no point in joining the programme,” the BJP leader quoted above said.Pawan Kalyan is also not happy with the decision of the Narendra Modi government to go ahead with privatisation of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant despite strong protests by the people of the state and steel plant workers.“I would have taken up agitation in a big away against the steel plant privatisation had the people of Visakhapatnam not defeated me in the last assembly elections from Gajuwaka constituency,” Pawan said, at a party meeting in Mangalagiri on Wednesday.Jana Sena politburo leader Nadendla Manohar, however, said their party would extend solidarity with the striking steel plant workers and Pawan Kalyan, too, would join the agitation shortly.Though the BJP has been in alliance with the Jana Sena since 2019, there has not been any coordination between both the parties since then. There has been not a single instance of the BJP and Jana Sena cadre putting up a joint fight against the Jagan Mohan Reddy government in the state.The last time the BJP and Jana Sena displayed their bonhomie was in April when Pawan Kalyan campaigned for the saffron party in the by-election to Tirupati parliamentary constituency. In fact, the Jana Sena wanted to contest the Tirupati bypoll, but was forced to withdraw following pressure from the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/differing-strategies-for-bypoll-widen-bjp-jana-sena-fissures-101633289820939.html
04-10-2021||India||Mass outreach key in building Stalin as a ‘people’s leader’||Tamil Nadu chief minister M K Stalin has been building his image quite differently from his predecessors and as chief minister his latest outings seek to project him as a people’s leader.On Saturday, on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti, Stalin chaired a gram sabha meeting at Pappapatti, a remote village in Tamil Nadu’s Madurai district. It’s a communally a sensitive region which has seen several caste related clashes and in the past had not allowed Dalit representatives to contest elections. It has been chronicled that even if a Dalit was elected, the winner would resign in a few days. Stalin’s choice of Pappapatti is not a random one but one chosen by design like much of his visits to police station, public parks and schools in the last few days. It was during Stalin’s tenure as the rural administration minister in 2006 that rural elections were held in the village along with two other communal villages (Keeripatti and Nattamangalam) after several years and they had become reserved constituencies.Stalin credited Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) for this achievement and also the then Madurai collector T Udhayachandran. “This was achieved by the officers Ashok Vardhan Shetty and T Udhayachandran. Udhayachandran was your collector then, and now he is my personal secretary,” Stalin told the villagers. He left, vowing to make Tamil Nadu the number one state in the country and took an oath to prevent violence against women and children. Across the state, millions of people participating in the gram sabha meetings took up a pledge to treat everyone equally regardless of their gender, caste, and religion.On his way to the gram sabha, Stalin did a pit stop in a paddy field to meet women farmers. He tweeted a photo with them saying, “I listened to their demands.” On September 29, the chief minister entered the Adhiyamankottai police station in Dharmapuri district, sat on a police officer’s chair and spent about 10-minutes going through the register, the daily records and interacted with the police officials about their workload. He was in the district travelling to inaugurate government schemes. A day later, he took an unannounced inspection to the government-run Adidravidar Welfare Student Hostel in Dharmapuri. Stalin asked the students about the hostel facilities and the food provided. In June, he made a similar surprise inspection at six public distribution shops or ration shops in Chennai. The chief minister has also been setting fitness goals. A few weeks after the won the assembly elections for which results were declared in May, Stalin was seen cycling on the road to Mamallapuram on a Saturday morning, stopping at a local tea shop and obliging locals with selfies. Fitness, however, has always been part of his routine through his entire political life that began when he was a teenager. Early morning walks, yoga, gym and cycling once in a fortnight or so are part of the 68-year-old’s lifestyle. He recently had a relaxed chat with morning walkers inside the Theosophical society campus. He was accompanied by the present health secretary M Subramanian. Stalin and Subramnaian have been morning walking partners since the early 1990s.The fitness strategy is in complete contrast to his late predecessors, AIADMK’s supremo J Jayalalithaa who died after a month-long stay in a hospital in 2016. His father M Karunanidhi had been using a wheelchair since 2004 until he passed away in 2017. “These aren’t planned activities. It’s been part of his routine and now as chief minister when people see him work and exercise it will motivate them too,” said a DMK leader close to Stalin, not wishing to be named. Stalin has also managed to successfully subvert BJP’s criticism that DMK is anti-Hindu by positioning his close aide Sekar Babu as the minister of Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments and has partaken in several announcements for the welfare of temples. It has silenced the ‘free temples campaign’ led by right wing ideologies in Tamil Nadu for now.Political experts say that Stalin is inventing himself and through him reinventing the DMK’s image. DMK is known for its thuggish masculine image and criticisms of land grabbing which have not happened so far as Stalin is said to keep a close watch on leaders and cadres from indulging in such activities. As DMK president, Stalin attended several gram sabha meetings in the run-up to the 2019 Lok Sabha and 2021 assembly elections to connect with the rural masses. Tamil Nadu heads to local body polls in nine newly carved districts next week.“The party solidly stands by him. He consolidated his leadership position even before the election. But people didn’t know what kind of a leader Stalin is. They’re watching. So now as chief minister, Stalin wants to earn a good name. He wants to be in everyone’s good books,” said political commentator Maalan Narayanan. “He doesn’t want to offend anyone or any sector. He doesn’t want any controversies.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mass-outreach-key-in-building-stalin-as-a-people-s-leader-101633289641726.html
04-10-2021||India||Tamil Nadu vaccinates 1.7 million in 4th mega drive||Tamil Nadu inoculated over 1.7 million people against Covid-19 in the fourth edition of the mega vaccination drive held on Sunday, with 968,000 people receiving the first shot and the remaining 751,0000 getting the second, the health department has said.The earlier campaigns were held on September 12, 19 and 26.According to a press release from the department, 2.89 million people were covered in the first vaccination drive, 1.64 million people in the second and 2.48 million in the third.State chief secretary V Irai Anbu, minister for medical and family welfare Ma Subramanian, health department principal secretary J Radhakrishnan inspected the vaccination programme in various parts of the state.Of the districts, Chennai topped the list by administering the vaccine to 1.50 lakh people, Cuddalore 93,594, Coimbatore 81,454, Tiruppur 80,066 and Tiruchirappalli 65,310. Aranthangi recorded the least with 11,761 doses, the release said.The campaign was held in over 20,000 health camps in primary health centres, government hospitals, anganwadis and schools between 7 am and 7 pm, the release said.In view of the mass vaccination on Sunday, there would not be any special camp on October 4 (Monday), the health department had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-vaccinates-1-7-million-in-4th-mega-drive-101633289581037.html
04-10-2021||India||Kerala: 6-year-old boy hammered to death over family dispute in Idukki, uncle missing||A six-year-old boy died on Sunday in Kerala’s Idukki district after he was hit on the head with a hammer allegedly by his uncle following a family dispute, police said.The uncle barged into the boy’s house in the wee hours and began attacking everyone with the hammer. While the boy died on the spot, his mother and grandmother were seriously injured and presently under treatment, the police said. Inquest proceedings were underway and the post-mortem report was awaited, the police said.The incident occurred when everyone was asleep, they said. The boy’s 15-year-old sister managed to escape and raise an alarm. Soon, the neighbours rushed. On seeing them, the accused fled, the police said. A hunt is on for the man, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala6yearold-boy-hammered-to-death-over-family-dispute-in-idukki-uncle-missing-101633289463437.html
04-10-2021||India||Kerala govt doctors to go on protest from today over pay cut||Government doctors in Kerala will boycott trainings, online meetings and e-Sanjeevani, an online teleconsultation system, from October 4 in protest against a cut in their pay and allowances, an association representing them said on Sunday.The Kerala Government Medical Officers’ Association (KGMOA), in a release, said it would start its “non-cooperation agitation” from Monday by boycotting e-Sanjeevani, all trainings and online meetings and that the protest would be intensified from October 15 if their grievances are not addressed.From October 15, the doctors would also boycott review meetings, VIP duty and meetings of the Local Self Government Department, the KGMOA said.If their grievances are still not addressed, then from November 1 they will hold a ‘relay standing protest’ in front of the Secretariat and thereafter, on November 16 the doctors would go on a mass casual leave, the association has said.The association on Saturday said since the Covid outbreak, the doctors and health workers have been working hard and sincerely to take care of those infected, despite lack of basic facilities.It had further claimed that despite working relentlessly by facing the challenges posed by the pandemic, not only were the doctors and health workers not provided any risk allowance, when the pay revision came, their salaries were not increased and instead their various allowances were withdrawn by the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-govt-doctors-to-go-on-protest-from-today-over-pay-cut-101633289340832.html
04-10-2021||India||Karnataka minister discusses vaccination for kids with Centre||The Centre is hopeful of a positive outcome from the final round of discussions currently underway with Zydus Cadila for its Covid-19 vaccine for children, Karnataka health minister K Sudhakar said on Sunday after a meeting with Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya here in the national capital.Sudhakar, who discussed children’s vaccination and other state initiatives over a breakfast meeting with the Union minister, said the second clinical trial of a nasal vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech has been completed and the third one is expected to be done by November-December.Bharat Biotech Chairman and Managing Director Krishna Ella was also present at the breakfast meet.At the meeting, Sudhakar urged Mandaviya for the Centre’s support to upgrade 250 primary health centres (PHCs) in Karnataka under the National Health Mission (NHM).Speaking to reporters after the meeting, Sudhakar said, “I had a lengthy discussion with the Union minister about children vaccination. He (Mandaviya) informed that the government is having a final round of discussion with Zydus with regard to its Covid-19 vaccine for children. He said he was hoping for a positive outcome soon.” He said he also discussed with the Bharat Biotech chief about the status of the nasal vaccine.“It was informed that the second clinical trial of this vaccine has been completed and the third clinical trial will be over by the end of November-December,” Sudhakar said, adding that Ella said the company has a capacity to manufacture 200 million doses of the vaccine a month.At the meeting, the Karnataka minister also sought the Centre’s support to upgrade the existing PHCs in the southern state under the NHM.He said there are about 2,500 PHCs in the state. The state government has set aside a budget to upgrade 250 PHCs in the current fiscal and it wants the Centre to bear the cost for 250 more this year, he added.It will cost about ₹5-7 crore for each PHC, which will be upgraded with better infrastructure and staff facility. It will also house a wellness and health centre and an ayush kendra as well as accommodation facilities for the staff. The number of doctors will be enhanced from one to three, while that of beds will be increased from six to 12, Sudhakar said.This concept of a health centre is new and can be replicated across the country, he said, adding that a detailed presentation on this will be made to the Union minister on October 8 in the presence of the chief minister.Sudharkar said Mandaviya is scheduled to visit Karnataka on October 9-10 and is likely to participate in a few state programmes.On the vaccination status against Covid in the southern state, he said the first dose has been administered to over 80 per cent of the eligible population of 4.98 crore, while the second dose has been given to 37 per cent of the beneficiaries so far.In September, the state administered 1.48 crore vaccine doses, the highest in a month. “At the same speed, we will cover the entire eligible population by December 31,” Sudhakar said.He, however, said the vaccine doses are yet to be administered to “10-15 per cent” of the eligible population and the government is planning an outreach programme to create awareness and address the misconceptions about the vaccines.North Karnataka districts, especially Kalburgi, Bidar, Raichur, Koppal as well as Bellary, are lagging behind in the vaccination rollout, whereas Bengaluru Urban has achieved 100-per cent vaccination of the first dose and is ahead in terms of administering the second dose, Sudhakar said.On the restrictions imposed on people visiting the state from Kerala and Maharashtra, he said, “Since the (Covid) positivity rate is higher in the two neighbouring states, we have kept stringent rules for those travelling to Karnataka. They should not only be vaccinated but must also carry an RT-PCR certificate. Otherwise, we are not allowing them (to enter the state).” These norms continue to be in place despite pressure from the two states for relaxations, he added.On the preparations to handle a probable third wave of Covid, the minister said, “We need to watch during November-December. Since the number of people vaccinated against the disease will increase by that time, there will not be a serious impact if a third wave hits unless there is a new mutant variant which is quite different from the existing four variants.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-minister-discusses-vaccination-for-kids-with-centre-101633288923999.html
04-10-2021||India||Karnataka records 664 fresh Covid-19 cases, 8 deaths in single day||Karnataka added 664 fresh Covid-19 cases and eight deaths on Sunday, pushing the caseload to 2,977,889 and the toll to 37,819.The day also saw 711 people being discharged, taking the total number of recoveries to 2,927,740, leaving 12,301 active cases, a health department bulletin said. Bengaluru Urban accounted for the maximum number of 196 cases and three deaths, it said. After several weeks, Dakshina Kannada district, which was the second major Covid hotspot, saw a decline in numbers. However, Mysuru on Sunday reported 101 fresh infections and one death.Other districts too reported fresh cases, including 77 in Dakshina Kannada, 52 in Kodagu, 45 in Hassan, 43 in Uttara Kannada and 33 in Udupi.Bagalkote, Bidar, Gadag, Kalaburagi and Raichur reported zero infections and no Covid-19 related deaths.Twenty four districts reported zero fatalities, the bulletin said. A total of 126,386 samples were tested in the state on Sunday, taking the cumulative number of specimens examined so far in Karnataka to over 40 million. The number of vaccinations done so far in the state rose to 56 million, with 21,971 people being inoculated on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-records-664-fresh-covid-19-cases-8-deaths-in-single-day-101633288922683.html
04-10-2021||India||Karnataka BJP shortlists names for 2 bypolls||The core committee of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Sunday shortlisted candidates for the upcoming bypolls in Hangal and Sindhgi scheduled to be held on October 30. The meeting in Bengaluru was chaired by Arun Singh, in-charge of party affairs in the state. BJP general secretary CT Ravi said that the core committee had shortlisted names for the two constituencies, however, he didn’t divulge details of the candidates saying the final decision will be taken by the party’s central leadership. “Following the meeting, state president Nalin Kumar Kateel has been authorized to recommend the names to the party high command who will finalize the candidates and announce shortly. Both internal and external surveys have indicated that BJP will win both the seats,” he told reporters. Hanagal in Haveri district and Sindagi in Vijayapura bypolls were necessitated following the death of sitting MLAs. While MC Managuli of JD(S) who represented Sindagi died in January, BJP legislator CM Udasi died in June. According to leaders in the know of the developments, former MLA Ramesh Bhusanur and Revathi Udasi, daughter-in-law of CM Udasi, have emerged as forerunners in Sindhgi and Hangal constituencies. Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday also exuded confidence of the ruling BJP’s victory in the assembly bypolls in Sindagi and Hanagal constituencies on October 30. “Hanagal has been our constituency whereas Sindagi is a JD(S) fort but take it from me that we are 100 per cent sure of winning both the seats,” Bommai told reporters. The chief minister said that the BJP’s scope of winning the bypolls is bright because it is a disciplined party, which has its cadre from booth-level to the national level. He said the candidates fielded by the party would get the support of everyone right from the booth-level workers to the district, state, and national-level leaders. Even though names have been suggested, according to party insiders, options have been provided by the party as well. From Sindagi constituency, Ashok Allapur and Shambuling Kakkalameli are also recommended as ‘backups’. Meanwhile, in Hanagal, three other leaders also remain in the race, even though a recommendation has been made by the party core committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-bjp-shortlists-names-for-2-bypolls-101633288920972.html
04-10-2021||India||Call on resuming classes for 1 to 5 after festivals: Karnataka minister||Karnataka health minister K Sudhakar on Sunday said a decision regarding reopening of schools for classes 1-5 in the state will be taken after the festival season.He also said the state government has reopened educational institutions not in a “hurry” but in a phased manner after discussion with parents and experts.First higher education institutions was reopened, then pre-university and later classes 9-12 and classes 6-8, Sudhakar told reporters here after meeting Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya.“We will take a decision shortly after the festival season. Let the Dussehra vacation get over,” he said.Sudhakar said that a final call will be taken after consultation and the Cabinet’s decision.Asked about a school in Bengaluru being shut after children tested Covid-19 positive, he said the government is aware of it. But that one incident cannot determine whether to reopen schools for classes 1-5, Sudhakar said.“That school is shut now and many children are isolated. Two children had symptoms and they are not in a serious condition. We are keeping a watch on every school in the state,” he said.It has been more than a month that schools were reopened for classes 6-8 in the state and “we have not received any reports of concerns from schools so far”, he added. Sudharkar said, “We were to reopen schools for classes 1-5 because medically speaking immunity in children up to 12 years is highest.” Since children are small and keeping parents’ concern in mind, the government focused on reopening educational institutions in a phased manner, he said.On reopening of educational institutions, Sudhakar said, “We did not take decisions in hurry. Even now if we see children are facing problems, then we will immediately take back our decision.” The Karnataka minister mentioned that the first dose has been administered to over 80 per cent of the entire eligible population of 4.98 crore in the state, while the second dose to 37 per cent so far.In September, the state administered the highest single-month vaccine doses of 1.48 crore, he said.“At the same speed, we will complete the entire eligible population by the end of December 31,” he said.Sudhakar, however, said there are “10-15 per cent of the population who still have not taken a single dose in the state”, and the government is planning an outreach programme to create awareness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/call-on-resuming-classes-for-1-to-5-after-festivals-karnataka-minister-101633288862750.html
04-10-2021||India||Drug trafficking racket busted, 7 held in Karnataka||The Narcotics Control Bureau has busted a drug trafficking racket, wherein the accused posed as food delivery agents for supplying drugs in Bengaluru and Shivamogga. According to a statement from NCB on Saturday, this gang of seven people used the recent lockdown to deliver drugs across the two cities. According to NCB, all seven are under arrest. According to Amit Gawate, zonal director of NCB’s Bengaluru unit, based on specific information on Thursday, they arrested two residents of Bengaluru while they were in the process of taking delivery of eight boxes of the contraband from a courier vehicle and were loading the same into a car. “A thorough examination revealed 137 kg of high-grade marijuana packed in paper packets wrapped with adhesive tapes, which was seized. Searches at the residence of one of the accused resulted in the recovery of ₹4.81 lakh cash. Packing materials used for retail packing of the contraband was also found,” read a statement from NCB. The NCB said that a online food delivery executive who was about to deliver a parcel was also apprehended. NCB also claimed that during the lockdown, peddlers pretending to be agents of a popular online food delivery company delivered drugs in Bengaluru. “The traffickers, instead of going and buying the drugs, booked the drugs consignments through couriers, by giving addresses of non-functional shops or other business establishments,” the NCB said in a statement. “The kingpin, along with associates, were indulged in drug trafficking in large scale in Bengaluru and its outskirts and were delivering the drugs to their consumers under the disguise of online food delivery boys since lockdown guidelines under Covid-19 restrictions allow such deliveries under service of essential commodities,” the NCB added. “This drug cartel hired several delivery boys of that online food delivery company in their drug syndicate and mastered the drug delivery mechanism in Bengaluru. The syndicate thrived especially during the lockdown period and used to assure customers of doorstep delivery,” the NCB said in the statement. The NCB said it carried out searches at residential premises of another accused, and that it has recovered about three kilograms of ganja, packed in small packets with specific markings on it, and cash of ₹39,000. A follow-up action led to the arrest of four people in Shivamogga on October 1, including the man who has been handling the finances of the network, the agency claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drug-trafficking-racket-busted-7-held-in-karnataka-101633288860721.html
04-10-2021||India||Karnataka to meet Andhra, Telangana on building dam over Tungabhadra||The Karnataka government will soon hold discussions with neighbouring Andhra Pradesh and Telangana on constructing a parallel balancing reservoir over Tungabhadra river to desilt it, an issue which involved both these states, chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Sunday. A Detailed Project Report on it would be got ready soon, he said. “Tenders were floated for desilting the Tungabhadra river, but there was poor response to it. Then it was decided in our time (during the BJP government) to set up a parallel balancing reservoir and a survey was also undertaken,” he told reporters here. According to him, the then Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had released ₹23 crore for the DPR.“Shortly the DPR will come. Once it is ready, the state government will hold discussions with the neighbouring states, since it is an inter-state related matter and all issues will be sorted out.The balancing reservoir will be constructed in such a manner that the river water is utilised properly. We will initiate all steps to stop excess water from flowing into the sea, the chief minister said.To a query on the drinking water problem in Ballari, Bommai said he would visit the city in November and review all the public works, including drinking water projects.He assured people that all the obstructions will be removed to ensure that Ballari gets drinking water at all hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-to-meet-andhra-telangana-on-building-dam-over-tungabhadra-101633288803276.html
04-10-2021||India||Mekedatu project will continue despite opposition from TN: K’taka CM Bommai||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday said the plan on Mekedatu balancing reservoir across Cauvery would be constructed despite the statements issued by politicians in Tamil Nadu that has mislead the people of that state. Speaking to reporters after inaugurating a new building of SK Modi International School in Ballari on Sunday, the chief minister said that the implementation of the project was in the hands of the Karnataka government. “Everybody knows the Tamil Nadu’s stand on Mekedatu project. They [Tamil Nadu politicians] politicizing the issue for electoral gains. Implementing the project is not at their hands, but in our hands and we would do it. We are firm on our stand and Tamil Nadu doesn’t have any powers to decide on the project. They are doing it to mislead their people politically. The project would be taken up through the legal battle,” Bommai said. Mekedatu is a multi-purpose (drinking and power) project, which involves building a balancing reservoir near Kanakapura in Ramanagara district. Tamil Nadu has been opposing the project, raising apprehensions that the state would be affected if the project takes shape. The project, once completed, is aimed at ensuring drinking water to Bengaluru and neighbouring areas (4.75 TMC) and also can generate 400 MW power. The estimated cost of the project is ₹9,000 crore. (With inputs from PTI).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mekedatu-project-will-continue-despite-opposition-from-tn-k-taka-cm-bommai-101633288801297.html
04-10-2021||India||No arrests in Karnataka suspected hate crime||Police are yet to make any arrest in connection with the murder of a 24-year-old Muslim man, whose decapitated body was found on a railway track in Belagavi district last week, officials familiar with the developments said on Sunday.At least three persons have been booked for murder so far. Officials at Belagavi rural police station said the case, which was originally registered with railway police, was transferred to the district police on Sunday. “We are currently questioning some suspects in the case and arrests will be made soon,” a senior officer said on condition of anonymity. The decapitated body of Arbaz Mullah was found on the railway tracks in Khanapur in the border district, about 505 kms from Bengaluru, on September 28. While police had initially registered a case of unnatural death, they later filed a murder case after post-mortem report revealed injuries to the head. In her complaint to the police, the deceased’s mother, Nazeema Mohammad Sheikh, alleged that her son, who was a car dealer, was killed by the family and relatives of a Hindu woman he was in a relationship with. Sheikh claimed the two families were aware of the relationship and also alleged the role of two members of a Hindu right-wing group in the murder. “We knew about the relationship and I had spoken to the woman’s mother to ensure she doesn’t meet him. I also told my son not to meet her. I shifted from Khanapur to Azam Nagar in Belagavi with my son. But the two continued to meet, and we started getting threats from her family and relatives,” Sheikh said. A relative of the deceased alleged that the woman’s family roped in members of Sri Ram Sene who, on September 26, reportedly threatened the man. “They called him to Khanapur where he took his phone and deleted the woman’s photos. They also demanded money from him for a settlement. He then sold his (Volkswagen) Polo car for ₹90,000 to pay them,” the relative said, seeking anonymity. The relative added that the members of the group also threatened to pour acid on their faces if Mullah failed to pay them the money. Sheikh said that she was out of town on September 26 when Mullah informed her about the threats and subsequently went missing. She learnt about his murder after a railway guard called her from her son’s number. Based on her complaint, police booked three persons, including the girl’s father, for murder (section 302 of Indian Penal Code). Asked why the named suspects have not been taken into custody, Belagavi rural police said the procedure of transferring the case and other “technical” matters are currently underway.“As we said, we are questioning some suspects and we will soon arrest the culprits,” a senior station house officer, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-arrests-in-karnataka-suspected-hate-crime-101633288740928.html
04-10-2021||India||NIA raids 9 locations in J&K in cross-LoC trade case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Sunday conducted searches at nine locations in Poonch district in connection with a five-year-old case related to misuse of money generated from cross-LoC trade for fomenting terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir, officials said.The raids were carried out with the assistance of the Jammu and Kashmir Police, Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) in the case registered by the NIA on December 9, 2016, under section 17 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, a spokesperson of the NIA said.On April 18, 2019, India indefinitely suspended cross-LoC trade at two points along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir, following reports that it was being “misused” by elements from across the border to smuggle weapons, narcotics and fake currency. The LoC trade across Chakan-Da-Bagh in Poonch district of Jammu region and Salamabad in Baramulla district of north Kashmir was intended as a confidence-building measure (CBM) for the population living in Jammu and Kashmir and across the LoC in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (Pok). “LoC trade was started in the year 2008 as part of confidence-building measure between J-K and PoK. The trade was based on barter system and third party origin goods were not allowed. The instant case is related to the large scale transfer of funds from Pakistan to India through the import of California almonds and other items via the cross LoC Trade Facilitation Centres (TFCs) located at Salamabad and Chakkan-Da-Bag,” the NIA said.The spokesperson said these funds were purportedly being used for fomenting terrorism and separatism in Jammu and Kashmir.“Investigation into the case revealed that some of the traders having excess imports were channelising the surplus profits generated to terror organisations, while others are suspected to have links/connections with proscribed terrorist organisations,” the NIA said.During the searches conducted at multiple locations, the spokesperson said documents, digital devices and other incriminating material have been recovered from the premises of the suspects.“Further investigation in the case is underway,” the NIA said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-raids-9-locations-in-j-k-in-cross-loc-trade-case-101633288500636.html
04-10-2021||India||200 booked after mob attacks prayer house in Roorkee||The Uttarakhand Police have booked 200 people in connection with the vandalisation of a Christian prayer house in Roorkee during the Sunday Mass, allegedly by members of a right wing group. Police said the right-wing group accused the Christian missionaries of running an alleged conversion racket.According to the complaint, the incident took place around 10 am in Roorkee’s Solanipuram Colony, when a mob barged into the prayer hall, raising slogans against church missionaries. The mob vandalised the prayer house and also manhandled some of the devotees, it added.“Following the preliminary investigation, a case has been filed against 200 people. An inspector rank has been directed to the matter,” said Circle officer Roorkee Vivek Kumar. The accused have been booked under several sections of the Indian Penal Code, including for rioting, theft, trespassing and voluntarily causing hurt.N Wilson, who is associated with the Christian prayer house, denied allegations of religious conversion. Station house officer Civil Lines Amarchand Sharma said police personnel have been deployed in the area to avoid any untoward incident.Reacting to the incident, BJP state president Madan Kaushik said religious conversion won’t be allowed in any way in the state and accused the prayer house of conducting “suspicious gatherings“.Congress state vice president Dhirendra Pratap, however, condemned the “hooliganism and targeting of Christians”. He further accused the BJP of “fuelling communal tension” ahead of Assembly elections in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/200-booked-after-mob-attacks-prayer-house-in-roorkee-101633288440779.html
04-10-2021||India||Sidhu calls for ouster of DGP, AG; CM says will consult him||Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday again raked up the demand for replacement of the state’s police chief and advocate general, saying that their appointments are like “rubbing salt on the wounds of the victims of the sacrilege issue”. Hours after the statement, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi assured that the appointments will be finalised after consultation with Sidhu and other ministers.“Demand for Justice in Sacrilege cases and for the arrest of main culprits behind the drug trade brought our Govt in 2017 & Due to his failure, People removed the last CM. Now, AG/DG appointments rub salt on the wounds of victims, they must be replaced or we will have No face!! (sic),” Sidhu said in a Twitter post.The cricketer-turned-politician, who has made the Bargari sacrilege issue the main poll plank ahead of next year’s assembly polls, has been demanding the removal of DGP Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota and AS Deol for their roles in the 2015 desecration of a religious text in Punjab’s Faridkot district. Two people were killed in police firing on those protesting the sacrilege.While Sahota led the investigation into the case under the then Parkash Singh Badal-led government, Deol was a counsel for former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini and had represented him in cases related to police firing on Sikhs protesting against the sacrilege cases.The incident is one of the issues driving the feud between former chief minister Amarinder Singh and Navjot Sidhu, which escalated last month after Singh stepped down from the post of CM, claiming that he was “humiliated three times” by the Congress’s leadership. The party high command then chose Channi for the top post in Punjab.However, a day after the new Cabinet was sworn in, Sidhu put in his papers on September 28, citing Deol’s appointment as one of the reasons for his sudden decision to quit as Punjab Congress president. Hours later, however, he changed his decision after Channi reached out to him and they agreed to set up a coordination panel for key decisions in the Punjab government. In an attempt to placate Sidhu, on October 1, the Channi government-appointed RS Bains as Special Public Prosecutor to handle all the sacrilege-related cases.Touching upon the issue on the sidelines of a government event on Sunday, Channi said: “There is not going to be any laxity against those who indulged in the desecration of the Guru (Granth Sahib). Legs may be severed but will not falter, I can assure you.”He added that his government had already forwarded the names of IPS officers with 30 years of experience to the central government and was waiting for the panel of three names from them. “Thereafter, the name of the new DGP will be finalized in consultation with the PPCC chief (Sidhu), all ministers and MLAs. I have told Sidhu Saab and he already knows the names of the police officers.”The state government has sent the names of 10 police officers to the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) for the appointment of a regular DGP.To a question, Channi said his government will take everyone along and perform with honesty. “The party work is being looked after by Sidhu sahab. We should both work in coordination and we are doing so. If anything is not being liked, then we have set up a coordination committee at the party forum where we can discuss it,” he added.Sidhu had earlier attacked Sahota on Thursday, alleging that he wrongly indicted two Sikh men in a desecration case and gave a clean chit to the members of the Badal family.On Saturday, Sidhu had said he would stand with Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra whether he holds any post or not.“Will uphold principles of Gandhi Ji & Shastri Ji...Post or No Post will stand by @RahulGandhi & @priyankagandhi! Let all negative forces try to defeat me, but with every ounce of positive energy will make Punjab win, Punjabiyat (Universal Brotherhood) win & every Punjabi win!!,” he had tweeted on the birth anniversaries of Mahatma Gandhi and former prime minister Lal Bahadur Shastri.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sidhu-calls-for-ouster-of-dgp-ag-cm-says-will-consult-him-101633288204452.html
04-10-2021||India||Lalu being held hostage in Delhi, says Tej Pratap; Tejashwi rejects remark||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tej Pratap Yadav’s remarks that party chief Lalu Prasad was being held “hostage” in Delhi intensified his rivalry with his younger sibling Tejashwi Yadav, who said on Sunday that such claims don’t match his father’s stature, who was once the chief minister of Bihar.On Saturday, Tej Pratap alleged that his father was held “hostage” in New Delhi despite getting bail in several corruption cases earlier this year. Taking a swipe at Tejashwi, Tej Pratap said those dreaming of becoming the party’s national president will never succeed. “Laluji is not being allowed to come to Patna and those dreaming of becoming the party’s president are keeping him ‘hostage’ in New Delhi. The RJD chief is not being allowed to come to Patna despite having spent several months in the national capital after being released from jail in April. I do not want to take names as everybody knows them,” he said. The RJD chief is recuperating from a long spell of illness at the residence of his elder daughter, Misa Bharti, in the national capital. In a recent virtual interaction with RJD leaders, he had said he would soon visit Patna and tour every district in the state. “The way the party is functioning will not help to strengthen its organisation but only weaken it,” Tej Pratap said. Responding to the allegations on Sunday, Tejashwi said: “Laluji has been the chief minister of Bihar for a long time and also a central minister. He was instrumental in the election of two former prime ministers. He had also arrested Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) patriarch Lal Krishna Advani. The personality of Laluji does not match with the allegations made.”For the past few months, Tej Pratap has been at loggerheads with his younger brother and RJD state chief Jagdanand Singh, apparently over his diminishing clout in the party. Earlier, he had accused Singh of acting in an arbitrary manner. Following his remarks, reports suggested that Singh had offered to step down from his post but was persuaded not to by the RJD chief. On August 8, Tej Pratap referred to Singh as “Hitler” at a meeting of the party’s student wing. Reports suggest that Tej Pratap is also angry with Tejashwi and Singh over the party’s decision to remove Akash Yadav, who is believed to be close to Lalu’s elder son, as RJD’s youth state chief. Reacting to Tej Pratap’s allegation, state Bharatiya Janata Party spokesperson Nikhil Anand said: “Though it is an internal matter of Lalu’s family, our concerns about the RJD chief’s health and well being is natural. We feel Tejashwi should issue a clarification (over his remarks) so that we can be assured of Yadav’s well-being. We pray that the RJD chief keeps good health and stays safe.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lalu-being-held-hostage-in-delhi-says-tej-pratap-tejashwi-rejects-remark-101633287840833.html
04-10-2021||India||Shrine in MP’s Neemuch attacked with explosives, priest and 2 others thrashed||More than 20 masked men allegedly damaged a shrine by using explosives and thrashed a priest and two locals in Neemuch on suspicions of religious conversion on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday, police said. The miscreants also left a letter and blamed the priest and a few others of converting locals into Islam, said Suraj Kumar Verma, superintendent of police, Neemuch.In the letter, the accused threatened that if anyone reconstructed the shrine, they would face dire consequences.Priest Noor Baba, 59, and a resident of Udaipur, Abdul Rajjak, 52, and his wife Aisha informed the police about the incident. They were later taken to hospital by the police. Noor Baba and Aisha sustained minor injuries but Rajjak’s condition is believed to be serious. A case has been registered against 24 unidentified men under Section 146 (rioting) and 295 (injuring or defiling place of worship with an intent to insult the religion of any class) of IPC. “Forensic experts and a bomb disposal squad inspected the area to gather information about the explosives,” SP Verma said.Rajjak’s wife Aisha said, “More than 20 people carrying swords and canes entered the shrine and started beating the priest. Rajjak tried to save him so they attacked him too. I also suffered injuries while attempting to save my husband.”“In the letter, the accused wrote that the shrine was being used to convert Hindus into Islam for the past so many years. They also threatened us with dire consequences, if we reconstruct the shrine,” Noor Baba said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shrine-in-mp-s-neemuch-attacked-with-explosives-priest-and-2-others-thrashed-101633287720700.html
04-10-2021||India||Mahant Narendra Giri’s car accident in July under CBI scanner||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), probing the death of Akhil Bhartiya Akhada Parishad (ABAP) chief Mahant Narendra Giri, is also looking into the July road mishap in Pratapgarh in which the priest escaped unhurt, an official familiar with the development said. A team of sleuths is expected to question the Mahant’s driver and the technical team of police that had examined his vehicle then, to ascertain if the incident was a mishap or a conspiracy to kill him, the official cited above said on condition of anonymity. Giri was found hanging from a ceiling fan in his room in Baghambari Gaddi Math in Prayagraj on September 20. A purported suicde by the chief priest of Bade Hanuman Temple named his disciple and the Math’s de-facto number 2 till recently, Anand Giri, Bade Hanuman Temple priest Aadya Tiwari and his son Sandeep of harassing him. All three were arrested in connection with the case. “During the course of interrogation into the Mahant’s death, the CBI team learnt that he was on his way to Lucknow to meet Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on July 8 when a two-wheeler appeared in front of his vehicle, which was subsequently rammed by a third vehicle behind it. No one was injured but his vehicle was damaged in the incident,” the official said. Shri Panchayati Akhada Niranjani secretary Swami Ravindra Puri said the seers and workers of the Math were fully cooperating with the investigation.Meanwhile, the CBI team on Sunday continued to probe the three accused at the Police Lines. The team also recovered Anand Giri’s mobile and laptop from Haridwar. The probe agency, the official said, also chalked out a list of people with whom the Mahant was in regular contact and spoke to within 48 hours of his death. Several businessmen, builders, contractors, politicians and seers have been questioned so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mahant-narendra-giri-s-car-accident-in-july-under-cbiscanner-101633287661089.html
04-10-2021||India||Centre taking measures to tackle stubble burning: Union minister Bhupender Yadav||Union environment minister Bhupender Yadav on Sunday said steps are being taken to tackle the stubble burning issue at the onset of the season in Punjab and Haryana. He said that the Centre has also received support from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi governments to deal with the issue. Yadav, also the Union minister of labour and employment, interacted with media persons at Shram Bureau Bhawan in Chandigarh on the 101st foundation day celebration of the labour bureau.While outlining the measures taken by the central government to reduce stubble burning, Yadav said, “Stubble is not waste anymore, it has economic viability as well. NTPC and other thermal power plants are purchasing the crop residue. Government has given around ₹700 crores to these states for the higher use of crop residue removal machines.”Harvesting of paddy, the Kharif season, begins from October onwards. Farmers set their fields on fire to clear crop residue left behind after harvesting paddy, and before cultivating wheat and potatoes. Yadav also said that some good experiments have also been conducted by private companies on the use of biological decomposition technology. These experiments have been conducted in Punjab as well. The Union minister also mentioned creating a straw-based animal feed for the Kutch region in Gujarat. “We have held meetings with states, and control rooms have also been set up,” he said. During the event, he flagged off the fieldwork of the Area Frame Establishment Survey (AFES). “The ministry of labour and employment has entrusted the labour bureau with three major all India surveys –survey on migrant workers, all India quarterly establishment based employment survey (AQEES) and survey on domestic workers.” The AQEES has been taken up by the labour bureau to provide frequent updates about the employment and related variables of establishment in both organised and unorganised segments of nine selected sectors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-taking-measures-to-tackle-stubble-burning-union-minister-bhupender-yadav-101633287480610.html
04-10-2021||India||As TMC inducts more leaders, Mamata Banerjee may lead anti-BJP alliance||The All India Trinamool Congress is on an expansion mode with an eye on the 2024 elections, a move to be to prop up party leader and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee as the leader of a possible coalition against the Bharatiya Janata Party.So far, the party has welcomed into its fold former Congress leaders Sushmita Dev and Luizinho Faleiro, who was formerly the CM of Goa, and is also in talks with Congress leader and former Meghalaya CM Mukul Sangma for something similar. Another senior Congress leader has also reportedly contacted Banerjee after failing to get nominated for the Rajya Sabha.But TMC’s ambition will have larger implications for any alliance involving the Congress as senior Trinamool leaders have adopted a critical stand against the grand old party and publicly pitched Banerjee as the “only choice” to lead any non-BJP coalition.Trinamool’s Lok Sabha leader Sudip Bandyopadhyay told HT, “If you see the track record of the opposition parties, only Mamata Banerjee can lead a non-BJP coalition in 2024. The Congress party has to be realistic. They have not been able to challenge the BJP in the recent elections. Moreover, Mamata Banerjee is the only leader who is acceptable to many opposition parties wary of the Congress.”On September 28, the party’s national general secretary and the CM’s nephew, Abhishek Banerjee, had hit out at the Congress and said, “Our fight is against the BJP. We have defeated BJP for the last seven years. Congress has been defeated by BJP for the last seven years. If the Congress doesn’t work, doesn’t hit the streets and only be in the comfort of their homes then we can’t be expected to be sitting ducks. We want to defeat BJP.”TMC leader and former Union minister Saugata Ray defended the party’s decision to induct Congress leaders and said, “It’s our legitimate right to expand. But it is not targeted at the Congress.”Senior TMC leaders privately conceded that the party is uncomfortable about Congress leader Rahul Gandhi leading any anti-BJP formulation. In the last Parliament session, the TMC and Congress worked together on all issues but West Bengal’s ruling party maintained a distance from Rahul Gandhi. Top-ranking Trinamool leaders skipped the breakfast meeting thrown by Gandhi; they have also been absent in the opposition’s strategy meetings whenever Gandhi would be present.All this has coincided with the Gandhis facing questions on their leadership from people within the Congress organisation with a group of 23 senior leaders or G23 seeking open dialogue and more transparency in the decision-making process of the party.But a a senior Congress leader said no opposition coalition can be achieved without the Congress. “It’s just not possible numerically. Moreover, the leadership issue can only be decided at an appropriate time based on the strength of different components,” said the Congress leader on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-tmc-inducts-more-leaders-mamata-banerjee-may-lead-anti-bjp-alliance-101633287302372.html
04-10-2021||India||Shah Rukh Khan’s son, Aryan Khan, among 3 arrested in drugs case||A Mumbai magistrate on Sunday ordered three people, including Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan, to be taken into custody by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) till October 4.Drug enforcers had arrested the three earlier on Sunday for alleged possession of banned drugs and substance abuse.The agency on Saturday night raided a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast and busted a party where drugs were being used. “Khan and others were on the cruise ship where the agency busted a rave party,” NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede said.Aryan, the eldest son of Shah Rukh and Gauri Khan, was arrested on Sunday afternoon for alleged possession and consumption of illegal drugs. The bureau has registered a case under section 8C, 20B, 27 read with 35 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985, after officers seized 13 gms of cocaine, 21 gm of charas (hasish), 22 pills of MDMA (ecstasy), 5gm mephedrone, and cash worth ₹1.33 lakh at International Cruise Terminal, Green Gate Mumbai.The two others arrested are Munmun Dhamecha and Arbaaz Merchant.While Arbaaz is a resident of Bandra and a friend of Aryan, Munmun Dhamecha is fashion designer from Madhya Pradesh. The three arrested were taken for a medical examination in JJ Hospital in Mumbai at around 4pm. Besides the drug enforcers, they were accompanied by personnel from Mumbai police. Khan was brought back to NCB’s office in Ballard Estate in South Mumbai, where he was interrogated.NCB officials said they were tipped off about the rave party and boarded the ship as passengers. There were hundreds of passengers on the Goa-bound ship, an official said, asking not to be named.This is the first time NCB has raided a rave party on a cruise ship, said people familiar with the matter who declined to be named.Two women who were on cruise ship were brought to the NCB office on Sunday morning for questioning. The drug enforcers are also investigating crew members, event organisers and some foreign nationals.A Delhi-based event company is believed to have organised the parties on passenger cruise ships on October 2, 3 and 4. The cruise ship was scheduled to go to Goa on Saturday night and return to Mumbai by Monday.The NCB also recorded the statement of Jurgen Bailom, the president and CEO of Cordelia Cruise in its office.  “The agency called us to understand the procedure of crew operation and we are cooperating with the NCB. There were around 1,000 passengers when the ship left from Mumbai coast. Our ship has not been detained, it has gone for its destination and will return on Monday. We were not aware about the guests who were on the ship as organisers are different” Bailom said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shah-rukh-khan-s-son-aryan-khan-among-3-arrested-in-drugs-case-remanded-to-ncb-custody-101633287245150.html
04-10-2021||India||Ex-Punjab CM Amarinder Singh, Pargat Singh spar on paddy procurement||The turmoil in the Punjab Congress continued to intensify on Sunday after state sports minister Pargat Singh accused former chief minister Amarinder Singh of conspiring with the Bharatiya Janata Party to delay the procurement of paddy, triggering a sharp reaction from Captain who asked the minister to show the evidence.On September 30, a day before its scheduled beginning, the Union food and public distribution ministry postponed paddy procurement in Punjab and Haryana to October 11.Questioning the timing of the announcement, which came a day after Singh met Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi, Pargat said on Saturday: “The BJP government has been harassing farmers... (relations between Amarinder and BJP) have been an open secret now... no leader should opt for such a behaviour.”Hitting back, Singh asked Pargat to give proof of the ‘lies’ being spread by the latter.“What nonsense? Do you really think the people of Punjab will believe I’d ever collude with @BJP4India to delay procurement? And have you forgotten it affected BJP-led Haryana too? Or are you too naïve to understand these things?” Raveen Thukral, Media Advisor to Captain Amarinder Singh, said in a Twitter post.“And do you have any proof for these lies? Or are you so irresponsible you believe you can get away with such trash? People of Punjab know me & know I always have & will stand with the farmers. I expect honesty from a former Indian hockey Capt,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expunjab-cm-amarinder-singh-pargat-singh-spar-on-paddy-procurement-101633286820749.html
04-10-2021||India||The Week Ahead: Maha gears up for reopening of schools, religious places; RBI to take rate call||Mumbai and the rest of Maharashtra face a key Covid-19 test this week. Schools reopen on Monday with the state government allowing students from Grades 8 to 12 to attend school, 18 months after their closure in March 2020. On Thursday, places of religious worship will be open to the general public, with certain Covid protocols.The state Covid task force and other experts, including those in the chief minister’s office, will be observing the daily trends, especially if there are spikes in certain areas. This is Maharashtra’s first tryst with some degree of pre-Covid normalcy. The country’s worst-affected state is taking a calculated risk, and every other state would be looking at Mumbai to figure out whether they can replicate the experiment.It’s not going to be easy, but several experts this correspondent spoke to said they could think of no other way to take baby steps towards the old normal.In Delhi, too, the hot button issue will be education. Admissions to Delhi University (DU) colleges for undergraduate courses begin on Monday. Eligible students can apply till Wednesday night through DU’s admissions portal. Will it be a crazy rush? Last Friday, breaking all previous records, eight DU colleges announced 100% cutoff for admission into 11 UG courses programmes. With the number of top scorers almost double of last year, it remains to be seen whether colleges will be able to fill course-wise seats under first cutoff. Last year, after announcing 100% cutoff in three subjects, Lady Shriram College had reduced the cutoff in the second list based on the demand of the courses.Delhi is also likely to make significant strides in climate change mitigation when chief minister Arvind Kejriwal releases the city’s climate action plan today. This time around, the Delhi government has formulated what it calls a “detailed winter pollution action plan”, which will act as a guiding document for the city this winter to control the annual increase in the air pollution level.This week - the first in the second half of the fiscal - will be a busy one at the Reserve Bank of India. On October 8, the monetary policy committee of the RBI will come up with its resolution. While policy rate is expected to stay unchanged, the RBI will release the results of its forward-looking surveys such as the Consumer Confidence Survey and the Inflation expectation survey of Households. These numbers will give a much needed insight into the nature of economic recovery.On October 5, we will also have the results of the Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) services for September. The PMI had crossed the psychological barrier of 50 — it signifies expansion over last month - in August itself.Local politics may remain volatile through this week, especially in Uttar Pradesh following the Lakhimpur Kheri incident on Sunday. Congress leader and UP in-charge Priyanka Gandhi will visit Lakhimpur Kheri on Monday, where eight people, including four farmers, died. She will be accompanied by Chhattisgarh Chief Minster Bhupesh Baghel.West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee will take oath as MLA from Bhawanipore this week, after winning the bye-poll. The TMC is also sending 5 MPs to Lakhimpur Kheri.In Assam, political parties will release names of candidates for bye-elections to five assembly seats to be held on October 30. Hectic parleys are on in the ruling and opposition camps at present. The last date of filing of nominations is on October 8. In Uttarakhand, preparations are afoot for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit on October 7. The PM will inaugurate an oxygen plant at AIIMS Rishikesh. In Madhya Pradesh, a hearing is scheduled in the bangle-seller case at the Indore bench of MP high court on Monday. The bangle seller, who was beaten up for allegedly sexually harassing a girl, filed a petition in the MP high Court for bail after a lower court rejected it.After a well-fought draw in the only pink ball test between Australia and India at Carrara, the two teams will face off in a three-match T20 series from October 7. In men’s cricket, with CSK and DC having booked their last-four berths, the battle for remaining slots heats up as the IPL heads into the play-offs from Sunday, October 10.Club football takes a break for the FIFA World Cup qualifiers scheduled this week. Brazil play bottom-placed Venezuela and Argentina play Paraguay on Friday morning. In Europe, Germany play Romania (October 9) and England play Andorra (October 10) among other matches.Having reclaimed his lead in the Formula One drivers’ standings, Lewis Hamilton will look to consolidate his position at the Turkish GP on Sunday, October 10.US deputy secretary of state Wendy Sherman’s visit to India this week will be an opportunity for the two countries to discuss the way forward on Afghanistan, how to deal with the Taliban regime and handle terrorism emanating from Afghan soil. Sherman is also set to visit Pakistan at a time when US ties with that country are strained.Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla is currently visiting Sri Lanka to take stock of bilateral relations and to assess the island nation’s needs in terms of development aid and infrastructure projects. The need to resolve the long-standing Tamil issue is also expected to figure in his talks with the Sri Lankan leadership.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-week-ahead-maha-gears-up-for-reopening-of-schools-religious-places-rbi-to-take-rate-call-101633286648318.html
04-10-2021||India||Sonia is Congress chief, says Kharge after Sibal’s ‘no president’ comment||Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge on Sunday slammed Kapil Sibal over his remarks that Congress did not have a president and said that “if there is no president, then how elections took place earlier this year”.Earlier on Wednesday, reacting to political jostling in ruling Congress in Punjab, veteran leader Kapil Sibal had asserted that the Congress party did not have a president.“In our party, there is no president so we don’t know who is making these decisions. We know and yet we don’t know,” he said.Terming Sibal’s statement a lie, Kharge said, “If there is no president, then how elections took place earlier this year. Every party has conflicts to tussles, it’s not new that the party is facing a political crisis at present. We will soon resolve this crisis and become strong again.”Kharge further said that Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi both are working very hard at present. “I suggest that the other leaders of the party should support our president and Rahul Gandhi to strengthen the party,” he added.Earlier, Congress leader Ashwani Kumar also condemned Sibal’s statement saying that at a time when the party expected support, he was pointing fingers at it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-is-congress-chief-says-kharge-after-sibal-s-no-president-comment-101633286580532.html
04-10-2021||India||Mamata wins bypoll on Bhabanipur seat by massive margin||Trinamool Congress president Mamata Banerjee on Sunday swept the Bhabanipur by-election, polling 58,835 votes more than the Bharatiya Janata Party’s Priyanka Tibrewal, a landslide victory that came months after the 66-year-old leader lost the Nandigram seat in the assembly election.Tibrewal, who the BJP pitched at Banerjee’s main opponent, ended the race with only 26,428 votes against Banerjee’s 85,263, which meant that the West Bengal chief minister secured 71.9% of the total 118,580 votes (including 705 postal ballots) cast on September 30.With a turnout of around 57%, it was the lowest showing at poll in Bhawanipore in 10 years, according to ECI.“I want to thank the people of Bhabanipur and West Bengal, who were waiting for these results. The people of Bhabanipur have given a befitting reply to the conspiracy that was hatched to defeat me in Nandigram. I don’t want to say much on a sub-judice matter. The counting is over, and we have won the seat,” Banerjee said while addressing mediapersons and party workers outside her house in the constituency’s Kalighat area.The TMC won in all eight civic wards in the constituency, where a large section of the voters – 46% -- is non-Bengali. Of this, the biggest section is formed by Hindus and Sikhs. Bengali and Hindi-speaking Muslims make up for around 20% of the constituency’s voters. Banerjee, who often refers to the regions as a “mini-India”, said: “There are people from Punjab, Odisha, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. For the first time, we have won in all the wards because of their support. I remember falling behind in two wards in the 2016 polls. I am thankful to all these people. The nation was watching this election alongside Bengal.”While campaigning for the bypoll, Banerjee even coined the slogan “B for Bhawanipore, B for Bharat”.“The support from non-Bengali voters played a key role,” transport minister Firhad Hakim said after the results were announced. Banerjee took oath as the chief minister on May 5 and it was necessary for the TMC leader to get elected within six months to retain the post.In the March-April polls, TMC’s Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay had won against BJP’s Rudranil Ghosh by a margin of 28,719 votes. Chattopadhyay was, however, asked to step down from the seat so Banerjee could contest from her old constituency.The BJP’s state headquarters in central Kolkata wore a deserted look on Sunday. “The outcome of the three assembly polls in West Bengal are not in line with our expectation but we accept it gracefully. After being demolished in Nandigram, Mamata Banerjee may have survived in Bhawanipore for now, but it has never happened that a losing candidate chose to thrust herself as the chief minister, in violation of all democratic norms and proprietary,” the BJP said in a statement. Tibrewal, who lost the March-April polls from central Kolkata constituency of Entally, polled even fewer votes than Ghosh, who got 44,786 votes. While accepting her defeat, Tibrewal levelled allegations of rigging against the TMC. “I gracefully accept the defeat and congratulate Didi (Banerjee) but the TMC should not have ferried in fake voters. I caught some of them. Our organisation was not so strong in Bhawanipore,” said Tibrewal. “The BJP always accepts the verdict of the people. The results, however, leave some questions because only 57% people had cast their votes. We are thankful to those who supported us,” said BJP state president Sukanta Majumdar. Sunday’s outcome triggered rumblings in the BJP’s state unit, with several leaders questioning the decision to field Tibrewal, who contested polls for the first time this year, against Banerjee. “Our leaders need to understand that elections are fought on the ground and not from our offices which were found empty today. We could have done much better had we fielded an educated Bengali gentleman. Tibrewal could not even match the performance of Rudranil Ghosh,” said Joy Banerjee, a former actor and leader from Birbhum district. Communist Party of India (Marxist) candidate Srijeeb Biswas polled only 4,226 votes. This is first time CPI(M) has failed to win even a single seat in the state since Independence. The TMC also retained the Samserganj and Jangipur seats, where voting was simultaneously held on September 30. The two seats fall in the Murshidabad district which has the state’s highest Muslim population of 66.28%. In Samserganj, which recorded a turnout of 79.92%, TMC’s Amirul Islam defeated his Congress rival by 26,111 votes. In Jangipur, which registered a 77.63% voter turnout, Jakir Hossain defeated BJP’s Sujit Das by 92,613 votes. After the results of the bypoll, TMC’s tally in the 294-member legislative assembly has risen to 215. The BJP has 71 legislators. Four of the leaders who won on BJP tickets have since joined TMC, and two did not take oath as MLAs to retain their Lok Sabha seats. TMC leaders said the CM’s victory in Bhawanipore has overshadowed her Nandigram defeat in the March-April polls, where she lost to her protégé-turned-adversary, Suvendu Adhikari, in East Midnapore’s Nandigram constituency. Adhikari is now the leader of opposition in the state assembly. In 2011, when Banerjee led the TMC to end the Left Front’s 34-year-long regime, she won the Bhawanipore bypoll with 54,213 votes. A voter turnout of less than 45% was recorded in that election.In 2016, when the voter turnout was 66.83%, Banerjee defeated Congress candidate Deepa Dasmunsi by 25,301 votes. “There was a conspiracy against me. An injury was inflicted on my leg. We have challenged the Nandigram results in court. I don’t want to elaborate since the matter is sub judice,” Banerjee said Sunday. Banerjee has challenged the Nandigram election result in Calcutta high court.Meanwhile, the Election Commission of India on Sunday sent a letter urging the state government to ensure no victory processions are held in the state in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, and to avoid post-poll violence. Banerjee, too, asked party workers to exercise restraint. “Help people affected by floods in the districts. That will be the real celebration,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-wins-bypoll-on-bhabanipur-seat-by-massive-margin-101633286527180.html
04-10-2021||India||India clears defence buys worth ₹54,000 cr in less than month||In a major push to self-reliance in defence, India has signed contracts and cleared projects worth almost ₹54,000 crore in less than a month to boost military capability with locally produced weapons and systems, including transport planes, tanks, helicopters, airborne early warning systems and counter-drone weapons. “The development reflects the government’s commitment to achieving atmanirbharta (self-reliance) in defence manufacturing,” an official said on the condition of anonymity. “The domestic defence ecosystem is set to become more robust in the coming years as we cut down our dependence on imported military hardware.” On September 24, the defence ministry signed a ₹22,000-crore contract with Airbus Defence and Space for 56 C-295 medium transport aircraft to modernise the Indian Air Force’s transport fleet. Airbus Defence and Space and Tata Advanced Systems Ltd will jointly execute the contract. Airbus will deliver the first 16 aircraft in ready condition from Spain and Tata will assemble the rest in India.The C-295 deal was signed a day after the ministry placed an order worth ₹7,523 crore with Heavy Vehicles Factory in Avadi, Tamil Nadu, for 118 Arjun Mk-1A tanks. The Cabinet Committee on Security last month also cleared a Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) proposal to develop a new airborne early warning and control aircraft for the air force using Airbus jets bought from Air India. The deal is expected to be worth around ₹11,000 crore. “Indigenous defence projects will involve hundreds of Indian vendors and generate thousands of jobs,” said a second official, also declining to be named. The defence acquisition council – India’s apex procurement body – last week accorded its acceptance of necessity (AoN) for defence purchases worth ₹13,165 crore, including 25 advanced light helicopters Mark III.India has set aside ₹70,221 crore this financial year for domestic defence procurement, accounting for 63% of the military’s capital expenditure budget. Last year, the ministry spent over ₹51,000 crore, or 58% of its capex budget, on domestic purchases.India has decided to ban the import of 209 weapons and systems to boost self reliance. The ban, to be implemented progressively till 2025, covers artillery guns, missile destroyers, ship-borne cruise missiles, light combat aircraft, long-range land attack cruise missiles, basic trainer aircraft and specified types of helicopters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/selfreliance-push-india-clears-defence-buys-worth-54-000-cr-in-less-than-month-101633286524970.html
04-10-2021||India||8 killed as violent protests erupt after convoy hits farmers on stir||Eight people were killed on Sunday as violence broke out after a car hit protesting farmers in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri, prompting an angry crowd to burn two vehicles and widen their agitation, with several Opposition leaders condemning the incident and alleging that the voice of the farmers was being muzzled.The incident was reported minutes before Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya was to visit the area, an official said. While four farmers were killed after allegedly being hit by a convoy, four people who were travelling in one of the vehicles were beaten to death, the official said, asking not to be named.Farmers earlier assembled in the district’s Tikonia to oppose Maurya’s visit to Banbirpur, the hometown of Union minister of state for home and MP Ajay Kumar Mishra. Farmers alleged that the Union minister’s son was in one of the vehicles, a charge denied by both Mishra and his son.The farmers were protesting three contentious farm laws enacted by the central government last year.The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella group of farm unions spearheading the agitation against the three farm laws, has called for protests outside the offices of district magistrates and divisional commissioners across the country on Monday over the incident. It also demanded a probe into the incident by a sitting judge of the Supreme Court, and not by the Uttar Pradesh administration.Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) said that the farmers were attacked when they were returning home after staging a protest against the farm laws. He also alleged that people in the convoy opened fire on the farmers. Tikait was on his way to the spot late on Sunday.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said the state government will conduct an in-depth probe into the reasons behind the incident, and will expose those behind it. He called the incident unfortunate, according to a statement from the chief minister’s office.The Uttar Pradesh Police’s additional director general (law and order) Prashant Kumar said forces were deployed in large numbers in Tikonia, about 70km from district headquarters of Lakhimpur Kheri.Officials said internet services were partially suspended in the district.The incident took place on the Tikonia-Banbirpur road when the protesting farmers, who blocked the road to oppose Maurya’s visit, were infuriated after two cars allegedly belonging to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers hit them, leaving many of them seriously injured, a police officer said on condition of anonymity. The farmers then overturned and set the two cars on fire, besides thrashing people in the convoy, he added.After the incident, Maurya cancelled his visit to Banbirpur village, where he was to inaugurate an annual wrestling competition, which is organised by Kheri parliamentarian and Union minister Mishra in memory of his father, Ambika Prasad Mishra.Reacting to the incident, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said: “We will not let this sacrifice go in vain - Kisan Satyagraha Zindabad.”Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said in a tweet: “How much hatred BJP harbours against farmers in the country? Don’t they have a right to live? If they raise their voices, then you will open fire on them? Run them over by vehicles?”“Enough is enough...This is the country of farmers, and not a fiefdom of BJP ideology...Farmers’ satyagrah will get stronger, farmers’ voice will get louder,” the Congress general secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh said. She was on her way to the place where the incident took place.The opposition Samajwadi Party in the state said it will send a delegation of party leaders to Lakhimpur Kheri to investigate the incident.Running over the farmers who were peacefully protesting the farm laws was inhuman and cruel, Samajwadi Party national president Akhilesh Yadav said in a tweet in Hindi. “...UP will not tolerate the atrocities by arrogant BJPites...and if this state of affairs continues then in UP BJPites will not able to travel in vehicles or get out of them,” he added.In another tweet, Yadav said that he spoke with farmer leader Tejender Singh Virk, who has been seriously hurt. “The government should give him best of medical treatment...and there’s only one demand... that the chief minister should resign,” Yadav tweeted.West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee termed the incident “barbaric”. She said that a delegation of five Trinamool Congress MPs will visit the families of the victims on October 4.Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel said he will visit Lakhimpur Kheri on Monday.Ashish Mishra, son of the junior home minister, said he was not present at the spot, but some party workers in his car were passing through the area when the incident took place.The Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) and the Communist Party of India (CPI) also condemned the incident.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-killed-as-violent-protests-erupt-after-convoy-hits-farmers-on-stir-101633286401301.html
04-10-2021||India||India, US reaffirm commitment to free, open Indo-Pacific||US Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin on Sunday described the recent visit of Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat to the Pentagon as “historic” and said they have reaffirmed their enduring commitment to a free and open Indo-Pacific.Gen Rawat’s visit to the US took place a week after the maiden in-person meeting between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Joe Biden at the White House during which both leaders reaffirmed the need for greater military-to-military cooperation between India and the US.“It was an honour to meet Indian Chief of Defence Staff Gen. Rawat during his historic visit to the Pentagon last week,” Austin said.“We reaffirmed our enduring commitment to a Free and Open Indo-Pacific and discussed ways to drive greater interoperability between the US and Indian armed forces,” Austin said in a tweet.Pentagon Press Secretary John Kirby said that Gen Rawat and Austin exchanged views on priorities for advancing the US-India defence partnership, including through enhanced cooperation in new defense domains such as space, cyber, and emerging technologies.“Austin underscored the US commitment to supporting the Indian Armed Forces’ transition toward greater institutional integration and operational jointness.They also discussed opportunities for expanding multilateral cooperation with regional partners,” he said.“This historic meeting highlights the enduring strength of the US-India Major Defence Partnership as the two countries work in concert with like-minded partners to sustain a free and open Indo-Pacific,” Kirby said.On September 24, President Biden hosted the first-ever in-person summit of Quad leaders that vowed to strive for an Indo-Pacific region that is free, open, inclusive, anchored by democratic values and unconstrained by coercion, sending an apparent message to China.At the invitation of President Biden, Prime Minister Modi and his counterparts Scott Morrison from Australia and Yoshihide Suga from Japan attended the Quad summit.India, the US and several other world powers have been talking about the need to ensure a free, open and thriving Indo-Pacific in the backdrop of China’s rising military manoeuvring in the resource-rich region.China claims nearly all of the disputed South China Sea, though Taiwan, the Philippines, Brunei, Malaysia and Vietnam all claim parts of it.Beijing has built artificial islands and military installations in the South China Sea. China also has territorial disputes with Japan in the East China Sea.During his visit to the Pentagon, Gen Rawat also met his US counterpart Gen Mark Milley and they discussed a range of issues, including ways to ensure regional security and their respective roles as principal military advisors to the civilian leadership.“A book titled The Difficulty of Being Good by Gurcharan Das was gifted to General Mark A Milley, Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff #US by General Bipin Rawat #CDS during a call on at his office in #Pentagon. #CDS discussed issues of bilateral defence cooperation,” the Indian Army said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gen-rawat-s-us-visit-historic-says-us-def-sec-austin-101633286400739.html
04-10-2021||India||30 districts continue to record high Covid positivity rate: Data||At least 30 districts in six states continue to report weekly Covid-19 positivity rates of 10% or more, even as the national positivity rate shows a decline for almost five months now. As many as 13 of the 30 districts are in Kerala.The weekly positivity rate has been less than 3% for 13 straight days nationally, health ministry data show. Positivity rates show the prevalence of the disease compared with the number of tests conducted. Experts are therefore questioning the containment strategies in the high disease burden areas. “There clearly is something amiss as there is a high chance that these high disease burden districts are missing cases,” a public health expert said, requesting anonymity. “In Kerala, for example, we saw that testing, even though aggressive, was targeted only those contacts who were at high risk. Obviously, positivity will be high in that category. But, if we are not testing enough, then chances are we would miss many, especially asymptomatic positives, who would go around spreading the disease. That’s what seems to be happening.”Another 18 districts in 11 states are still reporting weekly positivity rates of between 5% and 10%, which again indicate high rates of transmission of Covid-19 infections.The World Health Organisation recommends a positivity rate of less than 5% for two weeks running to determine whether the pandemic is under control in a particular area.Besides Kerala, Mizoram shows high rates in eight districts, Manipur and Arunachal Pradesh in three each, Sikkim two, and Meghalaya, one. Kerala also shows the highest number of active cases. There are 1,44,075 active cases in the southern state, which is as high as 52.01% of all active cases in the entire country.Five states have between 50,000 and 100,000 active Covid-19 cases. Maharashtra has 40,252 active cases, followed by Tamil Nadu with 17,192, Mizoram with 16,841, Karnataka with 12,594, and Andhra Pradesh with 11,655 cases. The government has been issuing regular advisories to contain the spread of the disease ahead of the festival season. “It is important to follow instructions strictly for the numbers to not rise further. The districts that are reporting high case load obviously are on our radar but other districts are at no less risk because of the interstate travel,” a government official said on condition of anonymity. “It is an infectious disease and it keeps coming back whenever it sees an opportunity. We have to ensure it isn’t given that opportunity, and which is why government has been time and again advising states and issuing guidelines, to quell any chances of transmission going up.”The central government has asked states to not allow mass gatherings in containment zones or areas that report 5% case positivity. In other places, gatherings can be allowed with restrictions. These permissions should be reviewed based on weekly case positivity, the federal government recommends. “Relaxations obviously do not help in curbing disease transmission and is one of the reasons for seeing increase in transmission rate, especially in areas that are already reporting higher number of new cases,” said Dr Tarun Bhatnagar, senior epidemiologist, National Institute of Epidemiology. “Zero Covid may not happen but we have to ensure that we bring down transmission to negligible levels.”Although new cases are still being reported, the good news is that hospitalisations have fallen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/30-districts-continue-to-record-high-covid-positivity-rate-data-101633286341259.html
04-10-2021||India||Income of farmers growing at slower pace in Punjab||Farm incomes in food-bowl Punjab are growing at a much slower pace than some traditionally poorer states, as new data suggest agriculture in the state has hit an immutable law of economics: diminishing returns. Punjab propelled India’s Green Revolution five decades ago, rescuing millions from hunger. But the gains are fast eroding. Experts say the income slowdown is linked to an overdependence on big cereals, such as wheat and rice. A slower pace of farm income growth in Punjab is borne out by the Situation Assessment of Agricultural Households 2018-19 (SAS), a national survey of farm incomes released recently. Although Punjab’s farmers lead the country in terms of absolute levels of monthly income, farm income not adjusted for inflation in the state annually grew 6.73% in a span of six years between 2013-14 and 2018-19, the survey shows. In contrast, farm incomes in states such as Bihar and Uttarakhand grew much faster at 13.3% and 19.3% in the corresponding period, albeit over a low base. Cheap fertilisers, assured minimum support price (MSP) for cereals, free electricity for drawing water and high-yielding seeds have, over the decades, spurred a trend of ‘mono-cropping’, or the practice of growing mainly rice in summer and wheat in winter. This has robbed Punjab’s farmers of potential income that could have come from growing a more diverse set of crops, research shows. MSP or minimum support price is a floor price set by the government. The government ‘procures’ or buys paddy and wheat at MSP to build stockpiles for redistribution to the poor. This has increased farmers’ dependence on cereals. A widespread farmers agitation since last year against the Modi government’s three new farm laws and demand by the protesting cultivators for a legal guarantee for MSP has only prompted authorities to step up procurement of cereals even more. The government bought a record 60.06 million tonne of rice grown in the summer-sown kharif season in 2020, the highest quantity ever. This procurement policy, which incentivises big cereals, has caused Punjab’s rich landscape of corn, barley, gram, lentils and nutritious coarser cereals to disappear within a decade of big cereals entering the state in the late 1960s. The number of crops grown by Punjab’s farmers has declined from 21 in the 1960s to just about nine, according to data cited by Prof Surinder S Jodhka of Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi, in a recent paper.“The Green Revolution was actually a brown revolution. It was limited to rice and wheat,” said Uma Kapila, an economist who formerly taught at Delhi’s Miranda House. Punjab’s average farm gross domestic product has plateaued around 2%, while it could have been grown over 5% annually if only farmers had not given up cultivating a more diverse set of crops, according to a research by economists Ashok Gulati and Siraj Hussain of the think-tank ICRIER. The state’s agricultural GDP, a broad measure of farm income, grew only 1.61% annually, less than half the all-India average of 3.5% between 2005-06 and 2014-15, Gulati’s research shows. The paddy boom is partly responsible for a severe winter smog across much of northern India, as farmers set fire to paddy crop residue, known as stubble, to clear fields. Punjab takes about 5,500 litres of water to grow one kg of rice, five times as much China uses, pointing to the state’s low water productivity. Northern and central districts are severely water depleted, while south-western districts face water logging and soil salinity or alkalinity. Districts such as Muktsar, Fazilka, Bathinda and Faridkot are notoriously degraded. The Central Ground Water Board put out a dire warning in May last year: at the current rate of water extraction, Punjab would be a desert within the next quarter century. The state has never been able to implement an agenda of crop diversification first chalked out by the so-called S.S. Johl committee in 1986,” said KS Mani, a former faculty at the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University. Paddy has meant a groundwater extraction rate of 165%, a jump of 16 percentage points since 2013. “I have moved from shallow tubewells to six deep tubewells on my 12 acres. My expenses are going up because I have to dig deeper and deeper every year,” says Ravinder Uppal, a paddy grower in Sangrur. Big cereals have stoked an insidious rise in costs, annually growing by 5-6% and pushing farmers into debt, says Balwinder Singh Sandhu, the state’s agriculture commissioner. The increase in paddy MSP has barely kept pace with rising costs, if a measure of cultivation known as “C2 cost” is factored in, which includes the imputed rental value of land, depreciation and interests on capital. Increasing the share of capital, such as mechanised harvesters and investment, is necessary for growth. But pumping more and more capital without technological advancements can lead to what Nobel winning economist Robert Solow demonstrated to be a “steady economic state”, where all new investment goes into replacing exhausted capital without productivity gains. The economy stalls as a result. Punjab’s agriculture is right in the middle of such a stagnation, as the Green Revolution has run its course. “Why else are 1.5 lakh people migrating abroad every year?” asks Sandhu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/income-of-farmers-growing-at-slower-pace-in-punjab-101633286223876.html
04-10-2021||India||Punjab procures 23.7k tonne paddy on 1st day||Around 23,700 tonne paddy was procured in Punjab on Sunday after the Centre issued the order amid stern protests from the farmers, while the state witnessed the arrival of 53,500 tonnes of freshly harvested grain, taking the total quantity in the current Kharif season to 76,000 tonnes so far. Paddy arrival started on September 20, while formal procurement was opened from Sunday. Districts Patiala, Ludhiana, Mohali Jalandhar, Kapurthala, Hoshiarpur and Tarn Taran witnessed the arrivals. The Centre has allowed 17% moisture in the freshly harvested crop and officials in the state food and civil supplies department said that moisture in the crop reaching the grain markets was well within permissible purchase norms. “We have made all arrangements (for procurement), and the staff of the food department and four (procurement) agencies has reached the mandis to facilitate procurement,” said a senior officer of the Punjab food and civil supplies department. He said that there was adequate availability of gunny bags. The Punjab government has set up 3,000 mandis for buying the crop and according to estimates of the state agriculture department, 19 million tonnes of paddy is expected to reach the grain markets in the state for procurement. The Centre is offering a minimum support price of ₹1,960 a quintal for A-grade paddy and a cash credit limit of ₹35,700 crores was released by the Reserve Bank of India. The state’s four agencies, namely Pungrain, Markfed, warehousing corporation and Punsup, besides the Centre’s Food Corporation of India, will buy the paddy. Hitch before buying due to rain The procurement process was postponed for ten days by the Centre on September 30, a day before it was scheduled to start. The postponement was ordered owing to a report by the Food Corporation of India that due to delayed spells of rain this time, there was high moisture content in the crop, and it might take a week to 10 days to be ready. However, following pressure from farmers, the state government and the opposition parties, including the Shiromani Akali Dal, the Union agriculture ministry renewed its decision. “In the interest of farmers, it has been decided to start procurement of paddy from October 3,” read the communication from the Centre’s ministry of food and public distribution on Saturday evening. Chief minister Channi also met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday, seeking a timely start of procurement as paddy has started arriving in mandis, and any delay could lead to harassment of farmers. Flying squads to check illegal paddy, rice To check mixing or recycling of paddy and rice brought from outside states at a cheaper rate into the freshly procured paddy, the food and civil supplies minister of Punjab, Bharat Bhushan Ashu on Sunday asked the deputy commissioners to constitute flying squads at the market committee level to keep a surveillance on the illegal practice. An official spokesperson said that the flying squad would comprise a representative of DC, mandi board, excise and taxation (GST Wing) and the police department. The spokesperson said that the daily report would be submitted to the concerned DCs by the committees regarding checking of unauthorised paddy and rice, impounding of trucks, sealing of godowns and seizures of the paddy and rice brought from the outside states. The Deputy Commissioners will initiate requisite action against the erring persons indulging in this malpractice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-procures-23-7k-tonne-paddy-on-1st-day-101633286220631.html
04-10-2021||India||Mamata Banerjee logs record win in Bhawanipore bypoll; BJP loses on 2 more seats||Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief Mamata Banerjee on Sunday broke her past records at the Bhawanipore assembly seat in south Kolkata by defeating her nearest rival, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Priyanka Tibrewal, by 58,835 votes in the keenly watched bypoll. Also, in Murshidabad, the district with Bengal’s highest Muslim population of 66.28%, the TMC comfortably retained Samserganj and Jangipur where polls could not be held in April due to the death of two candidates. With these two seats, the TMC’ tally in the 294-member legislative assembly rose to 215. Tibrewal ended the race with only 26,428 votes against 85,263 that Banerjee secured, marking a 71.9% share of the 1,18,580 votes (including 705 postal ballots) cast on September 30. At around 57%, this was the lowest voter turnout at Bhawanipore in 10 years. The CPI (M), which has no legislator in Bengal for the first time since Independence, tasted defeat again with its candidate, Srijeeb Biswas, coming third with only 4,226 votes. Tibrewal, who lost the March-April polls from Entally in central Kolkata by 58,257 votes, fell behind actor Rudranil Ghosh, who contested from Bhawanipore for the BJP on April 26 and bagged 44,786 votes. TMC’s Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay, who won the seat, stepped down so that Banerjee could contest again from her old constituency and continue as chief minister. When Chattopadhyay contested, 61.79% votes were cast and he defeated Ghosh by 28,719 votes. Though TMC bagged 213 seats and stopped the BJP’s tally at 77, Banerjee was defeated at East Midnapore district’s Nandigram by her protégé-turned-adversary, BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari. The BJP is now left with 71 legislators. Four of the winners have joined the TMC while two did not take oath to retain their Lok Sabha seats. The most significant aspect of Banerjee’s victory on Sunday was that TMC for the first time left the other parties behind in all the eight civic body wards in Bhawanipore where around 46% non-Bengali residents give the area a cosmopolitan character. The biggest chunk in this segment comprises Hindus and Sikhs. Bengali and Hindi-speaking Muslims make up for around 20% of the voters. Banerjee mentioned this emphatically while addressing the media and party workers outside her home in the constituency’s Kalighat area. “There are people from Punjab, Odisha, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. For the first time, we have won in all the wards because of their support. I remember falling behind in two wards in the 2016 polls. I am thankful to all these people. The nation was watching this election alongside Bengal,” said Banerjee, who often refers to Bhawanipore as ‘mini India.’ Since the TMC is attempting to set up a platform of opposition forces against the BJP prior to the 2024 Lok Sabha polls, the chief minister drew a parallel between India and Bhawanipore during her campaign. “B for Bhawanipore, B for Bharat,” she had said several times. The BJP state headquarters in central Kolkata wore a deserted look since morning when the counting of votes started. “The outcome of the three assembly polls in West Bengal is not in line with our expectation but we accept it gracefully. After being demolished in Nandigram, Mamata Banerjee may have survived in Bhawanipore for now, but it has never happened that a losing candidate chose to thrust herself as the chief minister, in violation of all democratic norms and proprietary,” the BJP said in a statement. Sunday’s victory somehow shadowed the chief minister’s defeat at Nandigram, said TMC leaders but Banerjee recounted the episode. “There was a conspiracy against me. An injury was inflicted on my leg. We have challenged the Nandigram results in court. I don’t want to elaborate since the matter is subjudice,” she said. In 2011, when Banerjee ended the Left Front’s 34-year-long regime and contested a bypoll to become chief minister as she was a Lok Sabha member, the TMC won by 54,213 votes although less than 45% Bhawanipore voters had turned up. In 2016, when the voter turnout was 66.83%, Banerjee defeated Deepa Dasmunsi of the Congress by 25,301 votes. The Election Commission on Sunday sent a letter to the state government saying victory processions should not be held anywhere in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and to avoid post-poll violence. Banerjee, too, asked party workers to exercise restraint. “Help people affected by floods in the districts. That will be the real celebration,” she said. At Samserganj, where 79.92% of the 2,37,750 voters had turned up, TMC’s Amirul Islam defeated his nearest Congress rival by 26,111 votes. At Jangipur, where 77.63% of the 2,55,998 voters had cast their ballot, Jakir Hossain, the former deputy labour minister, defeated the BJP by 92,613 votes. Tibrewal’s defeat triggered rumblings in the BJP with several leaders questioning the decision to field her. “Our leaders need to understand that elections are fought on the ground and not from our offices which were found empty today. We could have done much better had we fielded an educated Bengali gentleman. Tibrewal could not even match the performance of Rudranil Ghosh,” said Joy Banerjee, a former actor and leader from Birbhum district. “I gracefully accept defeat and congratulate Didi (Banerjee) but the TMC should not have ferried in fake voters. I caught some of them,” said Tibrewal who is one of the lawyers representing petitioners in the post-poll violence cases. “Our organisation was not so strong in Bhawanipore,” she added. “The BJP always accepts the verdict of the people. The results, however, leave some questions because only 57% people had cast their votes. We are thankful to those who supported us,” said BJP state president Sukanta Majumdar. While TMC workers celebrated near her residence, the chief minister announced the candidates for the October 30 polls and by-polls at four seats. TMC candidates who won the Khardah seat in North 24 Parganas district and Gosaba in South 24 Parganas died after the polls. The other two seats, Shantipur in Nadia and Dinhata in Cooch Behar, were vacated by the BJP because the respective winners, Jagannath Sarkar and Nisith Pramanik wanted to retain their Lok Sabha seats. Pramanik is now the Union minister of state for home affairs. Banerjee announced that Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay will contest from Khardah. Though heavy rainfall affected life in the state on September 30, at Bhawanipore, where the weather was fair till around 3 pm, the low turnout troubled the poll managers. However, some TMC leaders predicted that Banerjee would win by no less than 50,000 votes. “The support from non-Bengali voters played a key role,” transport minister Firhad Hakim said on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-logs-record-win-in-bhawanipore-bypoll-bjp-loses-on-2-more-seats-101633284780681.html
04-10-2021||India||8th highest rainfall in Sept, and yet a normal monsoon in 2021||This year’s monsoon season ended officially on September 30. India receives 75% of its annual rainfall during the June-September monsoon. An HT analysis of India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) database puts this year’s total monsoon rainfall at 876.8mm. IMD measures the adequacy (or the lack of it) of rainfall by comparing it with the Long Period Average (LPA) between 1961 and 2010. The 2021 figure is 2.7% more than the LPA. That makes it a normal southwest monsoon season.To be sure, the Met department classifies rainfall within a 19% range of LPA as normal. A granular analysis of the IMD data, however, shows this year’s southwest monsoon was far from normal. Here are four charts explaining this in detail.Wide monthly variation in rainfallIf we use a cricket analogy, the monsoon’s ability to reach close to the LPA is the result of some heavy hitting in the slog overs (the heavy September rainfall). September rainfall this year is the eighth highest since 1901, the earliest period for which data are available. The 225.1mm rainfall in September was 37.1% more than the LPA of 164.2mm. Of the seven years when September rainfall was more than in 2021, 2019 is the closest, when rainfall was 259.1mm. The other six years were 1983 and earlier. While September was among the wettest months in the southwest monsoon’s recorded history, the year also saw some of the driest patches. In August, rainfall was 19% less than the LPA, the 7th lowest since 1901. July rainfall, 5.5% less than the LPA, was the 30th lowest since 1901.National normal does not mean local normal for rainfallAlthough nationwide rainfall was normal, it was not true for all parts of the country; there was wide regional variation. The northeast did not receive enough rainfall. In Manipur, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh and Assam, the rain deficit was 20% or more than the LPA. Even for Tripura and Sikkim, rainfall was below the LPA average, but the deficit was less than 20%, which is technically within the normal range. Five states – Telangana, Delhi, Haryana, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu – received rainfall in excess of 20% of the LPA. As much as 20% of India’s districts received deficient rainfall and another 27% saw excess rains.Did this year’s monsoon witness more extreme rainfall events?When it comes to rain, tracking quarterly, monthly or even weekly numbers is not enough. Very heavy rains in a short period of time can create huge problems such as flooding. The IMD has thresholds for such events. Rainfall between 35.5mm and 244.5mm in 24 hours is considered heavy rainfall. Rainfall above 244.5mm in 24 hours is considered extreme.Heavy rainfall was 344.5mm this monsoon, 3.4% less than the LPA. However, extreme rainfall (7.3mm) was 6.9% more than the LPA, the 29th highest since 1901. Delhi, which received 100.6mm of rainfall in the 24 hours ending 8.30am on August 21, saw one of its heaviest rainfall events in history. All 100.6mm, rainfall on the day was of heavy intensity. Of the 14,762 monsoon days since 1901, Delhi has seen heavy intensity rainfall on 619 days out of the 6,871 days that the city recorded any rain. August 21 was the 21st highest heavy and total rainfall day among these. To be sure, the single monsoon day record for Delhi is more than double the rainfall that took place on August 21. It was set on September 16, 1963, when 212.2mm rainfall took place, all of it heavy intensity.Reservoir filled up in most places after September rainfallWater storage in the 130 main reservoirs in India had a 6% deficit on September 2, compared with last 10 years’ average, according to data from the Central Water Commission. On September 30, there was a 4% surplus nationwide. Of the 19 states for which CWC collects data, eight still have some deficit. The deficit is biggest in Punjab (40%), Himachal Pradesh (28%) and Odisha (11%). Reservoir levels matter a lot for agricultural production in the rabi (winter) season. While kharif (summer) season sowing has been more than the normal sown area this year, late rains might have damaged crops in many parts of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8th-highest-rainfall-in-sept-and-yet-a-normal-monsoon-in-2021-101633282919620.html
04-10-2021||India||Arms consignment dropped by Pakistani drone recovered in J&K||Security personnel have recovered a consignment of arms and ammunition dropped by a Pakistani drone near the International Border in Jammu district, officials familiar with the matter said on Sunday. People aware of the developments said the drone dropped the consignment past midnight at Alora Mandal in Sohanjana. “A villager heard the sound of the flying object and saw it dropping something. He informed the police,” an official said. Police immediately cordoned off the village and launched a search operation during which a yellow packet tied to strings and a wooden base to carry the payload was found, leading to the recovery of the arms and ammunition, the officials said.Sharing details on what was recovered from the consignment, Jammu district police chief Chandan Kohli said, “The incident happened around midnight. We have recovered one AK-47 assault rifle, three AK magazines, 30 AK rounds and a telescopic sight”. Speaking on condition of anonymity, a senior police officer said, “It was a clear case of a Pakistani drone dropping arms and ammunition for the overground workers or OGWs ”. “Sohanjana is a vast area by the side of fourth Tawi Bridge where large scale encroachment took place in recent years under political patronage. The possibility of OGWs among the encroachers cannot be ruled out,” the officer added.The incident comes on the heels of suspected Pakistani drones dropping ammunition in the region. On August 23, a drone was spotted near the IB in Arnia sector, prompting the BSF to open fire at it. On July 24, police said they shot down a Pakistani drone carrying a five kg-IED in Kanachak area of Akhnoor sector in Jammu district....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-drone-drops-arms-ammo-at-sohanjana-in-jammu-101633237376939.html
04-10-2021||NA||Breaking news: Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, BSP leader SC Mishra not allowed for Lakhimpur||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:2 private telecom operators block internet services in Lakhimpur KheriTwo private telecom operators blocked their internet services in Lakhimpur Kheri.Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, BSP leader SC Mishra not allowed to leave for Lakhimpur KheriCongress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and BSP general secretary SC Mishra who attempted to leave for Lakhimpur Kheri were not allowed to leave Lucknow for Lakhimpur Kheri.Heavy police force outside their respective residences in Lucknow.Priyanka Gandhi to leave for Lakhimpuri Kheri on October 4Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi on Sunday arrived in Lucknow and will leave for Lakhimpur Kheri on October 4 at 8am. UP CM Adityanath says Lakhimpur incident unfortunateUttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said that the Lakhimpur incident is unfortunate and added that action will be taken against those responsible. Delhi Police arrest 4 sharpshooters of slain gangster Jitender Gogi’s gangThe Delhi Police have arrested four sharpshooters of slain gangster Jitender Gogi’s gang, who allegedly arrived in Delhi to kill the leader of their rival gang Tillu Tajpuriya, officials privy of the matter told news agency PTI on Sunday. Read moreFarmers killed in Lakhimpur Kheri after car lost balance, says minister TeniMoS Home Ajay Mishra Teni also said on Sunday that farmers were killed in Lakhimpur Kheri after car lost balance from stone pelting. My son wasn't present at spot, says minister on Lakhimpur Kheri incidentMoS Home Ajay Mishra Teni told news agency ANI on Sunday that his son was not present at the spot of the Lakhimpur incident, adding “If my son would've been there, he wouldn't have come out alive.”8 dead in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri incident so far: PoliceThe Uttar Pradesh Police on Sunday said that eight people have died in the Lakhimpur incident so far. Of these, four were protesting farmers. Read more Stubble burning: Bhupendra Yadav says states cooperating constructivelyUnion environment minister Bhupendra Yadav said on Sunday that the Centre received constructive cooperation from four northern states- Delhi, Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh on the issue of stubble burning. Read moreAryan Khan, 2 others remanded to NCB custody till Oct 4 in Mumbai cruise party raid  Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan, Arbaz Seth Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha have been remanded to NCB custody till Monday in connection with the Mumbai cruise party raid case. The next hearing will be held on Monday afternoon. Read moreNCB brings Aryan Khan, Arbaz Seth Merchant, Munmun Dhamecha to Esplanade Court for remandThe Narcotics Control Bureau on Sunday evening brought Aryan Khan, Arbaz Seth Merchant, Munmun Dhamecha to Esplanade Court for remand. The three were arrested in connection with the raid at a party at a cruise off the Mumbai coast on Saturday night. 90% Covid victims in Tamil Nadu in past 2 mths those who didn’t get single doseThe Tamil Nadu government said on Sunday that 90% of people who died due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state in the last two months, did not even get a single vaccine dose against the viral disease, according to news agency PTI. Read morePlane crashes into vacant building near Milan, 6 killedOn Sunday, a small plane crashed into a vacant, two-story office building in a Milan suburb, news agency AP reported citing local reports. All six people aboard were killed.Raid on cruise ship attempt to divert attention from Mundra port seizure: CongThe Congress said on Sunday that the previous night’s raid conducted by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on a cruise ship in Mumbai and the ensuing action taken is an attempt to divert attention from the ‘real issue’ seizure of drugs at the Mundra port in Gujarat. Read moreBlast kills several civilians near Kabul mosque, say TalibanThe Taliban said on Sunday that an explosion was reported outside a mosque in the Kabul which killed a number of civilians, according to news agency AFP. Shah Rukh Khan's son, Aryan Khan, arrested by NCB after Mumbai cruise party raidBollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan has been arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Sunday after it carried out a raid at a Goa-bound cruise ship in Mumbai. RJD to contest in both assembly seats going into bypolls in Bihar on Oct 30The Rashtriya Janata Dal announced on Sunday that it will contest in Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan assembly seats, which will go into bypolls in Bihar on October 30. NCB raid on Mumbai cruise ship: Aryan Khan being taken to JJ hospital for medical checkupAryan Khan, the son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan, is being taken to JJ Hospital in Mumbai for a medical check up. Aryan Khan along with seven others, has been detained under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, after the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Saturday night busted a rave party at a cruise ship in Mumbai. Earthquake of 4.1 magnitude jolts J'khand's Singhbhum districtThe National Centre for Seismology said on Sunday that an earthquake of 4.1 magnitude hit Singhbhum district in Jharkhand at around 2.22 pm. Tropical cyclone Shaheen approaches OmanTropical cyclone Shaheen approached the coast of Oman on Sunday, lashing the sultanate with high winds and rain. Authorities have delayed flights to and from the capital city of Muscat, and residents have been urged to evacuate coastal areas. Bhabanipur bypolls: ‘I gracefully accept the defeat,’ says BJP's Priyanka Tibrewal as Mamata Banerjee ahead by 58,832 votes BJP leader Priyanka Tibrewal on Sunday accepted her defeat in the Bhabanipur bypolls and said that she congratulated TMC supremo and West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee, is ahead by 58,832 votes. Bhabanipur bypolls: Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee nears victory , ahead by over 56,000 votesTrinamool Congress (TMC) supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, is leading by more than 56,000 votes as only two rounds of counting are left in the Bhabanipur bypolls. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Priyanka Tibrewal has secured 26,320 votes so far. Taliban hold victory rally outside Kabul as they consolidate ruleMore than 1,500 Taliban supporters attended a rally on Sunday in a vast field to the north of Kabul, in a show of strength as they consolidate their rule of Afghanistan.North Korea condemns UN Security Council’s meeting on missile testsNorth Korea denounced a closed-door UN Security Council meeting that found recent missile tests by the secretive nation were a violation of the UN resolution, saying it’s an encroachment on the country’s sovereignty.8 persons to be produced before magistrate court in NCR drug raidOn the basis of specific information, the officials of NCB Mumbai conducted a raid on Cordelia cruise which was bound from Mumbai to Goa on October 2. During the operation, all suspects as per the information were searched various drugs like MDMA/ Ecstasy, Cocaine, MD (Mephedrone) and charas has been recovered. A total of 08 persons including 02 females have been apprehended and their role being investigated in relation to the said recovery. NCB Mumbai has registered Crime no. Cr 94/21 in this matter. Further investigation is underway.NCB officials have said that they are questioning Aryan Khan for now. The eight persons will be produced before the magistrate court at 2 pm.RBI may again opt for status quo on key policy rate next week, say expertsAmid rising global commodity prices and the need to contain inflation at home, the Reserve Bank is likely to maintain status quo on interest rates for the eighth time in row in its upcoming bi-monthly monetary policy review later in the week, according to experts.5 injured in clash over bridge construction in Uttar PradeshFive people were injured in a clash between two groups of the same community in Nanheda village, police said on Sunday.Prices of petrol and diesel in BhopalThe prices of petrol and diesel is at ₹110.88 per litre and ₹99.73 per litre respectively in Bhopal today.UAE and Oman on alert as cyclone nears landfallOman declared a public holiday on Sunday and Monday and the UAE went on high alert as a major storm neared the countries’ coastlines.Beijing to resume marathon after one-year Covid-19 suspensionBeijing will hold its city-wide marathon on October 31, resuming the annual race after suspending it last year due to Covid-19, state media Xinhua said on Sunday.Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan being questioned in NCB drug raidBollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan being questioned in NCB drug raid.New Zealand tightens travel rules as Covid-19 spreadsNew Zealand announced Sunday tighter border restrictions, as new cases of Covid-19 emerged in areas previously free of the coronavirus.India logs 22,842 fresh Covid-19 cases, 244 deaths in last 24 hoursIndia recorded 22,842 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, which pushed the nationwide tally to 33,813,903, while the death toll climbed to 448,817 with 244 daily fatalities, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Sunday. Australia's Delta outbreak spreads to new statesAustralia reported more than 1,900 new infections of the Delta coronavirus on Sunday, health data showed, with authorities struggling to quell the outbreak in the two most populous states and cases spreading to new states.Voting begins in 11 wards of Gandhinagar Municipal Corporation Voting begins for the election of 44 councillors in 11 wards of Gandhinagar Municipal Corporation (GMC).Civilian injured in militant attack in J-K succumbs to injuriesA civilian, who was shot at by militants in Batamaloo area of the city here, succumbed to injuries, officials said on Sunday.Joe Biden reiterates need for more vaccinations as Covid-19 death toll in US tops 7,00,000US President Joe Biden said that the fact that the US death toll from the coronavirus infection has surpassed 7,00,000 means that more people need to get vaccinated in the country.New Zealand's Delta outbreak spreads outside AucklandNew Zealand's Delta variant outbreak spread beyond the largest city of Auckland, prompting Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern on Sunday to put additional regions into a snap lockdown.Light to moderate rainfall in 3 districts of Bengal todayThe Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC), Kolkata, has projected light to moderate rainfall for Alipurduar, Malda and Birbhum districts for Sunday.World Habitat Day 2021World Habitat Day is observed on the first Monday of October every year. This year, it is being observed on October 4 across the world.Counting of votes for Bengal bypolls to begin todayThe counting of votes for the West Bengal bypolls will begin in Kolkata at 8am on Sunday amid heavy security deployment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-october-03-2021-101633217465941.html
