05-10-2021||India||Teacher booked for abetment to suicide for reprimanding student gets SC shield||NEW DELHI: Reprimanding a student for indiscipline cannot amount to instigating a student for suicide, the Supreme Court held on Tuesday, accepting a Jaipur teacher’s request to cancel the First Information Report (FIR) registered against him in 2018 for abetment to suicide after a Class 9 student died by suicide following the teacher’s reprimand for bunking classes.“A simple act of reprimand of a student for his behaviour or indiscipline by a teacher, who is under moral obligations to inculcate the good qualities of a human being in a student would definitely not amount to instigation or intentionally aid to the commission of a suicide by a student,” the bench of justices S Abdul Nazeer and Krishna Murari said.In 2019, the Rajasthan high court rejected the teacher’s petition to cancel the criminal case registered against him the previous year. The teacher was also arrested in this case in 2018.Geo Varghese, a physical education teacher with Jaipur’s St Xavier’s School, was also a member of its disciplinary committee.The suicide note found from the child did not name the teacher, but the police lodged the criminal case on a complaint by the parents who blamed him for causing mental harassment to the child.The Supreme Court on Tuesday quashed the criminal case registered on May 2, 2018.“Spare the rod and spoil the child, an old saying may have lost its relevance in present days and corporal punishment to the child is not recognised by law but that does not mean that a teacher or school authorities have to shut their eyes to any indiscipline act of a student,” the bench said.The student was caught bunking classes by the teacher twice on April 19 and April 25, 2018, and let off with a warning. When this action persisted, the teacher brought the matter to the notice of the Principal who called the parents the next day. No further overt act was attributed to the teacher.Justice Krishna Murari, writing the judgment for the bench said, “if the person committing suicide is hypersensitive and the allegations attributed to the accused is otherwise not ordinarily expected to induce a similarly-situated person to take the extreme step of committing suicide, it would be unsafe to hold the accused guilty of abetment of suicide. Thus, what is required is an examination of every case on its own facts and circumstances and keeping in consideration the surrounding circumstances as well, which may have bearing on the alleged action of the accused and the psyche of the deceased.”A mere allegation of harassment of the deceased by another person would not be sufficient in itself to constitute an offence under Section 306, the bench said, adding that there must be an allegation of either direct or indirect act of incitement to the commission of the offence of suicide.The bench also noted that a teacher is under a solemn duty to instil discipline in the students, and it is not uncommon for teachers to reprimand a student for not being attentive or not being up to the mark in studies, for bunking classes or not attending the school.“The disciplinary measures adopted by a teacher or other authorities of a school, reprimanding a student for his indiscipline, in our considered opinion, would not tantamount to provoking a student to commit suicide unless there are repeated specific allegations of harassment and insult deliberately without any justifiable cause or reason,” the bench said.Further, the teacher has a legally assigned duty under Section 24(e) of the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009 to hold regular meetings with the parents and guardians and apprise them about the regularity in attendance, ability to learn, progress made in learning and any other act or relevant information about the child, the judgment said.The court after examining the suicide note observed that the child had thanked the teacher in question, and it suggested a “hypersensitive temperament” of an immature mind, the bench said,“A criminal trial is not exactly a pleasant experience and the appellant who is a teacher would certainly suffer great prejudice if he has to face prosecution on absurd allegations of irrelevant nature.”At the same time, the court shared its sympathies with the parents of the victim but said, “Our sympathies and the pain and suffering of the complainant, cannot translate into a legal remedy, much less a criminal prosecution.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/teacher-booked-for-abetment-to-suicide-for-reprimanding-student-gets-sc-shield-101633457655665.html
05-10-2021||India||Priyanka spoke to families of Lakhimpur victims over phone: Deepender Hooda||Hours after Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi issued a statement while being detained in Uttar Pradesh’s Sitapur district, party leader Deepender Singh Hooda told news agency ANI that she has spoken to some members of the families of the Lakhimpur Kheri victims over the phone. “We have permission to use phones. Physically we are not allowed to go but on call we have sympathised with them,” Hooda was quoted as saying by ANI.Hooda said he along with Priyanka have been in custody along Sitapur police lines for about 40 hours, and “no one is allowed” to meet them – echoing the Congress general secretary’s statement. “If we're in police custody, we should have been produced before a magistrate within 24 hours, which has not happened,” he told ANI.Hooda further claimed that it was through media that they learnt about a First Information Report (FIR) being filed against him, Priyanka and other Congress leaders while they were en route to Lakhimpur Kheri earlier in the day. He added that police were not sharing any details with them.The Congress MP noted that under Section 151 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) – used to arrest them by Uttar Pradesh, individuals cannot be detained beyond 24 hours.Watch | Priyanka Gandhi's dare to PM Modi during his Lucknow trip amid Lakhimpur stormHooda, according to the ANI report, has demanded an investigation into the matter by a sitting judge. He added that Congress leaders were kept from meeting the families of the Lakhimpur Kheri victims while leaders of other opposition parties such as Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and Trinamool Congress (TMC) have been allowed to visit Lakhimpur.The Congress MP has also called for the resignation of Union MoS Ajay Mishra Teni over the violence in Lakhimpur, which claimed the lives of eight people, including four protesting farmers.Hooda’s statement comes soon after Priyanka’s wherein she said that the Uttar Pradesh police used illegal physical force on her and her colleagues, and didn’t allow her to meet legal counsel who had been standing at the gate of her Sitapur guest house since morning.The Congress general secretary further claimed that of the 11 people who were named by the police, eight of them “were not present” at the time she was arrested. “In fact, they have even named two persons who brought clothes from Lucknow on the afternoon of October 4,” her statement read.Earlier in the day, Hargaon Police station SHO Brijesh Tripathi told the media that an FIR was lodged against 11 people, including Priyanka, Hooda and Uttar Pradesh Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu for “disturbing peace.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-spoke-to-families-of-lakhimpur-victims-over-phone-deepender-hooda-101633456846040.html
05-10-2021||India||Manipur eases Covid curbs, allows social gathering, reopening of religious places||Manipur has eased Covid-19 related restrictions and allowed social gatherings and reopening of religious places subject to pandemic-appropriate behaviour. The night curfew has been curtailed to between 8.30 pm to 4 am till October 21.Chief secretary Rajesh Kumar, who also heads the State Disaster Management Authority, issued an order in this regard on Monday. The social gatherings have been allowed subject to wearing of masks and social distancing.“The gathering should preferably be in open halls and spaces, “Kumar said in his order. “In case, they are held in enclosed space or halls, the number of people should not be more than 50% of the capacity.” The reopening of religious places has been subjected to similar conditions.“The deputy commissioners shall issue necessary orders and superintendents of police shall take necessary action to implement them strictly,” Kumar said. Restaurants and cafes have been allowed to open from 10 am to 8 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-eases-covid-curbs-allows-social-gathering-reopening-of-religious-places-101633455798204.html
05-10-2021||India||Venugopal urges Yogi to allow Congress delegation to visit Lakhimpur on Oct 6||A day before the five-member Congress delegation led by Rahul Gandhi is scheduled to visit Lakhimpur Kheri, party general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal on Tuesday wrote to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, seeking permission for the delegation to visit the district on Wednesday.Official sources told news agency ANI that the Rahul Gandhi-led delegation will meet the families of the victims who were killed in Sunday's violence in Lakhimpur Kheri.“A five-member delegation of Indian National Congress led by the former Congress President and Member of Parliament, Shri Rahul Gandhi propose to visit Lakhimpur Kheri tomorrow October 6 to express condolences to the bereaved families and to know the facts first hand,” KC Venugopal said in his letter to Adityanath.Pointing out that leaders from West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh were allowed to visit Lakhimpur Kheri, Venugopal further said that the Congress delegation should also be allowed to visit the district. “in the same spirit necessary arrangements may kindly be made," he urged.Copy of the letter written to CM Yogi, Chief Secy UP, DGP UP by KC Venugopal, seeking permission for a 5 member delegation to be allowed to go to Lakhimpur Kheri. #Lakhimpur_Kheri #RahulGandhi likely to visit Lucknow and proceed for #Lakhimpur pic.twitter.com/RHolFAc61fEarlier in the day, leaders from the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) visited Lakhimpur Kheri, where eight people died on Sunday.On Tuesday, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi met Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut. Speaking to reporters, Raut said that he and Gandhi held discussions on sending a joint delegation of opposition leaders to Lakhimpur Kheri. He said that the illegal detention of Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi was wrong."Why Priyanka Gandhi, who is the daughter of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi and the granddaughter of former prime minister Indira Gandhi who made sacrifices for the country, was detained while those committing the crime were roaming around freely," the Shiv Sena MP added.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi, along with several other leaders of the party including Deepender Singh Hooda, was detained by the Uttar Pradesh Police, as they were on their way to Lakhimpur to meet the families of the deceased farmers.An FIR has been registered against Priyanka, Hooda and UP Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu for disturbing the peace. Gandhi on Tuesday spoke to the families of the victims over the phone while being in detention in Sitapur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/venugopal-urges-yogi-to-allow-congress-delegation-to-visit-lakhimpur-on-oct-6-101633451843253.html
05-10-2021||India||Bypolls to local bodies seats held in Maharashtra||Bypolls for the 84 seats of district councils (DC) and 141 panchayat samitis (PS) in six districts of Maharashtra reported 63% voting on Tuesday. Eyes in the political corridors are set on the results of the bypolls which are being held without reservation to the Other Backward Classes (OBC) for the first time since the quota was introduced in the early 1990s. The counting of votes will begin at 10am on Wednesday.The bypolls to the district councils and panchayat samitis were held Dhule, Nandurbar, Akola, Washim, Nagpur and Palghar. The polls were necessitated after the Supreme Court stayed OBC quota for want of empirical data and cancelled the elections of the representatives elected from the seats reserved for the community.After the voting began at 7.30 am, the election authorities received complaints that the names of voters had gone missing. In Nagpur, 16 DC and 31 PS seats went for polls, while in Dhule, votes were cast for 14 DC and 28 PS candidates. Palghar’s 15 DC and 14 PS seats went for polling on Tuesday. Washim and Akola districts have 14 seats each of councils and 27 and 28 seats of PS that went to polls. Nandurbar’s 12 DC seats saw election. One DC seat in Dhule and three PS seats in Dhule and Nandurbar were elected unopposed as only one candidate each stood from these seats.“The bypolls may prove trendsetters ahead of the massive local body elections scheduled to be held early next year. This has been the first election without reservation to OBCs and as such it could indicate an idea among the community. Most of the districts which went to polls are backward and OBC-dominated. Results many see change in power in some of these districts,” said a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader requesting anonymity of name. BJP had fielded OBC candidates on all the seats that fell vacant after the quota was quashed. In the elections held in these district councils last January, BJP had won the highest 39 seats out of 56 in Dhule council, while Congress had retained its power in Nagpur DC by winning 30 of 58 seats. In Nandurbar, BJP and Congress won 23 (of total 56) seats each, while Congress’s Seema Walvi was elected as head the body. Palghar DC is ruled by Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party.The State Election Commission (SEC) had announced the bypolls last month, immediately after SC asked it to submit the status report on the elections in six DCs and the samitis under them in six weeks. In March, the Apex court stayed the OBC reservation and asked SEC to cancel the elections of the candidates elected from the quota and hold bypolls. SEC had to put the bypolls on hold March after the second wave of Covid-19. The process for electing new candidates has now started from where it was stalled last year.Though OBC seats have been thrown open for the open category, most of political parties have fielded candidates from the community.Meanwhile, Congress has ordered an inquiry against its leader from Nagpur Ashish Deshmukh, after his audio tape – in which he has appealed voters to voter for a BJP candidate in Nagpur – emerged. Party’s working president and disciplinary committee member Chandrakant Handore will conduct the probe. Deshmukh had reportedly released the audio to appeal voters to vote for BJP’s Nileshkumar Dhote to the Nagpur DC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bypolls-to-local-bodies-seats-held-in-maharashtra-101633454176630.html
05-10-2021||India||Amit Shah to spend 3 days in Jammu and Kashmir, his first visit after Aug 2019||NEW DELHI: Union home minister Amit Shah will travel to Jammu and Kashmir later this month, his first trip to the Union territory that was carved out of the erstwhile state after its special status under the Constitution was effectively revoked. Shah’s visit is part of the Centre’s continuing mega outreach campaign aimed at the Jammu and Kashmir that were formed on August 5, 2019, people familiar with the development said.Shah, who is tentatively expected to be in the centrally-administered Union territory between October 23 and 25, is also expected to review implementation of development schemes, interact with stakeholders and chair a top-level security review, a person cited above said. During the tour, the Union home minister is expected to interact with stakeholders, review important projects and take stock of the law and order situation.Shah was last in Jammu and Kashmir in June 2019, immediately after the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi swept to power for the second term.The move to strip the state of its special status under Article 370 came a few months later. Shah had pitched the change, along with the conversion of the state into two union territories from October 31, as steps that would fast track development and end terrorism in the state.On August 5, 2019, the Centre effectively revoked Article 370, which bestowed special status to the erstwhile state, and Article 35A, which barred non-locals from buying or owning immovable property in Jammu and Kashmir, settling there permanently, or availing benefits of state-sponsored scholarship schemes. The constitutional provision acknowledged the special status of the (then) state of Jammu and Kashmir in terms of autonomy and its ability to formulate laws for the state’s permanent residents. Several members of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s council of ministers have travelled to the newly carved union territory in last four-five weeks as part of the public outreach programme. These include farm minister Narendra Singh Tomar, tourism minister G Kishan Reddy, and junior minority affairs minister John Barla among others.During his tour, Shah is likely to visit remote areas of Kashmir valley and the Jammu region.Last month, he held a top-level review meeting on J&K with the Lt Governor Manoj Sinha and senior security officials including the National Security Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval. He also reviewed various development initiatives being implemented in Jammu and Kashmir, including the ₹80,000 crore package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2015.The home minister has said in the past that all-round development and welfare of the people of the Union territory are on top priority list of the government. In June this year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi invited J&K leaders including Farooq Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti at his residence in Delhi, during which they demanded restoration of special status of J&K.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-to-spend-3-days-in-jammu-and-kashmir-his-first-visit-after-aug-2019-101633454175510.html
05-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Barbaric killings in UP won't be tolerated, Punjab CM Channi tells Amit Shah||After holding a meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi, Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi said on Tuesday that he urged Shah to repeal the three new farm laws introduced by the Centre last year.Before leaving for the national capital, Channi told reporters, “These three farm laws should be repealed at the earliest and incidents like the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri need to be stopped. I will discuss this issue with Union home minister Amit Shah in today's meeting.”Also Read| Lakhimpur incident: No farmer died of bullet injuries, reveals autopsy reportChanni also told Amit Shah that barbaric killings in the state of Uttar Pradesh will not be tolerated and the arrests of Congress leaders should stop.“I also asked him (Amit Shah) to seal the international border with Punjab to curb trafficking of drugs and weapons,” the Punjab chief minister said, adding he requested the Union home minister to open the Kartarpur Corridor at the earliest.I also told him that we'll not tolerate barbaric killings in UP (Lakhimpur Kheri). This system of arresting our leaders should stop. I requested him to open the Kartarpur Corridor at earliest. He ensured me that Govt will take decision very soon: Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi pic.twitter.com/WokPKUs4ELEight people, including four farmers, died in Sunday's violence in Lakhimpur Kheri. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) alleged that one of the deceased farmers was shot dead by Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni’s son Ashish and others were allegedly run over by the vehicles of his convoy. An FIR has been registered against Ashish Mishra and others.Union minister Teni on Tuesday refuted SKM's allegations by saying that his son was not present at the spot, adding he has evidence to prove that Ashish was innocent. The Union minister also said that his son will be ready to face any investigation by the agencies.Also Read| 'Illegal physical force used on me, my colleagues': Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on UPSeveral Congress leaders, including party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi, were detained on Monday, as they were en route to Lakhimpur to meet the families of the deceased farmers. Priyanka Gandhi, who continues to be under detention at a guest house in Sitapur, alleged on Tuesday that the Uttar Pradesh Police used illegal force on her and did not allow her legal counsel to meet her. She also said that the state police neither served her any order or notice, nor they showed her an FIR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/barbaric-killings-in-up-won-t-be-tolerated-punjab-cm-channi-tells-amit-shah-101633447202380.html
05-10-2021||India||Registration of vehicles older than 15 years to cost more from April 2022||From April of next year vehicle owners will have to shell out ₹5,000 for renewal of the registration if their vehicle is more than 15 years old, the Union ministry of road transport and highways notified on Tuesday. The renewal fee will cost owners eight times more than what it costs to register new vehicles.The charge for renewing the license of a 15-year-old car would be ₹5,000 and registration of a new vehicle will cost only ₹600. The charges of registration renewal of bikes older than the stipulated age of 15 years would be ₹1,000, but registering new vehicles will cost only Rs.300.The ministry also notified that renewal of certificate of fitness for a bus or truck older than 15 years will bear a cost which is nearly eight times higher than what owners of commercial vehicles currently pay. Thus for the renewal of a fitness certificate for a bus or truck older than 15 years an amount of ₹12,500 will be charged from April while in the case of medium-sized goods vehicle or passenger motor vehicle, it would cost ₹10,000.Under the the National Automobile Scrappage Policy launched by the Prime Minister in August this year fitness tests have been made mandatory for heavy commercial vehicles from April 1, 2023. Similar measures are expected to be put in place for other vehicles from June 2024.In case of delay in renewal of fitness certificate an additional fee of ₹50 for each day of delay after the expiry of certificate of fitness will also be levied. These new rules may be called the Central Motor Vehicles (23rd Amendment) Rules, 2021, the ministry said.The ministry said the measure was adopted as a part of the vehicle scrappage policy, in order “to have a system of incentives and disincentives to nudge vehicle owners to discard old and polluting vehicles, which have higher maintenance and fuel consumption costs.” It added that there will be a waiver of the fee for issuance of certificate of registration for a new vehicle, purchased against the authority of the Certificate of Deposit (CoD) issued by a Registered Vehicle Scrapping Facility for a vehicle being scrapped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/registration-of-vehicles-older-than-15-years-to-cost-more-from-april-2022-101633448081888.html
05-10-2021||India||Centre says can’t put blanket order on sale of banned Chinese app ‘Shien’ products on Amazon||The Centre on Tuesday informed the Delhi High Court that the sale of products of Chinese blocked app ‘Shein’ on other marketplace platforms, including Amazon, has not been covered under law. The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) also stated that a blanket order to block the sale of these products cannot be passed by the committee formed under the legal provision, according to news agency PTI.The bench headed by Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh was hearing a petition seeking to ban the re-entry of Shein products in Indian digital marketplace. The app, along with more than 50 other Chinese ones, were banned in India in 2020.In its reply submitted to the court via Centre’s standing advocate Anurag Ahluwalia, MeitY said that public access and functionality of Shein was blocked in India last year, but the app’s products being sold on other platforms is a different aspect altogether, the PTI report added.The Centre said that the Chinese app – which was blocked after being found “detrimental” to India’s security and sovereignty, was temporarily blocked on June 29 last year, and it was permanently blocked for public access in January this year. “Every incident violating the provisions of Section 69A of the IT Act related to already blocked information or content has to be reported separately by following the due process,” PTI reported quoting the government’s statement. Senior counsel Vivek Raj Singh, appearing for petitioner Ananttika Singh appealed to the court to pass an interim stay on the sale of Shein products on all platforms, saying that otherwise the app – which was prohibited as customer details were being shared to Chinese manufacturers, will continue to do so. He had earlier informed the court that Amazon publicised the sale of Shein products as part of its prime day sale. The petitioner has sought a direction to Amazon to suspend its partnership with Shein until the ban imposed by the central government is rolled back. Amazon’s advocate, however, told PTI that they are yet to receive a copy of the petition. The court has directed the petitioner to supply a copy of the PIL to Amazon’s lawyer and granted time to issue a reply. The matter will next be heard on December 1. This development comes three months after the Delhi High Court in July issued a notice to the Centre on the same petition filed by Singh. However, the bench had at that time refused to put an interim stay on the sale of Shein products on other Indian digital marketplaces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cant-put-blanket-order-centre-on-sale-of-banned-shein-products-on-amazon-101633447888525.html
05-10-2021||India||Terrorists gun down three civilians in separate attacks in Srinagar||Terrorists shot a street hawker and a prominent pharmacy owner in Srinagar on Tuesday and also gunned down another civilian in Bandipora in a series of attacks on Tuesday. The street hawker was killed at Madin Sahib in Hawal on the outskirts of Srinagar while the other person was shot in Bandipora’s Naidkhai.Makhan Lal Bindroo, owner of a prominent pharmacy was shot dead by the terrorists in Iqbal Park. He was shot at from a point-blank range while he was interacting with customers, police officials told news agency PTI.Bindroo was rushed to the SMHS hospital where he succumbed to his injuries. According to news agencies, Bindroo was among the few Kashmiri Pandits who did not migrate out of the Valley following the rise in extremism in 1990. Bindroo Medicate, the shop run by him and his wife, is a famous medical care shop in Srinagar.The police cordoned off the area and a search operation is on to nab the terrorists.The street hawker, Virender Paswan, was the second victim of the evening. Paswan was shot near Lalbazar’s Madina Chowk in Srinagar. A resident of Bihar, Paswan worked as a street vendor in Srinagar. He was living in Alamgari Bazar in Zadibal.Another civilian who died in Tuesday evening’s attacks was Mohammad Shafi Lone. Lone, the president of the local taxi stand, was shot dead in Bandipora district’s Naidkhai.Lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha condemned the killing of the three civilians in a tweet and said that terrorists will not succeed in their ‘nefarious designs’.Political leaders also condemned the death of Bindroo with BJP leader Altaf Thakur calling Bindroo as pro-poor and a helpful person. National Conference leader Omar Abdullah called Bindroo a ‘kind man’ who never left despite the rise in extremism in the Valley. People's Conference chief Sajad Lone called the attack on Bindroo as ‘outrageous and unacceptable’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorists-gun-down-hawker-among-two-after-killing-pharmacist-in-kashmir-101633448260593.html
05-10-2021||India||'Illegal physical force used on me, my colleagues': Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on UP||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra alleged on Tuesday that the Uttar Pradesh police used illegal physical force on her and didn’t allow her to meet legal counsel who had been standing at the gate of the guest house in Sitapur since Tuesday morning. The Congress general secretary further alleged that the cops didn’t serve her any order or notice and no copy of the FIR was shared with her.Gandhi was stopped from reaching Lakhimpur Kheri, where eight people were killed as violence broke out after a car hit protesting farmers. Farmers alleged that the car belonged to a convoy of union minister of state for home Ajay Kumar Mishra’s son.Narrating the series of developments since she was stopped on her way to Lakhimpur Kheri on Monday evening, Gandhi said she saw on social media that the cops have named 11 people but added that “8 of them were not even present at the time I was arrested. In fact, they have even named two persons who brought my clothes from Lucknow on the afternoon of October 4.”“I have not been produced in front of a magistrate or any other judicial officer either. I have also not been allowed to meet my legal counsel who has been standing at the gate since morning. Presently I am not going into the details of the completely illegal physical force used on my colleagues and me at the time of my arrest,” she said.According to the Congress leader, she was “verbally informed” by DCP Piyush Kumar Singh, CO City, Sitapur, that she had been arrested under section 151 on October 4. “At the time I was arrested I was travelling within the district of Sitapur, approximately 20 kilometres from the border of district Lakhimpur Kheri which was under section 144, however, to my knowledge, section 144 was not imposed in Sitapur.”Arguing that she didn’t violate section 144, the Congress leader pointed out that she was travelling in a single-vehicle with four other persons and “No security car or congress workers other than the four persons accompanying me were with me.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/illegal-physical-force-used-on-me-my-colleagues-priyanka-gandhi-vadra-on-up-101633448142783.html
05-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: SUV ploughed into farmers from back, say Lakhimpur onlookers and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Lakhimpur violence: SUV ploughed into farmers’ crowd from behind, say eyewitnessesRajdeep Singh, 14, was with his father Daljeet Singh, a farmer, when the latter was allegedly mowed down by an SUV from behind on the Tikunia-Lakhimpur road on Sunday. Read moreMoody's upgrades India's outlook to ‘stable’ from ‘negative’, affirms ratingRatings agency Moody's on Tuesday affirmed India's sovereign rating and upgraded the country's outlook to 'stable' from 'negative', citing receding downside risks to the economy and financial system. Read more‘Lakhimpur Kheri incident sad, but what happens in Bengal…’: Rijiju takes a jibeUnion law minister Kiren Rijiju on Tuesday expressed sadness over the violence which broke out in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur district on Sunday and assured that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led state government will take action in the matter. Read moreGoa seafarer dies at sea; family alleges ship denied him medical assistanceThe Goa Seamen Association of India (GSAI), a collective of seafarers, has called for a ‘fair inquiry’ into the death of Beejoy Sequeira, a local lad who worked as a chef on board Ship MV Jabal Alkawar on September 17. Read moreUS treasury secy Yellen says US debt default could trigger recession: ReportUS Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen warned Tuesday that a US debt default could trigger another recession, as an October 18 deadline approaches. Read moreShah Rukh Khan’s friend Viveck Vaswani on Aryan Khan's arrest: 'We don't target children'Shah Rukh Khan's friend Viveck Vaswani has reacted to Aryan Khan's arrest. The film producer has said that Shah Rukh and his family will ‘always be targeted’ by those ‘apathetic’ to Shah Rukh's success. Read moreSam Curran ruled out of remainder of IPL 2021 and T20 World CupEngland all-rounder Sam Curran was ruled out of the remaining matches of IPL 2021 and also the upcoming ICC T20 World Cup slated to take place in UAE and Oman in this month with a lower back injury, announced the England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) on Tuesday. Read moreWoman offers to buy lunch for stranger, gets a surprise herself. WatchHave you ever gone out of your way to help a stranger in need without asking any questions? While there may be many who offer help to strangers, few do so without asking any questions in return. Read moreShardiya Navratri 2021: 3 Sabudana or sago pearls recipes for fastingThe festival of Shardiya Navratri is a commemoration of the victory of good over evil, as the Hindus community across India believes that it was on this day that Durga defeated the demon king Mahishasura by combining the powers of Brahma, Vishnu, and Shiva. Read moreWatch| Russian crew blast off to shoot 1st film in space; Tom Cruise, Elon Musk beatenA Russian actress and film director blasted off to space in a bid to film the world’s first movie in orbit. Actress Yulia Peresild, 37, and film director Klim Shipenko, 38, took off from the Russia-leased Baikonur Cosmodrome in ex-Soviet Kazakhstan as scheduled. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-suv-ploughed-into-farmers-from-back-lakhimpur-onlookers-101633446348781.html
05-10-2021||India||WHO to decide on Covaxin emergency use listing next week||The World Health Organization (WHO) on Tuesday said a meeting is scheduled for the next week to assess the risk and benefits of Bharat Biotech's Covaxin to decide on its emergency using authorisation. In a series of tweets, the UN health agency said that Bharat Biotech has been submitting data on a rolling basis and submitted additional information at the WHO's request on September 27.“WHO & an independent group of experts are scheduled to meet next week to carry out the risk/benefit assessment and come to a final decision whether to grant Emergency Use Listing to Covaxin,” the health agency tweeted.WHO further stated that the assessment will be finalised next week if the additional information submitted by the manufacturer addresses all the questions raised by the experts. The Emergency Use Listing process is centred on determining if the vaccine is quality-assured, safe and effective, according to the WHO.So far, the WHO has approved Covid-19 vaccines manufactured by Pfizer-BioNTech, AstraZeneca, Johnson and Johnson, Moderna and Sinopharm. Bharat Biotech, the Indian biotechnology company, has been awaiting approval from the WHO for weeks, which is important for promoting its product in the global as well as domestic market. The emergency use listing also makes international travel easy.“As a responsible manufacturer with past approvals for our other vaccines, we do not find it appropriate to speculate or comment on the regulatory approval process and its timelines,” Bharat Biotech had said in a statement late last month.“We are diligently working with the WHO to obtain EUL at the earliest,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-to-decide-on-covaxin-emergency-use-listing-next-week-101633446042179.html
05-10-2021||India||‘Why the hurry, heavens won’t fall’: Supreme Court chides Centre over NEET-SS||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Tuesday described the Union government’s offer to defer the National Eligibility Entrance Test for super speciality courses (NEET-SS) from November to January as a “sop”, wondering why the government couldn’t have waited a year to introduce changes to the pattern of the entrance exam. The court also underlined that the changes, introduced by the government at the last minute, appeared to have been taken to help private medical colleges where super specialty course seats go vacant every year.“We have read your affidavit and it prima facie appears that the entire haste shown by you (government) is for filling the vacant seats. The seats that go vacant are never in government colleges. This gives a strong impression that regulation of medical education has become a business. We will hear this matter. Please put your house in order otherwise the hands of the law are very long,” the bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, Vikram Nath and BV Nagarathna said on two petitions by over 41 post graduate doctors.The doctors complained that the examination was notified on July 23, but on August 31, the National Board of Examinations (NBE), which conducts NEET-SS, announced a change in the exam pattern for NEET-SS for admission to over 4,200 seats for DM (Doctorate of Medicine), M.Ch (Master of Surgery) and DrNB (Doctorate of National Board). The exam was to be held on November 13 and 14.The doctors said they had prepared for the exam based on the older pattern used since 2018.In its affidavit filed on October 1, the Centre and NBE declined to modify the examination pattern but said it was open to defer the examination by two months to January 10-11, 2022 to let the doctors prepare.The court wasn’t satisfied. “You have held up some sop to the court when your fundamental process of holding the exam is under question. Deferring the examination for two months will do no good,” the court told the government at Tuesday’s hearing.The bench told Centre, NBE and National Medical Commission “to apply wisdom in its decision-making process”. It will continue hearing the case on Wednesday.The post graduate doctors who filed the petition said that the existing exam pattern tested the candidate on their knowledge of the super specialty stream that they wished to pursue. The examination asked 60% questions from the super specialty of the candidate’s choice while the remaining 40% tested the candidate on a mix of broad specialty courses of which one was general medicine.Under the new pattern, 100% questions were to come from the broad specialty course of general medicineAdditional solicitor general (ASG) Aishwarya Bhati, appearing for the Centre, told the court that every year, seats in the super specialty courses ended up vacant due to the exam pattern. Last year, 805 out of 4,286 seats remained vacant while in 2019, the vacant seats totalled 545.“Heavens would not have fallen if you would have introduced the changes from next year,” the bench said, adding, “Seats falling vacant is the concern of the management of medical colleges. Tell us how many seats go vacant in government colleges. You can give us the breakup between government and private colleges where seats fall vacant.”Senior advocate Maninder Singh Singh, who appeared for NBE, said the old examination scheme tested the candidate on a subject that he was supposed to join. The new pattern allows all candidates to be tested on the same footing, he said, asserting that the board will “prove to the court that the change in pattern has not been done to fill the vacancies”.Senior advocate Shyam Divan, appearing for the petitioners, told the court that clinical practice was an important component for admission into super specialty courses. Due to this, many doctors practised in the super specialty stream to get admission into the course of their choice. Some even left their jobs and prepared for the examination for over a year. “This is the tragedy of our medical education,” the court said. “See how botched up our education system is. You first make them study for this super specialty course and after they have prepared for the examination of which 60% questions would come from their choice of discipline, you are privileging candidates who did general medicine at the cost of other super specialties. Have some concern for these doctors.”Advocate Prashant Bhushan, who appeared in a fresh petition filed by post graduate doctors specializing in Oncology, said the largest number of seats going vacant were in private colleges. He also stressed that there was no consultation on changing the examination pattern before July 23. He further added that before 2018, when the existing pattern was introduced, 100% questions in NEET-SS test came from the specialty course opted for by the candidate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-the-hurry-heavens-won-t-fall-supreme-court-chides-centre-over-neetss-101633444754808.html
05-10-2021||India||‘If Opposition parties come together, BJP will lose power’: Lalu Prasad hits out at BJP, condemns Lakhimpur incident||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad claimed that if all opposition parties rally together then the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) can be defeated. “If Opposition parties come together, BJP will lose power,” the former Bihar chief minister told party workers in a video conference from Delhi on Tuesday.Lalu lamented the inability of the Congress and other political parties’ inability to forge successful alliances, attributing their failure to form a working government to this inability. “Congress and other political parties are unable to come together. We try to forge a political alternative again and again but fail due to some reasons, that is why they are ruling the country,” Lalu said.Lalu's comment comes after its former ally Congress reportedly snubbed the RJD and decided to field candidates for both bypolls to Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan assembly seats on October 30, in spite of RJD wishing to contest from any one seat.The former RJD supremo who had to step down as the Bihar chief minister in 1997 due to the fodder scam has been in Delhi for treatment after he was granted bail by the Jharkhand high court in the Dumka Treasury case in April of this year."I will soon come to Bihar. Almost every day I keep asking my doctor where I can go. I suffer from a serious kidney problem and have been advised to keep my daily intake of water limited to one litre. But my health is improving and I look forward to being with you soon, " Prasad told party workers.Lalu's eldest son Tej Pratap Yadav had earlier alleged that he was being "held captive in Delhi and prevented from visiting Bihar", which was largely seen as an attack on his brother and heir apparent of Lalu's political legacy Tejashwi Yadav.Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar hit out at Yadav earlier on Tuesday, downplaying reports of the latter’s plans to campaign for the bypolls. “It is up to him what he wants to do, whether he wants to address rallies or do anything else. He was working from the jail anyway," Kumar told reporters.Lalu strongly condemned the Lakhimpur Kheri incident during the video conference, reported PTI, adding that "the country is reeling under joblessness and soaring prices. But the BJP has no interest in resolving these problems. It has tasted blood, (munh khoon lag gaya hai) having come to power by pitting the followers of Ram and Rahim against each other."Lalu also predicted an early fall for the ruling Janata Dal (united)- BJP government in Bihar, and reaffirmed his party’s commitment to conducting caste based census, stating "We will fight and see to it that caste census is undertaken and policies are formulated taking population of different castes into account.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-opposition-parties-come-together-bjp-will-lose-power-lalu-prasad-hits-out-at-bjp-condemns-lakhimpur-kheri-incident-101633442692297.html
05-10-2021||India||How 3 crore poor families became ‘lakhpati’ under BJP govt, PM Modi explains||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said that 3 crore urban poor families have become ‘lakhpatis’ due to the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana housing scheme. PM Modi was in Lucknow to inaugurate ‘Azadi@75 – New Urban India: Transforming Urban Landscape’ Conference-cum-Expo. He also digitally handed over keys of Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana - Urban (PMAY-U) houses to 75,000 beneficiaries in 75 districts of Uttar Pradesh.Addressing the event, PM Modi highlighted the increase in the number of houses constructed under the PM Awas Yojana, informing that over 1.13 crore housing units have been built in the cities and more than 50 lakh houses have already been handed over to the poor. Taking potshots at critics, PM Modi said that those who spend “their energy day and night opposing” the government will sharpen their attack after listening to his speech. He added that three crore urban poor families who earlier lived in slums have effectively become millionaires.“Under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana, about 3 crore houses have been built in the country, you can guess the cost of them. These people have become lakhpatis”, he said.The slew of inaugurations and announcements come ahead of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections and the BJP-led government is trying to retain power in India’s most populous state. Political analysts believe that the results of the UP polls could also set the tone of the 2024 Lok Sabha elections since the state represents 80 Lok Sabha constituencies.“Our government has made a very serious effort to overcome the problems and challenges of the urban middle class. Real Estate Regulatory Authority i.e. RERA Act has been such a big step. This law has helped in getting the entire housing sector out of mistrust and fraud,” PM Modi told the gathering.“Urban bodies are also saving about ₹1 thousand crore every year by installing LED street lights,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-3-crore-poor-families-became-lakhpati-under-modi-govt-pm-explains-during-lucknow-visit-101633443699150.html
05-10-2021||India||‘Lakhimpur Kheri incident sad, but what happens in Bengal…’: Rijiju takes a jibe||Union law minister Kiren Rijiju on Tuesday expressed sadness over the violence which broke out in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur district on Sunday and assured that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led state government will take action in the matter.However, he also targeted the West Bengal government led by the Trinamool Congress over the incidents of violence in the state, accusing the chief minister Mamata Banerjee's party of planning and promoting violence. Rijiju said that no comparison can be established between what is happening in West Bengal and other places.Also Read| Lakhimpur violence: SUV ploughed into farmers’ crowd from behind, say eyewitnesses“What happened in Lakhimpur Kheri is a sad incident and the state government will take action on it. But in West Bengal, violence is prompted with planning by the TMC and the state government. There is no comparison between what is happening in Bengal and other incidents,” Rijiju, who is on a visit to Siliguri, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The Union law minister's remarks come a day after BJP leader and leader of opposition in Bengal assembly Suvendu Adhikari on Tuesday accused Mamata Banerjee of making the state into a killing hub.What happened in UP (Lakhimpur Kheri) is a sad incident& state govt will take action on it. But here (in West Bengal) violence is promoted with planning by TMC & state govt. There's no comparison b/w what's happening in WB &other incidents: Union Law Min Kiren Rijiju, in Siliguri pic.twitter.com/T6fb0jlUOlAs opposition parties stepped up the attack on the Centre over the Lakhimpur incident, Bengal CM Banerjee said on Monday that killing raj is going on in Uttar Pradesh instead of Ram Rajya.Also Read| Yogi making ‘Ram Rajya’: Suvendu reacts to Mamata's ‘killing rajya’ remark"This is an unfortunate incident. I have no words to condemn this incident. The BJP government does not believe in democracy. They only want autocracy. Is this 'Ram Raj '? No, this is 'Killing raj," Banerjee told reporters.Suvendu Adhikar, a former protege of Banerjee, targeted her by saying that she should not question Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who is working towards Ram Rajya in the state.“Mamata Banerjee is an opportunist. She made Bengal a killing hub. 55 BJP workers were killed in post-poll violence in West Bengal,” Adhikari told ANI on Monday.Eight people, including four farmers' protesting against the Centre's farm laws, were killed in Lakhimpur on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-incident-sad-but-what-happens-in-bengal-rijiju-takes-a-jibe-101633440171999.html
05-10-2021||India||35 students test positive for Covid-19 in J&K's Mandi||The Jammu & Kashmir administration on Tuesday informed that at least 35 students of a school in Poonch district's Mandi area tested positive for Coronavirus. The school has been shut for five days as a precautionary measure.“We request everyone to follow covid appropriate behavior and will ensure that SoP is followed,” news agency ANI quoted Mandi Tehsildar Shazad Latif Khan as saying.On Monday, Jammu & Kashmir registered 100 fresh cases, and no fresh deaths due to the virus. Of the fresh cases, 22 were from the Jammu division and 78 from the Kashmir division.Jammu and Kashmir | 35 students of girls higher secondary school in Mandi tested covid positive. We've closed the school for 5 days. We request everyone to follow covid appropriate behavior and will ensure that SoP is followed: Mandi Tehsildar Shazad Latif Khan pic.twitter.com/uTiwGls9jrIn an earlier incident, at least 30 students of the medical college attached to Mumbai's KEM Hospital tested positive for Covid-19. According to an official of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), most of the students were asymptomatic and needed only to be quarantined.These were students of the first and second year MBBS course and 28 of them had taken both the doses of vaccines against the Covid-19 disease, the official had added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/35-students-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-j-k-s-mandi-101633435114220.html
05-10-2021||India||Anganwadi workers, helpers involved in Covid duty get ₹50 Lakh insurance cover||Anganwadi workers and helpers involved in Covid-19-related duties will now be given an insurance cover of ₹50 lakh under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package, a senior official said on Tuesday.The women and child development ministry official said the anganwadi workers and helpers who are engaged in activities such as Covid-19 awareness and surveillance drives and door-to-door distribution of ration will be covered under the scheme."They (anganwadi workers and helpers) are now covered under the insurance cover of ₹50 lakh under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package for the entire period of the pandemic beginning March 11, 2020,” the official said.The package covers loss of life due to Covid-19 and accidental death on account of Covid-19-related duties.The country has around 13.29 lakh anganwadi workers and 11.79 lakh helpers.The district administrations have been asked to identify anganwadi and ANM workers who have been involved in Covid-19-related operations and duties."The communication has been given to the states. It is incumbent upon them to operationalise it. We are ensuring that under the package, the support is given to the states,” the official added.Earlier, public healthcare providers including community health workers who may have to be in direct contact and care of Covid-19 patients and who may be at risk of being impacted by this were covered under the package.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anganwadi-workers-helpers-involved-in-covid-duty-get-rs-50-lakh-insurance-cover-101633437931138.html
05-10-2021||India||Zydus Cadila gets DGCI nod for phase III trial of two-dose Covid-19 vaccine||Zydus Cadila, the Indian pharmaceutical company, has received the Indian drug regulator’s nod for conducting phase III trials of its two-dose Covid-19 vaccine ZyCoV-D.The company has "got the permission for conduct of phase III trials for two-dose Covid vaccine," Cadila Healthcare said in a regulatory filing.ZyCoV-D, the first DNA vaccine, is also the first indigenously developed vaccine that has been trialled in children. The three-dose regime of the vaccine was granted an emergency use authorisation (EUA) by India’s drug regulators in August after interim clinical trial data showed it was 66% effective in preventing symptomatic Covid-19. The company has, however, not released details of the study or submitted it for a peer-review.Zydus Cadila had started testing a two-dose regime of the vaccine with 3 milligrams in each dose soon after being granted an EUA.All vaccines go through three phases of trials, in the first phase the vaccine is given to a small number of people to test safety and dosage, and to see if it triggers an immune response, in the second phase the vaccine is tested in different groups such as children, the elderly et al to see if it affects people differently, and in the third phase the vaccine is tested in thousands of people to check how many are infected with the virus in comparison to the placebo group. The second phase tests the safety of the vaccine while the third tests the efficacy rate of a vaccine.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had mentioned India was producing the world’s first DNA vaccine while addressing the 76th United Nations General Assembly in New York on September 25. “I want to inform UNGA that India has developed the world's first DNA vaccine, which can be administered to all people above the age of 12 years," he said.The Ahmedabad-based healthcare manufacturer expects a roll-out of its three dose regime from October but pricing of the vaccine has remained an issue. The company is said to have proposed a price of ₹1,900 for its three-dose jab, but the Union government is negotiating for a reduction in price, and a decision on the same is likely to be taken later this week, news agency PTI reported on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zydus-cadila-gets-dgci-nod-for-phase-iii-trial-of-two-dose-covid-19-vaccine-101633436206084.html
05-10-2021||India||TMC MPs meet kin of Lakhimpur Kheri victims despite being stopped by cops||Trinamool Congress lawmaker Sushmita Dev on Tuesday met the families of the protesters in Lakhimpur Kheri who were mowed down by a SUV which was allegedly being driven by BJP cadres.Our Hon'ble MPs Dr Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar, Dola Sen, Pratima Mondal, Abir Ranjan Biswas & Sushmita Dev met with the families who lost their loved ones in the #LakhimpurKheri incident.@BJP4India leaders have treated our farmers with utmost cruelty.We demand justice! pic.twitter.com/zwrSSfkZr2After meeting the families, Dev extended her condolences and said that Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee stands with them. “Heart breaking to meet the family of the young farmer who was crushed to death in #LakhimpurKheri. @MamataOfficial stands with the farmers to repeal the black laws & stop these brutal injustices. She fought in Singur and she (has) assured to continue fighting for farmers of India,” Dev, who left the Congress for TMC earlier this year, said in a tweet.Heart breaking to meet the family of the young farmer who was crushed to death in #LakhimpurKheri @MamataOfficial stands with the farmers to repeal the black laws & stop these brutal injustices. She fought in Singur & she assured to continue fighting for farmers of India. pic.twitter.com/x16COBdE8JSHOCKING to see the @BJP4UP government stoop to a new low, with each passing day!How dare you stop our MPs from meeting the families of the victims? This is absolutely outrageous and unjust!Shame on @narendramodi for such apathy. pic.twitter.com/6F4I2Q9JBSThe Rajya Sabha MP was also accompanied by Lok Sabha MP Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar. Dastidar also shared pictures of her meeting with farmers. “Susmita Deb and myself convey condolences from ⁦@MamataOfficial and ⁦@abhishekaitc to bereaved families of farmers killed by son of BJP minister. We stand by farmers. We seek justice,” Dastidar said in a tweet.⁦@AITCofficial⁩ MPs Susmita Deb and myself convey condolences from ⁦@MamataOfficial⁩ and ⁦@abhishekaitc⁩ to bereaved families of #Farmers killed by son of #BJP minister We stand by farmers We seek justice pic.twitter.com/aiqezwaFD6The Trinamool Congress also shared a video where it alleged that the Uttar Pradesh police stopped its lawmakers from meeting the family members of the deceased farmers. In the video, a Trinamool lawmaker was seen arguing with the police officials asking them to let them meet the farmers’ families.“We do not need an escort, you are not at all concerned about our security,” the TMC lawmaker was seen telling the police officials present at the spot.Following the meet, the Trinamool Congress in its official Twitter page said that Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar, Dola Sen, Pratima Mondal, Abir Ranjan Biswas and Sushmita Dev met the victims.Earlier on Sunday, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee after the incident said that TMC MPs will visit the families of the victims in Lakhimpur Kheri and extend their condolences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-mps-meet-kin-of-lakhimpur-kheri-victims-despite-being-stopped-by-cops-101633434932933.html
05-10-2021||India||Two days after Lakhimpur Kheri violence, life inches to normal in UP district||Life is limping back to normalcy in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri, two days after violence erupted during a farmers’ protest in the district on Sunday, sparking national outrage against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) led government in the state as well as at the Centre. Eight people died in Sunday’s incident, of which four were protesting farmers while the remaining four were occupants of the vehicles which allegedly ran over the farmers.News agency PTI reported on Tuesday that regular activities resumed near the Lakhimpur railway station and other market areas where vendors and shops were found to be functioning as usual. “We have to take care of our livelihood also and that’s why we are working,” Binod Singh, a vendor near the railway station, told the news agency.Also Read| My son ready to face probe: Union minister Teni on Lakhimpur Kheri violenceSecurity personnel were standing vigil at scattered place on the way to Tikonia village on Tuesday, where violence unfolded on Sunday.Children were seen heading to schools and coaching centres. While vehicles, including public transport, were operating normally in Lakhimpur Kheri as well as in Tikonia. Prohibitory orders under section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) are still in force in the district while internet services also remain restricted.PTI also reported that there was a significant police presence in Naghasan tehsil on the way to Tikonia under which Union minister Ajay Kumar Mishra Teni’s native village, Banbirpur, falls.The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) alleged that one of the deceased farmers was shot dead by Teni’s son Ashish on Sunday and others were allegedly run over by the vehicles of his convoy. An FIR has been registered against Ashish Mishra and others.The police station in Tikonia was operating as usual but police personnel refused to speak on the FIRs registered and subsequent action taken in Sunday’s incident in Lakhimpur Kheri.The Uttar Pradesh government announced on Monday that it will provide ₹45 lakh as ex-gratia to the families of the four deceased farmers. While the injured will get ₹10 lakh each. The government also said that a retired high court judge will investigate the incident.Also Read| Petition filed in SC seeking CBI probe in Lakhimpur Kheri violenceHowever, on Tuesday, two lawyers wrote a letter to the Supreme Court demanding that the investigation should be done in a time-bound manner under the supervision of the apex court. The lawyers sought the setting up of a high-level judicial inquiry under the supervision of the court involving the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in stipulated time.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-days-after-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-life-inches-to-normal-in-up-district-101633432749519.html
05-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Punjab CM to meet Amit Shah, internet services restored | 10 points||Life returned to normal in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri, where eight people were killed in violence just two days ago. Traffic movement was regular on roads and shops opened their shutters, news agency PTI reported. However, security personnel were seen standing along the road to Tikonia village, where the violence took place on Sunday, PTI further reported.The district administration, meanwhile, restored the internet services in Lakhimpur Kheri. These services were suspended since October 3.Also Read | Sharad Pawar likens Lakhimpur Kheri violence to Jallianwala Bagh massacreCongress and other opposition parties have been attacking the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government in the state, after many of their leaders were stopped from visiting the site of the violence and meet locals. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra along with other party leaders, Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav and other politicians have been stopped by the state government from visiting Lakhimpur Kheri.The latest to join the list is Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, who was stopped at Lucknow airport. Baghel claimed his was going to Sitapur to meet Priyanka Gandhi but the police told him not to leave the airport. He sat on a dharna inside the airport.Prohibitory orders under Section 144 of CrPC is still in force in Lakhimpur and internet services restricted.Here are the top developments in the Lakhmipur Kheri case:• A petition has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into Sunday's Lakhimpuri Kheri violence. The petition has been filed by two lawyers. The petitioners have sought FIR against the ministers involved in the incident.• Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi arrived in New Delhi on Tuesday where he will meet Union home minister Amit Shah later in the evening. Before leaving for Delhi, Channi told reporters at Chandigarh airport that he will discuss the Lakhimpur Kheri incident with Shah.• Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) chief Jayant Chaudhary pushed for President's rule in Uttar Pradesh saying that the entire state machinery under the Yogi Adityanath government is trying to suppress the truth of what happened in Lakhimpur Kheri and clamping down on the opposition.• Meanwhile, a case has been registered against Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and 10 others in Sitapur, where she has been kept under detention at a guest house. Gandhi, Uttar Pradesh Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu, party leader Deependra Hooda and others have been booked under sections 151, 107, 116 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), which relate to preventive detention due to apprehension of breach of peace.• Bhupesh Baghel, who is sitting on a dharna inside Lucknow airport, held a virtual press conference where he insisted on meeting "his leader" Priyanka Gandhi and slammed the UP government for stopping him from going outside the airport. Baghel recalled how a firing incident happened in Chhattisgarh but his government never stopped anyone from visiting the area.• The Shiv Sena, who was once with the BJP, called for joint action by political parties against the "oppression" of UP government. Sena leader Sanjay Raut met Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday in this regard.• Uttar Pradesh cabinet minister Mohsin Raza on Tuesday said that the Opposition parties want to flare up riots in Lakhimpur Kheri in an attempt to create a negative environment. Raza also lauded Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath for the manner he tackled the issue and also the law and order situation in the area.• In the town of Lakhmipur Kheri, from where the epicentre of violence Tikonia is just 70 kilometre away, regular activities were witnessed near the railway station and other market places where vendors and shops were operating as usual, a PTI report said. Children in uniform headed for schools and coaching institutes, and vehicles, including public transport, were plying normally, it added.• Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni is in the eye of the storm over Sunday's violence. The farmers have claimed that four from their community were killed when a car, which they claimed was part of the convoy of minister's son Ashish, ran over them. A case has been registered against both the minister and the son based on a complaint from the protesters.• Teni rubbished all the allegations and asserted that he has evidence to prove that he and his son are innocent. "Investigators can check our call detail record, mobile location etc. It will become crystal clear that my son was not at the spot when the incident happened," he told reporters today. He had earlier said that the protesters started pelting stones at the convoy due to which the driver lost control, and the incident happened.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-punjab-cm-to-meet-amit-shah-case-filed-in-supreme-court-101633432920243.html
05-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: 3 more arrested in cruise ship drug party case and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.NCB arrests 3 more linked to cruise ship drug party caseNarcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has arrested three more persons, including two drug peddlers and a passenger in connection with the cruise ship drug party case in which Bollywood star Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan was arrested on Sunday. Read more. Kalki Koechlin acing pushups over baby Sappho is Tuesday's cutest fitness inspoMaking workout look all fun and games, Bollywood actor-writer Kalki Koechlin dropped a fitness video with baby daughter Sappho, which inspired fans to get up and roll out their Yoga mats already. Read more. 'We are now in television age, every catch has to look better': Sunil Gavaskar on Gowtham's dropped catchIndia batting legend Sunil Gavaskar spoke on the dropped catch after DC beat CSK by 3 wickets - and said that Gowtham's decision to bend low to take the simple catch affected his ability to hold on to it. Read more. Squid Game: Korean speaker slams Netflix series for ‘botched’ English subtitles, says 'Translation was so bad'A Twitter user, who goes by the handle Youngmi Mayer, has said that the English subtitles in a few episodes of Squid Game do not accurately represent the actual Korean lines. Read more. Your PC is not Windows 11 compatible? Do THIS, get free updateIf your PC is not Windows 11 compatible and does not meet the minimum hardware requirements for the Windows 11 update, you can try a few things – here’s what you need to know. Read more. Bugatti Bolide named the world's most beautiful hypercarBugatti Bolide has been voted as the world's most beautiful hypercar at the 36th Festival Automobile International in Paris. Read more. Priyanka Gandhi's dare to PM Modi during his Lucknow trip amid Lakhimpur stormCongress leader Priyanka Gandhi targeted PM Modi over her detention in Uttar Pradesh. Priyanka said she had been kept in detention for over 24 hours without any order or FIR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-3-more-arrested-in-cruise-ship-drug-party-case-101633432710219.html
05-10-2021||India||BJP to focus on delinking agitation from farm issues||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has redoubled efforts to distance the farmer protests from the farm issues ahead of elections in states such as Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, where the demand from a section of farmers’ for repealing the farm laws enacted last year has dominated the discourse and is expected to sway the electoral outcome.Functionaries aware of the matter said the BJP leadership has explicitly instructed the cadre to reinforce that the ongoing farm protests are “motivated” and an attempt to “destabilise” the country. The party has consistently tried to attribute the opposition to the three farm laws to “provocation” by politically motivated groups. It has alleged the protestors, who have been camping near the Delhi borders since December last year, have been “infiltrated by anti-national elements.”BJP general secretary Dushyant Gautam last year cited alleged pro-Pakistan and pro-Khalistan slogans shouted at a protest site as examples of the agitation having been “hijacked by terrorists and anti-national forces”. Similar sentiments have been expressed by other BJP leaders at various public events.After Sunday’s violence in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri during a protest by farmers that left eight dead, BJP’s national secretary Y Satya Kumar tweeted, “…The manner in which the goons posing as so-called farmers are carrying out violent agitations in Uttar Pradesh, seems to be not a coincidence but a well-planned experiment. Jihadi and Khalistani chaotic elements want to spread unrest in the state.”BJP leaders in Delhi, who spoke on condition of anonymity, asserted Sunday’s violence was an indication of farmers being used “as surrogates” by those who “want to destabilise the nation.”“The government has held 11 rounds of meetings with the farmers and tried to address their concerns. However, a section of the so-called farmers has been protesting and creating a false narrative about the laws. The protests are limited to Punjab, parts of Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh. Sunday’s violence is a conspiracy by those who want to create trouble,” said a party leader, requesting anonymity.Union minister of state for home affairs Ajay Mishra Teni has been in the eye of the storm after farmers alleged that his son’s car mowed down some cultivators protesting against the laws and triggered the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri. Teni has also demanded a probe into the violence. In a statement, the minister said his son was not involved and blamed farmers for stoking violence in Lakhimpur Kheri. He called the incident a conspiracy and said that some “miscreants” from among the agitating farmers started throwing stones and injured the driver, causing the car to lose its balance.The opposition has demanded Teni’s dismissal. Former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Akhilesh Yadav, who was detained by the police in Lucknow on Monday as he sat on a protest outside his residence after being stopped from going to Lakhimpur Kheri, has demanded the resignation of Teni. Yadav said atrocities on farmers have exceeded what happened during the British rule. The Congress too has criticised the government for Sunday’s violence.BJP’s Uttar Pradesh spokesperson Chandra Mohan blamed the opposition for provoking the farmers. “When one examines the events that led to the farmers’ protest, it becomes clear that this is a political conspiracy. Our government has been sensitive to the concerns of farmers. We have cleared the dues pending for years, increased the price of sugarcane among several other measures. But the opposition is misleading the farmers and using them.”Also Read: Petition filed in SC seeking CBI probe in Lakhimpur Kheri violenceNot all in the BJP see the agitation as motivated. A few lawmakers from Uttar Pradesh, who also spoke on condition of anonymity, said the government needs to make more efforts to break the logjam with the farmers. “The use of force against farmers will have far-reaching consequences…the government has to be sympathetic to the farmers,” said a lawmaker.Varun Gandhi, the BJP Member of Parliament from Pilibhit, has demanded action against the perpetrators of Sunday’s violence. He cautioned against using “derogatory and pejorative terms” for farmers. In an interview with HT, he said: “…The farmers need to feel that they are equal stakeholders in the government, in shaping the national agenda and in setting the narrative on issues that concern them. Today, if they feel they are not equal stakeholders, then we must work doubly hard to reinvigorate this relationship.”The BJP is also banking on the Uttar Pradesh government’s announcement that it would pay ₹45 lakh and offer a government job each to the kin of the eight people who lost their lives in Sunday’s violence to prevent the situation on the ground from worsening.Ajay Gudavarthi, a political science professor at New Delhi’s Jawaharlal Nehru University, said the tendency to dub all opposition as anti-national may not work for the party anymore. “There is a core constituency that will buy the anti-national justification, but a larger group of people have now begun to see through the pattern of labelling anyone who opposes the BJP as anti-national.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-to-focus-on-delinking-agitation-from-farm-issues-101633432334614.html
05-10-2021||India||836 Indian troops in peacekeeping mission in South Sudan awarded UN medal||A total of 836 troops from the Indian Army serving with the UN peacekeeping mission in South Sudan have been awarded the United Nations medal for their services to ensure durable peace in the world’s youngest country.The troops from an Indian battalion, who were deployed at Malakal in Upper Nile state, recently completed their tour of duty. India is the second-largest troop contributor to the 18,300-strong peacekeeping mission in South Sudan, having provided nearly 2,400 soldiers.The civilian, police and military personnel from 73 countries serving with the United Nations Mission in South Sudan (UNMISS) are responsible for protecting civilians, creating conditions conducive to the delivery of humanitarian aid, supporting the implementation of a revitalised peace agreement, and monitoring and investigating human rights.UNMISS force commander, Lt Gen Shailesh Tinaikar of the Indian Army, lauded the Indian battalion for successfully completing its tour of duty.“When all of you arrived in Upper Nile state, it was a time of great flux,” he said at the event where the troops were awarded the medal. “You had to assume operational responsibility immediately with the threat of imminent inter-communal clashes looming over you. Your presence and patrolling acted as a much-needed deterrent at the time, enabling civilians to go about their daily lives without fear,” he said. Tinaikar also lauded the Indian peacekeepers for rescuing and sheltering 32 humanitarian colleagues at Renk and ensuring their safe evacuation to the country’s capital, Juba. Vishnu Sharma, India’s ambassador to South Sudan, was the guest of honour at the medal parade. “Your courage, commitment and sacrifice to the cause of durable peace in South Sudan is a beacon of hope for the communities you are on the ground to serve. You have done the United Nations and your country very proud,” he said.Sharma noted the contributions of Indian veterinarians who treated thousands of animals and built capacities among livestock owners on animal management, boosting their economic stability.Christian Mikala, the acting head of the UNMISS field office in Malakal, acknowledged the peacekeepers’ engagements with local communities.“You have been instrumental in extensive patrolling in your area of responsibilities and have built a relationship of trust and confidence with communities across Upper Nile,” he said. Col Neeraj Tiwari, the commander of the Indian battalion, said the troops had gone the extra mile for the communities they were serving. “We wish the South Sudanese the very best as they progress in building a sustainable peace from the grassroots to the very highest levels of society,” he added. Tinaikar was appointed the force commander of UNMISS by UN Secretary-General António Guterres in May 2019. Tinaikar earlier served as commandant of the Infantry School since July 2018, and as the additional director general of military operations at Army Headquarters during 2017-18. He also served in the UN Angola Verification Mission III during 1996-97and in the UN Mission in Sudan during 2008-09.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/836-indian-troops-in-peacekeeping-mission-in-south-sudan-awarded-un-medal-101633431460298.html
05-10-2021||India||Petition filed in SC seeking CBI probe in Lakhimpur Kheri violence||A petition was filed by two lawyers in the Supreme Court on Tuesday seeking a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into Sunday’s Lakhimpuri Kheri violence in which at least eight persons, including farmers and a journalist, were killed. The lawyers said the probe should be conducted within a stipulated period of time and under the supervision of the apex court.The plea further urged the court to direct the Ministry of Home Affairs and police department to register a first information report (FIR) in the case and "punish the ministers" involved in the incident.A petition is filed in Supreme Court seeking direction to the Ministry of Home Affairs & police to register FIR and "punish the ministers" involved in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident during farmers' protest in Uttar Pradesh on October 3. pic.twitter.com/cun0B0AEPDAn FIR already filed in the case on the basis of complaints registered by farmers has named Union minister of state for home Ajay Kumar Mishra Teni’s son Ashish Mishra and others. They have been booked for murder, criminal conspiracy and 20 other charges in the FIR, senior officials said.Also read | 'Nobody takes responsibility when…': Supreme Court on Lakhmipur Kheri incidentWhile the minister has denied any involvement of his son in the incident, he has also stated that Ashish was ready to face any probe in the case.Villagers have alleged four farmers were killed after allegedly being hit by a convoy of the minister’s son. The other victims were those who were travelling in one of the vehicles and were beaten to death by the mob.Also read | Video showing cars running over farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri goes viralThe incident was reported minutes before Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya was scheduled to visit the area. The farmers were protesting against the three central farm laws.On Monday, the Supreme Court expressed its regret over the tragedy and said nobody took responsibility when something like this happened.In reply, Attorney General KK Venugopal, said there should be no further protests to prevent incidents like Lakhimpur Kheri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/petition-filed-in-sc-seeking-cbi-probe-in-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-101633430884002.html
05-10-2021||India||J&K Congress chief detained for protest against Lakhimpur Kheri violence||Ghulam Ahmad Mir, the chief of Congress’s Jammu and Kashmir unit, was detained in Srinagar on Tuesday as police used force to disperse a demonstration he led against the killing of farmers in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri and the detention of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to prevent her from meeting the families of those killed.Congress workers raised slogans against Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and demanded strict action against the people responsible for the killing of farmers before police swung into action.Also Read: My son ready to face probe: Union minister Teni on Lakhimpur Kheri violence“When we came out from the (Congress) office...police detained me and other senior members and used force against our workers in which several Congress workers sustained injuries. One of our workers, Mohammad Shafi Shah, had to be taken to hospital.” Mir condemned the use of force and maintained they were holding a peaceful protest “Use of force against peaceful protestors is the norm for the government,” Mir said. He added he was released after over an hour.Inspector general (Kashmir) Vijay Kumar refused to respond to a query about the use of force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jkcongress-chief-detained-for-protest-against-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-101633430061003.html
05-10-2021||India||NCB arrests 3 more linked to cruise ship drug party case||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has arrested three more persons, including two drug peddlers and a passenger in connection with the cruise ship drug party case in which Bollywood start Sharukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan was arrested on Sunday. Fresh arrests were made after the cruise ship returned to Mumbai on Monday. Two more passengers were detained for allegedly creating a scene on board the ship, purportedly under some influence, and breaking some window panes. The captain of the ship had complained that the accused were acting under the influence of drugs. NCB claimed to have recovered hydrophonic weed from one of the passengers, and Mephedrone worth ₹5 lakh and intermediate quantity of MDMA (a party drug) from a Jogeshwari based drug peddler, who officials claimed was in touch with several people on the ship and could have supplied them drugs. “After scrutinising of several evidences we have arrested a drug peddler Shreyas Nair from western suburbs and another drug supplier from Jogeshwari area,” said NCB’s zonal director Sameer Wankhede. He added that the name of the second drug peddler to be arrested could not be revealed due to ongoing operation. “He mostly runs his drug business through crypto currency and uses the dark net,” Wankhede said. Also Read: Aryan Khan’s co-accused Arbaaz Merchantt’s father breaks silenceThe first set of arrests in the case were made when an NCB team busted an alleged drugs party on the Cordelia Cruise ship which was on its way to Goa at mid-sea on October 2 night. Eight persons including Shahrukh Khan’s son were first detained for questioning and later arrested on October 3.The NCB on Monday claimed before a city court that “shocking and incriminating” material recovered in WhatsApp chats of Aryan Khan and two others arrested in connection with the case showed international drug trafficking.The NCB, which got the remand of Aryan Khan (23) and the other accused from the court till Thursday, also claimed that Aryan had discussed modes of payment to be done for procurement (of drugs) . Aryan Khan’s lawyer claimed no drugs were recovered from his client’s possession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncb-arrests-3-more-linked-to-cruise-ship-drug-party-case-101633429457709.html
05-10-2021||India||BJP wins Gandhinagar Municipal Corporation election, Nadda thanks people of Gujarat||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Jagat Prakash Nadda on Tuesday thanked the people of Gujarat for the party's victory in Gandhinagar Municipal Corporation (GMC) elections. He also congratulated chief minister Bhupendra Patel and Gujarat BJP chief CR Paatil along with party workers."The BJP has got a huge majority in the Gujarat local body elections and Gandhinagar Municipal Corporation elections. I thank the people of Gujarat for their continued support and blessings and congratulate chief minister @Bhupendrapbjp, state unit president @CRPaatil and party workers for the unprecedented victory," Nadda said on Twitter.गुजरात स्थानीय निकाय चुनावों व गांधीनगर नगर निगम चुनावों में भाजपा को अपार बहुमत मिला है। लगातार समर्थन और आशीर्वाद के लिए मैं गुजरात की जनता का धन्यवाद देता हूँ और अभूतपूर्व विजय के लिए मुख्यमंत्री @Bhupendrapbjp जी व प्रदेश अध्यक्ष @CRPaatil जी और कार्यकर्ताओं को बधाई देता हूं।The ruling BJP on Tuesday retained the GMC and won in two other civic bodies in Gujarat, while the Congress took away Bhanvad municipality in Devbhumi-Dwarka district.Though the contest this year was three-pronged after the entry of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), the BJP established its lead in the GMC since the beginning of counting at 9am, and eventually trumped Congress and AAP by a huge margin.As per the final tally released by the State Election Commission (SEC), out of total 44 seats in the GMC, the BJP won 41 seats, the Congress two and the AAP bagged one seat.Counting of votes was also held for three other municipalities - Okha and Bhanvad in Devbhumi-Dwarka district, and Thara municipality of Banaskantha district. As per the final figures released by the SEC after counting of votes, the BJP won 20 out of 24 seats in Thara, while the Congress got only four seats. The BJP retained Okha municipality by winning 34 out of 36 seats, while two seats went to the Congress.However, in a setback to the BJP, the Congress emerged victorious in Bhanvad by winning 16 out of 24 seats. The BJP, which managed to win only eight seats this time, was in power in Bhanvad since 1995.This was the first major election after Patel took charge as the chief minister of Gujarat and a test for the BJP's abrupt and surprising decision to change the entire government, ahead of the state Assembly polls due next year. It had registered a thumping win in the local bodies polls held in February.The BJP, with Vijay Rupani as CM, had swept six municipal corporations, municipalities and a majority of district and taluka panchayats.Voting for elections to the GMC and the three other municipalities took place on Sunday.गुजरात स्थानीय निकाय चुनावों व गांधीनगर नगर निगम चुनावों में भाजपा को अपार बहुमत मिला है। लगातार समर्थन और आशीर्वाद के लिए मैं गुजरात की जनता का धन्यवाद देता हूँ और अभूतपूर्व विजय के लिए मुख्यमंत्री @Bhupendrapbjp जी व प्रदेश अध्यक्ष @CRPaatil जी और कार्यकर्ताओं को बधाई देता हूं।||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gandhinagar-municipal-corporation-poll-result-nadda-thanks-people-of-gujarat-101633428970165.html
05-10-2021||India||Delhi govt again sends file on doorstep delivery of ration to L-G for approval||The Delhi government has again sent the file on doorstep delivery of ration to Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Anil Baijal for approval, people aware of the matter said. The move comes after the Delhi high court on September 27 allowed the government to stop supplying food grains to fair price shops (FPS) for those who have chosen doorstep delivery over the physical collection. A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh took note of submission by the Aam Aadmi Party government that supplies being made under the existing public distribution scheme will have to be curtailed so that food grains could be distributed door-to-door for those who want it.Since the government said that “an overwhelming majority has opted for the supply of rations at their doorstep”, the bench said authorities could supply only such quantities of ration to FPS that are required for those who want to collect it from shops. The rest can be held back by the government for door-to-door delivery, it added.Nearly 7.2 million people in Delhi are eligible for subsidised food. They include 1.7 million ration card holders and nearly 3 million priority households. There are also other food-insecure categories identified by the Delhi government.Also Read: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal unveils plan to combat winter pollutionThe doorstep delivery of ration scheme has been stalled due to differences between the Delhi government and the Centre. The scheme was to be launched on March 25. But the Union food and consumer affairs ministry wrote to the Delhi government on March 19 objecting to the use of the term “mukhyamantri (chief minister)” for the scheme involving the distribution of food grains allocated under the National Food Security Act (NFSA). The Centre also said that any change in the delivery mechanism requires an amendment in NSFA that can be done only by Parliament.The Delhi Cabinet on March 24 decided to change the name “Mukhyamantri Ghar Ghar Ration Yojna” for the scheme and to implement doorstep delivery of ration as part of the existing NFSA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-govt-sends-file-on-doorstep-delivery-of-ration-to-l-g-for-approval-101633429093924.html
05-10-2021||India||My son ready to face probe: Union minister Teni on Lakhimpur Kheri violence||A day after an FIR was lodged against Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni's son following the deaths of four farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri clashes, the minister on Tuesday asserted that he had evidence to prove that he and his son were innocent. He further said his son would be ready to face any investigative agency."An FIR has been registered. In our country, there is a rule of law and everyone has a right to file a complaint. During the evidence collection, everything will become clear. Investigators can check our call detail record, mobile location etc. It will become crystal clear that my son was not at the spot when the incident happened. My son is ready to depose before investigating agencies," he added.When enquired about the purported video of a van running over the protesting farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri, Teni said, "We aren't aware of how incident happened. Based on info and video, it's visible that driver was killed after being pulled out of car. If it were my son, he'd have been dead."It's impossible to get out of a place where car ran over people amid gathering of thousands," Teni told ANI.We have evidence to prove that neither I nor my son were present at spot. We are ready to face any investigating agency. Culprits, who have planned this incident won't be spared: MoS Home Ajay Mishra Teni on Lakhimpur Kheri violence pic.twitter.com/Ic8s14CbHuHe also said, "All the victims, including BJP workers who were killed in the clash, will get compensation of ₹45 lakh and the injured people will receive ₹10 lakh."Earlier, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) issued a statement regarding the incident claiming the death of four farmers and alleged that one of the four farmers was shot dead by Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra Teni's son, while the others were allegedly run over by the vehicles of his convoy.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/my-son-ready-to-face-probe-union-minister-teni-on-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-101633423664562.html
05-10-2021||India||Svamitva scheme: PM Modi to interact with beneficiaries in MP on Oct 6||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with the benefits of Svamitva (Survey of Villages And Mapping With Improvised Technology In Village Areas) scheme in Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday (October 6). According to Prime Minister's Office (PMO), the interaction will take place via video conferencing at 12.30pm.The Prime Minister will also distribute e-property cards to 1,71,000 beneficiaries on the occasion.Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan will also be present during the event the PMO release said.The Svamitva scheme enables rural masses to use property as a financial asset by villagers for taking loans and other financial benefits. It was launched by the ministry of panchayati raj on April 24, 2020.According to the government, the scheme aims to demarcate inhabited lands in rural areas through the latest surveying drone technology. It has also provided a boost to the ecosystem of drone manufacturing in the country.The panchayati raj ministry has said that the survey will be done across the country in a phase-wise manner over a period of four years - from 2020 to 2024.The projected outlay of the project is ₹79.65 crore for the pilot phase (2020-21).Objective of the Svamitva schemeThe scheme will bring financial stability to people living in rural areas by enabling them to use their property as financial asset for taking loans and other financial benefits. It will also lead to creation of accurate land records for rural planning and determination property tax.Through the Svamitva scheme, the government hopes that property disputes and legal cases will be reduced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/svamitva-scheme-pm-modi-to-interact-with-beneficiaries-in-mp-on-oct-6-101633426920411.html
05-10-2021||India||Need for joint opposition: Sena's Sanjay Raut to meet Rahul Gandhi today over Lakhimpur Kheri violence||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut said on Tuesday the violence in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri in which at least eight persons, including farmers and a local journalist, died on Sunday, had shaken the nation. Citing the detention of Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi and restriction on movement of political leaders to meet farmers, Raut said he would meet Rahul Gandhi later in the day as there was a need for a joint opposition against the oppression meted out by the government in UP.Taking to Twitter, the MP wrote, “#LakhimpurKheriViolence has shaken the nation,@priyankagandhi has been arrested UP govt, opposition leaders are being restricted from meeting farmers. There is need for joint opposition action against oppression by Government in UP. Meeting @RahulGandhi at 4.15 pm today. जय हिंद!”Also read | Pawar likens Lakhimpur Kheri violence to Jallianwala Bagh massacreThe Sena mouthpiece Saamana, which is edited by Raut, has also questioned the silence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the deaths in Lakhimpur Kheri.In an editorial, the Sena said Modi was a “very sensitive and emotional person”, while adding that it was “surprising” that he had not offered condolences to the families of the people killed. Also read | PM Modi visits Lucknow for ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’ events amid Oppn uproar“There have been many occasions where the Prime Minister was seen getting emotional over the issues of the poor. It is surprising that the sensitive Modi has not expressed condolences to families of the farmers who were crushed to death...”Modi is on a visit to UP attend to participate in a three-day urban conclave event in Lucknow and other government programmes, including handing over keys of PMAY-U houses to 75,000 beneficiaries. Also read | 'Why is this man free?' Priyanka Gandhi poses question for PM Modi on LakhimpurEarlier, Raut also shared a tweet from Priyanka Gandhi in which she addressed Modi stating that she was being detained for more than 28 hours without any order, but those who mowed down farmers were still not arrested. The tweet also had a viral video which purportedly showed two vehicles, including a sports utility vehicle (SUV), running over a group of people at Tikunia in Lakhimpur Kheri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/senas-sanjay-raut-to-meet-rahul-gandhi-today-over-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-101633426000974.html
05-10-2021||India||Pawar likens Lakhimpur Kheri violence to Jallianwala Bagh massacre||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Tuesday hit out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led governments in Uttar Pradesh and at the Centre for “misuse of power” over the violence that erupted in Lakhimpur Kheri during a farmer protest and left eight people dead. He demanded a probe by a Supreme Court judge into the violence while likening it to the Jallianwala Bagh massacre during India’s freedom movement. Pawar assured the farmers that they are not alone, and the opposition is with them.“Our country gives the right to protest. Accordingly, farmers gathered at Lakhimpur Kheri and were holding a silent protest. At that time, people related to those who are in government--be it Uttar Pradesh or at the Centre tried to suppress their voice and were mowed down by a jeep which led to the loss of lives of six to eight farmers. Those who are in the BJP government at Centre and in Uttar Pradesh are responsible for this act.” Pawar’s comments came a day after Ashish Mishra, the son of India’s junior home minister, Ajay Mishra Teni, was booked for murder and criminal conspiracy in connection with the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri. The farmers have claimed Ashish Mishra mowed down four cultivators with his SUV during the protest on Sunday and triggered the violence.Also Read: Families of 2 Lakhimpur farmers stop funerals, demand post-mortem reportAshish Mishra denied the charges, saying he was not in the car. He blamed the farmers for torching vehicles and thrashing other people to death, including the car’s driver and two BJP workers. A local journalist also died in the violence. Four of eight, who died in the violence, were farmers. It was the bloodiest clash since protests against three Central laws erupted last year.Pawar said he has heard the UP government was ready to get the incident probed by a retired judge. “But I want the investigation to be conducted by a sitting Supreme Court judge and allow the truth to come out.” Pawar said the Uttar Pradesh government has created a situation similar to the Jallianwala Bagh massacre and it will have to pay its price one day. He added the attack on farmers protesting silently “shows the intention of the BJP- led central government”. “I want to tell them (BJP), today you are in the government and are trying to muzzle farmers’ voices by misusing power. But you will not succeed. You will get a befitting response not only from the farmers in Uttar Pradesh but from the entire country.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pawar-likens-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-to-jallianwala-bagh-massacre-101633425853682.html
05-10-2021||India||Father of Odisha’s forest officer seeks CBI probe in son’s death||The 70-year-old father of Odisha’s assistant conservator of forest who was burnt to death under mysterious circumstances on July 12 this year has approached Orissa high court seeking a CBI probe or Special Investigation Team (SIT) probe monitored by the high court alleging the investigation into the case is unsatisfactory.On July 12, assistant conservator of forests of Paralakhemundi in Odisha’s Gajapati district, Soumya Ranjan Mohapatra sustained 95% burns at his official quarters while reportedly burning old newspapers and some other papers. His wife Bidya Bharati, who was present in the next room, has been named as one of the accused along with the divisional forest officer (DFO) Sangram Behera. Mohapatra, an Odisha Forest Service officer of 2020 batch, was rushed to MKCG Medical College and hospital in Berhampur town from where he was shifted to SCB Medical College and Hospital of Cuttack. He succumbed to his burn injuries on July 13.Now his father Abhiram Mohapatra has alleged that neither Odisha Police nor the Crime Investigation Department (CID) can deliver justice in his son’s death case and has made top police officers of the state, CBI director and state home secretary parties in his petition.Abhiram alleged that CID made no efforts to arrest daughter-in-law Bidya Bharati, Gajapati DFO Sangram Keshari Behera and cook Manmatha Kumbha despite they being accused in the FIR. “A video has surfaced which shows on the day of the incident, inspector Bibekananda Swain and officer-in-charge Mamatarani Panda were collecting some articles from my son’s residential quarters. What have they been investigating for the last 81 days? We suspect the role of Odisha Police. ... So, therefore, we are applying to the high court for a CBI enquiry,” he said.Also Read: Odisha govt will provide free medical, engineering coaching to SC, ST students Abhiram had alleged in the FIR that DFO Sangram Keshari Behera had an illicit relationship with his son’s wife Bidya Bharati. He now says that the investigating agencies have been suppressing several facts regarding his son’s “pre-meditated killing”.After the then Gajapati police chief Tapan Patnaik gave a clean chit to DFO, the probe was handed over to CID on August 14. CID last month conducted polygraph tests on Bidya Bharti Panda, Sangram Keshari Behera and Manmath Kumbha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/father-of-odisha-s-forest-officer-seeks-cbi-probe-in-son-s-death-101633425073749.html
05-10-2021||India||Gandhinagar Municipal Corporation election result: BJP wins 41 out of 44 seats||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday registered a landslide victory in the Gandhinagar municipal corporation elections, bagging 41 out of 44 seats that went to polls on Sunday. The results have been a major setback for Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) that won two and one seats respectively.BJP and Congress had fielded their candidates on all 44 seats while the AAP contested from 40 seats. The GMC recorded a voting percentage of 56.24% out of 2.8 lakh registered voters.In the previous Gandhinagar municipal corporation elections, Congress gave a tough fight to the BJP as both parties bagged 16 seats each. However, a surprise defection from Congress councillor Pravin Patel and his aide helped BJP form the body in the corporation, with Patel becoming the mayor of Gujarat's capital city.After the AAP won 27 out of 120 contested seats in the Surat municipal corporation election held earlier this year, all eyes were on the new entrant. The AAP's vote share in the GMC elections stands at nearly 17% but the three-pronged contest seems to have worked against Congress.Apart from GMC, three other municipalities - Okha, Bhanvad, and Thara - went to the polls on Sunday.The voter turnout in Okha and Bhanvad (both in Devbhumi-Dwarka district) was 55.07% and 62.27% respectively, while Thara (Banaskantha district) recorded 73.55% voter turnout.The local body elections were earlier scheduled for April but the disastrous second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic forced the state election commission to postpone them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gandhinagar-municipal-corporation-election-result-bjp-wins-41-out-of-44-seats-101633423505696.html
05-10-2021||India||Air Force should get S-400 within this year: Air Chief Marshal VR Chaudhari||Indian Air Force (IAF) chief Air Chief Marshal VR Chaudhari said that the Russian-made S-400 surface-to-air missile defence system will be inducted "within this year". He was addressing a press conference where the IAF chief talked about the new weapons the force will be getting and its preparedness along India's borders."The S-400 should be inducted this year," Air Chief Marshal Chaudhari said while addressing the media on the 89th anniversary of the IAF.He added that the Chinese air force is still present on three air bases on their side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and assured that the IAF is fully deployed and prepared.The Air Force chief also said that China's capability to launch multiple high altitude missions would remain weak, adding that the induction of Rafale, Apaches have significantly added to the force's combat potential."The induction of Rafale, Apaches have significantly added to our combat potential. Our offensive strike capability has become even more potent with the integration of new weapons on our fleets," said IAF chief.He said that the IAF is in the process of new combat systems to ensure that we retain an edge over our adversaries."We are on the verge of getting six Light Utility Helicopters from the Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL). We would be around 35 fighter squadrons by the next decade in view of the phasing out of old aircraft and induction of new aircraft," said the Air Chief Marshal.He added that the IAF is keen on integration amongst the armed forces. The joint planning and execution of operations by the three services will result in a maximum increase in our net combat capability, said the IAF chief.Chaudhari took charge as the Chief of Air Staff from Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria on September 30, 2021.An ace fighter pilot, he was earlier in charge of the Ladakh sector during the peak of the crisis with China.Vyacheslav Dzirkaln, the deputy CEO of state-owned Russian company Almaz-Antey, had said in August that they will begin to deliver the S-400 to India by end of the year 2021. He had also said that at the present Indian military personnel training is underway in operating the S-400.In October 2018, India had signed a USD 5.43 billion deal with Russia for five S-400 regiments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-force-should-get-s-400-within-this-year-air-chief-marshal-vr-chaudhari-101633422683896.html
05-10-2021||India||Travellers get ready for festive season, make bookings in advance||More people are planning to travel this festive season, according to travel portals. According to booking.com, the bookings are mostly for domestic destinations. It added there has been an increase in bookings for travel to places such as the UAE and France.Sunil Suresh, the chief marketing officer of goibibo.com, said hills and beach destinations have emerged as the favourite holiday locations. “We are confident of seeing a consistent month-on-month surge in bookings to all travel landscapes –be it hills, beaches or culturally rich destinations. As the festive and winter holiday season approaches, young travellers have already begun searching and booking travel 30 to 45 days in advance.” Suresh said currently 60% of the total advance bookings are led by those to Goa, Manali, Darjeeling, Udaipur, Shimla, Gangtok, Agra, Jaipur, Amritsar, Jaisalmer, Jodhpur, Srinagar.cleartrip.com has announced an eight-day sale until October 10 with special offers on flight and hotel bookings.According to booking.com, the UAE, France and the UK are the top three most booked international destinations between October 1 to November 30. New Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Kolkata, Goa, Jaipur and Manali are among the top 10 most booked domestic destinations for the festive season during the same period.Also Read: Facebook costliest outage caused $160 million loss: NetBlocksHotels continue to be the top booked accommodation type by people travelling domestically. Besides hotels, people are also looking to stay in homestays and apartments.Ritu Mehrotra, regional manager, South Asia, booking.com, said, “As we near the festive season, travellers are starting to plan their next trip, be it back home to visit family or for leisure travel with friends. While bookings are largely domestic, we are also seeing demand for international travel.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/travellers-get-ready-for-festive-season-make-bookings-in-advance-101633422792887.html
05-10-2021||India||My detractors have more reasons to oppose me: PM Modi at Lucknow event||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday more than three crore beneficiaries of government schemes had got an opportunity to become ‘lakhpati’ (millionaires) and now, his detractors would now have more reasons to oppose.Speaking at an event where he digitally handed over keys of Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana- Urban (PMAY-U) houses to 75,000 beneficiaries, Modi said urban planning used to be a victim of politics under previous regimes. Not even 18 houses were constructed against a sanction of 18,000, he said. Also read | 'Why is this man free?' Priyanka Gandhi poses question for PM Modi on Lakhimpur“The earlier governments did not wish to get houses constructed for the poor. They were creating hurdles in getting houses constructed. The Yogi Adityanath government has given nine lakh houses so far and another 14 lakh houses are under different stages of construction,” he added.Beneficiaries in 75 districts have got keys of the new houses today, the PM said.Modi is in Lucknow to participate in a three-day urban conclave event, which will be hosted by Uttar Pradesh’s urban development department as part of central government’s ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ campaign.The PM’s visit came amid widespread uproar from Opposition parties over Sunday’s violence in Lakhimpur Kheri where at least eight lives, including that of farmers and a local journalist, were lost leading to massive protests in several parts of north India.Earlier in the day, he inaugurated the ‘Azadi@75 – New Urban India: Transforming Urban Landscape’ Conference-cum-Expo’ in the presence of Adityanath, defence minister Rajnath Singh, Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri and Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel.“When I come to Lucknow, I come across the sweet language of Awadh region. The Exhibitions show achievements of 75 years. I urge citizens to visit this exhibition,” the PM said.Also read | Sena questions Modi’s silence over Lakhimpur violence“Women are deprived of their rights in property. This is why we decided that women will be given ownership of government houses. In UP, women get a relaxation of two percent in the registration of houses. The world is seeing India’s success in implementation of different development schemes. I am grateful for being sent to Parliament.”We sanctioned construction of 1.13 crore houses while earlier it used to be 13 lakh or eight lakh. Already, 50 lakh houses have been constructed and handed over to beneficiaries. We authorised the beneficiaries to go ahead with the design of their own houses.”“Before 2014, there was no policy about the size of constructed houses. We increased the size and decided no house will be less than 22 sq metre size.(With inputs from bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/my-detractors-have-more-reasons-to-oppose-me-pm-modi-at-lucknow-event-101633421199067.html
05-10-2021||India||Don’t go for a kill: Madras high court cautions Tamil Nadu forest dept searching for 'problematic' tiger||The Madras high court on Tuesday had a word of caution for the Tamil Nadu forest department, which is trying to hunt down a “problematic tiger” in the state’s Nilgiris district. “Do not go for a kill immediately. It may not be a man-eater tiger,” the Madras High Court told the forest department, which is making efforts to capture the big cat identified as Mudumalai Division Tiger-23 or MDT-23, according to news agency ANI. The court also said there are only a few tigers left in our country as it was hearing two petitions challenging the forest department’s order to hunt down the big cat.According to news agency PTI, one petition has been filed by Uttar Pradesh-based animal activist Sangeeta Dogra and another by the People for Cattle in India in Chennai. Meanwhile, the forest department clarified that their task was to capture the injured male tiger alive and not to kill it. Last Friday, Tamil Nadu chief wildlife warden Shekar Kumar Niraj issued an order to hunt the tiger under Section 11 (1) (a) of Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. The tiger has not been declared as a man-eater but as “problematic” and as an animal that has “become very dangerous to human life in the area”. The tiger has been present in the human habitation of Gudalur and has been preying on livestock too since July this year. According to the standard operating procedures for dealing with emergency arising due to straying of tigers in human-dominated landscapes laid out by the National Tiger Conservation Authority in January 2013, these declarations require field evidence.Also read | Plan to catch Mudhumalai tiger alive even as it evades trapsThe forest department continued their search for the tiger said to be over 12-years-of age in the Masinagudi area for the 10th day on Monday. It intensified the search for the big cat by bringing in two tamed elephants from Theppakadu camp in Mudumalai Tiger Reserve and three dogs, including a native breed of Chippiparai. As many as 120 personnel from the forest department and special task forces from Kerala and Karnataka are also part of the search. The tiger has so far killed four people and more than 20 head of cattle, according to reports, but forest officials have confirmed two such human deaths.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-hc-cautions-tamil-nadu-forest-dept-looking-for-problematic-tiger-101633420861709.html
05-10-2021||India||Sena questions Modi’s silence over Lakhimpur violence||Two days after eight people, including four farmers, were killed in the violence that erupted during protests in Lakhimpur Kheri, Uttar Pradesh (UP), the Shiv Sena on Tuesday questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s silence over the issue. Shiv Sena’s chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut met Congress leader Rahul Gandhi at the latter’s residence in New Delhi over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. Before meeting Gandhi, Raut said there is a need for a “joint Opposition action against the oppression by the government in UP.” This is Raut’s second one-on-one meeting with Gandhi in around three months. The meeting between the two leaders lasted around 20 minutes. Raut refused to divulge the details of the discussion between him and Gandhi. Afte the meeting, Raut said, “We discussed the political developments in the country. Let things remain between us and our two parties.” Taking on the Centre, Raut questioned if there are any democratic values left in the nation.An editorial in Sena mouthpiece Saamana remarked that PM is a “very sensitive and emotional person” but it was “surprising” that he has not expressed condolences to the family of the victims of the violence.“Our dear PM Narendra Modi is a very sensitive and emotional person. There have been many occasions when PM was seen getting emotional over the issues of the poor. It is surprising that the sensitive Modi has not expressed his condolences to the farmers who were crushed to death in the incident,” the editorial said.The editorial also slammed the UP government over sealing the district borders and not allowing Opposition leaders to enter Lakhimpur Kheri. Earlier in the day, Raut called the development in the past two days as an “undeclared emergency”, asking why is the UP government scared if Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Gandhi or other Opposition leaders want to meet the families of the dead farmers.“The manner in which Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, the granddaughter of Indira Gandhi, was arrested and manhandled is shameful. You may have differences with the Congress but Indira Gandhi gave the biggest sacrifice [for the country], she divided Pakistan in two parts. This incident needs to be condemned. There is an undeclared emergency in the country now. It has come silently to muzzle our voices,” Raut said while speaking to mediapersons in the national capital.Also Read: Lakhimpur Kheri: The cauldron boils overDrawing parallels to BJP leaders in Maharashtra touring flood-affected parts to “wipe the tears” of the affected farmers, Raut asked why is UP government scared if Opposition party leaders want to meet families of the dead farmers. “In Maharashtra, BJP leaders Devendra Fadnavis and Pravin Darekar are wiping tears of farmers and giving ultimatum to the state government. In a democracy, the voice of Opposition party cannot be suppressed. They must get a chance to speak what they wish to and it must be heard. But what’s happening in UP? If Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Rahul Gandhi, (Samajadwadi Party’s) Akhilesh Yadav and Aam Aadmi Party’s Sanjay Singh are going to meet family members of the dead farmers why is the government scared?” he asked. The state BJP had not reacted to the remarks in Saamana or on Raut’s statements till the time of going to press.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sena-questions-modi-s-silence-over-lakhimpur-violence-101633421233492.html
05-10-2021||India||Indian power plants on alert for outages. Here's why||The worsening squeeze on India’s coal supply is triggering a power crisis that’s threatening to stall the world’s fastest-expanding major economy.Coal-fired power stations had an average of four days’ worth of stock of the fuel at the end of last month, the lowest level in years, and down from 13 days at the start of August. More than half the plants are on alert for outages. With coal used to produce almost 70% of electricity, spot power rates have surged, while supplies of the fuel are being diverted away from key customers including aluminum smelters and steel mills.Like China, India is contending with two key challenges: soaring electricity demand as industrial activity rebounds after pandemic curbs were lifted and a slump in local coal output. The country meets around three-quarters of its demand locally, but heavy rains have flooded mines and key transport routes.Operators of coal-fired plants are facing a dilemma -- pay large premiums at domestic auctions to secure any available local supply or wade into a seaborne coal market where prices have soared to the highest on record. Already, the nation’s government is drawing up guidelines in case it needs to bring idle power stations back into action.“Until supplies stabilize completely, we are likely to see power outages in some pockets, while customers elsewhere may be asked to pay more for power,” said Pranav Master, director for infrastructure advisory at credit ratings firm Crisil Ltd. “Because of imported coal prices shooting through the roof, plants running on domestic coal have had to do a lot of heavy-lifting. Things are expected to get better as the rains abate.” The impact on consumer prices would show up a few months later, when distribution utilities get regulatory approvals to pass on the cost, he said.Coal inventories at Indian power plants fell to around 8.1 million tons at the end of September, about 76% less than a year earlier, according to government data. Average spot power prices at the Indian Energy Exchange Ltd. jumped more than 63% in September to 4.4 rupees ($0.06) a kilowatt hour. Aluminum producers are among major power users that complained after state-run miner Coal India Ltd. curbed supplies of the fuel to heavy industry to prioritize deliveries to electricity generators. The rising electricity bills are likely to put a dent in India’s stellar growth rate. The economy is forecast to expand 9.4% in the year through March 2022, which would be the fastest pace among major global economies, according to a Bloomberg News survey.The energy crunch is a reminder of the vital role coal plays in India’s economy, even as Prime Minister Narendra Modi targets a huge increase in renewables and the nation’s top billionaires rush to add green investments. Consumption of the fuel is forecast to increase in the next few years and India, among the world’s top greenhouse gas emitters, is yet to set a target to get to carbon neutrality. Supplies to power plants are currently short by between 60,000 and 80,000 tons a day on the impact of the prolonged rains that have drenched coal pits, said Anil Kumar Jain, India’s coal secretary. Unusually heavy downpours last month in Dhanbad, a major coal mining center in the east of the country, have worsened the situation, he said. Coal India should be able to increase supplies enough by the second week of October to cover the deficit at power plants, although that will depend on the weather, Jain said. However, it will take much longer to replenish the badly depleted stockpiles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-power-plants-on-alert-for-outages-here-s-why-101633418317240.html
05-10-2021||India||Shakti Sinha: The liberal who found home in Vajpayee’s BJP||Shakti Sinha was a political liberal. He believed that the State must be restrained in its use of power; individuals must be free to choose their life partners, eating habits, political parties, and friends and that social liberalism was an integral part of a civilised society; that markets must be encouraged and the government should largely be a facilitator and regulator and provide a helping hand to those on the margins; and that religion should not be a key determinant of any decision of the State.Shakti Sinha was also a foreign policy realist. He had a clear-eyed view of Pakistan and China as India’s adversaries — the first because of the very nature of its statehood, the second because of the structural nature of great power competition. But he was also a pragmatist, who believed in the power of engagement. So be it talking to the Nepali Maoists when sections of Indian establishment were reluctant to do so, or engaging with the Taliban when it became clear that Afghanistan would eventually fall into their hands, Sinha believed that the Indian State must do what it had to do to secure India’s national interest — ideology was secondary.And, perhaps most importantly, Shakti Sinha was a deeply democratic man in his everyday personal interactions. He did not grudge someone for sharply differing with him in political beliefs. He barely expressed resentment even when he felt like he had been dealt an unfair hand. He lived in proximity to power, but his instinct was to spend time with those on the margins of power — because he wanted to understand all points of view before arriving at his own. He understood viewpoints were a result of socialisation, beliefs, and life — and he respected it. He was also deeply humble, and this reflected most deeply in his respect for scholarship — he kept feeling, till he wrote his book, that he was a pretender who did not have a book to his credit and therefore was a bit of a lesser man.So how was such a man — who grew up in the diverse and plural environment of the Darjeeling hills, who studied in a missionary school in Patna and admired his Christian teachers (he never saw them as Christian, just as his teachers — Father Murphy of St Xaviers’ Patna remained his favourite teacher), who went to Hindu College in Delhi University in the 1970s at a time when young students pushed the boundaries of what was permissible, and who enjoyed both his meat and evening drink (he was partial to whiskey) — sympathetic to the Bharatiya Janata Party?In his story lies a clue into why a generation of India’s social liberals moved to the Right in the 1980s and 1990s. Sinha detested the Congress, especially the dynastic nature of the party. He grew sympathetic to the identity-based mobilisation of the majority as a natural byproduct of distortions in the politics of secularism. And having been a part of the State, he knew that the only way out for India’s prosperity was not a greater role for the State but reducing its discretionary powers. And in his case — like in the case of so many political individuals, whose choices are often personal and sociological as much as ideological; analysts often underestimate this factor when they seek to understand politics — the link to a leader changed his life and politics.Sinha knew Atal Bihari Vajpayee intimately. His wife was a relative of Vajpayee’s foster family. He met the man who would become India’s first prime minister from a non-Congress political tradition in the 1970s, and eventually, through a career in the bureaucracy, landed up in Vajpayee’s prime minister’s office, as the first and last man Vajpayee would see in the day through much of the mid 1990s — during his 13-day tenure in 1996, his stint as leader of opposition between 1996 and 1998, and then during the critical 1998-99 years when India went nuclear, embarked on ambitious reforms, and fought and defeated Pakistan in Kargil.Also Read: The Mahatma and his economic worldviewAnd this is why Sinha merits understanding, for his understanding and worldview ended up shaping Vajpyayee’s prime ministership. The modest and understated man that he was, Shakti Sinha would never admit it — but in the silent lunches he had with Vajpayee (the two often ate quietly without a word exchanged), in his everyday interactions, in who he allowed Atalji to meet, in how he discussed books and ideas, in how he interacted with other colleagues, Sinha shaped the worldview of one of India’s most consequential prime ministers. And this worldview, rooted in a controversial certain view of Indian civilisation — Sinha always said that New Delhi mistook Vajpayee; there was never any doubt of his commitment to Hindutva — he shaped a world of power.The specifics of Vajpayee’s prime ministership are best captured in Sinha’s book — and it is such good news that Sinha was able to actually pen his memories. Sinha went on to become a World Bank bureaucrat in Washington DC, a leading bureaucrat in Delhi government as a part of his administrative career, head of Nehru Memorial and Museum Library, an academic heading an important centre at MS University in Baroda, and an intellectual-at-large (including as an occasional columnist with HT). But he never forgot his roots, his liberalism, his commitment to India, and his loyalty to a worldview he had owned.I cannot but end this on a personal note. Shakti Sinha organised the launch of my book on BJP — in which, on his platform, I criticised what I saw as the party’s bigotry. He called me later that evening and laughed, saying, “Kahan phasa diya yar! Acha tha par. Where did you trap me! But it was good. My aim is to make NMML a truly liberal space.” Or when we went for a drink to Kathmandu’s most hip area, Thamel, when he narrated stories about the intricacies of running a prime minister’s office. There are too many anecdotes to narrate, there are too many secrets to keep, there are too many tales that only Shaktiji had a right to tell, but Indian politics, public life, scholarship is a lot richer because of a man who believed that his most important contribution was being a silent adviser — silent being the operative word — foil to one of India’s most important PMs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shakti-sinha-the-liberal-who-found-home-in-vajpayee-s-bjp-101633420333520.html
05-10-2021||India||Families of 2 Lakhimpur farmers stop funerals, demand post-mortem report||The families of two of the four farmers killed at Tikunia in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri during a farmer protest on Sunday refused to cremate their bodies on Tuesday until they get their post-mortem reports.The demand prompted inspector general of police (Lucknow) Laxmi Singh to rush to Tikunia. He visited the home of Nachhatar Singh, one of the two farmers, to discuss the matter with his family members. Local farmers were reported to have been gathering at the house in the family’s support.The family members of Lovepreet Singh have also refused to conduct his funeral alleging the administration may tamper with the post-mortem reports after the funerals.Also Read: She is fearless, won’t give up: Rahul Gandhi on sister Priyanka’s detentionA panel of doctors on Monday evening conducted the post-mortem of the farmers after the government agreed to the demands of their families including compensation. The bodies were returned to the families after the post-mortem on late Monday night for their cremations on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/families-of-2-lakhimpur-farmers-stop-funerals-demand-post-mortem-report-101633419073390.html
05-10-2021||India||EC issues new names, symbols to LJP factions amid Chirag Paswan, Paras feud||The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Tuesday allotted new party names and symbols to Chirag Paswan and his uncle Pashupati Paras, days after the poll panel barred Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) factions from using the party name and symbol. The commission gave the name Lok Janshakti Party (Ram Vilas) and the election symbol of a helicopter to the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) faction led by Chirag Paswan. The ECI also allotted the name Rashtriya Lok Janshakti Party and the election symbol of a sewing machine to the faction of the LJP led by Union minister Pashupati Nath Paras.The commission asked both the factions to choose three free symbols in order of preference before 1pm on October 4 and said it will then allocate the symbols to each faction.Both factions of the LJP have been feuding for the control of the party since the beginning of this year. Chirag, the son of late party supremo Ram Vilas Paswan, was ousted from the party by his uncle Paras, who claimed that the outfit was now run by him. Paras, with the help of Prince Raj, Chandan Singh, Veena Devi and Mehboob Ali Kaiser, ousted Chirag from the position of party chief. Paras also met with Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla, who recognised him as the party chief.The ECI froze the party name and symbol earlier this month in view of the bypolls in Bihar’s Kusheshwar Asthan and Tarapur, scheduled for October 30. The poll paneI informed both factions that they will not be allowed to use the party name unconditionally, nor can they use LJP’s election symbol of a bungalow. Both factions claimed the exclusive use of the party name LJP and the symbol. Paswan said earlier that he was ready to adopt legal means in order to regain control of the party.“Neither of the two groups led by Pashupati Kumar Paras and [the] other led by Chirag Paswan shall be permitted to use the name of the party Lok Janshakti Party and neither of the two groups shall also be permitted to use the symbol bungalow,” the commission said in its order on October 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-issues-new-names-symbols-to-ljp-factions-amid-chirag-paswan-paras-feud-101633418842689.html
05-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: EC clamps down on campaigning rules after reviewing last 5 assembly polls and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.EC tightens campaigning rules after review of last 5 assembly pollsFrom limiting attendees’ numbers to 30% of the seating capacity at any indoor facility with the maximum attendance capped at 200, to the provision of permanent ban on rallies and campaigns by candidates and star campaigners who are found violating Covid-19 containment protocols. Read MoreVideo showing cars running over farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri goes viralA video purportedly showing two vehicles, including a sports utility vehicle (SUV), running over a group of people at Tikunia in Lakhimpur Kheri, the scene of the violence during a farmer protest that left eight people dead on Sunday, has gone viral. Read MoreIPL 2021, Rajasthan Royals Predicted XI vs MI: Will RR skipper Samson disturb a winning combination after thrashing CSK?The Rajasthan Royals (RR), in their previous game against table-toppers Chennai Super Kings (CSK), showed what they are capable of and why their next opponent, the Mumbai Indians (MI), should be wary of their threat. Read MoreAryan Khan's co-accused Arbaaz Merchantt's father breaks silence: 'There are no WhatsApp chats related to drugs'Aryan Khan's co-accused Arbaaz Merchant's father, lawyer Aslam Merchant, has said that the allegations made against his son and Aryan are ‘baseless’ and that ‘they are innocent’. Read MoreShruti Seth redefines balance and flexibility with the Ardhchandrasana positionBollywood actor Shruti Seth swears by yoga and high intensity workouts. The actor is a yoga baby and it shows on her Instagram profile. Read MoreHorn, Ok, Sa Re Ga Ma: Indian musical instrument sounds for vehicle horns soonModern-day problems require modern-day solutions and expect Union Minister Nitin Gadkari to think out of the box when it comes to the issue of noise pollution. Read MoreCar ramming into crowd video tweeted by Congress, tagged Lakhimpur KheriAmid the Lakhimpur Kheri storm, a distressing video has gone viral. Allegedly of the Lakhimpur incident, the video was tweeted by Congress. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-ec-clamps-down-on-campaigning-rules-after-reviewing-last-5-assembly-polls-and-all-the-latest-news-101633417240999.html
05-10-2021||India||What happened in Lakhimpur Kheri: Sequence of events according to both sides||The violence in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri has opposition parties up in arms. They have been attacking the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government in the state and at the Centre, demanding justice for the farmers who were killed during Sunday's violence.The farmers claim that a a car from convoy belonging to Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni's son Ashish ran over the protesters in Tikonia area who were coming back after holding a demonstration against Centre's three farm laws. The minister has denied these allegations and instead claimed that the protesters started pelting stones due to which the driver of the car lost balance and this incident happened.Here is the sequence of events and the two versions of the incident:8am: Around 300 farmers reach Tikonia, a village in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri district roughly 70km from the district headquarters, to protest against a visit bydeputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya.10am: Protesters said they entered the local playground and attempted to take over the helipad. They claimed that Ashish Mishra, son of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni, was present at the spot.Ashish, however, said he was not present at the site of the incident and was attending another event in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri town, roughly 100km away.2.30pm: Protesters claimed that a convoy of three SUVs linked to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders made their way from Lakhimpur to Tikonia. The farmers say that an SUV being driven by Ashish Mishra knocked down four protesters.Union minister Ajay Mishra said his son was nowhere near the site of the incident. He said that farmers started pelting stones at the cars, one of which hit a driver and he lost control of the car, and it overturned.4pm: Violence erupted in Tikonia by this time. Farmers said that supporters of Ashish Mishra shot dead one person. They claimed that the others were mowed down by SUVs in Ashish Mishra's cavalcade.Ajay Mishra, however, denied all charges and said his son was not present at the spot. "Neither I nor my son was present at the spot when the violence broke out. Our car was diverted to a different route," he told reporters.Eight people were killed in the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri. Protests began after that, following which the state government started negotiations with the farmers. The two sides reached a conclusion after the government agreed to listen to all the demands of the farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-happened-in-lakhimpur-kheri-sequence-of-events-according-to-both-sides-101633416583402.html
05-10-2021||India||G-23 leaders rally around Priyanka Gandhi after her detention||Amitoj Singh KalsiThe so-called G-23 grouping leaders, who wrote to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi last year demanding organisational changes, have rallied around Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra after she was detained in Uttar Pradesh on Monday. Priyanka Gandhi was on her way to Lakhimpur Kheri to meet the families of those killed in violence during a farmer protest on Sunday when she was put under detention.Kapil Sibal, who is among the leaders of the grouping, called the detention illegal while calling lawlessness a norm in Uttar Pradesh. In a tweet, he added there is a perception that “in such situations violation of personal liberty is guaranteed” in the state. “Instead of prosecuting those responsible, you detain those who seek justice.”Sibal’s house was vandalised last week after he demanded an open dialogue in Congress. The vandalism sparked criticism from senior Congress leaders.In a statement, Anand Sharma, who is a part of the grouping, condemned Priyanka Gandhi’s detention and “repressive manhandling”. “Such repressive actions cannot suppress the voice of farmers and call for justice...Justice must prevail.”Also Read: ‘Why this man is free?’ Priyanka Gandhi poses question for PM Modi on LakhimpurIn a tweet, Ghulam Nabi Azad, who was among the signatories of the letter to Sonia Gandhi last year, said, “I strongly condemn the high handedness of UP (Uttar Pradesh) police by stopping Mrs Priyanka Gandhi on her way to Lakhimpur Kheri to pay condolences to the family members of kisans (farmers) killed. A judicial probe should be conducted to find out the truth behind the incident in which kisans were killed.”Congress Member of Parliament Shashi Tharoor said the video of Priyanka Gandhi and Deepender Hooda standing up to police intimidation “stirs the blood”. He tweeted citizens are entitled to know the grounds of their arrest and cannot be manhandled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/g23-leaders-rally-around-priyanka-gandhi-after-her-detention-101633416373269.html
05-10-2021||India||Gandhinagar Municipal Corporation election result updates: BJP wins 19 seats, Congress 1||The Congress has been hit badly in the ongoing counting of votes for the Gandhinagar Municipal Corporation (GMC) election, local media reported. People on Sunday used their franchise to choose from 162 candidates in fray across 11 wards of the GMC.This time, the elections became three-pronged after the entry of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP).While the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and opposition Congress fought on all 44 seats, the AAP fielded candidated in 40 seats. Apart from GMC, elections were also held in Okha, Bhanvad and Thara municipalities. Together in these three municipalities, 205 candidates were in the fray, including 78 from BJP, 72 from Congress, 52 from AAP, among others.Votes were also cast for the by-elections to seats vacated in some municipal corporations, municipalities, as well as district and taluka panchayats.According to local media, trends for 124 seats are available in which the BJP is leading on 95, while the Congress has cornered 24. Leading Gujarat newspaper Sandesh reported that the BJP has won 19 seats and wards 1, 5, 7, 9 and 10 in Gandhinagar. The Congress, meanwhile, has been able to win just one.Sandesh said that AAP has been able to break into the traditional votebank of the Congress. It is second only to the BJP now.In Ahmedabad, the BJP's Maulik Patel has won from Isanpur wardThis was the first major election after Bhupendra Patel took charge as the chief minister of Gujarat. It is being seen as a litmus test for the BJP's abrupt and surprising decision to change the entire government, as it had registered a thumping win in the local bodies polls held in February.The BJP, with Rupani as CM, had swept six municipal corporations, municipalities and a majority of district and taluka panchayats.The state election commission had earlier postponed the election, originally scheduled in April, due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gandhinagar-election-result-updates-bjp-wins-19-seats-congress-1-101633414700226.html
05-10-2021||India||Video showing cars running over farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri goes viral||A video purportedly showing two vehicles, including a sports utility vehicle (SUV), running over a group of people at Tikunia in Lakhimpur Kheri, the scene of the violence during a farmer protest that left eight people dead on Sunday, has gone viral with farmers saying it has vindicated their version of the incident. The vehicles that follow can be seen passing blithely on. The source and the veracity of the video could not be ascertained. But the visuals are in sync with the version of the protesting farmers about the incident even as the identity of the individuals in the vehicles is unclear.One version of the incident is that the vehicles came under attack and lost control. Nothing of that sort can be seen in the video. The lead vehicle appears to deliberately run over the farmers — and from behind. To be sure, the video is only 29-second-long and is playing on a smartphone. The exact spot in the video appears to be of Tikunia road leading towards Lakhimpur and around 100 metres from the playground where the farmers were staging the protest on the day of the incident.If authentic, the video is likely to inflame sentiments against the Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni and his son Ashish Mishra. Farmers maintain that Ashish Mishra was in one of the vehicles and escaped even as others were allegedly lynched by farmers after the incident. The minister and his son, who was on Monday booked for murder and criminal conspiracy in connection with the violence, have denied the allegations.Hardeep Singh, who was at the spot at the time of the incident and has seen this video, said: “The video confirms what we have been saying all along. And we say that Ashish Mishra was present in one of the vehicles and is responsible for the killing of the innocent farmers.”Also Read: ‘Why this man is free?’ Priyanka Gandhi poses question for PM Modi on LakhimpurIn a tweet addressed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said she has been kept under detention without any order or first information and asked why the one who “crushed” the farmers was still not arrested. She tweeted hours before Modi’s visit to Lucknow on Tuesday. Priyanka Gandhi was detained on Monday while she was on her way to Lakhimpur Kheri.Indian Youth Congress chief Srinivas BV and several other people posted the video earlier on Twitter.Congress spokesperson Anshu Awasthi said: “People in the state are asking the question as to why the PM (Prime Minister) who is celebrating and coming to Lucknow is not going to Lakhimpur Kheri to meet the victim families.”Additional director general (law and order) Prashant Kumar said all the videos and photographs of the Lakhimpur Kheri incident that have surfaced and are surfacing will be verified and included in the investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/video-showing-cars-running-over-farmers-in-lakhimpur-kheri-goes-viral-101633414813013.html
05-10-2021||India||PM Modi visits Lucknow for ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’ events amid Oppn uproar||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday reached Uttar Pradesh capital Lucknow to take part in events and projects as part of the central government’s year-long campaign to celebrate India’s 75 years of independence. He inaugurated a three-day urban conclave event ‘Azadi@75 – New Urban India: Transforming Urban Landscape’ Conference-cum-Expo, being hosted by UP's urban development department.Modi’s visit came amid a major uproar in the state and elsewhere over the death of at least eight persons, including farmers and a local journalist, during violent clashes at Lakhimpur Kheri district on Sunday.Opposition leaders like Congress’ Priyanka Gandhi and Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav hit out at the Prime Minister over his scheduled programmes for the day. Modi visited the conclave being held at Indira Gandhi Pratishthan in Lucknow.Also read | 'Why this man is free?' Priyanka Gandhi poses question for PM Modi on LakhimpurDefence minister Rajnath Singh, Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri, Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel and chief minister Yogi Adityanath were also present at the event.The PM would lay foundation stones and open 75 urban development projects in the state Smart Cities Mission and AMRUT during the day. Events are being organised across the country as part of the ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’.उप्र किसानों की हत्याओं को लेकर शोकाकुल है, ये महोत्सव का समय नहीं है।Meanwhile, Gandhi shared two tweets since morning wherein she addressed the Prime Minister while speaking about her detention by the Uttar Pradesh government without any order or FIR and a viral video in which a car was seen driving over protesters, followed by another vehicle hitting the farmers.Also read | Video showing cars running over farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri goes viralA number of Congress leaders, including chief ministers of neighbouring states, have been visiting the state to express their solidarity with the families of the deceased farmers and condemn the violence in which the son of Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni has been named as an accused. #WATCH Congress workers break barriers, raise slogans in Sitapur as party leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra remains under detention at a city guest house. She was detained yesterday while she was on her way to Lakhimpur Kheri. pic.twitter.com/UlLQNL0R8WA large number of Congress workers have been camping near the city guest house in Sitapur where Gandhi has been detained for about 30 hours now. Some of them were seen breaking barriers and raising slogans in the town.Yadav shared a post on Twitter saying this was not the time of celebration when the state was mourning the farmers’ deaths.Modi is also scheduled to digitally hand over keys of Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana - Urban (PMAY-U) houses to 75,000 beneficiaries in 75 districts of Uttar Pradesh and interact virtually with beneficiaries of the scheme.He will also flag off 75 buses under FAME-II for seven cities including Lucknow, Kanpur, Varanasi, Prayagraj, Gorakhpur, Jhansi, and Ghaziabad.Later, the Prime Minister will release a coffee table book encompassing 75 projects implemented under various flagship missions of the ministry of housing and urban affairs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-visits-lucknow-for-azadi-ka-amrit-mahotsav-events-amid-oppn-uproar-101633413622791.html
05-10-2021||India||She is fearless, won’t give up: Rahul Gandhi on sister Priyanka's detention||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday took to Twitter in support of his sister Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who was detained along with other party members a day ago as they attempted to visit the families of victims of the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. She doesn't fear the detention, tweeted Rahul Gandhi, calling her a "true Congressi". “The person you have kept in custody is fearless - she is a true Congressi and will not give up," Gandhi’s tweet, roughly translated from Hindi, read.Priyanka was detained in Sitapur on Monday on her way to Lakhimpur Kheri, where eight people—including four farmers, a local journalist and others—died on Sunday in violent clashes during a farmers' protest. Many other opposition leaders, including Akhilesh Yadav, were also detained on the same day.जिसे हिरासत में रखा है, वो डरती नहीं है- सच्ची कांग्रेसी है, हार नहीं मानेगी!सत्याग्रह रुकेगा नहीं।#FarmersProtestOn Tuesday, Priyanka Gandhi, who is the Congress general secretary, asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Twitter why the person behind the killing of four farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri has not been arrested yet while she has been under "detention for the past 28 hours" without any order or FIR. "@narendramodi ji your government has detained me for the past 28 hours without any order or FIR. Why the person who ran over farmers has not been arrested yet?" she tweeted in Hindi.She also shared a video on the social media platform which showed a group of protesting farmers being mowed down by an SUV.Meanwhile, Congress supporters continue to protest outside the PAC guest house in Sitapur where the party leader is allegedly detained.Issuing a statement regarding the incident, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) alleged that one of the four farmers who died during the clash was shot dead by Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra Teni's son, while the others were allegedly run over by the vehicles of his convoy. The UP Police has lodged a case against Teni's son but no arrest has been made so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/she-is-fearless-won-t-give-up-rahul-gandhi-on-sister-priyanka-s-detention-101633408908973.html
05-10-2021||India||'Why is this man free?' Priyanka Gandhi poses question for PM Modi on Lakhimpur||Minutes before Prime Minister Narendra Modi's programme in Lucknow, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra released a video posing questions for the PM after violence in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri. She urged the Prime Minister to listen to the demands of the farmers and do justice with them.Also Read | Day after clashes, UP hamlet turns into fortress"I hear you are coming to Lucknow for Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav. Have you seen this video? (She held a mobile phone showing a jeep running over a group of farmers, which Gandhi claimed is from Lakhimpur Kheri) Why hasn't this man been arrested? Leaders like us who want to visit Lakhimpur Kheri have been put under custody without any FIR, I want to know why is this man free?" Gandhi said in the video.pic.twitter.com/O4AfP2aDQfShe also questioned why Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni has not been sacked. The farmers have claimed that the vehicle which ran over the farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri's Tikonia on Sunday was part of the convoy of Teni's son Ashish."When you sit on the dais for Azadi ka Mahotsav festival today Modiji, please remember that we got our Independence because of the farmers. Even today, their sons protect our borders. Our farmers are troubled for months, and have been raising their voices but you have been ignoring them," the Congress general secretary further said in the video."I urge you to come to Lakhimpur and understand the pain of the farmer who is the soul of this country. It is your duty to protect them," Gandhi further said.PM Modi is coming to Lucknow to unveil 75 urban development projects in Uttar Pradesh. He will digitally hand over keys of Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana - Urban (PMAY-U) houses to 75,000 beneficiaries in 75 districts of Uttar Pradesh and will also interact virtually with beneficiaries of the scheme of Uttar Pradesh.Priyanka Gandhi and the Congress party have been attacking the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Uttar Pradesh and at the Centre, accusing them of not caring about the farmers. Gandhi, the Congress in-charge for eastern Uttar Pradesh, was headed to Lakhimpur Kheri but was detained in Sitapur on Monday. She has been kept at a guest house there.Besides Priyanka Gandhi, state Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu, national secretary Dheeraj Gurjar, Youth Congress national president BV Srinivas, party MLC Deepak Singh are also under detention, Congress media and communication vice chairman Pankaj Srivastava said.Eight people were killed in Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday, when farmer leaders were returning after holding a protest against the Centre's three farm laws. While the protesters claimed the car of Union minister's son mowed down four of them, the police said other four died after being beaten by the farmers.Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni denied all the allegations against his son and claimed that protesters first pelted stones due to which the driver lost control of the vehicle, leading to the accident.On Tuesday, the state government successfully completed negotiations with the farmers after which they ended their protest. The assurances include compensation for the family members of the farmers killed, a government job for a member of the deceased's kin (based on qualification), and FIR against the minister and his son.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-this-man-is-free-priyanka-gandhi-poses-question-for-pm-modi-on-lakhimpur-101633411585925.html
05-10-2021||India||Counting of votes for Gandhinagar Municipal Corporation polls underway||The counting of votes for the Gandhinagar Municipal Corporation (GMC) elections is underway at a centre in the city on Tuesday.People on Sunday used their franchise to elect 44 councillors across 11 wards of the GMC.This was the first major election after Bhupendra Patel took charge as the chief minister of Gujarat.The BJP has been in power in the civic body, while Aam Aadmi Party is also contesting in the elections.The poll body had earlier postponed the election, originally scheduled in April, due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/counting-of-votes-for-gandhinagar-municipal-corporation-polls-underway-101633411779655.html
05-10-2021||India||BKU leader Gurnam Singh Charuni prevented from going to Lakhimpur Kheri||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Gurnam Singh Charuni was detained in Meerut on Monday while he was on his way to Lakhimpur Kheri to meet the families of the people killed in the violence that erupted during a farmer protest on Sunday. He was released late on Monday night and called on his supporters to gather at Tikri on Wednesday to march to Lakhimpur Kheri.BKU leader Harpal Singh Bilari said they did not know about Charuni’s whereabouts till late in the night. “His worried supporters and other farmer leaders came to know about it in the night that he was taken into custody in Meerut.”A sit-in was held outside Meerut’s Police Lines on Monday against Charuni’s detention there. Rashtriya Jat Mahasabha’s state president Rohit Jakhar and former lawmaker Rajendra Sharma also joined the protest.Also Read: Congress rallies top leaders in Lakhimpur Kheri violence aftermath“We came to know about his detention around 10 pm and rushed to the police lines with other leaders and supporters thereafter,” said Sharma.Charuni thanked his supporters for ensuring his release. “ ...our battle for pride and honour of farmers will continue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmer-leader-prevented-for-going-to-lakhimpur-kheri-101633409473312.html
05-10-2021||India||Waste management firm to carry out sanitation work in Ayodhya||Om Swachtha Corporation, a Gujarat-based solid waste management company, will carry out sanitation work in 15 wards of Ayodhya Dham (old Ayodhya). In the rest of the city (old Faizabad), the company will carry out mechanised sweeping and look after streetlights.Vishal Singh, Ayodhya Municipal Commissioner, said following directives of the state government, sanitation work was outsourced through a tender process.Seven companies participated in the process. After scrutiny of financial and technical bids, Om Swachtha Corporation emerged as the top contender. Among seven companies, the top three were selected on basis of their financial bids. Om Swachtha Corporation’s financial bids were lowest, said an official of the Ayodhya Municipal Corporation. The company’s focus will be on door-to-door garbage collection in the 15 wards.Also Read: Ayodhya’s futuristic 3D model to hog limelight at UP Urban ConclaveThe corporation plans to upload details of all three companies on its website.Garbage collection is a major issue in Ayodhya Dham with flow of tourists increasing due to the ongoing construction of Ram Mandir. Around 1,900 sanitation workers of the corporation have failed to keep the town clean, said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/waste-management-firm-to-carry-out-sanitation-work-in-ayodhya-101633408393060.html
05-10-2021||India||Polio supervisors identify people reluctant to get vaccine jab in Bihar||Bihar has roped in polio supervisors in the Covid-19 vaccination programme to identify and inoculate reluctant people in rural areas, said officials in the state health department. Nearly 38% of the eligible adult population of 72.2 million in Bihar are yet to take their first shot of the Covid-19 vaccine and only 27% of the remaining 62% have taken their second dose, highlighting the challenge . The health department on Monday launched an intensive three-day state-wide programme between October 4 and 6 and on October 8, 9 and 11 with polio supervisors tasked to lead vaccination teams in their areas. The polio supervisors, who are generally auxiliary nursing midwives (ANMs), had also undertaken a house-to-house survey on extent of Covid vaccinations during the pulse polio drive in the state between September 26 and October 1. “Their reporting format, during the recently culminated pulse polio campaign, had an additional column on eligible people in a household due for their second dose of Covid vaccine or still to take their first jab. The polio supervisors have marked all such households in their respective area,” said an officer privy to the programme. “Besides, they are familiar with almost all family members residing in households in their area, as they reach out to every nook and cranny of a village to administer polio drops to children as part of the recurring polio eradication campaign. They are now expected to know the households and the exact number of occupants who are reluctant to take the Covid jab,” he added. As part of the strategy, the polio supervisors will give names of all such adults to the accredited social health activists (ASHA) and anganwadi sahayika (workers), who will then persuade them to come to the Covid vaccination sites for the jab, the officer added. Also Read: Pappu Yadav acquitted in 32-year-old kidnapping caseThe government, on its part, will identify these pockets and set up Covid vaccination session sites as close as possible to such households, he added. Bihar administered over 3.040 million doses of Covid vaccine on October 2. It revised its day’s provisional figures of 27,96,173 doses after some data were uploaded on the CoWIN portal past midnight. Bihar has administered over 57.5 million Covid shots to beneficiaries including 45.2 million first doses and 12.3 million second doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/polio-supervisors-identify-people-reluctant-to-get-vaccine-jab-in-bihar-101633407912680.html
05-10-2021||India||India's fresh Covid case count at 18,346 is the lowest since 209 days||India saw the lowest number of coronavirus cases being registered in more than six months with 18,346 fresh samples testing positive for the viral disease in the last 24 hours.The country has been registering more than 20,000 cases over the past few days after having seen a decline amid widespread fears of an impending third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. On Monday, 20,799 new infections were logged across states. However, the daily rise in new coronavirus infections have remained below 30,000 for 11 straight days.Also read | WHO expert panel on vaccines to meet today, Covaxin on agendaAccording to the latest update from the Union ministry of health and family welfare, the figure is the lowest in 209 days. The active caseload has fallen to 2,52,902, a low of 201 days, which is less than one per cent of the total infections registered so far since the pandemic struck early last year at 3,38,53,048.The ministry further said the recovery rate at 97.93 per cent was its highest since March 2020 with 29,639 people being cured from the disease during the day taking the total recoveries to 3,31,50,886. The death toll climbed to 4,49,260 with 263 fresh fatalities.Also read | SC asks states to roll out scheme to pay Covid ex gratia within a weekThe Indian Council of Medical Research said the cumulative count of samples tested so far stood at 57,53,94,042 which included 11,41,642 samples checked on Monday.Meanwhile, a total of 91,54,65,826 doses of vaccines against the virus have been administered so far since the inoculation drive began earlier this year. Of these, 72,51,419 people were jabbed on Monday.The ministry said more than 91.77 crore vaccines had been provided to the states and union territories of which 6.73 crore doses were still available with them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-fresh-covid-case-count-at-18-346-is-the-lowest-since-209-days-101633407546771.html
05-10-2021||India||Partly overcast weather, light rain likely in Delhi||Partly overcast weather with light rain is likely in Delhi on Tuesday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said and added the maximum temperature is expected to remain around 35 and minimum 26 degrees C.The minimum temperature on Monday was 25.7, four notches above normal, and the maximum 36.4 degrees C, or two degrees above normal.Delhi’s air quality remained in the satisfactory category on Tuesday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board showed the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7 am was 94, which is in the satisfactory category. On Monday, the average 24-hour AQI was 91.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.On Tuesday, the Union earth science ministry’s System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research said, “Delhi’s AQI is in the satisfactory category with PM10 as the main pollutant because of dry air coming from the north-west of India along with local pollution under very mild rainfall. With the presence of dry condition AQI will remain satisfactory to moderate for next three days.”Also Read: Of 341 dengue cases so far, 60+% reported last monthOn Monday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal warned Delhi’s air quality will start deteriorating in a few days as he released a 10-point winter action plan to check it. He said the plan will help combat air pollution in Delhi, which deteriorates during winter including due to stubble burning by the farmers.“I have been posting Delhi’s air quality recordings since September 15, and we have seen that Delhi’s pollution levels are in control. But since the central and neighbouring state governments have not done much to help farmers, Delhi’s air quality will start deteriorating in a few days because of stubble burning,” Kejriwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/partly-overcast-weather-light-rain-likely-in-delhi-101633406412435.html
05-10-2021||India||Sonia, Rahul Gandhi meet Meghalaya Congress leaders to thrash out differences||Congress leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi met former Meghalaya chief minister Mukul Sangma and state party chief Vincent H Pala late on Monday to thrash out differences between the two, people aware of the matter said.Sangma called the meeting positive. “...matters which needed course correction were discussed elaborately in the meetings with Rahul (Gandhi) and our party president,” he said. Sangma added that for democracy to thrive, it is essential for all stakeholders and members of political parties to ensure that ideals are not compromised.The meetings came amid reports that Sangma and nearly a dozen Congress lawmakers were planning to defect to the Trinamool Congress. Sangma called the reports speculative.Also Read: 5kg gelatin sticks found in bag near Shillong’s NPP office; FIR against HNLCPeople aware of the matter said with by-elections to three assembly seats being held on October 30, Sonia Gandhi urged both leaders to resolve their differences and unite. Sangma is believed to have expressed his displeasure over being left out of the decision to name Pala as the state chief.Pala could not be contacted for his comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meghalaya-congress-leaders-meet-sonia-rahul-gandhi-101633405992810.html
05-10-2021||India||Congress rallies top leaders in Lakhimpur Kheri violence aftermath||From Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and Sachin Pilot, the Congress rallied its top leaders across states as it announced nationwide protests against the violence in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri during a farmer protest that left eight people dead. The farmers alleged Ashish Mishra, the son of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni, mowed down four cultivators with his SUV and triggered the violence on Sunday.The Congress demanded immediate dismissal of the minister and the arrest of his son, who has been booked for murder and criminal conspiracy. Its approach is significant as polls are due in Uttar Pradesh early next year. The party has been supportive of the farmers in their protests against the three contentious laws enacted last year.“Tomorrow (Tuesday), there will be gherao of offices of district magistrates in every district across the country. It will become a countrywide movement. I demand the Prime Minister and Uttar Pradesh chief minister to take strict action against those responsible,” said Congress leader Rajiv Shukla.Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Randhawa were among the Congress leaders detained while trying to go to Lakhimpur Kheri. In a tweet, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said, “Priyanka, I know you won’t go back - they are stunned by your courage. In this non-violent fight for justice, we will make the country’s Annadata (farmer) win.”Also Read: Your govt has detained me for 28 hours sans FIR, Priyanka Gandhi tells PM ModiSeveral videos emerged showing Priyanka Gandhi trying to reason with police, pointing out it was illegal to stop her. She also challenged them to arrest her. In a video posted by Congress, she could be seen cleaning the floor of the guest house where she was detained.Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi was denied permission to go to Lakhimpur Kheri. Similarly, Baghel arrived in Lucknow but was not allowed to proceed to Lakhimpur Kheri.Uttar Pradesh government separately wrote to the Punjab chief secretary urging him not to allow anyone to go to Lakhimpur Kheri as the local administration has barred the assembly of over four people.Maharashtra Congress leaders Nana Patole and Bhai Jagtap and Pilot joined a protest in Lucknow. In Kolkata, Congress workers gathered in front of the governor’s house to protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-rallies-top-leaders-in-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-aftermath-101633405332590.html
05-10-2021||India||Your govt has detained me for 28 hours sans FIR: Priyanka Gandhi tells PM Modi||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi on Tuesday addressed Prime Minister Narendra Modi through a tweet stating that his government had kept her in detention for the last 28 hours without any order or first information report (FIR).Taking to the social media, she further asked why, however, the one who crushed the farmers was still not arrested. Along with the tweet, Gandhi posted a video in which some protesters seemed to be driven over by a car, followed by another vehicle hitting them..@narendramodi जी आपकी सरकार ने बग़ैर किसी ऑर्डर और FIR के मुझे पिछले 28 घंटे से हिरासत में रखा है।अन्नदाता को कुचल देने वाला ये व्यक्ति अब तक गिरफ़्तार नहीं हुआ। क्यों? pic.twitter.com/0IF3iv0YpiThe Congress general secretary was taken into custody on Monday morning along with party lawmaker Deependra Singh Hooda and others while on her way to Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh to visit the families of those who were killed during Sunday’s violence district. At least eight lives, some of them being farmers and a local journalist, were lost on Sunday during clashes following a protest against the farm laws.The violence broke out after at least one car, allegedly driven by Union minister of state Ajay Kumar Mishra Teni’s son Ashish Mishra, hit the protesting farmers at Tikunia village in the district, prompting an angry crowd to burn two vehicles and widen their agitation.Also read | Priyanka Gandhi says Mayawati, Akhilesh failed to raise their voices for UPGandhi, who landed at Lucknow airport on Sunday night, was initially stopped at her residence as she tried to leave for the violence-hit district. Later, a large posse of police was deployed outside and a brief altercation ensued. She came out of the house and soon left for Lakhimpur Kheri.Following some more altercation and seemingly heated exchange with the police personnel, the Congress leader and her party colleagues were taken into custody near Hargaon along the Sitapur-Lakhimpur border and brought to a PAC training camp in Sitapur.Also read | UP Police manhandled me, tried to force me into their vehicle: Priyanka GandhiThe Congress later shared a clipping of Gandhi cleaning the floor of a room in the guesthouse where she was kept.“A picture of struggle. Mrs Priyanka Gandhi has been kept in custody at this guesthouse in Sitapur,” the Congress party’s media arm tweeted.According to a Congress spokesperson, Gandhi, who is making a major effort to revive the Congress’ fortunes in the poll-bound state, has said she would not go back without meeting the victims’ families and farmers. A large number of Congress workers spent the night outside the camo in her support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/your-govt-has-detained-me-for-28-hours-sans-fir-priyanka-gandhi-tells-pm-modi-101633404699004.html
05-10-2021||India||I-T unearths unreported foreign bank accounts, properties worth USD 100M||The Income Tax department has found a number of unreported foreign bank accounts and immovable properties during recent search and seizures at various business groups in Maharashtra, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh, the department said. The credits in the bank accounts of these groups and some connected individuals exceed 100 million US dollars and are parked in bank accounts in Switzerland, UAE, Malaysia and some other countries, I-T department has said in a release on Monday.The department said it carried out search and seizure operation on September 30 on 37 premises spread across multiple cities including Mumbai, Pune, Noida and Bengaluru. These groups and individuals were in varied businesses such as cable manufacturing, real estate, textile, printing machineries, hotels, logistics etc.During the search operation, several incriminating documents, diaries, emails and other digital evidence of a large number of unreported foreign bank accounts and immovable properties, were collected, it said.“These groups and individuals utilised the services of a Dubai based financial service provider to create a dubious and complex web of foreign companies and trusts based in tax havens such as Mauritius, United Arab Emirates (UAE), British Virgin Islands (BVI), Gibraltar etc. to hold their unaccounted assets,” I-T department stated.The credits in the off shore bank accounts of these groups and individuals maintained by the Dubai based financial service provider exceed 100 million US dollars (about ₹750 crore), accumulated over a decade and were found to be parked in Switzerland, UAE, Malaysia and several other countries, the statement added.Also Read: Income tax raids at four major steel rolling mills, unaccounted income of ₹300 crore detectedCollected evidence also revealed undisclosed funds parked abroad have been used by these groups for acquiring immovable properties in several foreign countries such as the UK, Portugal, UAE etc in the name of defunct companies incorporated abroad, with funds layered through foreign bank accounts, for meeting personal expenses of the promoters and their family members abroad and routing back in their Indian entities, I-T department said.The searches also led to collection of evidence related to bogus payments to suppliers for generating cash, unaccounted cash expenditure, hawala transactions and over-invoicing.The department has also seized unaccounted cash and jewellery to the tune of over ₹2 crore from the residential and business premises and more than 50 bank lockers have been kept under restraint after the searches.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-unearths-unreported-foreign-bank-accounts-properties-worth-usd-100m-101633404911772.html
05-10-2021||India||Good Samaritans to be rewarded for taking road accident victims to hospital||The government has said anyone who saves the life of a road accident victim by rushing them to a hospital within the “golden hour” will be rewarded for their effort. The Union ministry of road transport and highways has issued guidelines for the scheme, which will be in place from October 15, 2021, till March 31, 2026. “The scheme for grant of an award to the Good Samaritan who has saved the life of a victim of a fatal accident involving a motor vehicle by administering immediate assistance and rushing to hospital/trauma Care Centre within the Golden Hour of the accident to provide medical treatment,” the road ministry said on Monday.Also read | Bihar first state to simplify road accident claims“The amount of award for each Good Samaritan would be Rs. 5,000 per incident. Every cash award would be accompanied with a certification of appreciation," it said. Golden hour is the one hour period after a traumatic injury and there is the highest likelihood of preventing death by providing prompt medical care to the victim.Rules for Good Samaritans was notified by the ministry on September 29, 2020, as per the provisions under Section 134A of the Motor Vehicle Amendment Act, 2019. "Now, it has been felt that there is a need to motivate the general public through cash awards and certificates to help the road accident victims in an emergency situation and to boost their morale, and also to inspire and motivate others to save lives of the road accident victims," the ministry said.Also read | Rajasthan to give ₹5,000 to people who take road accident victims to hospitalAccording to the ministry’s guidelines, an individual Good Samaritan can be awarded a maximum of five times a year. The ministry also said there will be 10 national-level awards for the most worthy Good Samaritans, who will be selected from all those who have been awarded during an entire year, and they would be given an award of ₹100,000 each. Under the guidelines, if more than one Good Samaritan saves the life of more than one victim, the amount of award will be ₹5,000 for every person saved, subject to a maximum of ₹5,000 per Good Samaritan. The ministry said it will provide ₹5 lakh as an initial grant to the transport department of states and Union territories for rewarding the Good Samaritans.The guidelines say that in case the Good Samaritan informs the police about the accident, the police will provide an acknowledgement to the person after verifying details from a doctor on an official letter pad. The copy of the acknowledgement would then be sent to the appraisal committee formed at the district level under the chairmanship of the district magistrate by the concerned police station. And, a copy will be marked to the Good Samaritan. If the Good Samaritan takes the road accident victim to the hospital directly, the hospital will provide all the details to the concerned police station. The police shall provide an acknowledgement to such Good Samaritan, it added.Last month, the Rajasthan government announced a similar reward for Good Samaritans who save lives by taking road accident victims to hospitals. It said that the ₹5,000 cash reward will be given under the Mukhyamantri Chiranjeevi Jeevan Rakshak Yojna. The person will also be given a certificate, it added.Union minister of road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari said recently 366,138 road accidents occurred in India during the calendar year 2020, causing 131,714 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/good-samaritans-to-be-rewarded-for-taking-road-accident-victims-to-hospital-101633403984492.html
05-10-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9am: Monsoon may start withdrawing from Wednesday and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9AM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Second most delayed monsoon withdrawal may begin WednesdayIndia Meteorological Department (IMD) says that conditions are favourable for the monsoon to start withdrawing from some parts of northwest India on Wednesday, marking its second-most delayed withdrawal in the last 41 years. I Read moreMaharashtra registers lowest Covid infections in 8 months on MondayMaharashtra on Monday registered 2,026 fresh Covid-19 infections, lowest in eight months, taking the tally to 6,562,514. This is Maharashtra’s lowest single-day count since February 2, when it logged 1,927 new Covid cases. Read more'Don't think India can compete with Pakistan. This is why they don't want to play against us': Abdul RazzaqFormer all-rounder Abdul Razzaq, who is known for his explosive comments, has dropped another bomb, this time regarding cricketing ties between India and Pakistan, saying that the reason the Indian cricket team is not having bilateral ties with Pakistan is because they know they are the inferior team. Read moreRanveer Singh sweats out with his diamonds on, says 'nobody handed me nothing'. See picsRanveer Singh has shared a few breathtaking pictures of his physic with a caption that hits nepotism in the head. The actor is self-made and has climbed the ladder of success on his own. Read moreKareena Kapoor begins her morning with yoga's Natarajasana, internet calls her gracefulBollywood actor Kareena Kapoor Khan never misses a chance to start her daily routine with a yoga session. Read moreWhy WhatsApp, Facebook, Instagram suffered outage that lasted over 7 hoursIn one of the worst-ever outages in digital history, WhatsApp, Facebook, Instagram and even Messenger went down virtually at the same time. It was not just the websites that were down, the same fate befell their apps too. Read moreRhea to SRK son: Meet NCB officer Sameer Wankhede who's behind B-wood drug bustNCB Zonal Director Sameer Wankede is back in news after a weekend raid on Mumbai cruise 'rave party'. Wankhede shot to prominence in 2020 after NCB's probe into alleged Bollywood-drug nexus following SSR death. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9am-monsoon-may-start-withdrawing-from-wednesday-and-all-the-latest-news-101633398609239.html
05-10-2021||India||EC tightens campaigning rules after review of last 5 assembly polls||From limiting attendees’ numbers to 30% of the seating capacity at any indoor facility with the maximum attendance capped at 200, to the proviso of permanent ban on rallies and campaigns by candidates and star campaigners who are found violating Covid-19 containment protocols, the Election Commission of India (ECI) has tightened guidelines for the upcoming by polls in 30 assembly and three parliamentary constituencies. Officials say the body has drawn lessons from the last five assembly elections held in March and April when the second wave of the pandemic peaked.“The commission reviewed the extant guidelines implemented in the last round of elections, post which it undertook a review to see the lacunae in planning,” said an EC official familiar with the matter. “As a result, the commission has decided to further restrict campaigning and place a permanent ban on violators.” The commission was severely criticised during the last round of assembly elections held in Assam, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry for not doing much to ensure election related activities didn’t lead to a spike in Covid cases. The Madras high court even went so far as to orally observe that EC officials should be held liable for “murder” after largely unregulated electioneering was widely seen as a major contributor to the second Covid wave.ECI on Tuesday announced by polls to three Lok Sabha and 30 assembly seats on October 30, saying the schedule was finalised after reviewing the pandemic situation, floods, festivals, cold conditions in certain regions and feedback from local authorities. The Lok Sabha by-polls will be held to one seat each in the Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, Madhya Pradesh (Khandwa) and Himachal Pradesh (Mandi). Assembly by-elections will be held to one constituency each in Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Mizoram, Maharashtra, Nagaland, and Telangana; two each in Karnataka, Bihar, and Rajasthan; three each in Himachal Pradesh, Meghalaya and Madhya Pradesh; four in West Bengal; and five in Assam.The commission, led by Sushil Chandra and comprising Rajiv Kumar and Anup Chandra Pandey, has reduced the maximum permitted attendance for political events at indoor venues to 200 as long as it is less than 30% of the full capacity. For outdoor campaigns, the limit is set at 50% of the venue’s capacity but not more than 1000 attendees for events featuring star campaigners and at 500 attendees for all others. Earlier, the commission had decided to allow 50% attendance at outdoor meeting points and had to cap it at 500 after the number of infections in West Bengal increased manifold in April. “In either case, the allowed number is whichever is less. The entire area will be cordoned off and guarded by the police. The count of people entering the ground will be monitored. Expenditure for cordoning/barricading will be borne by the candidate or the political party. Only those grounds which are cordoned or barricaded completely will be used for rallies,” the commission said. The poll body has further reduced the number of star campaigners allowed for registered political parties to 20 from 30 for the upcoming by polls. Also Read: Tripura BJP MLA calls Mamata Oppn’s face for 2024 polls; BJP says he’s confusedIt has warned that candidates and campaigners may be banned permanently in case of violations. “If a candidate or political party violates any of the above guidelines, no more permission shall be given to the concerned candidate/party for rallies, meetings etc. If any star campaigner violates the Covid protocols, he shall not be allowed to campaign further in that constituency/district,” the notification states. The poll body has been requested by the Bharatiya Janata Party in Telangana to relax the guidelines and allow candidates to better interact with the electorate. “The entire country to trying to avoid a third wave in this pandemic, the commission has taken steps in keeping with that ethos,” said an official, aware of the developments. Telangana BJP party president Bandi Sanjay Kumar’s office declined to comment on the matter. Himachal Pradesh Congress president Kuldeep Singh Rathore appreciated the measures announced by the commission and called for its strict implementation, especially if those in power violated the guidelines. “There is an apprehension that there may be a third wave,” he said. “We definitely will adhere to all guidelines. But those in power must also adhere to them, the commission must ensure this.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-tightens-campaigning-rules-after-review-of-last-5-assembly-polls-101633403172240.html
05-10-2021||India||Second most delayed monsoon withdrawal may begin Wednesday||India Meteorological Department (IMD) says that conditions are favourable for the monsoon to start withdrawing from some parts of northwest India on Wednesday, marking its second-most delayed withdrawal in the last 41 years. In 2019, monsoon withdrawal was the most delayed, commencing only on October 9.A cyclonic circulation is lying over coastal Tamil Nadu and adjoining southwest Bay of Bengal. A trough in easterlies is running from this cyclonic circulation to Lakshadweep area across the interior Tamil Nadu and Kerala. Another cyclonic circulation is lying over southeast Arabian Sea. It is likely to persist during the next 2-3 days. Also Read: Widespread rain likely in east and south peninsular India till Oct 6Under the influence of these systems, isolated heavy to very heavy rain is very likely over Tamil Nadu, Kerala and coastal and south interior Karnataka till Wednesday, the weather forecaster said. Isolated extremely heavy rain (over 20 cm) is also likely over Kerala till Wednesday. Isolated heavy rainfall is very likely over south Konkan and Goa and south Madhya Maharashtra till October 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2nd-most-delayed-monsoon-withdrawal-may-begin-wednesday-101633400352101.html
05-10-2021||India||Maharashtra registers lowest Covid infections in 8 months on Monday||Maharashtra on Monday registered 2,026 fresh Covid-19 infections, lowest in eight months, taking the tally to 6,562,514. This is Maharashtra’s lowest single-day count since February 2, when it logged 1,927 new Covid cases. On Monday, Maharashtra also reported 26 deaths caused by the disease. Mumbai, meanwhile, reported 339 new cases, taking the city’s tally to 745,652, as per official data. The lower daily count on Monday is also due to fewer tests conducted due to the weekend. However, state health department officials said the state was witnessing a downward trend in infections and will see around 2,500-3,000 cases in the coming days. In the past 24 hours, the state tested 115,450 samples, with a positivity rate of 1.75%. The active caseload in the state dropped to 33,637 on Monday, with 5,389 people getting discharged. Nearly 69% of the state’s active cases are from four districts of Pune, Mumbai, Ahmednagar, and Thane. According to the state health department’s data, Pune had 8,839 (26.27%) of the total active cases in the state, followed by Mumbai’s 6,198 (18.42%), Ahmednagar’s 4,162 (12.37%) and Thane’s 3,848 (11.43%). Also Read: Resident doctors in Maharashtra call off strikeAs the schools reopened across the state from Monday, state health minister Rajesh Tope said that school management must follow “self-discipline” and ensure safety of students. He said Covid protocol must be followed to the fullest in schools to keep the students safe. “Schools have been allowed to restart after one-and-a-half years. The zilla parishad administration should also ensure protocol adherence. Parents and school management also need to be more vigilant. It should be noted that self-discipline is one of the important issues in tackling the pandemic,” Tope said Tope further said that under the Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram (RBSK) programme, schools will be visited regularly to see if they are complying with the protocols. “Under the same programme, a team of doctors is expected to inspect each school. Now, with Covid-19, if anyone is experiencing any symptoms, the RBKS team needs to take immediate action,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-registers-lowest-covid-infections-in-8-months-on-monday-101633399511950.html
05-10-2021||India||Govt easing compliance burden for biz: FM||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday said business entities with strong corporate governance attract investors and company secretaries play a key role in making compliance easy for firms.Speaking at the Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI), the finance minister said the government has been reducing compliance burden for businesses, making it easier to follow rules, which in turn helped Indian firms in attracting investors’ attentions.She said good governance is also the responsibility of the company secretary (CS) by making laws easy and accessible. “The role of a company secretary is to make it easy, to make it ready, for a company to follow the guiding principles,” she said.Citing example of timeless classics, she said these books are known for their simplicity and easy to understand, therefore, continue to capture the imagination of people even today. “That, which is straight. That, which is so easy to understand, and that which doesn’t require too many interpreters,” she said. A CS should make things so simple and easier for the company that it would be “tempting” to comply, she added.Sitharaman said Prime Minister Modi has been very clear about ease of doing business from 2014, and also before, when he was in Gujarat. “The attempt is to make it easy, make it simple for law abiding wealth-creators to do their business and to prosper,” she said.She said “well managed companies” which are more transparent in their functioning, and have good governance principles, are attracting investors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-easing-compliance-burden-for-biz-fm-101633398574584.html
05-10-2021||India||WHO expert panel on Covid-19 vaccines to meet today, Covaxin on agenda||Covaxin, India's indigenously-developed vaccine against coronavirus disease (Covid-19), has so far not received the much-coveted emergency use approval from the World Health Organization (WHO) but is likely to do so soon. An expert panel of the global health body is meeting on Tuesday, October 5, to decide on, among other things, Bharat Biotech's Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin getting the Emergency Use Listing (EUL) authorisation, according to documents detailing the committee's agenda for the meeting and the assessment status of pending applications for vaccine candidates. Top health experts say the approval of the vaccine shouldn't be delayed after reviewing the data this month.Also Read | WHO's nod for Covaxin delayed again over technical queries: ReportsThe Strategic Advisory Group of Expert on Immunization (SAGE) will be conducting a meeting on Tuesday regarding the EUL to Covaxin. The expert panel started its four-day meet on October 4 to decide on policy guidance. This is especially important in light of the fact that all vaccine dossiers submitted to the WHO must go through both SAGE and a technical advisory group, which is also meeting this month, for EUL or pre-qualification.So far, the World Health Organization has only included six Covid-19 vaccine candidates in its EUL. These are the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, the Johnson and Johnson (J&J) vaccine, the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine—which is being manufactured as Covishieldby the Serum Institute of India—the Moderna jab and the Sinopharm and Sinovac vaccines.According to reports, the EUL is a risk-based procedure that considers each unlicensed vaccine for assessment and listing. The process also includes therapeutics and in-vitro diagnostics to expedite vaccine availability to people affected by a certain public health emergency. If Covaxin is included in this list, India's indigenously-developed Covid-19 vaccine will expectedly gain a wider global acceptance.Also Read | Court seeks Centre’s stand on cancer patient’s plea to take Covaxin as 2nd dose“Globally, the world is in need of vaccines and we have to ensure that this is a global war, and many countries are still not getting vaccinated,” Dr Naveet Wig, chairperson of the Covid-19 task force at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi, told the ANI news agency. “So we have to ensure that our vaccines should get the approval timely.”Last Friday, AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria said that the delay in Covaxin receiving EUL from the WHO would translate to more inconvenience for Indians, especially students, who have international travel plans. “The EUA is important because, without it, Covaxin will not be considered and accepted around the world by most of the countries,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-expert-panel-on-covid-19-vaccines-to-meet-today-covaxin-on-agenda-101633392437410.html
05-10-2021||India||PM Modi to participate in a 3-day urban conclave in Lucknow today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be in Lucknow on Tuesday to participate in a three-day urban conclave event, which will be hosted by Uttar Pradesh’s urban development department. PM Modi will inaugurate ‘Azadi@75 – New Urban India: Transforming Urban Landscape’ Conference-cum-Expo at 10:30am and will also lay the foundation stones of 75 urban projects or schemes worth ₹4737 crore during his visit, according to the Prime Minister's Office (PMO).PM Modi will also flag off 75 electric buses meant for several smart cities of Uttar Pradesh and release a coffee table book of 75 successful projects of 10 smart cities. He will digitally hand over keys of Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana - Urban (PMAY-U) houses to 75,000 beneficiaries in 75 districts of the state and will also interact virtually with beneficiaries of the scheme. The Prime Minister will also announce the setting up of Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee Chair in Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar University (BBAU), Lucknow.The conference-cum-expo is being organised by the ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA) as part of ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’. It is themed on transforming the urban landscape with a specific focus on the transformative changes brought in Uttar Pradesh. Three exhibitions are being set up in the conference-cum-expo and the themes of the exhibitions are Clean Urban India, Water Secure Cities, Housing For All, New Construction Technologies, Smart City Development, Sustainable Mobility and Cities Promoting Livelihood Opportunities.The number of the projects (75) has been chosen in sync with the ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’, which is being observed by the government to mark the 75th year of Indian Independence.All states and Union territories will participate in the conference and expo. Defence minister Rajnath Singh, Union housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri, Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi will also be present on the occasion.Adityanath on Saturday conducted a site inspection of the Indira Gandhi Pratishthan days ahead of the programme to be attended by PM Modi, the chief minister's office (CMO) said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-participate-in-a-3-day-urban-conclave-in-lucknow-today-101633391883735.html
05-10-2021||NA||BREAKING: US Security Advisor Jake Sullivan to meet China's top diplomat||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:Telangana Congress took out protest march over Lakhimpur incidentTelangana: Congress took out a protest march in Hyderabad over the Lakhimpur Kheri incident"MoS (Home) Ajay Mishra should be removed from the Cabinet immediately and the black laws should be repealed," says state party chief A Revanth Reddy pic.twitter.com/H0zrVH7PZLCongress took out a protest march in Telangana's capital Hyderabad on Tuesday over the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, ANI reported. "MoS (Home) Ajay Mishra should be removed from the cabinet immediately and the black laws should be repealed," state party chief A Revanth Reddy was quoted as saying.Lucknow Police imposes curbs under Section 144 of CrPC till Nov 8 in view of Covid-19 crisis and upcoming festive seasonLucknow Police imposes restrictions under Section 144 of CrPC till November 8 to maintain law & order and ensure adherence to COVID rules in view of upcoming festivals, various entrance exams and farmers' protests pic.twitter.com/fBd1jImHhELucknow Police on Tuesday issued a statement, imposing curbs under Section 144 of CrPC till November 8 to maintain law and order, and make sure adherence to Covid-19 norms due to upcoming festivals, various entrance exams and farmers' protests.US National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan to meet China's top diplomatUS National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan is going to meet China's top diplomat, AFP reported citing White House.Kolkata Metro to run first trains from terminal stations at 10am, and last trains at 11pm on three days of Durga PujaKolkata Metro has changed timings of train operations during the days of Durga Puja on October 12, 13 and 14. The first trains will leave from terminal stations at 10am, and the last trains will at11pm, ANI reported.Now, a third civilian has been killed in J&K by terrroristsA third civilian - man, has been shot dead in Kashmir in Hajin today. This comes after an owner of a medical store and a street hawker were killed.5-member Cong delegation led by Rahul to visit Lakhimpur tomorrowA five-member Congress delegation led by party leader Rahul Gandhi to visit Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh tomorrow, ANI reported.In 2nd attack today, terrorists shoot dead street hawker in SrinagarA street hawker was shot dead by terrorists in Srinagar's Hawal on Tuesday, only hours after a 68-year-old owner of a prominent medical store in Iqbal Park met with the same fate. The hawker was shot dead near Madin Sahib on the outskirts of Jammu and Kashmir, IGP Kashmir Vijay Kumar said.Decision to grant emergency use authorisation nod to Covaxin to be finalised next week: WHOThe World Health Organization (WHO) in a statement said that an independent group of experts are scheduled to meet next week to “carry out the risk/benefit assessment and come to a final decision whether to grant Emergency Use Listing to Covaxin.”CBI granted 14-day custody of 3 suspects in Narendra Giri death caseThe chief judicial magistrate’s court in Prayagraj has granted a 14-day custody to CBI of three suspects in the death of Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad (ABAP) president Mahant Narendra Giri.‘Not allowed to meet my legal counsel': Priyanka on being placed under house arrest in UP's SitapurCongress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra says after she was taken to Sitapur PAC compound following detention on way to Lakhimpur Kheri, "no further communication regarding circumstances or reason, or sections under which I've been charged have been communicated to me" pic.twitter.com/rVgWHoM8gwCongress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has issued a statement on her house arrest in Uttar Pradesh's Sitapur district en route to Lakhimpur Kheri. In the statement, she said that she has not been allowed to meet her legal counsel, who has been standing at the gate of the PAC compound since morning.‘Covid-19 intensified mental health issues in children’: UNICEFUNICEF representative Yasmin Ali Haque said on Tuesday that according to reports one in seven children suffer from mental health issues globally, and Covid-19 has intensified it. “We've seen that despite having issues children are not comfortable talking about it,” Haque was quoted as saying by ANI.Tripura BJP MLA Ashis Das takes dip in Ganga as ‘mark of penance’ before joining TMCTripura BJP MLA Ashis Das, who is set to join TMC in Kolkata later in the evening, shaved his head and took a dip in Ganga as a “mark of penance.”Internet services in Lakhimpur restored at 6pm on TuesdayInternet services in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri was resorted at 6pm on Tuesday after being snapped at 8.30pm on October 3, following the farmers' protest incident.Delhi court denies bail to wrestler Sushil Kumar in murder caseDelhi court on Tuesday denied bail to Olympic medallist, wrestler Sushil Kumar in Chhatrasal Stadium murder case, ANI reported.Four more accused in Mumbai cruise party raid case sent to NCB custody till October 11Mumbai's Esplanade Court on Tuesday sent four more accused in cruise rave party raid case namely Abdul Qadir Sheikh, Shreyas Nair, Manish Darya, and Avin Sahu to NCB custody till October 11. All of them were held earlier today, news agency ANI reported.Pope expresses ‘great sorrow’ for French Church abuse victimsPope on Tuesday expressed 'great sorrow' for victims of French Church abuse, news agency AFP reported.‘Gratitude to people for repeatedly blessing us’: PM on BJP's win in Gujarat local body pollsResults of the local body polls across Gujarat and Gandhinagar Municipal Corporation reaffirm the deep-rooted bond between the people of Gujarat and BJP. Gratitude to the people for repeatedly blessing us. Kudos to all @BJP4Gujarat Karyakartas for working hard at the grassroots.Prime Minister Narendra Modi says “gratitude to people for repeatedly blessing us” following BJP's win in Gujarat local body elections on Tuesday. Entry to Lakhimpur stopped for Priyanka Gandhi as Section 144 of CrPC imposed in district: PoliceUttar Pradesh's Sitapur district DM Vishal Bhardwaj on Tuesday said that Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was stopped from entering the district as “section 144 of CrPC was imposed in the district." “We've stopped Priyanka Gandhi in Sitapur,” Bhardwaj told ANI.West Bengal guv Dhankar to administer oath of office to Mamata Banerjee on October 7West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankar will administer oath of office to TMC chief Mamata Banerjee, and two other newly-elected MLAs - Amirul Islam, and Jakir Hossain, as the state assembly on October 7, ANI reported. Mamata along with Islam and Hossain won the recently concluded bypolls in Bhabanipur, Samserganj and Jangipur.‘Punjab Cong will march towards Lakhimpur’: Sidhu warns if MoS Teni's son not held and Priyanka Gandhi not released by tomorrowIf, by tomorrow, the Union Minister’s son behind the brutal murder of Farmers is not arrested, and our leader @PriyankaGandhi being unlawfully arrested, fighting for farmers is not released, the Punjab Congress will march towards Lakhimpur Kheri ! @INCIndia @INCPunjabNavjot Singh Sidhu on Tuesday took to his Twitter profile to launch a warning, saying that the Punjab Congress will march towards Lakhimpur Kheri if “by tomorrow” MoS Ajay Mishra Teni's son is not arrested and party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who has been “unlawfully arrested, fighting for farmers," is not released.‘Up to him to decide what he wants to do’: Nitish on reports of Lalu campaigning for upcoming bypollsBihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday said that it is up to Lalu Prasad Yadav to decide what he wants to do amid reports that the latter is going to campaign in  the upcoming bypolls. “Whether he wants to address rallies or do anything else. He was working from the jail anyway,” Nitish told news agency ANI.Syukuro Manabe, Klaus Hasselmann and Giorgio Parisi awarded 2021 Nobel Prize in PhysicsBREAKING NEWS: The Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences has decided to award the 2021 #NobelPrize in Physics to Syukuro Manabe, Klaus Hasselmann and Giorgio Parisi “for groundbreaking contributions to our understanding of complex physical systems.” pic.twitter.com/At6ZeLmwa5Syukuro Manabe, Klaus Hasselmann and Giorgio Parisi has been awarded the 2021 Nobel Prize in Physics for their “groundbreaking contributions to our understanding of complex physical systems.”Ex-Milkfed chairman Harminder Singh joins SADFormer Milkfed chairman Harminder Singh has joined Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), leaving Congress. SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal has announced Harminder as the party's candididate from Sultanpur Lodhi for the upcoming Punjab assembly polls in 2022. Farmers block NH44 in Haryana's Kurukshetra over slow and conditional paddy procurementAngered over slow and conditional paddy procurement, farmers have blocked NH44 near Pipli in Kurukshetra district in Haryana. Police have diverted traffic on the link roads from Shahbad-Ladwa-Karnal.‘Joint opposition' needed against UP govt; will meet Rahul Gandhi today: Sanjay Raut#LakhimpurKheriViolence has shaken the nation,@priyankagandhi has been arrested UP govt, opposition leaders are being restricted from meeting farmers. There is need for joint opposition action against oppression by Government in UP. Meeting @RahulGandhi at 4.15 pm todayजय हिंद!Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Tuesday tweeted that ‘joint opposition’ is needed for taking action against oppression by Uttar Pradesh government. In his post, he added that he is going to meet Congress leader Rahul Gandhi at 4.15 pm today.Mandis haven't yet started paddy procurement: Haryana BKU chief Gurnam S ChaduniHaryana BKU chief Gurnam S Chaduni on Tuesday said that mandis haven't yet started paddy procurement, adding that all terms and conditions including the cap of 25 quintals should be removed. “Govt should start procurement from today onwards otherwise from tomorrow we request farmers to gherao the political leaders,” he added.UP police lodges FIR against Priyanka Gandhi, Deependra Hooda among othersAn FIR has been lodged against 11 people including Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Deependra Hooda and Ajay Kumar Lallu for disturbing peace, news agency ANI quoted SHO of Hargaon Police Station as saying. This came after Congress supporters continued their protest outside PAC guest house in Sitapur where party leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is detained.Bhupesh Baghel claims he is not being allowed to leave Lucknow airportChhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel claimed on Tuesday that he was not being allowed to leave Lucknow airport. Baghel, who was appointed as the senior poll observer in Uttar Pradesh by Congress, took to Twitter to share an image of him sitting at the airport surrounded by cops and other security personnel.Pashupati Kumar Paras ‘welcomes’ EC's decision Union minister Pashupati Kumar Paras said on Tuesday that he is in favour of the Election Commission's (EC) allotment  of new election symbols and party names to the two feuding factions of Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), reported news agency ANI. “I welcome the Election Commission's decision. I have been allotted the name Rashtriya Lok Janshakti Party and the 'Sewing Machine' symbol,” he told reporters. 80% of houses under PM Awas Yojana owned by women: PM Modi“Under PM Awas Yojana, over 80% of the houses are either owned by women or they are joint onwer of these houses,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi says in Lucknow.Kejriwal sends proposal for ‘doorstep delivery of ration’ to LG Anil BaijalThe Arvind Kejriwal-led Delhi Government has again sent the proposal of “doorstep delivery of ration” scheme to Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, reported news agency ANI. In June, Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal had rejected the Delhi government's proposal for the launch of its flagship "doorstep delivery of ration" scheme, citing a lack of clearance from the Centre and an ongoing court case involving the scheme.No 2-finger test conducted on woman officer: IAF ChiefThe IAF chief VR Chaudhari today said no two-finger test was conducted on the woman officer in Coimbatore rape case. This came after the 28-year old female Air Force officer levelled serious charges against the IAF authorities, including subjecting her to a banned finger test and also forcing her to withdraw the complaint against the accused Flight Lieutenant. PM Modi hands over keys of PMAY-U houses to beneficiaries in UP todayPM Modi today handed over keys of PMAY-U houses to 75,000 beneficiaries in Uttar Pradesh. He is currently interacting with the beneficiaries of the scheme virtually.EC Allots party names and symbols to Chirag Paswan & Paras KumarThe Election Commission (EC) today alloted the name ‘Lok Janshakti Party (Ram Vilas)’, and election symbol 'Helicopter' to Chirag Paswan. On the other hand, Pashupati Kumar Paras was allotted the name ‘Rashtriya Lok Janshakti Party’ and 'Sewing Machine' as election symbol by the panel.This came after the Commission barred the Chirag Paswan and the Pashupati Kumar Paras factions from using the name of Lok Janshakti Party or its symbol 'bungalow' till the dispute between the rival groups is settled.Attack on farmers shows attitude of government: Sharad PawarCondemning the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, NCP chief Sharad Pawar said the probe in connection with the case should be conducted by a sitting supreme court judge. "The attack on farmers shows the attitude of the government. Farmers across the country will give befitting reply to the ruling party," he added.PM Modi to handover keys of PMAY-U houses to beneficiaries in 75 districts of UP todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will today virtually handover keys of PMAY-U houses to 75,000 beneficiaries in 75 districts of Uttar Pradesh.“Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana has sanctioned 17.3 lakh houses. 8.8 lakhs beneficiaries have been given houses so far. More will be given today by PM,” Union Minister Hardeep Singh Puri says in Lucknow.BJP workers celebrate party's lead in Gandhinagar municipal corporation polls#WATCH | Gujarat: BJP workers & supporters were seen celebrating as the party leads in Gandhinagar Municipal Corporation elections pic.twitter.com/rsF3TStjJWBJP workers and supporters gather to celebrate the party's lead in Gandhinagar Municipal Corporation elections.Congress workers break barriers, raise slogans to protest against Priyanka Gandhi's detention in Sitapur#WATCH Congress workers break barriers, raise slogans in Sitapur as party leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra remains under detention at a city guest house. She was detained yesterday while she was on her way to Lakhimpur Kheri. pic.twitter.com/UlLQNL0R8WCongress workers break barriers, raise slogans in Sitapur as party leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra remains under detention at a city guest house. Priyanka Gandhi was detained on Monday after she attempted to visit families of victims of Lakhimpur Kheri violence.PM Modi inaugurates ‘Azadi@75’ conference in LucknowPM Narendra Modi today inaugurated 'Azadi@75-New Urban India: Transforming Urban Landscape’ conference in Lucknow. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Union Minister Hardeep Singh Puri, UP Governor Anandiben Patel and UP CM Yogi Adityanath were also present.India slams Pak for raising Kashmir issue at UNStrongly hitting out at Pakistan for again raking up the Kashmir issue at the UN, India has said a constructive contribution cannot be expected from a country that has an established practice of hosting terrorists and is the "epicentre" of global terrorism, and the biggest destabilising force in the world.Aircraft of a domestic air carrier slipped off the runway at Kathmandu Airport todayAn aircraft of a domestic air carrier (Shree Airlines) slipped off the runway at Kathmandu Airport today; No reports of immediate damage. The airport remains operational: Kathmandu Airport authorities.Sensex falls 100 points to open session at 59,219 ; Nifty at 17,669Sensex falls 100 points to open session at 59,219.India reports 18,346 fresh Covid-19 cases, deaths in last 24 hoursIndia recorded 18,346 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, which pushed the nationwide tally to 33,853,048.Petrol, diesel prices hiked againPetrol, diesel prices hiked again; ₹102.64/ltr (up ₹0.25) & ₹91.07/ltr (up ₹0.30) in Delhi; ₹108.67 (up ₹0.24) & ₹98.80/ltr (up ₹0.32) in Mumbai, respectively.Facebook blames major outage on router workFacebook blames major outage on router work, reports AFP.Earthquake of 4.5 magnitude hits Arunachal PradeshEarthquake of magnitude 4.5 on the Richter scale occurred at 0808 hours, 276 km north-northwest of Pangin, Arunachal Pradesh: National Center for Seismology (NCS).Cruise ship raid case: 2 persons to be produced before court todayCruise ship raid case | Mumbai Narcotics Control Bureau has arrested two persons- one person who was detained during a raid on the cruise ship for the second day yesterday and a drug peddler from the Jogeshwari area; both arrested persons to be produced before court today.3 ISIS-K terrorists killed in security operations by Taliban in Kabul: ReportThe Taliban have reportedly conducted operations in Kabul's northern suburb, killing three terrorists of the ISIS-Khorasan branch.Second most delayed monsoon withdrawal may begin WednesdayIndia Meteorological Department (IMD) says that conditions are favourable for the monsoon to start withdrawing from some parts of northwest India on Wednesday, marking its second-most delayed withdrawal in the last 41 yearsMicrosoft rolls out Windows 11Microsoft has already begun rolling out Windows 11, the latest upgrade to the popular operating system (OS), across the world.New Zealand admits it can no longer get rid of coronavirusNew Zealand's government acknowledged Monday what most other countries did long ago: It can no longer completely get rid of the coronavirus.WhatsApp entirely back up and running nowWhatsApp is entirely back up and running now, said CEO Will Cathcart.Earthquake with 5 magnitude hits AfghanistanAn earthquake of magnitude 5.0 on the Richter Scale struck Afghanistan near Fayzabad early morning on Tuesday.WHO expert panel on Covid-19 vaccines to meet todayCovaxin, India's indigenously-developed vaccine against coronavirus disease (Covid-19), has so far not received the much-coveted emergency use approval from the World Health Organization (WHO) but is likely to do so soon.Congress supporters demand release of Priyanka GandhiCongress supporters stage protest, demand "release of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra" outside PAC guest house in Sitapur where she is detained.PM Modi to participate in a 3-day urban conclave in Lucknow todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will be in Lucknow on Tuesday to participate in a three-day urban conclave event.Donald Trump faces deadline for questioning in defamation suit: USFormer President Donald Trump now has a December 23 deadline to undergo questioning in a former “Apprentice” contestant's defamation lawsuit over what he said in denying her sexual assault allegations, a court has said.Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp coming back online after hours of disruptionServices of Facebook, Instagram, and WhatsApp are coming back online after several hours of disruption that impacted millions of people worldwide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-october-05-2021-101633390217882.html
05-10-2021||India||Tripura BJP MLA calls Mamata Oppn’s face for 2024 polls; BJP says he’s confused||AGARTALA: On a visit to West Bengal for the last two days, Tripura’s Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator Ashish Das on Monday showered praises on West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee who, he said, has become the face of the opposition for the 2024 Lok Sabha elections after her emphatic win from Bhabanipur.Ashish Das, who is known to have been a critic of Tripura chief minister Biplab Deb back home in Agartala, visited the Trinamool Congress (TMC) office in Kolkata on Saturday triggering speculation that he might be on his way out of the BJP.The BJP MLA’s visit to Kolkata was earlier described by his party leaders as a personal trip.Asked on Tuesday whether he is joining TMC, Das said that he cannot clarify anything till he completes some rituals at Kalighat on Tuesday.“Mamata Banerjee has been a choice of many people for the post of Prime Minister. We have not seen any Bengali become Prime Minister till now,” Ashish Das told reporters in West Bengal.He also launched a sharp attack on his party leaders, alleging that BJP-ruled states such as Tripura, Gujarat, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh were being ruled like dictatorships.“I wish to see a mother ruling the country and all evil forces will be destroyed by matri-shakti (women power,” he added.Tripura BJP chief spokesperson Subrata Chakraborty said the party was keeping a watch on party leaders and will take action whenever it is required. As for Mamata Banerjee, he said, there was no reason to praise the TMC boss as people in West Bengal have started realising their mistake in voting for her party after the poll-related violence there. “We feel that he (Ashish Das) is confused,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-bjp-mla-calls-mamata-oppn-s-face-for-2024-polls-bjp-says-he-s-confused-101633379590038.html
05-10-2021||India||162 UK nationals sent to mandatory home quarantine||New “reciprocal” Covid-19 rules for UK nationals arriving into India came into force on Monday, with authorities sending 162 of 539 people who arrived in three flights from the country to mandatory home quarantine after making them sign affidavits.The rules have been seen as a tit-for-tat response to UK’s decision not to recognise Indian vaccine certificates. When heading to the other country, people of either nation now need a pre-departure Covid-19 test, a test on arrival (in the UK, this needs to be taken on Day 2), and a test on the eighth day after their arrival – irrespective of their vaccination status.Such rules do not apply to arrivals from other low-Covid countries in either UK or India.“We are strictly following the guidelines issued by the Central government according to which only UK nationals are being subjected to mandatory home quarantine. Of the 539 passengers from the UK, 162 were marked for mandatory home quarantine for 10 days. Rest of the passengers, non-UK nationals, will not be put under surveillance,” said a senior revenue official deputed at the airport for handling UK passengers.To be sure, home quarantine was mandatory for arrivals from UK due to the prevalence of the Alpha variant there, but it was not strictly enforced.According to senior government officials, who asked not to be named, no passenger from the flights that arrived on Monday tested positive for Covid-19 during the mandatory RT-PCR test at the airport. This is in addition to the RT-PCR test which they have to take before boarding the flight from the UK.According to the official quoted above, those sent to mandatory home quarantine are being monitored by respective district administrations. Delhi has 11 districts and in each, there are dedicated teams that follow-up on those under home quarantine and check for violations. Violating a mandatory home quarantine is an offence under the DDMA Act and attracts penal action.“These passengers are made to sign an affidavit at the airport which also asks them to mention their place of stay for the next 10 days. Once they are done with the RT-PCR test at the airport and the result is negative, the affidavit having the addresses, contact numbers of these passengers are sent to the respective district magistrates so that they can initiate Covid-19 surveillance on them,” said a second government official.On day eight of the 10-day quarantine such passengers will have to take a Covid-19 test at their own cost. “By the time the result of the RT-PCR test comes, it will be the 10th day of home quarantine since their arrival in India,” said the official.A senior airport official said that there were three flights that came from the United Kingdom by Monday evening. “The first flight that came from London was UK-018 at 12.30 am and this flight was carrying 114 passengers. The second was British Airways 257 at 9 am, which was carrying 250 passengers, and 45 of them were transit passengers. The third flight arrived at IGI airport an hour later at 10 am. The Air India 112 flight was carrying 175 passengers, of which 65 were transit passengers,” this person said.“There are separate immigration counters made especially for the passengers coming from the UK. This setup was made so these passengers don’t merge with ones coming from other places. Once they land, they are taken to these counters in batches of at most 25 people and their RT-PCR test is conducted here. For those who turn up positive, they are shifted to a hospital,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/162-uk-nationals-sent-to-mandatory-home-quarantine-101633378207091.html
05-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Opposition will try to keep up political heat in UP||Lucknow With violence erupting in Lakhimpur Kheri during a protest by farmers, resulting in the deaths of eight people, the Opposition faces the task of keeping up political heat on the Uttar Pradesh government ahead of next year’s assembly elections, experts said on Monday. The UP district has turned into a political battleground, with leaders across parties attacking the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the violence and making attempts to reach the spot to meet families affected by the violence. “The Opposition will try to take advantage of the Lakhimpur Kheri issue in the 2022 assembly election. The unfortunate incident has taken place before the state goes into poll mode. The Lakhimpur Kheri issue is likely to remain the centre stage of politics till the assembly polls,” said Professor SK Dwivedi, former head of the department of political science at Lucknow University. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav and other leaders were stopped as they headed to Lakhimpur Kheri to meet people in the area. “A section of farmers is not happy with the BJP government, mainly in the west UP region. The state government has tried to pacify the sentiments of farmers by making certain promises and providing financial assistance,” said AK Singh, former director, Giri Institute of Development Studies, Lucknow. UP BJP spokesperson Chandramohan said the state government has taken necessary action and brought the situation under control following the violence. He said the BJP has undertaken a number of programmes for the welfare of farmers. The Congress’s spokesperson in the state Ashok Singh said the BJP was fast losing ground in the state and this was reflected in the way the BJP government handled the Lakhimpur Kheri violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-opposition-will-try-to-keep-up-political-heat-in-up-101633376589838.html
05-10-2021||India||My son was not there... else he would not have survived attack, says Ajay Mishra||As the political row over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence intensified on Monday, Union minister Ajay Kumar Mishra Teni dismissed allegations that his son was allegedly driving a vehicle which mowed down several people, including four farmers, a day ago.The minister’s son, Ashish Mishra, who is facing murder charges, also claimed that the allegations against him are baseless and that he was not present at the scene of the incident.“My son was not there. In the programme, there were thousands of people, including police and administration. My son was present at the programme venue from 11 am and continued to stay there till the conclusion of the programme. So there is no chance of my son being present at the spot,” he said.The Union minister was referring to a programme which was organised to welcome Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya in the district.Violence broke out after two vehicles belonging to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers, en route to the event, allegedly ran over four cultivators who were demonstrating against Maurya’s visit at Tikonia-Banbirpur road in Lakhimpur Kheri.Angered by this, the protesters then allegedly went on a rampage and lynched two BJP workers and a driver. Two vehicles were also set on fire by the mob.A murder case was filed against the minister’s son, Ashish Mishra, on Monday after protesters alleged that he was driving the vehicle that ran over protesting farmers on Sunday.“I was neither present in the car nor at the spot (of the incident)... I was in Banbirpur from 9am in the morning till late evening, supervising arrangements for the visit of the deputy chief minister,” Ashish said.“Allegations against me are completely baseless and I demand judicial inquiry of this matter and culprits should get punished,” he added.The Union minister claimed that protesters first pelted stones due to which the driver lost control of the vehicle, leading to the accident.“Some elements in farmers, who were protesting, showed black flags and pelted stones on the car which turned turtle. Two farmers came under the car and died,” he said.Besides this, Teni also denied making any remarks against the farmers which allegedly led to the protests on Sunday.“I myself am a farmer and how can I say anything against them. What I have referred to in my statements is the unlawful elements penetrating into farmers’ agitation,” he said.The minister’s clarification came after a purported video of him telling farmers that he would “discipline” them in “two minutes” was believed to have triggered the protests which ultimately led to violence.“Face me, it will take just two minutes to discipline you fellows,” the two-time BJP MP from Kheri was heard purportedly saying in the video, which went viral on social media before Sunday.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-my-son-was-not-there-else-he-would-not-have-survived-attack-says-ajay-kumar-mishra-101633376411377.html
05-10-2021||India||Tropical storm over west Pacific travelled upto Oman||Cyclone Shaheen, the offspring of Cyclone Gulab, severely battered Oman and parts of Iran on Monday morning, killing at least 10 people. Cyclone Gulab had ravaged India’s east coast on September 26, causing damages worth ₹2,000 crore. Interestingly, the genesis of the serial cyclones was with tropical storm Dianmu, which started in the western Pacific Ocean and crossed Vietnam, Thailand and Myanmar to emerge as a feeble system in the Bay of Bengal, which then strengthened into Cyclone Gulab. Gulab’s remnant brought widespread heavy rains to central and western India at the fag end of the monsoon, damaging standing crops. The economic impact of Cyclone Gulab is estimated to be around ₹2,000 crore, with much of it being borne by farmers, according to RMSI, a global disaster risk management firm.As forecast by the India Meteorological Department, Gulab’s remnant emerged as a well marked low pressure area over south Gujarat and the adjoining Gulf of Khambhat. The storm gained in strength over the Arabian Sea and transformed itself in the severe Cyclone Shaheen. The Met department had correctly predicted that after landfall, Gulab’s remnant may revive into the next cyclonic storm over the Arabian Sea. Meteorologists are intrigued by the long life of a stormy weather system from the western Pacific that had three lives — Dianmu, Gulab and Shaheen – and did not weaken despite its long travel over the Indian subcontinent.“Shaheen is unique because it emerged from remnant of Gulab, which had emerged from a tropical storm over west Pacific,” said Sunitha Devi, in-charge, cyclones, IMD. “There have been few such tracks in the past. There was one in 1948, for example. It is also unique because Gulab formed towards the end of the monsoon. Cyclones normally form during the post-monsoon season starting October. Over land, Gulab and its remnant behaved like a monsoon system, bringing widespread rain over central India and over Telangana and Odisha.” IMD’s list of unique cyclone tracks lists a storm in 1921 that moved from the Pacific Ocean all the way to Oman. “Gulab weakened to a well-marked low before intensifying into Shaheen, otherwise it would have one name, which would make it even more unusual. It’s unique, but as you can see, in 1921 also there was a similar track,” said M Mohapatra, director general, IMD.IMD continued to issue warnings for cyclone Shaheen even when it moved away from the Indian coast because it is the regional specialised meteorological centre for north Indian Ocean and advises all countries in the region on cyclones. “India being a specialised centre issues warnings for 13 countries as part of an advisory role under the World Meteorological Organisation,” Mohapatra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tropical-storm-over-west-pacific-travelled-upto-oman-101633376357693.html
05-10-2021||India||UP Police manhandled me, tried to force me into their vehicle: Priyanka Gandhi||In police custody in Sitapur after being stopped from going to Lakhimpur Kheri, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra spoke to HT on the phone about the farm agitation and the incident in which eight people were killed. Edited excerpts:Where are you speaking to us from?I’m technically in custody. I arrived in Lucknow at night with the intention of going to Lakhimpur Kheri in the morning. I thought I would go to the Congress office, but as I was coming out of the house, there were two rows of police people who surrounded my car and said that you cannot go forward. After their altercation, I got out and asked why they were stopping me but no one seemed to have any answer. I started walking, and then somebody got a car and we drove, intending to go to the party office but when I saw so much police deployment, I decided to go straight to Lakhimpur Kheri.At three toll gates, they had parked trucks so that we could not go across. We managed to, however, cross two of them and then we decided to go via the dirt tracks and village roads. For the next 3-4 hours, it was just one car with five of us in it, and we eventually ended up about 10km from the Lakhimpur Kheri border in Sitapur. At which point, we were again surrounded by police people, and they took the key of our car and refused to let us move. Again I got out and a cordon was made around me of policewomen so that I couldn’t move.I tried to walk but they were pushing and shoving. Then they started beating my colleagues, punched one of them several times in the stomach and lifted him up and tried to stuff him into a jeep. They also pushed and shoved Deepender Hooda, and manhandled him a lot. At which point, I fought with them and told them they had absolutely no basis for what they were doing. As I was trying to stop them from hitting my colleagues, they manhandled me quite a bit as well. They tried to force me into their jeep, but I told them there was no legal basis for this. Even if Section 144 was there, I told them that four of us will go and in no way are we breaking the law. That point a senior officer told me that they are arresting me under section 151 (preventive arrest) but they had no answer as to what crime I was going to commit. Then they brought me here without my security or any of my colleagues, to this rest house.That’s the place we saw images of you sweeping the floor?Yes, I was. I like my room to be clean.What’s the plan now?Issue isn’t of my arrest. I have come here to see those families and to raise my voice in their support. There is absolutely no legal basis for detaining me and I haven’t been given any reason for my arrest. I don’t intend to leave until I can meet the families. It’s up to them, they have 24 hours to give me a formal order for my arrest.The police say that they allowed farm leaders to go in but it’s a fragile situation and that’s why no politicians allowed inThey said the same thing when I wanted to go to Hathras, the same thing when I went to each and every household of those killed in the CAA [citizenship amendment act] protests, the same thing when I went to Sonbhadra and many other places. I want to ask you since I eventually ended up going to all those places -- can you name one place where I made an inflammatory remark or encouraged people to be violent with each other? I didn’t. In UP, despite all those beautiful posters in Delhi, there’s a complete breakdown of democracy and complete breakdown of the law-and-order situation. It’s a virtual dictatorship where all the institutions are meant to safeguard democracy are engaged in safeguarding the propaganda and machinery of the BJP government.Has the Opposition been successful in this case? Police have named the BJP leader’s son in the FIR and also announced compensationThe UP government usually takes action when political pressure is put on them, which is why it is extremely important for Opposition parties to raise their voice and create pressure. Otherwise, the last vestiges of justice and law and order are also not going to remain if we all just keep quiet. However, the action they take in that moment isn’t complete. So, for example, they have arrested me but why have they not arrested a man who is accused of mowing down farmers and of whom there are videos, ground reports and all sorts of evidence? What moral authority does the government have to remain in power when a minister of the government openly threatens the public? Three-four days later this happened, so what moral authority does this man have to remain a minister and what moral authority does the CM have to remain in power? Please see this man’s criminal history and antecedents which haven’t been highlighted yetAre you planning a concerted effort with other opposition leaders?If you look at the last two years, when have you seen Mr Akhilesh Yadav come out on the street for any agitation? Did you see him during the NRC-CAA protests or during the Hathras incident? Did you see him on the street representing the farmers? You did not. Did you see Mayawati ji? You did not. Did you see the Congress party? Yes, you did. Especially in the last 1.5 years including the time there was corona, the Congress party did the maximum work on the ground, maximum issues and maximum relief for corona. We have been working and raising issues and slowly building our organisation. I am open to anybody as objective is to defeat the BJP and prevent UP from falling even more into this quagmire of extremely terrible law and order.But is there a paucity of faces in the Congress as many like Jitin Prasada have left?It’s not a question of faces but what you have on the ground. There are people who have left the party, who have probably switched sides because they felt they couldn’t win an election. Our party has to slowly build from the ground and those who don’t have the heart for this fight, who don’t have the courage to deal with the kind of things visited upon them when they do fight (legal cases, harassment etc.), actually should leave. I am not worried about those who are leaving or left, I am more concerned that what we are building on the ground, throwing up new leaders who are connected to the ground and win their elections.So building from the ground, do we expect Congress to dent Yogi’s chances in 2022 or are you more realistic and know it’s a long fight?Either way for the Congress it’s a long fight. The Congress has been out of power for 32 years. Whether we make a huge impact or a lesser impact, ours in UP is a long haul and that’s what we’ve done in the last few years. We have initiated the process which should yield something in 2022 and something in 2024 and something else five years later.Is Priyanka Gandhi Vadra the CM face?At this point, considering the circumstances we are speaking to each other, it’s a bit frivolous to be speaking about these things. At another time when you come during the election campaign, you will have your answer to that question.Finally, is the farmers’ issue going to be factor only in western UP or across the state?This is a factor in the whole of India because it is not just about the farmers. It’s a factor where the whole of India is watching to those who are asking for justice. These are the people who have built the country, whose sons are standing on the border defending your country, on whom your country is dependent for its entire agricultural production. Everybody in the country is watching this and is seeing how in a democracy, the voices of those who are suffering are completely squashed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-gandhi-vadra-interview-up-police-manhandled-me-tried-to-force-me-into-their-vehicle-101633376169616.html
05-10-2021||India||SC to examine if protest can be permitted with farm laws under judicial scrutiny||Contemplating restrictions on the right to protest, the Supreme Court on Monday observed that “nobody takes responsibility” when damage to property and physical injuries take place during protests, as it referred to the incident in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri where violence claimed eight lives during a farmers’ protest a day ago. A bench of justices AM Khanwilkar and CT Ravikumar wondered why farmers are protesting when the operation of the three contentious farm laws has already been suspended by the apex court this January, while calling it a “principal question” to be determined as to whether protests should be allowed when the issue is sub judice (under judicial consideration). The Union government, through Attorney General KK Venugopal and Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, asserted that parties should not be allowed to protest on the streets when a constitutional court is already examining the subject matter of agitation. “When such incidents happen, nobody takes responsibility. Damage to properties, physical damages... deaths too. But nobody takes responsibility,” remarked the bench when Venugopal spoke out about the violence at Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday. “Why should a person be allowed to protest by the executive after he has exercised his right of going to the court? This is the principal question before us... Once you have gone to the court against the action of the executive, how can that person ask for a permission to protest? Protest against whom? It is now only the court that can pass orders,” commented the bench. “When you have already challenged the law, why should you be allowed to protest? You choose only one option. Either you appeal to the parliament or you come to the court. You cannot be doing everything... How can there be a protest when the matter is sub judice? We will decide this issue,” said the bench. The top court was hearing a petition by farmers’ outfit Kisan Mahapanchayat, seeking permission to hold a peaceful satyagraha against the farm laws at the Capital’s designated protest site of Jantar Mantar when it questioned if there can be an “absolute right to protest”, especially when the party concerned has already moved court against the policy or legislation against which it seeks to hold demonstrations. Meanwhile, another SC bench, comprising justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and MM Sundresh, issued notices to 43 leaders of farmers’ organisations which have been leading protests under the banner of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) against the three farm laws passed by Parliament last year. These leaders include Rakesh Tikait of Bhartiya Kisan Union and Yogendra Yadav of Swaraj Abhiyan – two prominent leaders associated with the ongoing protests. On a request made by the Haryana government through Mehta, the court sought replies from the farm leaders, who have been sought to be included as parties to a petition by Monicca Agarwaal, a single mother working in an information technology firm who has said her travel from Noida to Delhi has become a nightmare due to these protests.According to the application moved by the Haryana government, it is imperative to hear the farm leaders if issues arising out of the agitation on public roads causing inconvenience to others are to be resolved. This bench said that it would hear the case next on October 20 after the farm leaders are served with the notices. Thousands of farmers are camping on the borders of Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, and on highways along these states since November last year, protesting three controversial laws that aim to liberalise the farm economy. Traffic at many points have been diverted, adding to commuting times, besides affecting commercial activities along these routes. Meanwhile, Kisan Mahapanchayat assured the bench, headed by justice Khanwilkar, that is not a part of SKM and is not protesting in public spaces but wishes to carry out a peaceful protest at Jantar Mantar to raise several pertinent issues in farmers’ interest. The bench, however, expressed its reservations in entertaining such a request since the outfit has already challenged the validity of the farm laws before the Rajasthan high court through a writ petition. The court requested Venugopal to assist with regard to the question if a party can be allowed to protest when it has already exercised the option of going to the court. “You want to protest against what? This court has already stayed the law. The government has assured they are not implementing the law. So, what are you protesting? If the validity of the laws has to be decided by this court, where is the question of protest?” the bench asked advocate Ajay Chaudhary, who represented the Mahapanchayat. Chaudhary tried to persuade the bench that the outfit is not only protesting against the validity of the farm laws but is also raising other relevant issues. The court, however, remained unimpressed and remarked that when the Mahapanchayat has chosen to move a petition before the high court, why it should be given permission to protest raising the same or similar issues. Venugopal and Mehta submitted that protests should not be allowed when the issues are already pending before a constitutional court. “There should not be any protest when the issue is pending before this court. They cannot exercise both rights. Please, make it clear they cannot continue the protests. Unfortunate incidents happen...see what happened in Lakhimpur yesterday,” Venugopal told the bench. At this, the court said that it is willing to determine the contours of the right to protest after transferring the Mahapanchayat’s petition before the Rajasthan high court to itself. The court, in its order, recorded that the principal question involved is whether the right to protest is a fundamental right, particularly where a party has approached a constitutional court on the same issue. The court fixed the next hearing on October 21. When the Supreme Court had on January 12 stayed the operation of the three farm laws, it had desisted from issuing any order against the protests, saying it is not against peaceful agitations. “While we may not stifle a peaceful protest, we think that this extraordinary order of stay of implementation of the farm laws will be perceived as an achievement of the purpose of such protest at least for the present and will encourage the farmers bodies to convince their members to get back to their livelihood, both in order to protect their own lives and health and in order to protect the lives and properties of others,” the court order had then recorded in its order.While staying the laws, the top court had formed a committee to discuss the legislation with both farmers and the government and make recommendations to the court. The committee submitted its report in the court on March 19 but the case has not been taken up ever since. Former Supreme Court judge, Justice Madan B Lokur, said that the suggestion by the court that nobody should protest against the farm laws when the issue is pending consideration before it is ridden with dangers.“Supreme Court has no power to restrict Fundamental Rights - it has to protect them for the benefit of citizens. If peaceful protest is prohibited, there is a violation of the right to assemble peacefully without arms, which is a constitutional right guaranteed by Article 19(1)(b),” he said. “There is also an issue of freedom of speech and expression, another fundamental right under Article 19(1)(a) that will seriously and adversely affect journalists, commentators, media persons and just about everyone else. The Hon’ble Court has not defined what kind of protest is prohibited. Protesting on the streets is one form of protest. Hunger strike is another while writing critically against a law or an issue is also a manner of protest,” he added.He pointed out yet another flaw with the court’s suggestion. “The Supreme Court does not indicate by what time it will decide the issue of farm laws. One can understand if at all, that the matter will be decided within a week, till then it can request the people not to protest. Such an appeal has been made in the past. There is a precedent for it. But if a case is not to be decided for next five years, it is crazy to say you cannot protest. This can have a bearing on many other issues pending before the court such as electoral bonds, Citizenship Amendment Act, Article 370, etc. So if a labour law is challenged in court, the suggestion would mean that no trade union or labour union can go on strike. Nobody supports burning of buses or public transport, but peaceful protest and free speech is guaranteed by the Constitution.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-examine-if-protest-can-be-permitted-with-farm-laws-under-judicial-scrutiny-101633376170168.html
05-10-2021||India||‘Stop witch-hunting SRK, have empathy’: Shashi Tharoor on Aryan’s arrest in drugs case||Congress leader and Kerala MP Shashi Tharoor on Monday took to Twitter to take a jibe on those “witch-hunting” Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan on his eldest son Aryan Khan’s arrest by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in a cruise rave party raid case.“I am no fan of recreational drugs and haven’t ever tried any, but I am repelled by the ghoulish epicaricacy displayed by those now witch-hunting Shah Rukh Khan on his son’s arrest,” he wrote in a post on Twitter.Tharoor further asked people to have some empathy. “The public glare is bad enough; no need to gleefully rub a 23-year-old’s face in it,” his tweet read.
05-10-2021||India||Section 144, police cordon, bar on landing — UP stops Opposition||Uttar Pradesh moved swiftly on Monday to bar Opposition politicians from reaching Lakhimpur Kheri where eight people died a day ago, clamping prohibitory orders, denying permission to top Opposition leaders to land in the state and asking Punjab to stop its residents from reaching the flashpoint.The state government moved into action hours after violence broke out in the remote district on Sunday after a car owned by Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra allegedly mowed down four farmers. Enraged local residents then set fire to vehicles and allegedly killed four others, said police.On Sunday night, the state government deployed police and issued orders under section 144 of the Indian Penal Code – which restricts the movement or assembly of four or more people – and stopped Opposition politicians from moving from Lucknow to Lakhimpur Kheri. This included Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav and Bahujan Samaj Party leader Satish Chandra Mishra. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra later defied the police cordon left for Lakhimpur, only to be detained outside the district border at Sitapur by a large police force. She was detained and sent to Provincial Armed Constabulary guest house in Sitapur, along with party leader Deepinder Hooda and UP Congress Committee president Ajay Kumar Lallu. “The leaders of various political parties were stopped from going to Lakhimpur Kheri in view of the prohibitory orders imposed by the district magistrate,” BD Paulson, secretary, home, said. In Tikuniya – where the violence first broke out at 3pm on Sunday – the police also enforced section 144 and suspended phone internet services at 8.30 pm on Sunday. The suspension continued on Monday. The state government also issued a set of controversial orders and letters, prompting the Opposition to allege that the administration was trying to throttle democratic protests. First, UP additional chief secretary for home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi, asked Lucknow airport authorities to not permit the flights of Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder S Randhawa to land at the airport. “In view of the incident on October 3, the district magistrate of Lakhimpur Kheri has imposed section 144 in the district to maintain law and order... in view of the prohibitory orders kindly do not grant permission for arrival to Chief Minister, Chhattisgarh and Deputy Chief Minister, Punjab,” read the letter from Awasthi to the director of the airport, dated October 3. Both Baghel and Randhawa are Congress leaders and were planning to visit Lakhimpur Kheri. “Are all citizen’s rights over in Uttar Pradesh? Do we now need a visa to go there? Don’t BJP leaders go to other states when there are incidents there?” Baghel asked. Calling it a “murder of democracy”, Randhawa said: “We will go and meet the families of farmers who lost their lives and ensure justice for them,” he said. Later in the evening, Randhawa and Punjab Congress working president Kuljit Nagra were detained at Saharanpur while they were on their way to Lakhimpur Kheri. “Why are Congress leaders not being allowed to enter UP to visit the bereaved families in Lakhimpur? Our deputy CM and MLAs have been detained at the UP Haryana Border. I condemn such tyranny being done by the UP Govt,” Channi said in the evening. Second, the UP state government shot off a letter to the Punjab chief secretary Anirudh Tewari, urging him to not allow any one from the state to go to Lakhimpur Kheri.Third, the Punjab director of civil aviation wrote to Awasthi, requesting permission for Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s helicopter to land in Lakhimpur. Around 2pm, the UP home department wrote back, denying permission. “’Due to imposition of Sec 144 in Lakhimpur Kheri, it’s not possible to grant permission for the visit of Punjab CM & deputy CM,” said the letter signed by BD Paulson, UP home secretary. The government also took steps to restrict vehicular movement in the area, and the railways cancelled several trains to the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-section-144-police-cordon-bar-on-landing-up-stops-opposition-101633375811460.html
05-10-2021||India||Private sector will play key role in achieving self reliance in defence: Rajnath||NEW DELHI: Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday said the Union government was committed to strengthening the private sector and priming it for its new role in developing India’s defence capabilities, stressing that private participation was crucial to achieving the goal of Atmanirbhar Bharat or self-reliant India.Singh said the government had taken a raft of reform measures to increase the participation of the private industry in the defence sector, with focus on providing a boost to indigenous defence capabilities. “Developing new technologies indigenously is the need of the hour. Our vision of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ is to ensure that advanced technologies are developed domestically. It is extremely important not just for strengthening national security but also ensuring overall development of the country,” the minister said while addressing a Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) function to felicitate young scientists and other achievers. The government has taken several steps to boost self-reliance in the defence sector, including the raising of foreign direct investment (FDI) in defence manufacturing, creating a separate budget for buying locally made military hardware and notifying two lists of weapons/equipment that cannot be imported. India has set aside ₹70,221 crore this year for domestic defence procurement, accounting for 63% of the military’s capital budget. Last year, the ministry spent over ₹51,000 crore, or 58% of the capital budget, on domestic purchases. The government will take all measures to modernise the armed forces and equip them with latest weapons and systems to deal with any challenge, the minister said. Singh lauded DRDO for its contribution to the government’s efforts to achieve self-reliance in defence manufacturing and its role in enhancing military capabilities at a time when the geo-political situation is changing rapidly. “DRDO is not only trying to match the capabilities of technologically advanced countries, but it is also equally engaged in innovation of new technologies. The new generation programmes of DRDO will upgrade our armed forces in future as well,” the minister said. Singh also released two policy documents of DRDO: Directed Research Policy and Records Management Policy 2021. The first policy seeks to set up advanced technology centres and research cells in academic institutes for focused research on futuristic surveillance, defensive and offensive capabilities. In a major push to the self-reliance campaign in the defence sector, India has signed contracts and cleared projects worth almost ₹54,000 crore in less than a month to boost the military’s capabilities with locally produced weapons and systems including transport planes, tanks, helicopters, airborne early warning systems and counter-drone weapons, as reported by HT on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/private-sector-will-play-key-role-in-achieving-self-reliance-in-defence-rajnath-singh-101633375511040.html
05-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: College student, farmers among 8 killed in clashes||Eight people, including four cultivators, were killed in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri district on Sunday, in the bloodiest clash since the farmers’ protest over the Centre’s three contentious agricultural laws started last year. The farmers were allegedly knocked down by vehicles driven by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers travelling to welcome deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to the area. The remaining deceased -- two BJP workers, a journalist and a driver -- were allegedly pulled out of the vehicles and then lynched by angry protesters. A look the victims:A resident of Parsehra Khurd village under Phardhan police limits, Hariom was a driver and employed with Union minister of state for home, Ajay Kumar Mishra Teni, for several months. He is survived by his parents, a younger brother and a younger sister. Shubham was a local Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) worker and booth president. A resident of Shivpuri locality in Lakhimpur Kheri town, he was travelling in one of the SUVs to receive Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya when he was killed in the violence. He is survived by his parents, wife and a child. Raman Kashyap was a local journalist who contributed to several media houses. A resident of Nighasan town under the same kotwali limits, Kashyap had gone to the spot to cover Maurya’s visit amid the farmers’ agitation when he was caught in the violence. He remained unidentified for several hours and was untraceable by his family after the incident. He is survived by his parents, wife, brother and daughter. Sundar, who hailed from Singha Kalan under Singahi kotwali limits, was a BJP worker and party president of Bhedaura sector. He had also gone to attend the programme in one of the vehicles and was allegedly brutally thrashed to death by the protesters. Daljeet was a farmer from Nanpara area of Lakhimpur. He was the first one to be hit by a vehicle, according to eyewitnesses. He is survived by his wife, 17-year-old daughter and 14-year-old son. Singh, a resident of Nanpara area of Lakhimpur, was the youngest among four siblings -- all farmers. He quit studies after Class 12 and began helping his family in the fields. He would volunteer at the local gurudwara and had reached Tikunia to distribute water and food to protesters when the violence erupted. A resident of Dhaurara in Lakhimpur Kheri, Singh’s youngest son Mandeep is a Shashatra Seema Bal jawan. Lovepreet was a resident of Mashghania and youngest among three siblings. He had enrolled in a college to pursue commerce this year and had reached Tikunia on Sunday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-college-student-farmers-among-8-killed-in-clashes-101633375509773.html
05-10-2021||India||UP turns battleground as admin bars Opposition leaders||Battle lines were drawn between the Uttar Pradesh government and Opposition parties on Monday after the administration stopped several politicians from reaching Lakhimpur Kheri, where eight people died and 10 were injured in violence a day before.Hours after news broke of the clashes on Sunday evening, several Opposition leaders attempted to make their way from Delhi and Lucknow to Tikunia village, roughly 70 km from Lakhimpur district headquarters. But barring some farm leaders and Bhim Army chief Chandrasekhar Azad, most were stopped by the police, citing prohibitory orders in the district. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav, Rashtriya Lok Dal president Jayant Chaudhary and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) leader Satish Chandra Mishra were all stopped at various points on Sunday night and Monday. Separately, the state government refused to allow the flights of Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder SIngh Randhawa to land in Lucknow, triggering criticism by Opposition politicians. “The BJP government is doing the politics of crushing the farmers and finishing them,” Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted.Opposition politicians blamed the BJP and Union minister of state for home, Ajay Mishra, who owned the car that allegedly ran over four farmers. Farmers alleged that Mishra’s son Ashish Mishra was in the car, but the minister denied the charges, and said farmers torched three cars and thrashed other people to death, including two BJP workers and their driver. A local journalist was also killed in the violence. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra landed at Lucknow late Sunday evening, and attempted to head to Lakhimpur Kheri with a large contingent of party workers but was detained at her Lucknow residence. Late at night, she broke the police cordon and walked out, boarded her car and proceeded towards Lakhimpur Kheri. Police stopped her at several spots, and finally detained at Hariya in Sitapur district near Lakhimpur Kheri around 2am on Monday. She was sent to Provincial Armed Constabulary guest house in Sitapur but the leader later alleged that police manhandled and shoved her and Congress leader Deepinder Hooda.“I tried to walk but they were pushing and shoving. They also pushed and shoved Deepender Hooda, and manhandled him. As I was trying to stop them from hitting my colleagues, they manhandled me. They tried to force me into their jeep, but I told them there was no legal basis,” she told HT. Police denied the charges. Congress workers sat vigil outside the guest house she was detained in and shot videos that showed her sweeping the floor of the room with a broom. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted in Hindi, “Priyanka, I know that you will not retreat. They fear your courage. We will ensure that the country’s ‘annadatas’ win this non-violent fight for justice.” The Congress also staged protests in the national capital. Satish Chandra Mishra made an abortive attempt to leave his house around 8 pm on Sunday but was quickly stopped by police. Aam Aadmi Party MP and UP in-charge Sanjay Singh, too, made a bid around midnight but was detained in Sitapur at around 1 am.“This is very sad and condemnable,” BSP chief Mayawati tweeted.Around midnight, police began barricading Lucknow’s Vikramaditya Marg that houses Yadav’s residence and the Samajwadi Party headquarters. Trucks were seen parked across the road and left after a large posse of policemen were deployed in the area. Yadav made an attempt to drive off at around 8 am on Monday, but was stopped. Soon afterwards, some unidentified people set a police jeep on fire. The police held SP workers responsible but the party blamed the police for the fire. Around 10am, a large crowd of SP workers with party flags gathered in the area. Yadav, along with SP national general secretary Ramgopal Yadav, sat on the road outside his residence and shouted anti-government slogans. Within 30 minutes, police detained him. He was released around 5pm.“Vehicles are being run over those who raise their voices. We want the arrest of the minister and his son in the Lakhimpur incident,” Yadav told reporters.Chandrashekhar Azad, who did not have a convoy, managed to sneak into Lakhimpur Kheri and reached the spot by dawn.“It is a sad moment for the farmers of the country. The killing of these farmers shows that the government has crossed all limits,” he said. SP and Congress leaders protested in almost all the districts across the state. The RLD protested largely in the western UP districts. Around two dozen RLD leaders, including its state president Masood Ahmad, were detained on the outskirts of Lucknow.Randhawa, who took the road route to Lakhimpur Kheri from Punjab, was detained by UP police immediately on entering Saharanpur. Earlier in the day, he was denied permission by the UP government to reach Lucknow by air.UP cabinet minister Sidharth Nath Singh blamed the Opposition for politicising the event. “We are taking the matter seriously and it is under investigation. CM has said the culprits will be punished. The Opposition is using the incident for political tourism and political competition as polls are around the corner,” he said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-up-turns-battleground-as-admin-bars-opposition-leaders-101633375151236.html
05-10-2021||India||Zydus Covid vaccine price continues to be key hurdle in Centre nod||New Delhi: The price of the ZyCoV-D vaccine has remained an unresolved issue between the central government and the coronavirus vaccine’s manufacturer, Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila, according to people familiar with the developments, who said that the company has quoted ₹1,900 -- a rate the government finds too steep. “We are hoping that in a week or so there is some resolution in place; but for now the negotiations largely centre around the price of the vaccine that appears to be too high for a vaccine being considered for inclusion in a government immunisation programme,” said a person privy to the developments, on condition of anonymity.ZyCoV-D is the first Indian vaccine to have shown to be safe and efficacious in children, and is the first to use DNA as a vector. The vaccine was granted an emergency use authorisation by India’s drug regulators after interim clinical trial data showed was 66% effective in preventing symptomatic Covid-19, although the company has not released details of their studies or put them through peer review. The trial included volunteers in the 12-18 age group.The government last Thursday said that the indigenously-developed needle-free vaccine will be introduced in the nationwide anti-coronavirus vaccination drive “very shortly”.The vaccine is administered through a needle-free jet injector and a special applicator that is likely to cost around ₹30,000.Since the vaccine has been tested in 12-18 year-olds, it is likely to be included in the porgramme to inoculate children with priority being given to those children who suffer from specified comorbidities.The National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation is working on the protocol and framework for the inclusion of this vaccine in the programme.The vaccine is to be given on day zero, 28 and 56 as per the schedule shared by the company.Globally, at least 50 countries have begun giving doses to children. In most cases, children above the age of 12 are being inoculated. The shots being used for these ages are typically the Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna doses.In India, makers of Covaxin and the Novavax vaccine are carrying out supplementary – also known as bridging -- trials in children.Nearly three rounds of meetings have taken place so far between the Centre and the company, the recent one being on September 30.“The discussions are on, and there should be some resolution soon,” added the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zydus-covid-vaccine-price-continues-to-be-key-hurdle-in-centre-nod-101633374609599.html
05-10-2021||India||BJP includes Yediyurappa’s son in bypolls team||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday included BY Vijayendra, son of former Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa, as one of the nearly two dozen in-charges for the October 30 bypolls to two assembly seats, a day after the party faced backlash from his supporters for announcing the list without the young leader’s name in it, people aware of the developments said. After the BJP first announced its in-charge list on Sunday evening, Vijayendra’s supporters lashed out at senior party leaders for “sidelining him”. The uproar forced Vijayendra, the vice-president of BJP’s Karnataka unit, make a public appeal against posts or statements against the party or its leaders. On Monday, Vijayendra’s name was included as one of the 13 in-charges for Hanagal constituency. “Some of our karyakarthas (party workers) have expressed their anger and anguish about my non-inclusion in the list of in-charge for Sindgi & Hanagal by-elections. My appeal to them: please refrain from making comments that embarrasses our party, leaders, or me,” Vijayendra on Monday said in a post on Twitter. He tagged BJP national president JP Nadda and party’s national general secretary in-charge Arun Singh in his tweet. “As the @BJP4Karnataka Vice President, I will actively campaign for the party candidates in both constituencies. Let us focus all our energies on ensuring victory in both the seats and further strengthen the party,” he said in a second tweet. Vijayendra has had a turbulent relationship with several BJP leaders, who had repeatedly targeted him during his father’s term as the chief minister between 2018 and July this year.On Sunday, the BJP entrusted the responsibility of the two assembly constituencies — Hanagal and Sindgi — to 24 leaders, including ministers and legislators, but left out Vijayendra’s name. Even Basanagouda Patil (Yatnal), the firebrand legislator from Bijapura city and staunch critic of Yediyurappa and his family, was included in the list for Sindgi bypoll. Vijayendra had been in the thick of at least three assembly bypolls —Sira, KR Pete and Maski—in the past two years, helping the party candidates win two seats. Vijayendra was credited with helping BJP’s KC Narayana Gowda win the KR Pete seat in Mandya district, about 99 km from Bengaluru, in December 2019. This was the BJP’s first ever victory in a region that is considered a stronghold of the Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S). This was followed by a victory in Shira (Tumakuru district) in November last year. The outcomes bolstered the confidence of his supporters, who started demanding bigger responsibilities for the former CM’s son by the party. The BJP, however, suffered defeat in Maski bypoll in May this year, in which Pratap Gouda Patil lost even with Vijayendra at the helm of affairs in the constituency. The developments added to the tense state of affairs within the BJP that is trying to find a middle ground to Yediyurappa’s proposed statewide tour to help the saffron outfit in the yet-to-be announced zilla parishad and panchayat polls as well as the 2023 assembly elections. The decision to include Vijayendra as one of the party in-charges for the upcoming by-elections also put to rest speculations of his contesting the bypoll from Hanagal seat and get accommodated in the chief minister Basavaraj Bommai-led state cabinet, people aware of the matter said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-includes-yediyurappa-s-son-in-bypolls-team-101633374129405.html
05-10-2021||India||Bengal post-poll violence: CBI, SIT submit probe progress reports before Calcutta high court||Kolkata: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and a special investigation team (SIT) of the West Bengal Police on Monday filed status reports before the Calcutta high court on the ongoing probe into cases of post-poll violence in the state.The reports were submitted in sealed covers before a division bench comprising Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Rajarshi Bharadwaj.The bench fixed the matter for further hearing on November 8.A five-judge bench presided by the acting chief justice had on August 19 ordered a CBI investigation into cases of alleged murder and crimes against women, including rape and attempt to rape, in the aftermath of the assembly elections earlier this year.Passing a judgement in the PILs seeking an independent probe into alleged violence following the assembly elections, the court had also ordered the constitution of an SIT, comprising three IPS officers of the West Bengal cadre, for monitoring the investigation in all other cases.The bench, which has I P Mukerji, Harish Tandon, Soumen Sen and Subrata Talukdar as its other members, directed that both the investigations will be monitored by the high court and ordered the CBI and the SIT to submit their status reports before it.It later appointed Justice (retd) Manjula Chellur, a former chief justice of Kerala High Court, Calcutta High Court and Bombay High Court, to “overview” the functioning of the SIT.The court had further directed that the matter would be placed before a division bench on October 4 for further hearing.A fact-finding committee into allegations of human rights violations in post-poll violence formed by the NHRC chairman on the order of the high court had on July 13 submitted its final report to the five-judge bench.The bench had also ordered the West Bengal government to pay compensation to the victims of crime as per the policy of the state, after due verification, and directed that the amount be directly transferred to their bank accounts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-post-poll-violence-cbi-sit-submit-probe-progress-reports-before-calcutta-high-court-101633374010470.html
05-10-2021||India||SC asks states to roll out scheme to pay Covid ex gratia within a week||New Delhi: The Supreme Court on Monday directed states and Union territories to roll out within a week the central scheme of ₹50,000 ex-gratia compensation for families of those whose deaths have been certified as Covid-19 fatalities and added this amount shall be over and above the entitlement of these persons under the financial schemes already provided by Centre, states and UTs. A bench of justices MR Shah and AS Bopanna said, “The next of the kin of the deceased who died due to Covid-19 shall be paid ex-gratia assistance of an amount of ₹50,000, which shall be treated as ex-gratia payment under Section 12(iii) of the DMA, 2005 and which shall be minimum and which shall be over and above the compensation/amount to be paid by the Union of India/State Governments/Union Territories to be declared/provided under different benevolent schemes.” The compensation shall not be limited to deaths that have taken place so far but will be available for those who die in future phases of Covid-19 as well, the court said. The central scheme was formulated under the Disaster Management Authority Act, 2005 by the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) pursuant to the Supreme Court judgment of June 30. Making the scheme binding upon all states and UTs, the bench held, “The NDMA, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, and Union of India are directed to issue guidelines to the concerned States and Union Territories incorporating the directions issued hereinabove which shall be binding to all the States/UTs.” As per the scheme, the amount shall be payable out of the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF). As a first step, the states/UTs shall identify an officer at the district level within a week to receive applications and give wide publicity of the same in print, electronic media and in all offices at village, taluk, district levels. The compensation claim shall be decided within 30 days of receipt of application, the court held. The states/UTs were further directed to set up a Grievance Redressal Committee (GRC) within a week where applicants can approach on being denied the claim for compensation or in cases where death certificate showing cause of death as “due to COVID-19” is not issued to them. The bench said, “All endeavours shall be made by the District Disaster Management Authority or District Administration and even the Grievance Redressal Committee to avoid any technicalities and all concerned authority shall act as a helping hand, so as to wipe off the tears of those who have suffered due to loss of a family member died due to Covid-19.” While a death certificate showing cause of death as “Died due to COVID-19” will be necessary to claim the ex-gratia amount, it shall not be conclusive, the court held, adding that if other documents are available to show that death occurred within 30 days of testing Covid positive at home or in hospital or even beyond 30 days of admission at the hospital, the family members will be entitled to compensation. “No State shall deny the ex-gratia assistance of ₹50,000, to the next of the kin of the deceased died due to Covid-19 solely on the ground that in the death certificate issued by the appropriate authority, the cause of death is not mentioned as “Died due to Covid-19,” the court observed. The court also extended the benefit of compensation to persons who died due to suicide within 30 days of suffering Covid-19. Earlier, the Centre had excluded deaths occurring due to “poisoning, suicide, homicide, deaths due to accident” from the ambit of the ex-gratia scheme. But after the PIL petitioner Gaurav Kumar Bansal objected on the exclusion of suicide deaths and the Court insisted, the Centre had left it to the court to include suicide deaths within the list of beneficiaries. In cases where hospitals have showed cause of death as Covid-19 in the Medical Certificate of Cause of Death (MCCD) issued to the authority issuing death certificate, it shall be treated as Covid-19 death, the top court said. The bench also directed hospitals to cooperate with the applicants in providing all relevant documents to the kin of those who died due to Covid-19 in establishing their claim under the scheme. “All concerned hospitals where the patient was admitted and given treatment shall provide all the necessary documents of treatment etc. to the family member of the deceased, as and when demanded,” the bench said, adding, “it will be open for the Grievance Redressal Committee to call for such information and the concerned hospital/institution…. shall have to furnish such particulars as required for the purpose of establishing that the death was due to Covid-19.” The GRC would consist of additional district collector, chief medical officer of health (CMOH), additional CMOH/principal or HOD Medicine of a medical college (if one existing in the district) and a subject expert. If the committee is satisfied about the cause of death due to Covid-19, it shall take remedial measures including issuance of amended official document for Covid-19 death. If the GRC is not satisfied with the applicant, it shall record reasons in its order, the bench added. In municipal corporation areas, the committee shall be headed by deputy commissioner, the bench said, adding that wide publicity shall be given about the committee and its place of operation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-asks-states-to-roll-out-scheme-to-pay-covid-ex-gratia-within-a-week-101633373769408.html
05-10-2021||India||NCB custody of SRK’s son Aryan Khan extended till Oct 7||A metropolitan magistrate court on Monday extended till October 7 the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) custody of Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan, and two others arrested with him for alleged drug abuse on board a cruise ship.Additional chief metropolitan magistrate RM Nerlikar extended the NCB custody of the three primarily in view of the fact that the agency has recovered intermediate quantity of drugs from one of them, and Aryan Khan was accompanying them.Besides, the court also took into consideration that the investigation was at a preliminary and crucial stage.Acting on a specific tip-off, NCB on Saturday night raided a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast and busted a party where drugs were allegedly being used. The agency on Sunday afternoon arrested Aryan, the eldest son of Shah Rukh and Gauri Khan, for alleged possession and consumption of illegal drugs.The two others arrested with him are Arbaaz Merchant, a resident of Bandra and a friend of Aryan, and Munmun Dhamecha, a fashion designer from Madhya Pradesh.At about 1.30pm Khan, Merchant and Dhamecha were taken to JJ Hospital for a medical checkup, in which doctors also took their swabs for RTPCR tests. They were taken back to the NCB office and produced before the Esplanade court around 3.15pm.Additional solicitor general Anil Singh and advocate Advait Sethna, who appeared for NCB, submitted that the agency seized Aryan Khan’s mobile phone and found several chats which showed his connection with drug dealers. “It is necessary to confront all accused in the custodial remand,” Singh asserted.He said the chat clearly showed the nexus, containing discussions of cash transactions. There were international transactions and further probe was on, Singh submitted.The ASG showed some chats to the court to point out that Aryan Khan had conversations with unknown persons about buying charas and the NCB needed to find out who those unknown persons were.Advocate Satish Maneshinde, appearing for Aryan Khan, opposed the prayer for extension of custody. Contending that Aryan was not involved in any drug sale, purchase or consumption, he said nothing incriminating was recovered from the 23-year-old or anybody related to him from amongst the people on the ship. He submitted that Aryan only knows Merchant, from whom 6 grams of charas has been allegedly seized.“The agency can’t simply rely on WhatsaApp chats to seek more custody, as there was no other material on record found from me or people related to me,” said Maneshinde.He said Aryan was invited as a guest and therefore he did not have a boarding card and ticket and the best suite on the ship was allotted to him because of being an invitee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncb-custody-of-srk-s-son-aryan-khan-extended-till-oct-7-101633373529298.html
05-10-2021||India||Rajasthan guv stays child marriage registration||Rajasthan governor Kalraj Mishra on Monday put on hold for further legal examination a bill to amend the law regarding mandatory registration of all marriages, after objections were raised by the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), non-governmental organisations (NGOs), and social activists.The Rajasthan assembly last week passed a bill to amend the Rajasthan Compulsory Registration of Marriages Act, 2009, providing a mechanism for the registration of all marriages in the state, irrespective of age of the bride and groom. The contentious amendment, which is yet to be notified, states that “if the bride is under 18 and the groom is under 21”, the parents or guardians must submit a memorandum for registration of marriage within 30 days from the date of marriage.Social activists and civil society members argued the new provision was retrograde because it effectively legalised child marriage.Though the practice has been a major social ill in Rajasthan for decades, official data does not reflect this -- a problem that activists allege is more to do with recording of the data than the ground reality. According to the state government, only four child marriages were reported in Rajasthan in 2016, 10 in 2017, and 17 in 2018. There is no data on child marriages available for 2019 and 2020.The National Family Health Survey (NFHS), however, showed that the share of child marriages in total marriages in the state per year came down from 65% in 2006 to 35% in 2016, suggesting that it was still a matter of grave concern.While the BJP staged a walkout in the assembly when the bill was passed in the assembly on September 17, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) in the last week of September asked the state government to review the new law because its enactment, it said, would have a “serious impact on the physical, psychological, and social state” of minors. A public interest litigation (PIL) has also been filed by Jodhpur-based Saarthi Trust in the Rajasthan high court’s Jaipur bench challenging the constitutional validity of the bill.A senior official familiar with the developments said on condition of anonymity that looking at the objections, and concerns raised by several sections and the Opposition, the governor has decided to get the bill examined more minutely.The controversy The legal debate centres around a 2006 Supreme Court judgment in “Seema vs Ashwani Kumar”, which directed states and the centre to notify procedures for registration of all marriages.“If the record of marriage is kept, to a large extent, the dispute concerning solemnisation of marriages between two persons is avoided. As rightly contended by the National Commission, in most cases non-registration of marriages affects the women to a great measure. If the marriage is registered it also provides evidence of the marriage having taken place and would provide a rebuttable presumption of the marriage having taken place. Though, the registration itself cannot be a proof of valid marriage per se, and would not be the determinative factor regarding validity of a marriage, yet it has a great evidentiary value in the matters of custody of children, right of children born from the wedlock of the two persons whose marriage is registered, and the age of parties to the marriage. That being so, it would be in the interest of the society if marriages are made compulsorily registrable.”NGOs have argued that the apex court order made no mention of registration of child marriages, and that the state government should have taken the court’s opinion before bringing in the new bill. “It seems that government has wrongly interpreted a Supreme Court order, which does not state that child marriages should be registered. If the government has doubts on how the order should be interpreted, they should approach the court for clarification,” said Kriti Bhati of Saarthi, an NGO working against child marriages in Rajasthan.Bhati, who has prevented over a thousand child marriages in Rajasthan and annulled 43, said the court order said that public opinion should be taken before amending the law. “The registration certificate will also make annulment of child marriages difficult as the court will ask for a certificate. This, the parents will not be have, as getting one for a minor will bring legal action on them,” Bhati said.Kavita Srivastav, general secretary of the People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL), said allowing marriage registrations for people below legal age “directly approves” child marriages, and reiterated the need for pre-legislative consultation. “As per the amendment, every marriage is legal. The marriages annulled so far happened as the girls raised their voice but now this right would also end as the parents will not get the marriage registered fearing legal action,” said Srivastav.“The government should immediately withdraw the changes or else a massive movement will be started against it.”What the government saysThe government said in a statement on September 18that registration of marriage does not in any way give validity to the union, and nor is it a hindrance in the court to declare a child marriage void.“All marriages are being registered in the state since 2006 as per the order of the Supreme Court. This amendment bill 2021 has also been passed to facilitate the process of registration of all marriages in compliance with the order of the Supreme Court,” the statement said.The government stressed the new provision would enable registration of marriages of unregistered deceased couples, so that their children and family members do not face legal hurdles. With the registration of marriage, children will be able to get government jobs, succession, compassionate appointments, domicile certificates, benefits such as a pension, and other legal rights, it added.The government also refuted the charge that the new provision is in contradiction to the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006.“The new bill does not in any way dilute the stringent provisions of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006. The registration of child marriage will not infringe the right to void the marriage given to the bride and groom in the Act,” the statement added. “In Rajasthan, 523 child marriages have been stopped in the state in the year 2019-20 and 160 in 2020-21,” it said.21-year-old Roopa Choudhary, who resisted marriage when she was 15, backed the new amendment as a means to prevent child marriages. “The new amendment is welcome.Compulsory registration will prevent child marriages and legal action can be taken against those who are getting it done,” she said.Now married, and working as a nurse in Jodhpur, Choudhary said: “If parents getting a minor married approach the authorities for a certificate, they will face legal action instantly.”BJP MLA and former state minister Vasudev Devnani said the child marriage bill is a violation of child rights. “The provisions in the bill will encourage child marriages. It is like legalising a crime. Only because they have mandate they cleared the bill but the governor has stopped it for further examination,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-guv-stays-child-marriage-registration-101633372809890.html
05-10-2021||India||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal unveils plan to combat winter pollution||The national capital has drawn up an action plan to tackle the severe air pollution in the winter months, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday, announcing alternatives to stubble burning, measures to control road dust and vehicular emissions, and urging governments of neighbouring National Capital Region (NCR) states to adopt similar steps.As part of its 10-point plan, the Delhi government will help spraying a bio-decomposer -- developed by Indian Agricultural Research Institute (ICAR -- also known as Pusa Institute) -- which converts paddy stubble into manure without burning, in rural areas in the Capital. The burning of farm residue in Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh ahead of sowing the winter crop releases large amounts of smoke, leading to an annual air emergency in the NCR. Kejriwal said these states must use the bio-decomposer as well.Except November, December and January, Delhi’s air quality is usually under control, Kejriwal said. “But this will change in a few days because the Centre and the neighbouring state governments have not done anything to prevent stubble burning in the region,” he added. “This will lead to Delhi’s air quality deteriorating in the coming days.”Besides steps to prevent stubble burning, authorities in Delhi will ensure dust from construction sites is kept to a minimum. There will be increased vigilance to keep vehicular emissions in check, the CM said.The action plan details steps such as forming pollution-monitoring teams and increased checks at hot spots. The government has formed 75 teams to ensure dust control at construction sites, 250 teams to prevent open burning of waste and leaves, and nearly 500 teams to ensure all vehicles comply with pollution under control rules. No diesel vehicles older than 10 years and petrol vehicles older than 15 years will be allowed to ply.The action plan has also identified 64 congestion-prone stretches in the Capital, where long traffic snarls resulted in a spike in pollution levels.Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai early last month promised the city will have a detailed winter action plan. To formulate it, multiple agencies such as the municipal corporations, the public works department, and Delhi traffic police, were asked to submit their proposals to manage air pollution.The winter action plan will be implemented in tandem with the Supreme Court-mandated Graded Response Action Plan (Grap).“The Grap measures will be enforced strictly this season across Delhi NCR. The Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) will be the overarching body that will monitor the situation and will call in the measures listed under the Grap,” Union environment minister Bhupender Yadav said.Delhi is on the right track in its strategy to control air pollution, but it needs concerted efforts to show results, an expert said.“In addition to the sources that the winter action plan tackles, the government should also ensure that Delhi’s urban poor have access to alternatives to using biomass for their space heating requirements,” said Tanushree Ganguly, programme lead at Council on Energy, Environment and Water, a think tank. “One way could be through the creation of clean and warm night shelters.”“Given that Delhi now has a functional decision support system to pinpoint sources of pollution, the government should ensure that insights provided by it are used to plan and roll out actions in advance to prevent severe air quality levels in the city,” Ganguly said.Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), said that such focus on pollution will help Delhi bring down winter season emissions but there needs to be year-long action for noteworthy results. “The focus areas that the government has laid out are on-point, but we have discussed this before that Delhi needs action. We will have to ensure that not only do agencies in Delhi work but even other states in the region work together to find a lasting solution for the pollution problems,” Roychowdhury said.Air pollution has been a stubborn crisis for the Capital and adjoining areas. Meteorological parameters typical for pre-winter months, when wind speed slows down and colder, heavier air drifts settles closer to ground-level, stops tailpipe emissions, road and construction dust, and industrial gases from dispersing.To add to it, smoke from farm fires in Punjab and Haryana catches the north-westerly winds to reach Delhi and other NCR towns, where they push the air quality index into dangerous levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-unveils-plan-to-combat-winter-pollution-101633372751016.html
05-10-2021||India||No ‘legal post-mortem’ into shortage of O2: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday refused to order a nationwide investigation into the shortage of medical oxygen that reportedly led to several deaths during the second Covid-19 wave, emphasising that it may be convenient for some to criticise the government, but the top court will not conduct a “legal post mortem” of past events to “demoralise the authorities”.A bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and BV Nagarathna was emphatic that the role of the Supreme Court is to push for positive changes to deal with contingencies in the future, and that it was not interested in blaming the authorities, which have a very difficult task at hand in dealing with several crises.“It is very easy to criticise the government because they are in the hot seat and you are not... or for that matter even to criticise the court. At this point, should we do a legal post mortem of a particular scheme or past events, or do we bring about some positive things... like we have done by setting up a national task force (NTF)?” the bench asked advocate Medhanshu Tripathi.Tripathi was representing Delhi resident Naresh Kumar, who demanded a commission of inquiry, to be headed by a retired Supreme Court judge, or a former chief justice of a high court, to inquire into various aspects of lack of medical facilities during the second wave of the pandemic. The plea also asked for a court-monitored investigation by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), or a special investigation team to specifically probe the alleged lack of adequate availability of medical oxygen during the second Covid-19 wave in April-May this year.Of the total 25,088 confirmed deaths reported in Delhi due to Covid-19 since the start of the outbreak, a total of 13,210 or nearly 53% of the total tally, lost their lives in just April and May this year, during the peak of the second wave. In contrast, during August-September 2020, the two months when the first wave was at its peak, nearly 10 times fewer people died (1,398 in the two months).But the bench remained unequivocal that such an exercise at this point in time will only result in a blame game. “We don’t want this court to be used as an instrument to aim at someone else or to aim at some other plea. We are sceptical about entertaining such petitions under the garb of a PIL (public interest litigation). Health infrastructure has been inherited by governments in the last 100 years. It is very easy to blame those who are in positions of power today. But we can’t be acting on such assumptions,” the bench told Tripathi.The court regretted that doctors are often assaulted in various parts of the country because there is an assumption that if a patient dies, it is the doctor’s fault. “Your petition begins with similar assumptions and therefore, we cannot entertain it,” it said.The court remarked: “Let’s do something positive for the society like we tried to do through our orders on vaccination and on distribution of oxygen. We pass orders so that we are better equipped to deal with the contingencies in future. At this point when there are several important issues to be taken care of, we don’t want to demoralise the authorities.”As Tripathi argued that the court should ask NTF to also look into the shortage of medical oxygen, the bench retorted that the remit of the task force is very wide, and that the objective to constitute it was for preparing the country in a better way. “We don’t think any retired judge can do anything better than what eminent doctors can do as part of the task force,” it told the lawyer.The court dismissed the petition after recording that NTF, consisting of eminent doctors drawn from various institutions of the country, is already examining a spectrum of issues, including the supply of medical oxygen during the pandemic. About a CBI probe, the bench said the petitioner is at liberty to avail of remedies available under the Criminal Procedure Code to initiate a criminal investigation, but the court will not act just on allegations.On May 6, the Supreme Court set up a 12-member NTF to revamp the Centre’s formula for allocating medical oxygen to states, noting that the deficiencies in the oxygen allocation formula required to be rectified by devising a new method on a “scientific, rational and equitable basis”.The task force, which consists of 10 medical experts from across the country, was asked to devise a “public health response” mechanism, and to come up with a new formula of oxygen allocation; recommendations for augmentation of oxygen; measures necessary for ensuring the availability of essential drugs; best practices for management and treatment of Covid-19; measures to ensure adequate health care professionals; and outreach of expert medical care to rural areas.The task force was asked to submit its recommendations to the Supreme Court and to the Centre, which has to then take appropriate decisions. The apex court may also pass suitable orders based on these recommendations.The order was issued at a time when India was battling its worst wave of Covid-19 infections, overwhelming health care facilities across the country. The demand for medical oxygen was soaring, and several states were demanding more oxygen from the Centre, which was in charge of allocating what became the most precious medical commodity at that time.By a separate order on June 2, a Supreme Court bench, led by justice Chandrachud, also held as “prima facie arbitrary and irrational” the Union government’s coronavirus vaccination policy that put the onus of giving doses to adults in the below-45 years age group entirely on the states and private hospitals.Less than a week later, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a major shift in the vaccination policy, stating that the Central government will resume procuring 75% of vaccines made in the country and will give them for free to the states from June 21 to vaccinate all adults in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-legal-post-mortem-into-shortage-of-o2-sc-101633372750424.html
05-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur stir called off as minister’s son booked||Police booked the son of India’s junior home minister for murder and criminal conspiracy in connection with the death of eight people in Lakhimpur Kheri, and the government announced a judicial probe on Monday in a bid to defuse spiraling tensions. The administration also announced compensation and acceded to several demands by farm groups led by Rakesh Tikait, prompting protesting farmers to end their agitation and agree to conduct the last rites of the deceased.Opposition politicians on Monday attacked the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for the violence in Tikunia village, where eight people – four of whom were farmers – died on Sunday in the bloodiest clash since protests against three central laws erupted last year. The deaths stoked violent demonstrations across north India on Monday.The farmers claimed Ashish Mishra, the son of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni, mowed down four cultivators with his SUV during an agitation on Sunday, igniting violent protests.Ashish Mishra denied the charges, said he was not in the car, and blamed the farmers for torching vehicles and thrashing other people to death, including the car’s driver and two BJP workers. A local journalist also died in the violence.“The incident of running a vehicle over farmers protesting peacefully shows the state of lawlessness in the state. The farmer’s protest will not be deterred because of this incident,” said Tikait in a joint press conference with Uttar Pradesh additional chief secretary (agriculture) Devesh Chaturvedi and additional director general (ADG), law and order, Prashant Kumar.Lakhimpur Kheri superintendent of police Vijay Dhull said the FIR was filed against Ashish Mishra and 20others under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 302 for murder, 304-A for causing death due to reckless driving, 120-B for criminal conspiracy and 147 for rioting at the Tikunia police station.The complaint was filed by Jagjit Singh, a farmer. A second FIR booked unidentified people. Ajay Mishra was also mentioned in the first FIRbut as part of the narrative of the incident, not as an accused, added police.The government also announced that a retired high court judge will probe the violence and that the administration will give ₹45 lakh and a job to families of those killed and ₹10 lakh each to the injured.“We have assured them of strictest action against those involved behind the violence and deaths,” said Kumar. “The officials will be in touch with a committee of farmers to address other issues, if any,” he added.Violence broke out in the village of Tikunia – roughly 70kmfrom district headquarters Lakhimpur Kheri and barely 10km fromthe India-Nepal border – around 2.30pmon Sunday, minutes before Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya was to visit the area.Farmers assembled to oppose Maurya’s visit toBanbirpur, the hometown of Ajay Mishra, alleged that the minister’s son was driving a car that ploughed down four cultivators. The protesters then allegedly went on a rampage.Stating that farmers from across the country have lent support to them, farm leader Rakesh Tikait, spokesperson of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), asked protesting farmers to clear the road after the government acceded to the demands of the farmers. “The government has agreed to our demands. This is a victory for all the farmers of the country. It is the first time that an FIR has been lodged against a Union minister in this government,” Tikait said.Late in the evening, Opposition leaders put out a video showing a vehicle ploughing into protesters.But Ajay Mishra denied all charges and said his son was not present at the spot. “Neither I nor my son was present at the spot when the violence broke out. Our car was diverted to a different route,” he told reporters in Lakhimpur Kheri.Ashish Mishra said farmers pelted stones at the convoy of three cars, which made the driver of one of the vehicles lose control. Farmers then set fire to two cars, pulled out two BJP workers and their driver from the vehicle and lynched them, he added.“BJP workers were attacked & killed with sticks & swords. Videos show some attackers asked our workers to say that I had asked them to mow down farmers. Allegations against my son are totally baseless. Had he been there, he would have been killed,” said Ajay Mishra. He urged chief minister Yogi Adityanath to conduct a “fair probe” by the Central Bureau of Investigation, Special Investigation Team or a retired or sitting judge.“I am ready to depose before any inquiry panel,” he added.The violence marked a deadly escalation in the nearly year-long agitation against three central laws that farmers say will erode state-support prices – a charge denied by the government. Farmers also vowed to widen their movement.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha – the umbrella body coordinating the protests – said demonstrations were held in Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Odisha, Bihar, Jharkhand, Rajasthan, Karnataka, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, West BengalSeveral Opposition politicians attempted to go to Tikunia village but were stopped by the state government, which clamped prohibitory orders, detained senior leaders and refused permission for other politicians to land.In Lucknow, Samajwadi Party’s Akhilesh Yadav said that not letting opposition leaders go to the district to meet the grieving families of farmers was nothing short of a fascist attitude. “We want the arrest of the minister and his son in the Lakhimpur incident,” he said.“The BJP government is doing the politics of crushing the farmers and finishing them,” Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted.Officials said political leaders such as Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Akhilesh Yadav were not allowed in Lakhimpur Kheri because prohibitory orders were in place, adding that Tikait and other farmer leaders were allowed for negotiations. Uttar Pradesh government spokesperson and cabinet minister Sidharth Nath Singh termed the Opposition move to go to Lakhimpur a “political stunt”.Singh in a statement said: “We are taking the matter seriously and it is under investigation. CM has said the culprits will be punished. Opposition is using the incident for political tourism and political competition as polls are around the corner”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-stir-called-off-as-minister-s-son-booked-101633372748591.html
05-10-2021||India||5kg gelatin sticks found in bag near Shillong’s NPP office; FIR against HNLC||Proscribed rebel outfit Hynñiewtrep National Liberation Council (HNLC) left a bag of IED explosives outside the office of the ruling National Peoples’ Party (NPP) on Monday afternoon, leading to a huge scare in the Lower Lachuamiere area of Shillong.The bag was detected at about 3.40pm on Monday, minutes before Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu’s convoy was scheduled to pass through the neighbourhood. Naidu was in Meghalaya capital Shillong to address a workshop organised by the North Eastern Council (NEC) on “Changing Role of North-Eastern Council in the Development of North-Eastern Region”.Police said the bag was spotted near the NPP office; wires jutting out. The Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad (BDDS) was promptly summoned.The bag contained about 5kgs of gelatin sticks neatly packed in a paint container. It did not explode due to faulty wiring. The East Khasi Hills Crime Scene Unit (CSU) later took over the area to gather forensic evidence.“On searching the bag, it was found that it contained crude improvised device which was instantly defused by the BDDS team,” a police communique said. A First Information Report (FIR) was filed at the Laitumkhrah police station against members of the proscribed outfit who claimed responsibility for planting the explosive in front of the NPP office.In a Facebook post, Saiñkupar Nongtraw, a self-styled acting general secretary and spokesperson of the outfit, claimed responsibility for the attempted bombing.Nongtraw blamed the ruling dispensation for the death of its former founding general secretary Cherish Starfield Thangkhiew in an encounter, and claimed the failed attempt was designed to avenge his death which he described as “a complete political conspiracy by some ministers of the state of Meghalaya”.The rebel leader also asked NPP members and party workers in Khasi and Jaiñtia hills to resign immediately within a month.The Meghalaya government had earlier ordered a judicial inquiry into Thangkhiew’s death., who was allegedly killed in an encounter last week, said a government order.Meghalaya home minister Lahkmen Rymbui asked chief minister Conrad K Sangma to relieve him from the responsibility to oversee the Home (Police) Department from his post on August 15. “I hereby express shock to the incident where (L) Chesterfield Thangkhiew was killed following the raid of police at his residence exceeding the lawful tenets of the law,” Rymbui, who also holds charge of education, border areas development and district council affairs, said in his letter to the chief minister. The offer to resign from the home portfolio has not been accepted yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5kg-gelatin-sticks-found-in-bag-near-shillong-s-npp-office-fir-against-hnlc-101633368188757.html
05-10-2021||India||Reading another set of high frequency numbers on the Indian economy||What is the state of the Indian economy as it enters into the second half of the fiscal year 2021-22? One set of high frequency numbers on economic activity, such as the Purchasing Managers’ Index, Nomura India Business Resumption Index, etc., look good (see bit.ly/2YkH8E0).But these numbers might not be telling us the entire story for two reasons. One, they are skewed towards the formal sector of the economy. And two, they do not take into account headwinds to growth from avenues such as external trade. This is why it makes sense to look at another set of statistics, which look at India’s external trade, capital investment, etc. Here are four charts that explain this argument.Can exports lead the post-Covid growth story?When the June quarter GDP numbers were released in August, there was a lot of enthusiasm about the role of exports in India’s post Covid-19 growth trajectory. There was a valid reason for this. India’s exports, at ₹7.68 lakh crore (in 2011-12 prices) in the June quarter were not just above the pre-pandemic level of ₹7.07 lakh crore of the June 2019 quarter, but also almost at par with the all-time high figure of quarterly exports (March 2019 quarter). That exports increased between the March and June quarters despite the disruption inflicted by the second wave of Covid-19, which led to a quarter-on-quarter decline in other macroeconomic aggregates, generated a lot of optimism around tailwinds from exports to overall growth.A June analysis in these pages looked at the promise of export-driven growth in India and argued that any assessment about the net impact of foreign trade on GDP growth must include the role of imports as well (see bit.ly/3Fed6Tc).The latest trade numbers underline this point. India’s trade deficit in September reached an all-time high of $22.9 billion, thanks to a sharp rise in imports, which jumped to a record $56.4 billion. While a rise in oil prices has played a big role in the rising deficit, it is not the only reason. Exports have stalled as well, triggering an increase in the non-oil deficit.“The increase in oil imports was not due to price effects but rather reflects a sharp jump in import volumes, despite a more gradual domestic recovery. We believe this may have been due to lagged/bunched up oil import contracts or inventory restocking and see this as anomalous. However, the underlying trend of the widening trade and current account deficit is likely to continue, driven by higher oil and other global commodity prices, the domestic growth upcycle and an overhang on exports due to global supply bottlenecks in the near term and softer demand next year,” said a note by Sonal Varma and Aurodeep Nandi, economists at Nomura Global Markets Research. “We expect the current account to swing from a surplus of 0.9% of GDP in Q2 to a deficit of 1.8% of GDP in Q3 2021 (July-September).”Is private investment finally picking up?The biggest question around economic recovery is whether the investment cycle has picked up. This is especially relevant because fiscal policy, at least at the level of the union government, has clearly adopted a pro-capital expenditure rather than an income-support approach. The latter could have given a cushion to consumption demand.Latest investment numbers from the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) do not inspire confidence on the capex or investment front. The value of new investment announcements was just ₹1.1 lakh crore in the quarter ended September 30, which is not just a sharp fall from ₹2.5 lakh crore in June 2021 quarter, but also a significant slump from the ₹2.6 lakh crore for the September 2020 quarter. The value of investment projects completed was ₹0.8 lakh crore, which is only marginally higher than ₹0.7 lakh crore in the June 2021 quarter. Fall in new private investment announcements is much larger than the headline number. The number went down from ₹2 lakh crore to ₹0.9 lakh crore between the June and September quarters.The fact that private investment and investment announcements – the latter are a good indicator of business sentiment – are not picking up underlines the lack of momentum for economic growth.Recovery in consumer sentiment is the most crucial factorTo be sure, one could argue that the third fiscal quarter (October-December) might turn out to be different. Not only is there likely to be increased festive demand, but India’s vaccination programme has also been doing well. As of 7pm on October 4, India fully vaccinated 27% of its adult population and another 44% of the population had received the first dose. It can be argued that neither a higher trade deficit nor sluggish capex numbers will pose a challenge for growth. Indian businesses have high levels of excess capacity and trade has not been a significant driver of economic growth in the recent past.However, positive sentiment is essential for a festive, demand-driven growth story to materialise. This is where consumer confidence comes into play. The Reserve Bank of India’s Consumer Confidence Survey (CCS) shows that there was hardly any recovery in consumer sentiment between May and July. The September round CCS figures will be released on October 8, along with the Monetary Policy Committee resolution. However, the CMIE consumer sentiment index does not show a significant improvement even in September. If RBI’s CCS findings are in sync with that, there is good reason to be circumspect about any pleasant surprises on the economic front even in the December quarter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reading-another-set-of-high-frequency-numbers-on-the-economy-101633359728172.html
05-10-2021||India||How India plans to tackle climate crisis on farms||In Sahibganj, a bucolic rice-growing district of Jharkhand, Maltos tribals are increasingly encountering a voracious new pest on their farms. The insects attack crops in sizeable swarms, residents say.
05-10-2021||India||Bengal governor withdraws assembly speaker’s power to administer oath||West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar has withdrawn assembly speaker Biman Banerjee’s power to administer the oath of office to the members of the state legislature, potentially opening up another front in the long-running battle between the state’s top constitutional authority and the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government.“A note from Raj Bhawan reached the office of the speaker some days before the assembly bypoll to Kolkata’s Bhabanipur and two seats in Murshidabad district on Sunday. The letter cited Section 188 of the Constitution, which empowers the governor to administer the oath,” said a state assembly official, requesting anonymity. A Raj Bhawan official who asked not to be named confirmed that such a note was sent in mid-September. The by-elections were held on September 30.To continue as chief minister, TMC president Mamata Banerjee, who won the Bhabanipur seat by a record margin on Sunday, needs to be sworn in as a member of the assembly by November 4. TMC leaders said she wants the formalities to be completed before the Durga Puja festival which is a week away. Banerjee, who was defeated in the March-April assembly polls from Nandigram, was sworn in as chief minister on May 5, giving her six months to be elected to the legislature.Because of the governor’s decision, the TMC government could not carry out its original plan to hold Banerjee’s oath-taking ceremony on Monday. On October 1, the government wrote to the governor, asking him to authorise the speaker to conduct the programme, but he sought a gazette notification on the Bhabanipur bypoll results.Bengal’s parliamentary affairs minister Partha Chatterjee and minister Tapas Roy, the assembly’s deputy chief whip, met the speaker on Monday and decided to send a formal request to the governor to come to the assembly on October 7 and administer the oath of office to Mamata Banerjee and the two other legislators, Jakir Hossain and Amirul Islam.They also decided to issue a gazette notification on the Bhabanipur results.“We have formally requested the governor to administer the oath before noon on October 7. We hope that once the notification is issued, he will come to the assembly house and administer the oath of office to the chief minister and the two legislators,” Chatterjee said on Monday afternoon.At 7.30 pm on Monday, the governor issued a statement on Twitter.Saying that he had gone through the note the government sent to him on October 1, Dhankhar wrote: “The practice and the proceedings at the level of the assembly and the government have apparently emanated under misconception of law. Once in terms of the legal regime applicable, the result of the by-election is gazetted, the matter would, through appropriate channel be brought to my notice where under a call as deemed appropriate under Article 188 of the Constitution would be taken. In this premise, as and when issuance of the gazette notification by the applicable legal regime is effected, a call will be taken as aforestated.”Former principal of Presidency College and constitutional expert Amal Mukhopadhyay said, “I am surprised. The governor cannot take such a decision. Since 1952, the custom has been that governors authorise assembly speakers to administer the oath of office to legislators. The Constitution also says that the governor will place the budget or entrust someone. But according to convention, none other than the finance minister presents the budget. The same applies to the Union budget.”The acrimonious relationship between the state government and Dhankar has been in display repeatedly since he took over as the governor in July 2019. TMC leaders said on condition of anonymity that Dhankhar’s latest move may trigger a fresh row -- with CM Banerjee and the speaker.Speaker Biman Banerjee and the governor recently clashed over the latter’s request for a live telecast of his speech at the assembly. The speaker did not allow this. The speaker has also complained that Dhankhar was interfering in his work. In a strongly worded letter sent to the speaker on September 15, the governor said: “Under Article 176 of the Constitution, I addressed the assembly on February 7, 2020, and July 2, 2021. On both occasions, in an ‘emergency’ kind of situation, the address was blacked out.”“I would urge you to engage in soul-searching, believe in constitutional essence and spirit, and dictate the actions and conduct duly mindful of constitutional prescriptions and propriety demanded by the office you hold,” he addedThe assembly official cited above said the letter from Raj Bhawan noted that it is the governor who is empowered to administer the oath of office to ministers and legislators. “While the governor administers the oath of office to ministers at Raj Bhawan, the speaker acts as the governor’s representative when legislators are sworn in at the assembly. Raj Bhawan has withdrawn that permission,” said the official. “The letter said the Constitution empowers the President of India or his representative to administer the oath of office to members of the Parliament. The letter pointed out that the President delegates this power to the Lok Sabha speaker.”Article 188 deals with oath or affirmation of lawmakers. “Every member of the Legislative Assembly or the Legislative Council of a State shall, before taking his seat, make and subscribe before the Governor, or some person appointed in that behalf by him, an oath or affirmation according to the form set out for the purpose in the Third Schedule.”Biman Banerjee refused to comment on the issue. Officials said Mamata Banerjee called up the speaker on Monday and people from her office were in touch with Raj Bhawan regarding her swearing in as a member of the house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-governor-withdraws-assembly-speaker-s-power-to-administer-oath-to-lawmakers-101633348567645.html
05-10-2021||India||Former Nehru Memorial Museum director Shakti Sinha dead||Shakti Sinha, personal secretary to late Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee and former director of Nehru Memorial Museum and Library, died on Monday. He was 63. An Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer of the 1979 batch of the Arunachal Pradesh-Goa-Mizoram and Union Territory cadre, popularly known as AGMUT, Sinha was considered an influential member of the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) during the Vajpayee regime, where he was a joint secretary in the late 1990s. Sinha was Vajpayee’s private secretary from 1998 to 2000. A career bureaucrat, Sinha took voluntary retirement from service in 2013 after stepping down as finance secretary in the Delhi government. Describing his stint in Delhi as “challenging,” Sinha had said he wanted to work outside the government. “Differences of opinions are common at any workplace and I feel it is healthy. I’m not quitting because of any differences, but because I want to do something new,” Sinha had said, remarking on his reasons for quitting on August 11, 2013. “I want to focus my energy on issues such as economic policy and governance.”Sinha was a postgraduate in history from Delhi University. At Nehru Memorial, he oversaw the Museum of Prime Ministers project, among others. He took charge of the memorial in 2016. His funeral was held at the Lodhi Road crematorium in the capital.Many condoled his passing. “Shocked to hear about Shakti Sinha’s demise. He was a member of the Governing Board of India Foundation and was scheduled to address a conference going on at Leh this afternoon. A humble and unassuming yet erudite and intellectual being… a great loss. Deepest condolences,” Bharatiya Janata Party leader Ram Madhav tweeted. “Very very sad to hear about the untimely demise of Shakti Sinha, go back into memory lane and many years of Theatre in Education Company at the National school of Drama were greatly helped by Shakti ji as he was the Education Secretary in Delhi those days,” tweeted Vani Tripathi Tikoo, a member of the Central Board of Film Certification.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-nehru-memorial-museum-director-shakti-sinha-passes-away-101633345386981.html
