06-10-2021||India||Ahead of 2023 assembly polls, TMC forms key committees to expand Tripura footprint||The Trinamool Congress on Wednesday announced steering and youth committees for the party’s Tripura unit; nearly two months after the Bengal-based political party made inroads in the state with an eye on the assembly polls scheduled for 2023.Former legislator Subal Bhowmik will head the 19-member steering committee while former All India Congress Committee (AICC) member Baptu Chakraborty was made the state convener and will lead the 1-member Youth Committee. “The All India Trinamool Congress under the inspiration and guidance of Hon’ble Chairperson Smt. Mamata Banerjee is pleased to announce the Tripura Trinamool Congress State Steering Committee and the State Youth Committee. We wish the very best to all the appointees for their future,” stated a press communiqué released recently. Former Congress MP Sushmita Dev, former minister Prakash Das, Ashish Lal Singh, Tridib Dutta, Sampa Das, Kalpa Mohan Tripura, Krishnadhan Nath, Dr. Debabrata Deb Ray, Abdul Basit Khan, Maman Khan, Rabi Choudhury, Shibani Sengupta, Nilkanta Sinha, Anjan Chakraborty, Idris Mia, Anita Das, Sharmistha Deb Sarkar and Malin Jamatia have been included in the steering committee. The Trinamool Congress first hit the headlines in Tripura in July when 23 members of political strategist Prashant Kishore’s Indian Political Action Committee (I-PAC) were detained and forced to stay inside a hotel in Agartala charged with violating Covid-19 norms. Soon after the incident, the Trinamool Congress top brass including general secretary Abhishek Banerjee, Bengal minister Bratya Basu and a few parliamentarians started visiting the state in order to expand its base beyond West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-2023-assembly-polls-tmc-forms-key-committees-to-expand-tripura-footprint-101633544876892.html
06-10-2021||India||‘Tripura government not in danger after Ashish Das’s exit’: BJP MP Rebati||A day after Tripura MLA Ashish Das joined Trinamool Congress (TMC) in Kolkata, his former colleague and BJP MP from the state Rebati Tripura said that his departure won’t make a difference to the saffron party. “Only he knows why he left the party and joined the TMC,” he told news agency ANI.Rebati added that the public elected Das and gave him work to do. “Has the public committed any crime?” he was quoted as saying.He said that of a total of 44 MLAs in Tripura, 36 belong to BJP, and they still support the party in the state. “I saw it (Das’s exit from BJP) on social media. We still have the majority and the public still stands with the government. So, there is no danger to the government,” he added.Also Read | Tripura BJP MLA calls Mamata Oppn’s face for 2024 polls; BJP says he’s confusedDas on Tuesday shaved his head, and took a dip in the Ganga in Kolkata. He also offered prayers at a temple, saying he was performing an “act of penance” before joining the TMC. “Today, I took a dip in the Ganga and offered prayers at the Kalighat temple because joining the BJP was a crime,” he told Hindustan Times.Rebati further stated that the TMC has long been making attempts to poach BJP MLAs in Tripura. “This is not the first time,” he said, adding that when the Mamata Banerjee-led party first came to power in West Bengal in 2011, it has tried to approach the saffron party leaders in the north-eastern state.“They had said that they would come to Tripura every other month, but they have not visited for the past 10 years. They tried their hand in the North-East states, but the people of North-East states rejected them,” he told ANI.Notably, the TMC is eyeing the Tripura Assembly polls 2023.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-government-not-in-danger-after-ashish-das-s-exit-bjp-mp-rebati-101633544211046.html
06-10-2021||India||Tej Pratap is not in RJD , says party leader Shivanand Tiwary; then backtracks||A statement by RJD’s national vice president Shivanand Tiwary on Wednesday evening claiming that party chief Lalu Prasad’s elder son Tej Pratap Yadav is virtually not in the party has stirred a controversy and given a new twist to the growing sibling rivalry in the RJD’s first family. The controversy emerged when Tiwary during a presser at Hajipur said that there was no question of expelling Tej Pratap as the elder Yadav scion had himself disassociated from the party. He was replying to queries about whether the Hassanpur MLA, who in recent days has been aggressive in his attack against younger brother Tejashwi and the party leadership, could face any disciplinary action or expulsion. “Tej Pratap has made his own outfit and he was also barred from using the lantern symbol when he tried to use it. Tej has himself accepted that he was denied permission to use the lantern symbol for his outfit. So, where is the question of expulsion? Tej Pratap is not in the party as he has himself disassociated from it,” he said. Tiwary, who is considered to be close to the RJD chief, later told the media that his statement had been wrongly interpreted as he was speaking in the context of Tej Pratap’s recent move to form his own outfit. “Who am I to say Tej Pratap is in the party or not. I had called the presser for a different agenda. I spoke about what Tej Pratap has himself acknowledged-- that he was restricted from using the official symbol of the party for his own organization,” the veteran leader said. However, the RJD’s national vice president’s statement has added a fresh twist to the growing rivalry between the two brothers in Lalu Yadav’s family and could give more ammunition to the elder Yadav scion to launch a fresh attack against the party’s top leaders including Tejashwi. Tej Pratap had recently attacked the RJD’s top brass and taken oblique pot-shots at his younger brother by stating that “a handful of people are dreaming of becoming the party’s national president” and had kept the RJD chief ‘hostage’ in New Delhi. However, on Tuesday, Lalu addressed a virtual meeting of party workers, which was seen as an attempt to dispel any misgivings about being kept ‘hostage’ at his elder daughter Misa Bharti’s residence in the national capital. BJP state spokesperson Nikhil Anand too reacted to the controversy over Tiwary’s statement saying it was indicative of how the siblings of Tejashwi were being side-lined before the younger Yadav scion is crowned the party’s president in the coming days. “The way kings used to side-line their siblings before being crowned in ancient days including in the Mughal Empire, in the same way, siblings of Tejashwi-- Tej Pratap and Misa Bharti are being side-lined. Top leaders who could challenge Tejashwi will also meet the same fate and be shown the door. It was bound to happen,” Anand said, adding that the RJD is an undemocratic organisation and promotes family rule.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tej-pratap-is-not-in-rjd-says-party-leader-shivanand-tiwary-then-backtracks-101633542416052.html
06-10-2021||India||'Bloodthirsty devil': Congress posts a video of Lakhimpur violence which shows no stone pelting||The Congress on Wednesday tweeted a video and claimed that it is from Lakhimpur Kheri showing what happened on Sunday when eight persons were killed. Hindustan Times did not independently verify the authenticity of the video. The video is claimed to be a longer and clearer clip of Sunday's violence. Contrary to the claim of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni whose son Ashish Mishra has been named in the FIR, the video shows no attack on the car. The car hits the crowd at an unexpectedly high speed and it does not seem that the driver has lost control of the car.The farmers were walking with flags and, as the video shows, the car rammed them and two more cars followed the car which hit the crowd first.Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka reach Lakhimpur Kheri, meet family members | 10 pointsPosting the video, the Congress tweeted, "Farmers have been killed in Lakhimpur Kheri and the stain of this murder will reach from Yogi Adityanath to PM Modi."Here is the video. Viewer discretion is advised ये हैवानियत से परे है और उससे भी परे है- पीएम मोदी से लेकर भाजपा की तमाम ताकतों द्वारा एक खूनी दरिंदे के बचाव का क्रूर प्रयास।लखीमपुर खीरी में किसानों की हत्या हुई है और इस हत्या के छींटे मुख्यमंत्री योगी से लेकर पीएम मोदी तक जाते हैं।#NyayHokarRahega pic.twitter.com/H7p3ZMHZ7MEight people, including four farmers, have been killed in Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday. The FIR mentions the name of Ashish Mishra, the son of Union minister for state for home Ajay Mishra Teni. The FIR says the minister's son was driving the car and after mowing down farmers, he came out of the car and opened fire. The minister has refused the allegations and said the driver lost the balance of the car after it came under an attack of stone pelters. The minister admitted that some farmers came under the car after the driver lost control. He said the driver was lynched and the car was set on fire. The minister on Wednesday met Union home minister Amit Shah in New Delhi.Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi visited Lakhimpur Kheri and met the family members of the victims. The Supreme Court has taken suo motu cognisance of the Lakhimpur Kheri violence and the case will be heard by Chief Justice NV Ramana on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bloodthirsty-devil-congress-posts-a-video-of-lakhimpur-violence-which-shows-no-stone-pelting-101633541526937.html
06-10-2021||India||Survey says 7% of India’s adult population still reluctant of Covid vaccine. Here’s what’s stopping them to get jabbed||Only 7 per cent of the Indian adult population is currently hesitant towards getting jabbed with a Covid-19 vaccine, a new survey has revealed. This is the lowest vaccine hesitancy against the virus in the country so far since the nationwide vaccination rollout began in January this year.The survey was conducted by an online community platform LocalCircles where responses of as many as 12,810 citizens from across 301 districts across the country were recorded, with 67 per cent being men and 33 per cent being women.In an earlier survey conducted by LocalCircles as well, vaccine hesitancy among Indians stood at 60% when it was first rolled out. It reduced significantly during the dangerous second wave of the Covid-19 between April and May.India has so far vaccinated more than 92 crore eligible beneficiaries, with over 41 lakh shots administered on Wednesday till the time of writing this report. As far as coronavirus cases are concerned, the country recorded 18,833 new infections in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative tally to 3,38,71,881. With 24,770 fresh recoveries logged, the total number of recovered patients stands at 3,31,75,656. The recovery rate has also shot up to 97.94 per cent – the highest since March 2020. As many as 278 people succumbed to the virus on Wednesday, following the death toll now stands at 4,49,538, according to data shared by the Union health ministry’s bulletin.How many Indians are still unsure about the efficacy of Covid-19 vaccines?In the survey, it was found that 27 per cent of the participants don’t plan to take the vaccine yet since they are not convinced whether the currently available options will offer adequate protection against coronavirus and its future variants, LocalCircles founder Sachin Taparia said.He pointed out that these sceptical individuals may end up getting jabbed with a coronavirus vaccine if more data pertaining to it is made available or if different vaccines come to the market.Taparia further stated that when the 7 per cent of the Indian adult population who are reluctant to be administered the vaccine are applied to the unvaccinated population of 26 crore adults in the country, “it amounts to 7 crore citizens still hesitant” of the needle.How many Indians are willing to be vaccinated against coronavirus?According to the LocalCircles survey, a total of 46 per cent of the respondents who are yet to be jabbed said that they plan to get inoculated with their first dose soon, Taparia said.The data shared by the Union health ministry’s bulletin on Wednesday showed that as many as 70,80,17,908 of Indians, aged between 18 and 59, have either received the first dose or been fully-jabbed with both shots of Covid-19 vaccine.What was the demographic distribution of the respondents?In the survey, participants from tier 1 cities accounted for 42 per cent, while 27 per cent were from tier 2 cities. As many as 31 per cent of the respondents were from tier 3, 4 and rural districts.What was the reason behind the scepticism towards being vaccinated against Covid-19?According to the LocalCircles survey, respondents cited quick clinical trials, hasty vaccine approvals, safety concerns, and side-effects as some of the reasons behind their apprehension towards being jabbed.Furthermore, there were some participants who had medical conditions and pointed out concerns of potential blood-clotting. Some respondents even cited Covid-19 going away as the reason for not getting vaccinated.Besides these, myths and misinformation revolving around the vaccines were restraining the respondents from getting inoculated with the shot.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hesitancy-towards-covid-vaccine-dips-to-7-among-india-s-adult-population-101633540046452.html
06-10-2021||India||Sitharaman to visit US; next 2+2 dialogue to be held in Nov: Report||India and the United States will hold the 2+2 dialogue in November and the meeting of the Defence Policy Group (DPG) will be convened soon, people familiar with the developments told news agency ANI.Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and defence secretary Ajay Kumar will visit the United States. India and the US will have a series of engagements and will hold dialogue on counter-terrorism and designation, people familiar with the developments further added.The third India-US 2+2 ministerial dialogue was held in October 2020 in New Delhi.The Defence Policy Group or the DPG is the meeting of the highest level held between top officials from the Union ministry of defence and the US department of defence. During the meeting, every aspect of bilateral defence cooperation between the two countries is reviewed.During PM Modi’s visit to the US, President Joe Biden reaffirmed the strength of defence cooperation between India and the US. He said that the US is committed to India as a major defence partner through close defence engagements in the form of information sharing, sharing of logistics and military-to-military interactions.PM Modi visited the US last month for a bilateral meeting with US president Joe Biden. During the visit, PM Modi, Biden, Australian prime minister Scott Morrison and Japanese prime minister Yoshihide Suga took part in the first in-person Quad leaders' Summit.US and India are also strengthening cooperation in advanced military technologies, and expanding engagements in a multilateral framework including with regional partners.Earlier in the day, US deputy secretary of state Wendy Sherman, who is on a visit to India, met foreign secretary Harsh Shringla and said that India and the US share a strong relationship and believe in the rules-based international order. She further added that both nations are “believers in the free, open, interconnected and resilient Indo-Pacific region.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sitharaman-to-visit-us-next-2-2-dialogue-to-be-held-in-nov-report-101633539837907.html
06-10-2021||India||Goa MLA spares Congress more embarrassment, says he won’t quit||PANAJI: The Congress has managed to retain its much-depleted strength of four lawmakers in the Goa assembly after it managed to convince Congress legislator Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenço to cross over. Lourenço, who was perceived to be on his way out of the party, announced on Tuesday that he will stay put, “in the interest of the people” and to “unitedly fight the BJP.”Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenço made the announcement at a media conference at his Curtorim residence, flanked by Goa Congress president Girish Chodankar and leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat. Lourenço said he was approached by “many political parties” but that after discussions and consultations, he decided that it was important to “stay united to fight the BJP.”“Lots of parties approached me with a lot of issues and how to go about it. I met a lot of people these days and even voiced my opinion and highlighted differences. I spoke to the party (Congress leadership) about what Goa needs to be done, right up to Rahul Gandhi and (AICC desk in-charge) Dinesh Gundu Rao,” the Congress legislator said.“After discussion, we have come to an opinion on what people want - that we unite to fight the BJP…. I call on the people to also let us unitedly fight the BJP. Let there be no difference of opinion on the fact that we have decided to unitedly fight the BJP,” Lourenço said at the briefing.On Twitter, Lourenço also referred to a phone call that he received from Rahul Gandhi to wish him on his birthday – he turned 52 on Wednesday – and pledged to “work harder” for the people of Goa.Lourenço’s decision to stick to the Congress comes as a huge relief for the party that emerged as the single largest party in the 2017 assembly elections but has since then steadily lost its legislators to the Bharatiya Janata Party. The first one to resign from the Congress was Vishwajit Rane; he dramatically quit the party hours after taking oath as a legislator in March 2017. He was re-elected on a BJP ticket, the state’s ruling party that holds a commanding majority of 27 seats in the 40-member assembly.Reginaldo Lourenço had been feeling alienated within the party and was known to be disappointed that the party leadership didn’t give him a leadership role despite sticking with the party “through thick and thin” especially when he was the only ‘young’ Congress MLA, and the only MLA who was not a former chief minister to stick with the party and not switch over to the BJP in 2019 when 10 other legislators jumped ship.Lately, it had become clear that he and state party president Girish Chodankar did not get along very well. In the recent past, Chodankar had even gone public with his criticism of the three-time lawmaker from South Goa’s Curtorim constituency.At Tuesday’s evening, Girish Chodankar praised him effusively, thanking him for being large-hearted.“He (Reginaldo Lourenço) is a vibrant leader and he is loved across the state, across sections and people have seen that he fights for Goa. We will not be successful without him. Central leaders P Chidambaram, P Gundu Rao, and Rahul Gandhi organizing secretary Venugopal and the entire organization got involved and worked to ensure that Reginaldo should be on board with us,” Chodankar said.“There were some issues he wanted to be discussed -- one is about due respect, then about issues within his constituency and there was no difference of opinion that the issues within the constituency need to be resolved. We agreed that these issues need to be resolved. Reginaldo was also concerned about protecting Goa and how it needs to be protected and we have agreed that there cannot be a compromise on the core issues of Goa,” Chodankar said.“There is no harm in having a difference of opinion, but we sat together and resolved them. And all his issues were nothing personal -- it was either of the constituency or in the larger interest of Goa. Whatever due respect is due to Reginaldo, it will be given whether from Goa or from Delhi leadership also,” the Goa Congress chief said.Digambar Kamat described Reginaldo Lourenço as “a matured leader” who had worked hard when the Congress was weak. “It was important to clear whatever was in his mind. Nobody can deny his contribution to the party, for the development of Goa,” the leader of opposition in the Goa assembly said.Congress leaders said the outreach came after the party leadership was made aware of ‘advanced talks’ between Lourenço and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders.Reginaldo was first elected to the assembly on the ticket of the Save Goa Front in 2007. The party later merged with the Congress and he was elected on a Congress ticket twice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-mla-spares-congress-a-huge-embarrassment-says-he-won-t-quit-101633536475332.html
06-10-2021||India||Supreme Court take suo motu cognisance of Lakhimpur violence, CJI to hear case tomorrow||The Supreme Court on Wednesday took suo motu cognisance of Lakhimpur Kheri violence in Uttar Pradesh and the case will be heard by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana on Thursday. The Lakhimpur Kheri violence in which eight were killed four farmers were mowed down allegedly by the car of Union home minister of state Ajay Mishra Teni's son Ashish Mishra and four were killed in the violence and arson that followed is in national limelight now with all political parties heading to Lakhimpur.In the FIR, the minister's son has been named as the FIR says that Asish Mishra was driving the car and then after the car overturned, he got out from the car and opened fire and then went into hiding. Farmers' organisations, opposition leaders are seeing the removal of Ajay Mishra Teni, the junior home minister, who on Wednesday came to Delhi to meet Union home minister Amit Shah.Reports said that Ajay Mishra briefed Amit Shah that his son Ashish was not there in the car, a claim that he has been reiterating. The minister claimed that the car lost balance after it was attacked by stone pelters and as it flipped some protesters came under the car. He alleged that his driver was lynched and the car was set on fire. His son was not involved in this at all. Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka reach Lakhimpur Kheri, meet family members | 10 pointsSenior Congress leader and lawyer Kapil Sibal on Wednesday tweeted on how the top court used to act at a time when there were no social media and implied that it is not doing the same when a video of a car crushing the protesting farmers is available on social media."Supreme Court. There was a time when there was no YouTube, no social media, the Supreme Court acted suo motu on the basis of news in the print media. It heard the voice of the voiceless. Today when our citizens are run over and killed. The Supreme Court is requested to act," Kapil Sibal tweeted.The incident took place on Sunday but no arrest has been made so far. On Wednesday, an AAP delegation met the families of the victims while the Congress delegation reached the district at night. "There used to be democracy here, but there is a dictatorship in India now. Politicians cannot go to Uttar Pradesh. We are being told since yesterday that we cannot go to Uttar Pradesh," Rahul Gandhi said as he was stopped from going to Lakhimpur twice. Priyanka Gandhi who was detained on Monday was also released on Wednesday and she accompanied the Congress delegation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-take-suo-motu-cognisance-of-lakhimpur-violence-cji-to-hear-case-tomorrow-101633536063453.html
06-10-2021||India||Cruise rave party: Who took the selfie with Aryan Khan? What did NCB say?||The cruise rave party in connection with which Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan has been arrested and is in NCB custody took a new twist with the Nationalist Congress Party alleging that the NCB allowed outsiders during the raid. In fact, the photo of Aryan Khan which went viral was taken by KP Gosavi, who himself is a fraud, NCP leader Nawab Malik alleged on Wednesday.Here is what we know about this so farWhich photo did Nawab Malik refer to?A photo of Aryan Khan went viral on Sunday after he was detained by the NCB for interrogation. Later he was arrested and is still in NCB custody. In that viral photo, Aryan Khan was seen with a person, who is not a staff of the NCB, the agency clarified on that day.Who is KP Gosavi?Reports said KP Gosavi is a private detective and was accused of job fraud. He used to run the KPG Dream Solutions and reportedly duped many youngsters with job promises.NCB refutes Nawab Malik's charges over SRK son case, says ‘probable prejudice’It is, however, not clear what Gosavi was doing with the NCB at the time of Aryan Khan's arrest, if at all the photo was taken at that time. The NCB earlier did not say anything about when the photo was taken. The agency just said the man in the photo was not an NCB officer. It did not admit or deny whether the photo was taken after Aryan Khan was detained for questioning or was an old photo.Who is Manish Bhanushali?Nawab Malik has also taken the name of Manish Bhanushali who was seen with Aryan Khan's friend Arbaaz Merchant. Nawab Malik said Manish Bhanushali is a BJP worker and according to his Facebook profile, he holds the post of vice president in the party. Malik said Bhanushali also has photos with PM Modi, JP Nadda and other senior leaders of the BJP.A report quoted Bhanushali admitting that he is a BJP leader and was present during the raid as he had the information of the rave party. He also said that he helped the NCB with information regarding the rave party and that's why was present. He also said that he was not holding Arbaaz Merchant's hand as it may have seen in one of the photos. He was just standing there.What did NCB say?The NCB dismissed all allegations and said the agency did not do anything wrong. The NCP can go to the court if it wants, the agency said. It, however, did not say anything on who KP Gosavi and Manish Bhanushali are and how they are associated with the case. In a statement, the agency on Wednesday said, "Some allegations levelled against the organisation are baseless and seem to have been with malice and probable prejudice that may have been harboured in retaliation against earlier legal action carried out by NCB."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cruise-rave-party-who-took-the-selfie-with-aryan-khan-what-did-ncb-say-101633535669294.html
06-10-2021||India||NIA takes over ₹21,000 crore Mundra drugs haul case as narco-terror link emerges||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday took over probe into the recovery of around 3,000 kg Afghan heroin worth ₹21,000 crore in the international market with clear international narco-terrorism linkages emerging in the seizure, people familiar with the matter said.The consignment was intercepted by the Directorate of Revenue and Intelligence (DRI) on September 14 and 15 on the basis of specific intelligence that high quality heroin was being smuggled from Afghanistan to Gujarat’s Mundra port via Iran’s Bandar Abbas port. It is being described as the single-largest heroin haul by federal agencies in the country.The two containers had 1,999.58 kg and 988.64 kg heroin packed respectively, layered between talcum powder to avoid detection by security and customs officials. HT exclusively reported the seizure on September 20. At least eight persons, including a Chennai couple - Govindaraju Durga Purna Vaishali and her husband Machavaram Sudhakar, who imported the heroin concealed in the semi-processed talc stones through their Vijaywada registered firm – Aashi Trading Company - from a Kandahar based company; four Afghan nationals, an Uzbek woman and others have been arrested by the DRI so far. The ministry of home affairs (MHA) decided to transfer the probe to NIA as there is a clear terror link in the smuggling, which agencies are probing from the Taliban-Pakistan angle, according to an official, who requested anonymity. Vaishali and Sudhakar are said to be small players and got only ₹10 lakh to ₹12 lakh commission for allowing the traffickers to use their talc stones containers for smuggling heroin. A larger network of Afghan nationals is suspected to be behind the consignment, said this officer. Investigation has revealed that Vaishali and Sudhakar were taking instructions from some persons based in Afghanistan and Iran. “Their role in smuggling drugs previously in the garb of imports is being investigated,” said a second officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-takes-over-rs-21-000-crore-mundra-drugs-haul-case-as-narco-terror-link-emerges-101633534794889.html
06-10-2021||India||New updates from HT: Mumbai records highest single-day Covid surge since July 14 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Mumbai records 624 Covid-19 cases in 24 hours, highest single-day spike since July 14Covid-19 cases in Mumbai breached the 600-mark on Wednesday after the city recorded 624 cases in the last 24 hours, the highest single-day spike since July 14 when the city had reported 635 cases. The total number of cases in the financial capital now stands at 746,703, according to the state health department. [Read more…]NCP sees a BJP link to Aryan Khan arrest in drugs case; NCB rebuttal followsTwo men, who escorted Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan and another accused Arbaaz Merchant to the Narcotics Control Bureau’s (NCB) Mumbai office, were private individuals and not officers, Nationalist Congress Party leader Nawab Malik said on Wednesday. Malik allegedly that the arrest was a conspiracy involving NCB and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to defame Maharashtra, the state government and the film industry, a charge that was promptly denied by the NCB and BJP. [Read more…]SC closes petitions on NEET-SS after Centre postpones new exam pattern for 2022-23The Centre on Wednesday rolled back its decision to hold the National Eligibility Entrance Test (NEET) for admission to medical super specialty courses under the modified examination pattern announced on August 31. The 2021 examination, due in November will now be held in January 2022 under the old pattern being followed by the National Board of Examinations (NBE) since 2018. [Read more…]Dabholkar murder trial: Judge to decide Covid-appropriate locationThe special Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) judge in Pune will decide in a week’s time whether the trial in the 2013 case of the murder of rationalist Narendra Dabholkar is to be held at the district court premises or Yerawada central jail - where three of the five accused are currently lodged. The judge said so on Wednesday during a hearing in the case built by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). [Read more…]Family of Kashmiri Pandit killed by terrorists sends message to murderersProminent Kashmiri Pandit Makhan Lal Bindroo’s last rites performed in Srinagar after he was killed by terrorists. Bindroo was shot by terrorists at Srinagar’s Iqbal Park on October 5. Bindroo’s daughter Shraddha questioned the logic behind her father being targeted. Shraddha asked how killing a man who served Kashmir would further terrorists’ cause.  [Watch the full video here]Wasim Akram explains why he has opted against coaching PakistanIn this day and age, the use of social media to express your views has become a common practice. And quite often, it is said in very harsh words. Professional sportspersons and coaches too cop flak when things are going their way. The problem of online abuse continues to exist and that is one of the main reasons why Pakistan's pace bowling legend Wasim Akram has never opted to take up coaching. [Read more…]Vikram Bhatt’s daughter Krishna says she found out about his secret wedding with Shwetambari Soni ‘much later’Filmmaker Vikram Bhatt’s daughter Krishna Bhatt said that she was not aware of his wedding with art connoisseur Shwetambari Soni and found out only ‘much later’. Vikram and Shwetambari tied the knot in a hush-hush ceremony last September but it was only earlier today that the news broke. [Read more…]Pooja Hedge glams up Ganga aarti in ivory silk floral kurta, chiffon dupattaWith a plethora of movies lined up actor Pooja Hedge's kitty, from Most Eligible Bachelor that is slated to release in theatres on October 15 to Prabhas starrer Radhe Shyam, Mahesh Babu starrer SSMB28 and Thalapathy Vijay starrer Beast, the diva thought it was time to express her gratitude to God and seek divine blessings. In lieu of the same, Pooja flew down to Varanasi recently to attend the Ganga aarti but it was her captivating look in ethnic fashion that hooked us. [Read more…]||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-updates-from-ht-mumbai-records-highest-single-day-covid-surge-since-july-14-and-all-the-latest-news-101633532090878.html
06-10-2021||India||SC closes petitions on NEET-SS after Centre postpones new exam pattern for 2022-23||The Centre on Wednesday rolled back its decision to hold the National Eligibility Entrance Test (NEET) for admission to medical super specialty courses under the modified examination pattern announced on August 31. The 2021 examination, due in November will now be held in January 2022 under the old pattern being followed by the National Board of Examinations (NBE) since 2018.This was informed to the Supreme Court on Wednesday which is examining a challenge by 41 post graduate doctors who have raised a constitutional challenge against the revised examination pattern introduced from academic year 2021-22.Appearing for the Centre, Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Aishwarya Bhati gave a statement that “having regard to the interest of the body of students who would have commenced preparations for the ensuing NEET - SS examination before the change in the pattern was notified, a decision has been taken by the Union government in consultation with the National Medical Commission (NMC) and the National Board of Examinations (NBE) to give effect to the modified pattern only from the academic year 2022-2023.”Since this was the limited relief that the petitioner doctors had urged for, the bench of Justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, Vikram Nath and BV Nagarathna said, “Since the Union government and the expert bodies have taken a decision to hold the ensuing NEET – SS examinations for 2021-2022 on the basis of the pattern which held the field until academic year 2020-2021, it is not necessary for this Court to adjudicate upon the validity of the modified pattern proposed for 2022-2023… In the circumstances, the petitions under Article 32 of the Constitution are disposed of.”Advocate Prashant Bhushan appearing in a fresh petition filed by a group of doctors preparing for the NEET-SS 2021told the Court that the issues of challenge against the revised pattern should be kept open as the same would be enforced from next year. The bench agreed to the suggestion and stated in its order, “That issue (with regard to modified examination pattern for 2022-23) is kept open.”The dramatic turnaround by the Centre came a day after the Court made caustic remarks against the Centre and NBE for hurrying with the new examination pattern without giving sufficient time for doctors to prepare. The revised scheme of NEET-SS tested candidates on questions from just one broad specialty course in General Medicine. Under the old scheme, only 40% questions came from General Medicine while the bulk of questions tested the candidates on their knowledge about the super specialty course that they applied for.The petitioners before the Court had submitted that since clinical practice was required under the old scheme prevailing since 2018, most doctors had spent years to acquire knowledge in their specialization and get admission into the respective stream offered under Doctorate of Medicine (DM), Master of Surgery (MCh) and Doctorate of National Board (DrNB). More than 4200 seats in these three categories are filled up each year through NEET-SS.The Centre argued that the change in NEET-SS pattern was done with a view to reduce wastage of SS seats in private and government medical colleges. On Tuesday, the top court said that the efforts of the Centre seems to be to fill vacant seats, hinting that regulation of medical education too had become a business to help private medical colleges fill up their seats. The Court even called for breakup of how many seats remain unfilled in government and private colleges.ASG Bhati informed the Court on Wednesday that out of 805 vacant super specialty seats reported in 2020, 561 were in private colleges. There are 414 colleges offering the super specialty course of which 296 are private-owned and 118 are run by government. She further informed the Court that the Centre will require two months to conduct the examination as the whole process has to be reworked.In an affidavit filed on October 1, the Centre had indicated that the stakeholders – Centre, NBE and NMC had agreed to defer the November 13-14 examination by two months to January 10-11 but with the modified pattern in place. The bench had given a day’s time for the Centre to put its house in order and consider revising its decision warning that if no decision is taken, the “hands of the law are very long”, hinting at the possibility of a stay order by the Court on the new pattern for this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-closes-petitions-on-neet-ss-after-centre-postpones-new-exam-pattern-for-202223-101633530234354.html
06-10-2021||India||BJP slams Rahul Gandhi over Lakhimpur Kheri; says 'trying to fan unrest' for political mileage||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday slammed Congress' Rahul Gandhi over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in Uttar Pradesh, where eight people lost their lives after farmers' protests turned violent over the weekend. Hitting out at Congress' Rahul Gandhi, Sambit Patra, BJP's national spokesperson, said that he is trying to fan unrest over the violence-hit district. He also claimed that the party is trying to "use the tragedy to draw political mileage" amid its infighting, news agency PTI reported.Speaking on Uttar Pradesh government's earlier order to restrict political leaders from arriving in Lakhimpur Kheri, Patra said "maintaining peace was the top priority," as per the report.The Uttar Pradesh government came under major criticism over the Lakhimpur violence incident after it prohibited several senior leaders including general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav from visiting the district. However, the government revoked the order earlier in the day and allowed all political parties to meet the kin of the victims.The local administration also detained Priyanka Gandhi on Monday morning. She was released on Wednesday after the revised government order. The sibling is currently on its way to the district.The deceased in the violence includes four farmers, a journalist and three others.Following this, Rahul Gandhi lashed out at the ruling-BJP and said that dictatorship is prevailing in the country and "there is no democracy." Responding to the allegations, Patra said, "There is democracy in the country" which is why "you are holding the press conference," according to the report.He also took a swipe at the Congress party and said he had never faced protests from BJP workers for his press conferences, while Congress members threw tomatoes and agitated outside their leader Kapil Sibal's residence for his critical comments about the party's functioning.The senior BJP leader also urged people to refrain from giving irresponsible statements that may obstruct justice and noted that the local administration is coordinating to carry out an impartial probe into the incident.He further alleged that the Gandhi family had nothing to do with either farmers or any other section of society "They are not even concerned about the Congress. All they want is that their fortunes should not be scuttled," Patra said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-slams-rahul-gandhi-over-lakhimpur-kheri-says-trying-to-fan-unrest-for-political-mileage-101633528631756.html
06-10-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka reach Lakhimpur Kheri, meet family members | 10 points||Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi reached the Lakhimpur Kheri district on Wednesday night hours after they left Sitapur. Sachin Pilot, who was also on his way to Lakhimpur Kheri, was stopped at Moradabad and was made to go somewhere else, reports said.Here are the top 10 developments on Wednesday:1. Priyanka Gandhi was detained on Monday morning from her way to Lakhimpur Kheri and was kept at a guest house in Sitapur. Internet was suspended for 12 hours in Sitapur on Wednesday.2. Rahul Gandhi started out for Lakhimpur Kheri on Wednesday and initially was denied permission to go there.3. Later, Rahul Gandhi and a delegation of the Congress were allowed to travel to Lucknow.Also Read | 'This is UP govt's permission': Rahul Gandhi finally allowed to leave airport4. As Rahul Gandhi reached Lucknow, UP Police asked him to travel in a police car to Sitapur where his sister Priyanka Gandhi was kept. Rahul Gandhi said he will travel only in his car. Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Chhattishgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel are accompanying Rahul Gandhi, apart from Congress leaders KC Venugopal, Randeep Singh Surjewala.5. At the airport, Punjab and Chhattisgarh chief ministers announced ₹50 lakh ex gratia each for the next of kin of the deceased.6. As Rahul Gandhi was finally allowed to travel in his own car, he travelled to Sitapur and met Priyanka Gandhi at the guest house.7. Both of them were finally allowed to travel to Lakhimpur Kheri, which is around 46 km from Sitapur and will take somewhere around 1 hour for the Congress leaders to cover. The detention order on Priyanka Gandhi was quashed after two days. 8. The Congress leaders will meet the family members of the victims who were mowed down allegedly by the car of Union home minister Ajay Mishra Teni's son Ashish Mishra.9. An AAP delegation went to Lakhimpur Kheri and met the family of a deceased farmer. AAP leader and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal spoke to the family members over the phone. "We are saddened by the incident. The incident shows the state of lawlessness in UP. We are with you and will help you in fighting the case against the accused persons," Kejriwal said.10. Amid opposition demand for Ajay Mishra's resignation, the minister met Union home minister Amit Shah on Wednesday in Delhi. It is believed that he briefed the home minister that his son was not involved in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-priyanka-leave-for-lakhimpur-sachin-pilot-stopped-at-moradabad-10-points-101633527936312.html
06-10-2021||India||NCB refutes Nawab Malik's charges over SRK son case, says ‘probable prejudice’||The Narcotics Control Bureau on Wednesday dismissed the allegations brought by Nationalist Congress Party's Nawab Malik that in the cruise rave party case, in which Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan has been arrested, the agency involved outsiders. The agency said that the allegation seems to be malicious and stems from probable prejudice, in an oblique reference to NCB action against Nawab Malik's son-in-law in another drug case. NCP leader Nawab Malik said that the photo of Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan which went viral after being arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau was actually taken by KP Gosavi who is a private detective and who himself has fraud cases against him. The NCB on that very day issued a statement saying that the man has no connection with the agency but did not comment on who the person is."Some allegations levelled against the organisation are baseless and seem to have been with malice and probable prejudice that may have been harboured in retaliation against earlier legal action carried out by NCB," the agency said in a statement issued after Nawab Malik's allegations. #WATCH | Some allegations levelled against the organisation are baseless and seem to have been with malice & probable prejudice that may have been harboured in retaliation against earlier legal action carried out by NCB: NCB Deputy DG Gyaneshwar Singh in Mumbai pic.twitter.com/zeb7uQ3nUmNCB deputy DG Gyaneshwar Singh said the procedure of the agency has been and will continue to be unbiased and professionally, legally transparent."If they (NCP) want to go the court, they can go and seek justice. We will reply there. We have done everything as per law," the NCB said.Though the agency did not mention the case against Nawab Malik's son-in-law, it referred to that by "probable prejudice that may have been harboured in retaliation against earlier legal action carried out by NCB".Nawab Malik's son-in-law Sameer Shabbir Khan was arrested by the NCB in a drug-related case early this year and is now on bail. Apart from the Bollywood bigwigs who have been summoned to the NCB office for questioning, Nawab Malik's son-in-law was a big-ticket arrest made by the NCB in past one year. Not only Gosavi; Nawab Malik alleged that there is another outsider involved in the case, who has a BJP link, he said. He said the person who was seen bringing Arbaaz Merchant to the NCB office in Manush Bhanushali, not an NCB officer. "According to the Bhanushali's Facebook, he is a BJP vice president and has pictures with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amir Shah, BJP chief JP Nadda and other senior leaders including those from Maharashtra such as Devendra Fadnavis and Ashish Shelar," Malik told reporters on Wednesday, reiterating that the arrest of SRK's son was aforgery. “For the last one month, the information was being circulated to crime reporters that the next target is actor Shah Rukh Khan,” Nawab Malik said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncb-refutes-nawab-malik-s-charges-over-srk-son-case-says-probable-prejudice-101633525309749.html
06-10-2021||India||AAP delegation meets family of farmer killed in Lakhimpur Kheri ‘after 55 hours of police custody’||On Wednesday an Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) delegation comprising leaders such as Sanjay Singh, Raghav Chadha, Baljinder Kaur, Kultar Singh, Amarjit Sandhwa and Sabhajit Singh met the family of deceased farmer Nachhatar Singh, who lost his life in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence.“Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema ji Punjab co-in-charge Raghav Chadha, MLA Baljinder Kaur, Kultar Singh, Amarjit Sandhwa along with UP President Sabhajit Singh ji am going to meet Lakhimpur victim families, permission to go after 55 hours of police custody but till now the minister and his son have not been arrested,” Sanjay Singh tweeted.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal spoke to Singh’s family over phone and assured them of the party’s support. "We are saddened by the incident. The incident shows the state of lawlessness in UP. We are with you and will help you in fighting the case against the accused persons," Kejriwal said.Singh (50) was one of the four farmers who lost their lives when two SUVs mowed down a group of protesting farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday. The protesting farmers claim that a car from the convoy belonging to Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni's son, Ashish, ran over the protesters in Tikonia area.The AAP claimed that its leaders were arrested on Tuesday on their way to Lakhimpur Kheri to meet the families of the deceased. "Sanjay Singh was in custody in Biswan for 43 hours," the party claimed, adding that party workers carried out demonstrations in Biswan demanding justice for the farmers killed in Lakhimpur Kheri.The AAP delegation was released from detention on Wednesday following which the leaders met with the family of the deceased, becoming one of the first political delegations to do so. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi have also been granted permission by the Uttar Pradesh government to visit Lakhimpur Kheri.Rahul Gandhi was held up at Lucknow airport for better part of the day on Tuesday after UP police refused to let him leave in his personal vehicle but acquiesced later and allowed him to leave on his personal vehicle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aap-delegation-meets-family-of-farmer-killed-in-lakhimpur-kheri-after-55-hours-of-police-custody-101633523992099.html
06-10-2021||India||NIA arrests former member of LTTE intelligence wing from Chennai||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has arrested a former member of the intelligence wing of Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) -- Satkunam alias Sabesan - in connection with its probe into smuggling of arms and drugs from Pakistan to Sri Lanka and utilising the proceeds for furthering and supporting the revival of the Tamil militant organisation.Sabesan, 47, a Sri Lankan citizen, was arrested from Chennai, where he was currently residing, on Tuesday. The central anti-terror probe agency had taken over an investigation earlier this year against six Sri Lankan nationals following seizure of five AK47 rifles, thousands of 9 mm ammunition along with 300 kgs of heroin after a fishing vessel - Ravihansi - was intercepted by the Coast Guard of the coast of Minicoy in Lakshwadeep on March 18. The NIA probe has so far revealed that Sabesan had arranged conspiracy meetings of sympathisers of LTTE in India. “He had played a crucial role in routing the proceeds of drugs trafficking to former LTTE cadres in Sri Lanka for the revival of LTTE,” the agency said in a statement on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-arrests-former-member-of-ltte-intelligence-wing-from-chennai-101633523814338.html
06-10-2021||India||Supreme Court orders probe into collusion of Tihar jail officials with Unitech's Ex-promoters Chandras||The Supreme Court on Wednesday ordered a full-fledged probe into allegations that the Tihar Jail officials colluded with Unitech's imprisoned ex-promoters Sanjay and Ajay Chandra and ran a “secret underground office” inside the prison. The allegations are based on a report filed by Delhi Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana in a sealed cover, reported PTI.The court also directed suspension of officials at Tihar for colluding with the Chandra brothers and conducting business from prison.The bench comprising Justice D Y Chandrachud and Justice M R Shah further directed that criminal cases be registered against Tihar Jail officials and other unknown persons under relevant provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act and Indian Penal Code against those involved in collusion.The court further said that a copy of Asthana's report be shared with the home ministry for it to comply with his suggestions on enhancing prison management.Besides, the court also took on record reports filed in sealed cover by Enforcement Directorate (ED), Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO) and Delhi Police, and listed the matter for further hearing on October 21.This development comes weeks after the court directed that the Chandra brothers be transferred from Tihar jail to separate prisons in Mumbai after the ED had said that they were conducting business from the premises in connivance with the staff.The court's directions had come after two status reports submitted by the ED raised some “serious and disturbing” issues for consideration.Following the ED reports, the court had directed the Delhi Police Commissioner to personally hold an inquiry on the matter and submit the report within four weeks.The ED in its report had made a startling revelation that it had unearthed a “secret underground office” which was being operated by erstwhile Unitech founder Ramesh Chandra and visited by his sons Sanjay and Ajay when on parole or bail.Both Sanjay and Ajay who are in jail since August 2017 are accused of allegedly siphoning home buyers' money.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-orders-probe-into-collusion-of-tihar-jail-officials-with-unitech-s-ex-promoters-chandras-101633521029031.html
06-10-2021||India||Pak PM Imran Khan requests Bill Gates for financial support for Afghans||Pakistan prime minister Imran Khan on Wednesday requested billionaire philanthropist Bill Gates to extend humanitarian aid to people of Afghanistan. While speaking with the founder of Microsoft, the Pakistan prime minister said that half of Afghanistan’s population was living below the poverty line, news agency PTI reported citing a statement from the Pakistan prime minister’s office.Khan apprised Bill Gates, who is the co-chair of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation (BMGF), regarding Pakistan’s and Afghanistan’s efforts to eradicate polio. The Global Polio Eradication Initiative (GPEI), which spearheads the global war against the debilitating disease, says that both these nations are the only countries where the disease is still endemic. Pakistan reported 1 case of wild poliovirus type 1 (WPV1) this year and its neighbour Afghanistan also reported 1 case this year. Both countries have however reported circulating vaccine-derived poliovirus type 2 (cVDPV2) cases, Pakistan reported eight such cases while Afghanistan reported 43 such cases. cVDPV2 happens when immunization rates are low in communities.According to the US Centers for Disease Control, polio is caused by the poliovirus and is a disabling and life-threatening disease. It is highly contagious and spreads through person-to-person contact.Khan told Gates that positive WPV environmental samples have decreased substantially while expressing his government’s commitment to ending all forms of polio in the country. He also thanked the BMGF for its continued support in Pakistan’s fight against polio.In Pakistan and Afghanistan, vaccinating children against polio saw hindrances from terrorists who oppose the drives, claiming that the polio drops cause infertility.Khan also reiterated the need for providing financial support to Afghans. “The prime minister highlighted that more than half of the population in Afghanistan was living below the poverty line and in dire need of financial assistance. He requested Mr. Gates to consider providing humanitarian assistance to the Afghan people,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-pm-imran-khan-requests-bill-gates-for-financial-support-for-afghans-101633522778823.html
06-10-2021||India||India's security concerns ‘first and foremost’, says US deputy state secretary||US deputy secretary of state Wendy Sherman on Wednesday said that the United States appreciates India’s concerns about the spillover of terrorism from Afghanistan after the Taliban took control of the war-torn region. Sherman, who is on a three-day visit to India, met foreign secretary Harsh Shringla in New Delhi to review the bilateral agenda of the two countries. The senior US diplomat said after the meeting that India and the United States have "one mind and one approach" on Afghanistan. The visit comes in the backdrop of Taliban’s government formation in Afghanistan and its attempt to get recognition from the international community. India as well as the United States have not recognised the Taliban government and opted for a wait-and-watch policy as the situation unfolds in Afghanistan.Sherman underlined that the both countries have laid out similar conditions on the way forward in Afghanistan, including the formation of an inclusive government that represents all communities and preventing Afghan soil from becoming a safe haven for terrorists. Other conditions include respect for human rights, and providing safe and orderly travel for those who want to leave Afghanistan.During the Taliban's previous rule in Afghanistan, the group was notorious for enforcing its harsh interpretation of Sharia law, which included banning women from workplaces. In the final days of US troops' withdrawal, the Sunni Pashtun militants assured that they will respect human rights and give more freedom to women and girls, however, added that it will be in line with “genuine Islamic system”.“Taliban must act, and not just speak words,” the American diplomat said after meeting with Shringla and national security advisor Ajit Doval. “No country is in a rush on recognising or giving legitimacy to Taliban.”The Taliban's return has also raised concerns about Afghanistan becoming a safe haven for terrorist organisations like Al Qaeda, impacting the regional security.Sherman said that the United States is putting together a robust programme for ‘over-the-horizon’ capabilities for counter terrorism capabilities in Afghanistan from far longer range. India's security concerns will be "first and foremost" and "front and centre" for the US, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-security-concerns-first-and-foremost-says-us-deputy-state-secretary-101633522504262.html
06-10-2021||India||Bank officials and pvt firm employees jailed for fraud||The special judge for CBI Cases of Pune on Tuesday sentenced former senior Canara bank official S R Hegde, private firm employees Ganesh Kolhe and Ganesh Gaikwad to rigorous imprisonment in a case of fraud amounting to ₹300 crore. The court has also imposed a fine of ₹1 crore each on the accused Pune-based firms Varron Aluminium Pvt Ltd., and Varron Auto Comp Pvt. Ltd.Earlier in February 2017, the Central Bureau of Investigation had registered a case based on a complaint from Bank of India alleging fraudulent discounting of 246 bills against Letter of Credit (LC) issued by Canara Bank, Deccan Gymkhana Branch, Pune to the tune of nearly ₹300 crore. “It was alleged that the accused hatched conspiracy and in pursuance of the conspiracy, the managing director of both the companies, M/s. VAPL & M/s. VACPL got issued a fraudulent Letter of Credit (LC) on February 29, 2016 through the then chief manager of Canara Bank, Deccan Gymkhana Branch, Pune. It was further alleged that 246 forged bills were submitted in the Bank of India and got the same discounted fraudulently in the name of the other co-accused companies.” The money received from these fraudulent transactions were allegedly transferred to the accounts of M/s. Varron Group of companies and fraudulently utilised for reducing their earlier liabilities with the State Bank of India.Also Read: Plea in Allahabad HC seeks CBI probe, says law and order in ‘great danger’Hegde, the then chief manager of Canara Bank has been sentenced to five years of imprisonment with a fine of ₹1 lakh; Kolhe, the then account assistant of M/s. Varron Aluminium Pvt. Ltd. & M/s. Varron Auto Comp Pvt. Ltd., has been sentenced to three years of imprisonment and a fine of ₹1.5 lakh. Gaikwad, the then account assistant of M/s. Varron Aluminium Pvt. Ltd. (VAPL) & M/s. Varron Auto Comp Pvt. Ltd. (VACPL), has also been sentenced to three years of imprisonment with a fine of ₹1 lakh. Manoj S. Salvi, the proprietor of M/s. Ratna Metal Mart has also been sentenced to 3 years of imprisonment with a fine of ₹1 lakh. In addition, the court has imposed a fine of Rs. 1 crore each on M/s. Varron Aluminium Pvt. Ltd., Pune and M/s. Varron Auto Comp Pvt. Ltd., Pune.After investigation, a charge-sheet was filed in the Court of Special Judge, CBI Cases, Pune against the accused. The trial court found the accused guilty and convicted them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bank-officials-and-pvt-firm-employees-jailed-for-fraud-101633521281094.html
06-10-2021||India||Centre approves setting up of seven mega textile parks||The Union government on Wednesday approved the setting up of seven integrated mega textile parks, in a move to boost domestic manufacturing of textiles. “The 7 Mega Integrated Textile Region and Apparel Parks (PM MITRA) will be setup at Greenfield/Brownfield sites located in different willing states. Proposals of state governments having ready availability of contiguous and encumbrance-free land parcel of 1,000+ acres along with other textiles related facilities & ecosystem are welcome,” the government said in a statement.The parks will follow the ‘5F’ Formula --- farm to fibre; fibre to factory; factory to fashion; fashion to foreign. “This integrated vision will help furthering the growth of textile sector in the economy. No other competing nation has a complete textile ecosystem like us. India is strong in all five Fs,” the statement added. The government will also provide a fund of ₹300 core for each PM MITRA Park to incentivize manufacturing units to get established. “PM MITRA Park will be developed by a Special Purpose Vehicle which will be owned by the state government and Government of India in a Public Private Partnership (PPP) Mode. The Master Developer will not only develop the Industrial Park but also maintain it during the concession period. Selection of this Master Developer will happen based on objective criteria developed jointly by State and Central Governments,” the statement added. “Convergence with other Central Government and State Government Schemes is available as per their eligibility under the guidelines of those schemes. This will enhance the competitiveness of the textiles industry, by helping it in achieving economies of scale and will create huge job opportunities for millions of people. Leveraging Economies of Scale, the scheme will help Indian companies to emerge as Global Champions.” States such as Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Assam, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Telangana have expressed interest in the scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-approves-setting-up-of-seven-mega-textile-parks-101633521279720.html
06-10-2021||India||4 of cruise ship rave party event management firm gets NCB custody in drugs case||A local court in Mumbai on Wednesday remanded four people in the custody of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in connection with the probe into the high-profile cruise ship drugs party.The Metropolitan Magistrate Court sent four people associated with Delhi-based-event management company Caneplus Trading Private Limited, that had arranged the event on Cordelia Cruises' Empress ship,  to NCB custody till October 14. The four have been identifed as Sameer Sehgal and Gopalji Anand are directors of Caneplus while two others — Manav Singhal and Bhaskar Arora — are employees of the company.The case pertains to the raid by NCB sleuths raid on an off shore rave party held on a cruise ship along Mumbai coast on Saturday night. At least 10 people were either or arrested, inclulding Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan, and two of his friends.The NCB claims to have found multiple banned drugs such as cocaine, MDMA (commonly known as ecstasy), mephedrone and charas during the raid.Aryan Khan, along with his friends Arbaaz Merchant and fashion designer Munmun Dhamecha are presently in NCB custody, too.The NCB claimed that “shocking and incriminating” material recovered in WhatsApp chats of Aryan Khan and two others arrested in connection with the case showed international drug trafficking.The owners of the cruise ship have said that they were in no way involved in organising the rave party."Cordelia Cruises is in no way, directly or indirectly, connected to this incident. Cordelia Cruises had chartered its ship for a private event to a Delhi-based event management company,” Jurgen Bailom, Chief Executive Officer and President, Waterways Leisure Tourism Pvt Ltd said in the statement.The NCB raid comes almost a month after the directorate of revenue intelligence seized close to 3,000kg of heroin at Gujarat's Mundra port and recovered around 37 kg of the narcotic drug and other contraband items from Delhi and Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-of-cruise-ship-rave-party-event-management-firm-gets-ncb-custody-in-drugs-case-101633517445027.html
06-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: Govt approves 78 days' wage as bonus for railway employees and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Good news for railway employees! Govt approves 78 days' wage as bonusAhead of Dusshera and the festive season, the Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved a productivity-linked bonus equivalent to 78 days' wage to eligible non-gazetted railway employees. Read MorePunjab CM Channi says Kejriwal should get some ‘nice clothes’. Delhi CM repliesDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday posed four questions for newly appointed Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi after the latter’s remark on Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) convener’s clothes. Read MoreLakhimpur Kheri: Sidhu to lead Punjab Congress march to UP against BJPThe Punjab Congress will start its march to Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri district on Thursday in protest against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for the “brutal murders” of farmers. Read MoreIPL 2021: ‘RCB vs SRH not an irrelevant match,' says Gautam Gambhir, explains reasonsFormer India cricketer Gautam Gambhir believes that the Indian Premier League 2021 match between Royal Challengers Bangalore and Sunrisers Hyderabad holds importance for Virat Kohli-led side and hence, is not an “irrelevant” encounter. Read MoreArun Govil denies ‘rivalry’ with late Arvind Trivedi, says they spoke 10 days ago: 'He was not well'Ramayan's Ram, actor Arun Govil, has condoled the death of his old co-star, Arvind Trivedi, who played Raavan on the show, which catapulted them to near-mythic status in real life as well. Read MoreSunny Leone rocks a steamy fall fashion in ₹2k crop hoodie, zipped denim skirtDown the years, denim skirt has changed only in the way people have styled it but never in its core shape or construction and as they make a comeback in fall 2021, Bollywood actor Sunny Leone was seen rocky the steamy fashion of a zipped up blue denim skirt with a crop hoodie. Read MoreWatch: Lakhimpur victims speak out as car hitting crowd and violence videos go viral||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-govt-approves-78-days-wage-as-bonus-for-railway-employees-and-all-the-latest-news-101633517829863.html
06-10-2021||India||Corbett Tiger Reserve likely to be renamed Ramganga National Park||The Union ministry of environment, forests and climate change has asked Corbett Tiger Reserve officials to rename the Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR) as Ramganga National Park (RNP). The Rāmgangā river flows from the Corbett Tiger Reserve and is known as the lifeline of the reserve.Ashwini Kumar Choubey, minister of state for environment, forest and climate change (MOEFCC) has asked the CTR director to initiate the renaming process of the reserve during his visit to CTR on Sunday, a forest official said.“The minister during his visit to the reserve had said Ramganga national park is a good name instead of CTR so initiate the renaming process of CTR. If the forest ministry instructs us to prepare a proposal of this sort, we will act accordingly,” said Rahul, director CTR on Wednesday.Choubey had visited CTR on Sunday to conclude the tiger safari organised for the protection of tigers held under Amrit Mahotsav. Speaking on the occasion at Dhangarhi museum, he told forest authorities that CTR should be renamed as RNP as it is a good name and related to Indian nature and landscape, an official said.He not only instructed officials to initiate the renaming process but also mentioned Ramganga national park under his message and the signature in the visitors’ book, an official said.The Corbett reserve was established in 1936 and named Haily National Park after Malcolm Haily, the former governor of the then UP province. After Independence, it was renamed as Ramganga National Park in 1954-55. Next year, it was again renamed as Corbett Tiger Reserve after the name of hunter and writer Jim Corbett.“CTR’s name was Ramganga national park earlier also but it was renamed as Corbett tiger reserve in 1955-56. MOEFCC itself may initiate the renaming process or can instruct us to prepare a proposal. But, it is too early to say anything at this juncture,” said Rahul.CTR is spread over 520 km and is rich in flora and fauna, it is known for tigers, leopards, elephants, deer, bear and several species of other wild animals, reptiles and birds. Lakhs of tourists visit the national park every year.CTR earns around ₹10-crore from tourists, Rahul added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/corbett-tiger-reserve-likely-to-be-renamed-ramganga-national-park-101633519179705.html
06-10-2021||India||RSS reason why India not becoming another Pakistan: Karnataka minister||Karnataka animal husbandry minister Prabhu Chauhan on Wednesday said Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) is the reason why India is not becoming another Pakistan, news agency ANI reported him saying. "The RSS is the patriot organisation that is safeguarding the country. India is safe under the RSS. Indian people nowhere need to be scared for any country or forces," he further said.His remarks came in response to the comments made by Janata Dal-Secular (JDS) leader and former Karnataka chief minister HD Kumaraswamy, who had alleged that the RSS-trained 4,000 civil servants in the country are now part of the Indian bureaucracy.Chauhan then went on to take a jibe at the JDS, saying everybody knows how the party ran the country and its contribution. "JDS and Kumarswamy must understand that they don't have any credibility to speak about RSS," he added.Previously, senior Congress leader Siddaramaiah had alleged that "BJP are "Talibanis" and claimed that it's actually the RSS which is running the administration in Karnataka. He was speaking at an event held to distribute ration kits to poor families that lost someone due to Covid-19 in Bengaluru."BJP has a factory of lies with them, they only produce and market lies. We can relate it to Goebbels theory that was under Hitler rule. Hitler had a Minister called Goebbels (Paul Joseph Goebbels) for spreading false propaganda," PTI had reported him saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rss-reason-why-india-not-becoming-another-pakistan-karnataka-minister-101633516347743.html
06-10-2021||India||Respond to Sachin Vaze’s plea for house arrest: HC to NIA||Dismissed police officer Sachin Vaze, who was arrested in March for his alleged role in planting explosives in a car parked outside businessman Mukesh Ambani’s house in February, has moved the Bombay high court against a special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court’s September 29 order rejecting his plea for house arrest after his heart surgery. The high court asked the NIA to file its response and file its reply within a week. It scheduled the next hearing in the matter next week.Vaze’s lawyer, Sudeep Pasbola, told a division bench of justices Nitin Jamdar and Sarang Kotwal that his client was operated upon on September 13 and was discharged from a Mumbai hospital on September 28. He added the surgery was complex involving five grafts and Vaze was shifted back to Taloja Central Prison Hospital after the surgery. The special NIA court rejected his plea for house arrest and directed the prison authorities to keep Vaze in the prison hospital for a month for post-surgery recovery.In his petition in the high court, Vaze cited a high likelihood of contracting an infection in a non-sterile environment such as a jail. He added there was a higher rate of tuberculosis and skin infection due to unhygienic conditions among jail inmates. He feared for his well-being and hence sought house arrest.Also Read: NIA court rejects Sachin Vaze’s plea for house arrest post cardiac surgery“The petitioner states that the incision made for the surgery on his chest is still fresh and wet and as such the pus and blood is oozing from the same,” the petition said. “The petitioner states that the conditions at the said hospital are very poor and that there is a high risk of contracting other infections such as tuberculosis etc. The petitioner states that his health would be jeopardized if he has taken back to Taloja Central Prison.”Vaze said the room where he intends to stay at his residence in the event the court permits him to be placed under house arrest has separate access and as such, complete seclusion could be maintained to enforce the rules as per the prison manual.While opposing Vaze’s plea in the special court, the NIA argued his judicial custody cannot be converted into a house arrest since the investigation against him was complete and the charge sheet has been filed. It argued the hospitals attached to Taloja jail were modern and capable of handling Vaze’s condition. The prosecution said it feared Vaze would abscond if house arrest was granted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/respond-to-sachin-vaze-s-plea-for-house-arrest-hc-to-nia-101633519059459.html
06-10-2021||India||Centre launches Heli-borne survey tech for groundwater mapping in arid regions||Union minister of state Jitendra Singh on Tuesday launched Heli-borne survey technology for groundwater management, developed by the Centre for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) and the National Geophysical Research Institute (NGRI) Hyderabad, in Jodhpur. Heli-borne geophysical mapping technique will provide high-resolution 3D image for sub-surface up to a depth of 500 meters below the ground level and map potential groundwater sources.This latest technology is being employed by CSIR to map groundwater sources in arid regions and utilise groundwater for drinking purposes, he said. The Ministry of Jal Shakti has signed a Memorandum of Agreement with CSIR-NGRI for executing the project named High Resolution Aquifer Mapping & Management in Arid Regions of North Western India to target key water challenges in Rajasthan, Gujarat, Punjab and Haryana.Jitendra Singh said that the water technologies of CSIR, from source finding to water treatment, will benefit millions of people across the country and will contribute to PM Modi’s “Har Ghar Nal Se Jal” (drinking water supply to every household) as well as “doubling farmers income” goals. He noted that the technological expertise of CSIR will be a great asset for the Jal Shakti ministry’s programs and that the association could help address key water challenges of the country. Also Read: U’khand govt issues SOP for Char Dham yatra after court lifts limit on pilgrims“This is a mega project of ₹150 crores to be implemented in two phases in collaboration with the Ministry of Jal Shakti as a part of National Aquifer Mapping Project. This project is expected to bring high visibility to CSIR in implementing the Government of India`s most ambitious project Jal Jeevan Mission,” the Ministry of Science & Technology said in a statement on Tuesday.“Arid areas in north western India spread over parts of Rajasthan, Gujarat, Haryana and Punjab, covering nearly 12% of the total geographical area of the country and are home to more than 80 million people,” Singh said. With an annual rainfall in the range of less than 100 to 400 mm, these areas face acute shortage of water throughout the year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-launches-heli-borne-survey-tech-for-groundwater-mapping-in-arid-regions-101633517919142.html
06-10-2021||India||Bihar looking at ways to reach out to differently-abled for Covid-19 jabs||The Bihar health department has instructed districts to inoculate on a priority basis those who are bed-ridden, differently-abled and the old and infirm, especially those having restricted mobility, in an effort to saturate the state with vaccination against coronavirus. Bihar has 23.31 lakh people categorised under “disabled” in a population of 10.40 crore, as per Census 2011, shared by the social welfare department. Of these, 14.70 lakh have been issued disability certificates and are entitled to various benefits, including pension, under government schemes. Disabled are entitled to a monthly pension of ₹400 in Bihar. Since the available data on differently-abled is based on Census 2011, the state health society, Bihar (SHSB), on Tuesday, instructed district magistrates (DMs) and civil surgeons to prepare a line-list of all such people in their respective district, and chalk out an action plan to vaccinate them. The SHSB also advised the DMs and civil surgeons to use mobile vaccination vans and press into service outreach workers like accredited social health activists (AHSA) to tap and vaccinate all such people as close as possible to their residences. Bihar had deployed around 725 “Teeka Express”, which are mobile vaccination vans, to reach out to people for Covid-19 jabs in rural areas. “We are approaching first-dose vaccination saturation in the state. Since the number of eligible population for vaccination has come down, we have to reach out to the population, which is still unvaccinated. The most important in this category is the differently abled and the old and the infirm, having restricted mobility, as they are unable to come to our vaccination centres. We have to now reach out to them through our outreach workers,” said Sanjay Kumar Singh, executive director, State Health Society, Bihar, and also the state nodal officer for vaccination. Bihar’s first dose vaccine coverage is around 63% of the eligible adult population of 7.22 crore and 27% second dose of those who have taken the first jab. “We had asked our polio supervisors during the recent pulse polio drive (September 26 to October 1) to find out people who have been left out of Covid vaccination. They have marked all households where people due for their second dose have not taken the shot or those completely left out. We will try and persuade all such people to take the Covid-19 vaccine,” added Singh. The share of males with multiple disabilities in Bihar was 1.9% and females at 1.3%, according to the National Statistical Office (NSO) of the ministry of statistics and programme Implementation (MOSPI), mainly responsible for laying down standards for statistical analysis, data collection, and implementation. Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar had in June given his officials the task to administer 6 crore vaccine doses in six months by December this year. Bihar has administered over 5.80 crore doses so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-looking-at-ways-to-reach-out-to-differently-abled-for-covid-19-jabs-101633517619287.html
06-10-2021||India||Chhattisgarh CM announces ex-gratia for kin of farmers, journalist killed in Lakhimpur Kheri||The Chhattisgarh government on Wednesday announced an ex gratia of ₹50 lakh to the families of the four farmers who were killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in Uttar Pradesh. The same has also been announced for the journalist who was also among the eight killed in the violence."On behalf of Chhattisgarh government, I announce ₹50 lakh each for the families of the farmers and the journalist who died in the violence (in Lakhimpur Kheri)," Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel announced from the Lucknow airport.Baghel is on his way to the violence-hit district to meet the families hit by the violence along with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and other party leaders.The visit was permitted after the last rites of the fourth farmers who died in the violence were conducted. The mortal remains of the three other farmers were cremated at their native places on Tuesday. Gurvinder Singh was cremated on Wednesday after a second autopsy was conducted on him as demanded by his family.Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi has also announced an ex-gratia of ₹50 lakh. Both Punjab and Chhattisgarh are ruled by the Congress.Uttar Pradesh drew backlash over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in which eight people died after a jeep ran over farmers who were protesting against the Centre's farm laws. Following the incident, the local administrator turned the district into a fortress by deploying a heavy security to the area and restricted politicians from visiting the site.On Monday, it also detained Congress' general secretary Priyank Gandhi Vadra in Sitapuri while she was en route to meet the families of the victims.Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of several farmer unions, has alleged that Ashish Mishra Teni, son of Union minister of state for home affairs Ajay Mishra Teni arrived with three vehicles around the time that farmers were dispersing from their protest at the helipad and mowed down farmers. The group also alleges that Ashish Mishra also tried to attack SKM leader Tajinder Singh Virk directly, by trying to run a vehicle over him.However, the minister and his son have refuted the allegations, saying he was not present at the spot where the incident took place.Meanwhile, the police are investigating the matter and a case has been registered against Ajay Mishra's son, but no arrest has been made so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-cm-announces-ex-gratia-for-kin-of-farmers-journalist-killed-101633515339102.html
06-10-2021||India||Uttarakhand govt issues SOP for Char Dham yatra after court lifts limit on pilgrims. Check details||A day after the Uttarakhand high court lifted the daily limit on the number of devotees on Char Dham yatra, the state government issued a new standard operating procedure (SOP) for the pilgrims. Under the new guidelines, registration on the Char Dham Board portal will be mandatory for ‘darshan’ in the four dhams. However, yatra e-Pass from the portal is no longer required to visit the shrines.The devotees should either be fully vaccinated against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) or have to produce a negative Covid report not older than 72 hours. The relaxation comes in the wake of significant decline in daily Covid-19 cases in the state.On Tuesday, a division bench of Chief Justice R S Chauhan and Justice Alok Kumar Verma lifted the cap on pilgrims following the state government’s plea but added that every pilgrim will have to bring a negative Covid-19 test report or a vaccination certificate.“As per Hon'ble High Court of Uttarakhand order dated 05/10/2021 regarding the Chardham Yatra, upper ceiling on number of pilgrims visiting the dham temples has been removed. However all the pilgrims visiting Uttarakhand have to register themselves only on the portal http://smartcitydehradun.uk.gov.in and follow the Uttarakhand State Covid-19 SOP,” says Uttarakhand Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board on its website.The court stayed the Char Dham yatra in June owing to the disastrous second wave of Covid-19 pandemic as hundreds of thousands lost their lives. Later in September, the court lifted the stay but limited the number of daily pilgrims to the four revered Himalayan shrines - 800 for Kedarnath, 1000 for Badrinath, 600 for Gangotri and 400 for Yamunotri. It had also banned bathing in any reservoir or spring located around the shrines.In its latest order, the court has directed the state government to increase the healthcare facilities on Char Dham routes and shines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-govt-issues-sop-for-char-dham-yatra-after-court-lifts-daily-pilgrim-limit-check-details-101633515489481.html
06-10-2021||India||Mamata Banerjee seeks PM’s intervention to prevent ‘man-made floods’||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has sought Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s intervention in preventing “man-made floods” in the state.“I seek your kind immediate intervention so that the concerned ministry of Union government is requested to engage with the governments of West Bengal and Jharkhand and the authorities of the Damodar Valley Corporation to help to arrive at a permanent solution to this problem of our state occurring year after year,” Banerjee wrote to Modi on Tuesday.Around 2.2 million people were affected while 400,000 were evacuated when floods hit West Benga’s eight districts last week. This was the second flood to hit West Bengal since July-August. Banerjee called both the floods man-made and blamed the corporation, a central governmental agency operating power stations in Jharkhand and West Bengal for the floods. She alleged that water was discharged after midnight from the Panchet and Maithon dams and the Sikatiya barrage without informing West Bengal.The DVC has said a representative of the state government is in the committee which decides when and how much water would be released from the dams it operates. It insisted the information was passed on to both the state government and the district authorities.Also Read: Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee to inaugurate Durga puja pandalsBanerjee has written earlier as well to Modi over the recurring floods in West Bengal triggered by heavy rain and subsequent discharge of water from dams.“I am sorry to say that my earlier letter to you has not yet been responded to by the Union government. The issues that I raised affect millions of lives, and I request that the Centre should get into some serious actions without further delay,” Banerjee wrote on Tuesday.Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party leader Dilip Ghosh said the state government has been lying. “The state government has a representative in the DVC committee which decides on the water release. What was he doing then? If he cannot perform, discharge him,” said Ghosh.Banerjee also attacked the DVC for not dredging its reservoirs, which could increase their water holding capacity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-seeks-pm-s-intervention-to-prevent-man-made-floods-in-bengal-101633515879023.html
06-10-2021||India||Punjab, Chhattisgarh announce ₹50 lakh ex-gratia for families of those killed in Lakhimpur Kheri incident||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi expressed solidarity with the families of the farmers killed during Sunday’s Lakhimpur Kheri incident, and announced an ex-gratia of ₹50 lakh for the next of kin of the deceased, including journalist Raman Kashyap.“On the behalf of the Punjab government, I announce ₹50 lakh each to the families of the deceased including the journalist,” Channi told ANI on Wednesday.As many as eight people lost their lives in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident on Sunday when two SUVs mowed down protesting farmers. A First Information Report stated Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra’s son, Ashish, was sitting in one of the SUVs which ran over the protesters. The BJP leader’s son has also been accused of opening fire on protesters a few minutes later.Also Read: 'Nation awaiting justice in Lakhimpur Kheri violence': Kejriwal tells Modi"The minister's son committed the act in a display of hooliganism. The central government also did not take any action against the Union minister in the wake of the viral video and today (October 3), his son carried out the gruesome act," the FIR added.Another Congress leader and chief minister of Chhattisgarh, Bhupesh Baghel, also announced an ex-gratia of ₹50 lakh for the kin of the deceased. The Uttar Pradesh government, which has come under fire from the Opposition for its handling of the incident, earlier announced an ex-gratia of ₹45 lakh and a government job for the families of the four farmers who were killed in the violence. Both Channi and Baghel are currently in Lucknow, accompanying Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on his official visit to Lakhimpur Kheri. Senior party leaders KC Venugopal and Randeep Surjewala are also expected to visit the site of the violence with Gandhi.Gandhi was not allowed to leave Lucknow airport in his personal vehicle by Uttar Pradesh police. “We want to go in our car (to Lakhimpur Kheri) but they (police) want to take us in their vehicle. I asked them to let me go in my personnel vehicle. They're planning something. I'm sitting here,” he told reporters from the airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-chhattisgarh-announce-rs-50-lakh-ex-gratia-for-families-of-those-killed-in-lakhimpur-kheri-incident-101633515108654.html
06-10-2021||India||Entry into UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri triggers political slugfest between TMC, Congress||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) scaled up its criticism of the Congress on Wednesday, calling the national party a “loser”, shortly after Rahul Gandhi said in Lucknow that leaders from his party were prevented by the Uttar Pradesh government from travelling to Lakhimpur Kheri while TMC and Bhim Army teams reached the spot a day earlier. Lakhimpur Kheri has become the destination for all anti-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) forces since the alleged killing of farmers on Sunday. Focusing his attack on the Congress leader, TMC state general secretary and spokesperson Kunal Ghosh tweeted, “Rahul Gandhi should not try to confuse people by distorting facts. TMC will not accept any loose non-political comment from any part-time politician who has failed to combat BJP. We respect INC. We are in favour of non BJP unity. We are on the roads, not on Twitter only.” Ghosh did not spare the Congress as well. “Rahul Gandhi should know: @AITCofficial MPs are in Lakhimpur after a long fight. In Tripura, BJP imposed 144 throughout Agartala only to prevent @abhishekaitc. INC is a loser in their traditional UP including Amethi. But TMC defeated BJP in Bengal. INC made Punjab a mess.” The Bengal Congress countered Ghosh and his party with an equally sharp criticism. “It is evident to people of this country that Congress has stood by farmers and emerged as the face of the anti-BJP force. It never compromised. The fact that TMC leaders were given a safe passage to Lakhimpur Kheri exposes the tacit understanding the party has with the BJP. This is how the BJP wants to weaken the opposition unity,” said Bengal Congress spokesperson Soumya Aich Roy. TMC Lok Sabha member Kakali Ghosh Dastidar, one of the leaders who visited Lakhimpur Kheri, told reporters that the team could make it because its members avoided attention from the moment they arrived in Lucknow on Monday. “There was not a single person to receive us at the Lucknow airport. We moved like common people from the very beginning. Policemen stopped our car when it was heading for Lakhimpur. I admit that we lied to them and said we were going to the Dudhwa National Park,” said Ghosh Dastidar. Bengal’s ruling party started targeting the Congress after Mamata Banerjee’s nephew and the party’s national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee announced on June 8 that the TMC would expand its base in other states and take the BJP head on in the upcoming assembly elections. Since then, TMC has inducted Congress leaders and workers in Tripura and Goa. Former chief minister of Goa, Luizinho Faleiro, and several former office-bearers of the Congress’ Goa unit, joined TMC in the presence of Abhishek Banerjee in Kolkata on September 29. “Where is the Congress? On the ground, it is TMC that is facing the BJP and defeating it,” Abhishek Banerjee said recently, setting the tone of the rhetoric against the party that Mamata Banerjee left in 1998 to form the Trinamool Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/entry-into-up-s-lakhimpur-kheri-triggers-slugfest-between-tmc-congress-101633515459120.html
06-10-2021||India||Good news for railway employees! Govt approves 78 days' wage as bonus||Ahead of Dusshera and the festive season, the Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved a productivity-linked bonus equivalent to 78 days' wage to eligible non-gazetted railway employees, which will benefit about 11.56 lakh non-gazetted railway employees. "Every year, the govt gives out this bonus to non-gazetted employees of the railways. A committee determines the bonus based on a formula. According to the formula, the employees were supposed to get 72 days' wage as a bonus. But PM Modi and the Cabinet decided to give 78 days' wage as a bonus to boost the morale of the railway employees," Union minister Anurag Thakur said announcing the Cabinet decision. The bonus will cost the exchequer around ₹1,985 crore.Every year, the decision is announced before the festive season and this year too, there has been no exception, the minister said.This bonus pertains to the fiscal year 2020-21.In 2019-20, the Indian Railways had given its nearly 11.58 lakh non-gazetted employees a bonus of 78 days. The total cost of the bonus was estimated at ₹2,081.68 crore. In 2020, the Railways had fixed the wage calculation ceiling prescribed for payment of the bonus at ₹7,000 per month. The maximum amount payable per eligible railway employee was set at ₹17,951 for 78 days.The Cabinet on Wednesday also approved setting up of seven mega integrated textile region and apparel parks with a total outlay of ₹4,4445 crore in a period of five years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/good-news-for-railway-employees-govt-approves-78-days-wage-as-bonus-101633514076184.html
06-10-2021||India||Ruling and opposition parties should work together for development: Naidu||Vice president M Venkaiah Naidu on Wednesday called on ruling and opposition parties to work together for development while emphasising they should not treat each other as enemies.Speaking at an event in Agartala, Naidu appealed to political parties to respect each other. He spoke about development in the Northeast and added the Centre was focusing on it and funds have been doubled for the purpose. Naidu said he has seen major progress this time compared to over a decade back.“Without the development of the north-eastern region, development of India is incomplete. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is the initiator of the development and Tripura is catching it up,” he said. “The government of India has focused on the development of infrastructures in the Northeast and accordingly, Tripura got its share. The state has also developed in the social and economic sectors.”Also Read: Punjab CM Channi says Kejriwal should get some ‘nice clothes’. Delhi CM repliesNaidu said the Maharaja Bir Bikram Airport in Tripura is expected to be upgraded to an international airport and initiatives are taken to revive Kailasahar airport and find out new avenues for helicopter service in Unakoti district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ruling-and-opposition-parties-should-work-together-for-development-naidu-101633514318535.html
06-10-2021||India||UP govt allows all political parties to visit Lakhimpur Kheri amid row||The Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday permitted political parties to visit Lakhimpur Kheri, where eight people, including four farmers, were killed in violence on Sunday, news agency PTI reported, quoting the state's additional chief secretary Awanish Kumar Awasthi. According to the report, only five people will be allowed at a time owing to protocol in place to check the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The development comes as Congress' Rahul Gandhi, KC Venugopal and other leaders were on their way to visit the violence-hit district. After denying permission to them initially, the state government allowed the leaders after the last rites rituals of all four farmers were completed.Meanwhile, the Uttar Pradesh government is yet to release Priyanka Gandhi, who has been detained since Monday morning at the PAC compound in Sitapur. She was arrested after an altercation with local administration while she was trying to visit Lakhimpur Kheri to meet the families of farmers killed in Sunday's violence.The government in Uttar Pradesh is facing countrywide criticism after a vehicle ran over farmers during a protest on Sunday. The SUV was reportedly part of the convoy of Union minister of state Ajay Kumar Mishra's son Ashish. However, the minister has denied the charges."The farmers of the country are being systematically attacked," said Rahul Gandhi, slamming Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He also alleged that a new type of politics is being played in Uttar Pradesh where criminals are doing whatever they want and are roaming freely while those seeking justice for the victims are being arrested.The four others who have been killed in the incident include two BJP workers, a driver of Ajay Kumar Mishra, and Raman Kashyap, a journalist working for a private television channel.The Uttar Pradesh Police has registered a case against Ajay Mishra's son, Ashish, but no arrest has been made so far.Meanwhile, Gurvinder Singh alias Gyaniji, one of the four farmers killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, was cremated on Wednesday morning after a second autopsy was conducted on him as demanded by his family. The mortal remains of the three other dead farmers were cremated at their native places on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-govt-allows-all-political-parties-to-visit-lakhimpur-kheri-amid-row-101633514123449.html
06-10-2021||India||Monsoon withdrawal from northwest India begins, says IMD||The withdrawal of monsoon from northwest India commenced on Wednesday while it has withdrawn from parts of Rajasthan and Gujarat, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. An anti-cyclonic circulation has established in the lower tropospheric levels over western parts of northwest India and there is a substantial reduction in moisture content and rainfall, which indicates the monsoon has started withdrawing.Conditions were becoming favourable for further withdrawal of the monsoon from more parts of Gujarat, entire Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, and parts of Madhya Pradesh during three to four days.The withdrawal this year is likely to be the second most delayed since 1960, according to IMD. In 2019, monsoon withdrawal was the most delayed commencing only on October 9. The monsoon commenced withdrawal on September 28 last year.“Rain has stopped in many parts of northwest India. There is still some rain over the Ganganagar region in Rajasthan. Water vapour has also reduced significantly, and an anticyclone is getting established leading to a change in wind direction to north-westerly. All these conditions favour gradual monsoon withdrawal and establishment of dry conditions with marginal fall in temperature,” said K Sathi Devi, who heads the National Weather Forecasting Centre, on Tuesday.Also Read: Partly cloudy sky in Delhi with air quality in ‘moderate’ categoryA low-pressure area was very likely to form over the north Andaman Sea around October 10 and was likely to become more marked and move west-north-westwards towards south Odisha and north Coastal Andhra Pradesh during subsequent four to five days.Very heavy rain was likely in Kerala and coastal Karnataka till October 10 and Tamil Nadu and interior Karnataka and Rayalaseema till October 8. This was expected under the influence of a cyclonic circulation over the Tamil Nadu coast and neighbourhood and a trough in easterlies from this cyclonic circulation to north Konkan across central parts of Tamil Nadu, north Kerala and coastal Karnataka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-withdrawal-from-northwest-india-begins-101633513719076.html
06-10-2021||India||Punjab CM Channi says Kejriwal should get some ‘nice clothes’. Delhi CM replies||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday posed four questions for newly appointed Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi after the latter’s remark on Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) convener’s clothes. Responding to Kejriwal’s criticism of Punjab Congress, Channi had said during an interview with ABP Sanjha that someone should give ₹5,000 to the AAP leader to get some “nice clothes” for him."Do you have ₹5,000? Everyone has it. Give it to him (Kejriwal) too...at least he should get some nice clothes...His salary is 250,000, can't he get some nice clothes," Channi told the interviewer.Taking to Twitter, the Delhi chief minister said it doesn’t matter if Channi doesn’t like his clothes because people like it. He further asked the Punjab chief minister when he’s going to fulfill the promises of employment, loan waivers for farmers, ensuring punishment in sacrilege case, action against tainted ministers, MLAs, and officers.“Channi sahib, you don't like my clothes. No problem. People like it. Leave the clothes. When will you fulfill these promises? 1. When will you give employment to every unemployed 2. When will you waive the loans of farmers 3. Why not send the guilty of sacrilege to jail 4. When will action be taken against tainted ministers, MLAs and officers,” Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi.चन्नी साहिब, आपको मेरे कपड़े पसंद नहीं। कोई बात नहीं। जनता को पसंद हैंकपड़े छोड़ो। ये वादे कब पूरे करोगे?1. हर बेरोज़गार को रोज़गार कब दोगे2. किसानों के क़र्ज़े कब माफ़ करोगे3. बेअदबी के दोषियों को जेल क्यों नहीं भेजते4. दागी मंत्रियों, MLA और अफ़सरों पर ऐक्शन कब लोगे https://t.co/EKw2rd8qdBThe Aam Aadmi Party, currently the main Opposition party in Punjab, has intensified its criticism of Punjab Congress ahead of the next Assembly polls. In the 2017 Punjab Assembly elections, the AAP, contesting for the first time in the state, won 20 seats out of total 117, while Congress bagged 77 seats.Last month, Kejriwal went on a two-day visit to Punjab where he congratulated Channi on his appointment as the new chief minister but also challenged the government to fulfil five demands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-cm-channi-says-kejriwal-should-get-some-nice-clothes-delhi-cm-replies-101633512506569.html
06-10-2021||India||Detained Congress MP Deepender Singh Hooda allowed to take stroll in Sitapur||Congress Member of Parliament Deepender Singh Hooda, who was detained in Sitapur along with Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday while they were on their way to violence-hit Lakhimpur Kheri, was allowed to step out briefly under police watch on Tuesday. He took a stroll around the Sitapur’s cantonment area as police officers accompanied him.“After two days in custody, today I was finally allowed to walk for half an hour inside the cantonment in the evening. The only condition was that policemen would accompany me with every step,” Hooda tweeted on Tuesday night. He also posted a video showing himself along with two police officers.Also Read: Rahul Gandhi trying to misrepresent situation in Lakhimpur Kheri: BJPHooda and Priyanka Gandhi were among the Congress leaders detained as they were en route to Lakhimpur Kheri to meet the families of the people killed in the violence there. The violence was triggered after a car ran over a group of protesting farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/detained-congress-mp-allowed-to-take-stroll-101633512758627.html
06-10-2021||India||'This is UP govt's permission': Rahul Gandhi finally allowed to leave airport||The Lucknow airport became the stage of dramatic developments on Wednesday afternoon following Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's arrival at the airport. The Congress leader sat in a dharna along with Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel as they were briefly stopped from coming out of the airport, Rahul Gandhi alleged. After being stopped at the airport briefly, Rahul Gandhi was finally allowed to travel in his own vehicle, though the Uttar Pradesh Police initially insisted that the Congress delegation will have to travel accompanied by the UP Police. भाजपा सरकार की ‘अनुमति’!इतना डर किस बात का? #IndiaDemandsJustice pic.twitter.com/n5Y0dCfvHN "This is what UP government's permission looks like. Show them on your camera," Rahul Gandhi said as he got up from his airport seat and went towards the security personnel who did not move. #WATCH | At Lucknow airport, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi says, "What kind of permission I have been granted by UP Govt? These people are not letting me go out of the airport."Gandhi is leading a Congress delegation to violence-hit Lakhimpur Kheri pic.twitter.com/Wfxzgh3sec“We want to go in our car (to Lakhimpur Kheri) but they (police) want to take us in their vehicle. I asked them to let me go in my personnel vehicle. They're planning something. I'm sitting here,” he said. "Whenever I come to UP, I travel in my own car. But now they want to take me like a prisoner. I will sit here. There is no question of moving now," Rahul said.Earlier on Wednesday, the UP government had denied permission to Rahul Gandhi to visit Lakhimpuri Kheri district. Later, the additional director general for law and order Prashant Kumar said the UP government permitted Congress delegation in groups of five to visit Lakhimpur Kheri."For some time now, the farmers are being attacked by the government. Farmers are being mowed down by a jeep, they are being murdered, the name of a BJP home minister and his son is coming up, but no action is being taken. The farmers of the country are being systematically attacked. The first attack was to reverse the land acquisition bill, the second was bringing the three farm bills and today systematically what rightfully belongs to farmers is being snatched away," Rahul Gandhi said earlier on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/this-is-up-government-s-permission-rahul-gandhi-says-he-is-stopped-at-lucknow-101633512058424.html
06-10-2021||India||Posters accusing Gandhis of ‘fake sympathy’ surface in Lucknow||Posters condemning Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra who have been spearheading the party’s offensive, seeking dismissal of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra ‘Taini’ and arrest of his son Ashish Mishra in connection with Lakhimpur Kheri violence, came up in Lucknow on Wednesday. The posters that read ‘nahi chahiye farzi sahanubhooti’ meaning we don’t want fake sympathy’ came up even as the Congress scaled up the protests with Rahul Gandhi, along with Congress chief ministers of Punjab Charanjit Channi and Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel’s scheduled arrival in the state capital on Wednesday. Priyanka Gandhi has been arrested and kept in a guesthouse in Sitapur following her refusal to leave till she is allowed to meet the families of farmers killed in Lakhimpur Kheri violence. On Tuesday Baghel was forced to return from Lucknow airport after staging a sit-in there following denial of permission to meet Priyanka Gandhi at Sitapur. The anti-Gandhi posters also raised the issue of 1984 anti-Sikh riots that took place in the aftermath of the assassination of the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi by her Sikh security guard, saying that those who are trying to show sympathy to Sikh farmer families in Lakhimpur have their hands soiled in blood. Later in the day, UP minister and government spokesman Sidharth Nath Singh too reminded the Congress of 1984 Sikh riots and emergency and asked why Priyanka Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi were adamant on visiting Lakhimpur in violation of prohibitory orders. Also Read: Rahul Gandhi trying to misrepresent situation in Lakhimpur Kheri: BJP“Rahul Gandhi must have been very young when in independent India’s history, mass killings of Sikhs took place with a Congress government at the helm. The same government sat through emergency. So, all this fake talk of showing solidarity with Sikh farmers won’t cut much ice,” the UP minister said. “Anyone is free to meet the families of those who have lost their near and dear ones in Lakhimpur Kheri. But currently investigation is underway. They should wait for a few days and then go and meet,” he added. Commenting on a picture of Priyanka Gandhi sweeping the floor of her guest house room where she has been kept in Sitapur, the UP minister said it was good to see her join Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Swachhta campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/posters-accusing-gandhis-of-fake-sympathy-surface-in-lucknow-101633511918929.html
06-10-2021||India||Amit Shah meets Ajay Mishra amid opposition's demand for Mishra's resignation over Lakhimpur Kheri violence||Junior home minister Ajay Mishra Teni whose son Ashish Mishra has been named in the FIR lodged by the Uttar Pradesh Police in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri incident met Union home minister Amit Shah at the ministry of home affairs in New Delhi's North Block. It is not yet known whether Amit Shah summoned Ajay Mishra in the wake of the opposition demand of Ajay Mishra's resignation. However, the junior minister earlier said on Wednesday said that he was not summoned by the party high command.As many as eight people died in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident on Sunday when two SUVs mowed down a few protesters. The minister has been refusing any connection between his son and the incident and said the driver of his car lost balance after being attacked by stone pelters. "My son wasn't there in the car. After the car was attacked, the driver was injured, the car lost its balance and ran over a few people present there. I have expressed sympathies towards those who have lost their lives. There should be an unbiased probe," he said.Watch: Lakhimpur witnesses speak out about what happened as car hitting crowd videos go viral"The party high command has not summoned me. I will be reaching Delhi by tonight or tomorrow as I have few works lined up," Mishra said earlier.Lakhimpur Kheri: Punjab CM to meet Amit Shah, internet services restored | 10 pointsThe FIR says Asish was sitting in the car which mowed down the protesting farmers and he also opened fire at them. According to the first information report (FIR) lodged on a complaint of Jagjit Singh, a native of Bahraich district, the episode was "premeditated" for which the "conspiracy was hatched" by the minister and his son.Lakhimpur Kheri Violence: Internet to be suspended for 12 hours in SitapurAjay Mishra claimed that his son was not at the car and his driver was driving the car, who died after the car overturned. Had Ashish been in the car, he would not have been alive, the minister said.The FIR, however, says Ashish's speeding vehicle overturned while he managed to get out of the car and opened fire. "The minister's son committed the act in a display of hooliganism. The central government also did not take any action against the Union minister in the wake of the viral video and today (October 3), his son carried out the gruesome act," the FIR added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-meets-ajay-mishra-amid-opposition-s-demand-for-mishra-s-resignation-over-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-101633510370834.html
06-10-2021||India||PM Modi interacts with beneficiaries of SVAMITVA scheme in MP. Top quotes||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday interacted with the beneficiaries of SVAMITVA scheme in Madhya Pradesh through a video conference. He also distributed e-property cards to 1,71,000 beneficiaries under the SVAMITVA scheme during the event.Top quotes from Modi's speech:-Addressing a gathering of people, Modi said the era when the poor had to go to the government for every penny has been left behind, adding the government is now itself approaching and empowering them.-Modi said the SVAMITVA scheme was launched initially in Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Uttarakhand, Rajasthan, Haryana, Punjab and Karnataka. However, efforts are now being made to expand in other states.-PM Modi said, “Look at the efforts of our government for the last 6-7 years, if we look at the schemes, we have tried that the poor don't not spread their hands in front of any third person”.-"Recently, many policy decisions have been taken so that farmers in remote areas get maximum benefits of drone technology," he said.-The Prime Minister asserted said that the SVAMITVA scheme is not just a scheme to provide legal documents, adding “it is also a new mantra for development and trust in the villages of the country with the help of modern technology”.About the schemeSVAMITVA is a Central Sector Scheme of the Ministry of Panchayati Raj that aims to provide property rights to the residents of rural inhabited areas. The scheme will pave the way for using the property as a financial asset by villagers for taking loans and other financial benefits, like in urban areas.It aims to demarcate inhabited lands in rural areas through the latest surveying drone technology. The scheme has also provided a boost to the ecosystem of drone manufacturing in the country, PMO said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-interacts-with-beneficiaries-of-svamitva-scheme-in-mp-top-quotes-101633507804461.html
06-10-2021||India||Facebook knows it is in trouble as Mark Zuckerberg picks his battles||When Senator Edward Markey on Tuesday called Frances Haugen “a 21st-century American hero,” it underlined the trouble Facebook finds itself in. Haugen, a former Facebook employee who appeared before a US Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Consumer Protection, has blown the lid off what the social media company would have hoped remained a secret. She has highlighted how Facebook prioritised profits. It did not help with the optics that Facebook chose Antigone Davis, its global head of safety, and vice president (global affairs and communications) Nick Clegg to contest Haugen’s claims. The outage of all Facebook services this week added to the company’s woes.“Rather than taking responsibility and showing leadership, (Facebook chief executive) Mr. (Mark) Zuckerberg is going sailing,” said Senator Richard Blumenthal in his opening remarks at the Senate hearing on the matter. Blumenthal’s appeared to be referring to a 38-second clip Zuckerberg posted online on Sunday featuring him and his wife sailing.Facebook is defending allegations that the company has long ignored teenage safety on its platforms, particularly Instagram, resolving conflicts in favour of profits. Facebook has been accused of hiding internal research about how Instagram’s algorithms were negatively impacting young users’ mental health and other important information.Zuckerberg stayed away from the hearing but attempted to set the record straight. In a Facebook post, he insisted the company ‘deeply cares” about issues such as safety, well-being, and mental health. He insisted there has been no attempt to hide any research and called allegations that the company focused on profits over people as “illogical”.Also Read: FB whistle-blower’s complaint details importance of Indian polls, hate speechZuckerberg has not commented on issues that Haugen has raised in her complaint submitted to the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) along with internal documents. These include the interest in elections in countries such as India, how Facebook’s content detection mechanism is quite limited in scope and volume, the problem of duplicate accounts as well as hate speech.“It’s difficult to see coverage that misrepresents our work and our motives,” said Zuckerberg. “At the most basic level, I think most of us just don’t recognize the false picture of the company that is being painted.” Zuckerberg seemed to indicate that it is the coverage that is the problem, not the company and its policies. “I know it’s frustrating to see the good work we do get mischaracterized, especially for those of you who are making important contributions across safety, integrity, research, and product.”Zuckerberg said he was particularly focused on the questions raised about their work with kids. “I’ve spent a lot of time reflecting on the kinds of experiences I want my kids and others to have online, and it’s very important to me that everything we build is safe and good for kids.”Haugen’s complaint suggests that Facebook hid internal research on the scale of the negative impact that Instagram was having on young users. She has accused the company of repeatedly misleading users about claims of prioritising “meaningful social interactions” on its platforms, rather than the time spent metric.There are specific concerns about Instagram’s mental health impacts on its youngest users, something Facebook’s internal research has flagged. In her testimony, Haugen said Facebook choose to mislead and misdirect. While the internal research indicates otherwise, the public position Instagram took on the matter seemed quite cheerful, perhaps because of selective data. “The research actually demonstrated that many teens we heard from feel that using Instagram helps them when they are struggling with the kinds of hard moments and issues teenagers have always faced.” Last month, Instagram paused the development of its app meant for children below 13. The company justified the app saying kids are already online and were misrepresenting their age to download apps meant for older users. “While we’re pausing our development of ‘Instagram Kids’, we’ll continue our work to allow parents to oversee their children’s accounts by expanding these tools to teen accounts (aged 13 and over) on Instagram,” the company said in a statement.This adds strength to the argument about Facebook’s inability to prioritise the safety of young users.Zuckerberg said Facebook will do more research on the effects of social media on young people and make the results publicly available. He insisted the company did not push for profits ahead of user safety, privacy and well-being. “For example, one move that has been called into question is when we introduced the Meaningful Social Interactions change to News Feed. This change showed fewer viral videos and more content from friends and family -- which we did knowing it would mean people spent less time on Facebook, but that research suggested it was the right thing for people’s well-being.”In her complaint, Haugen said Facebook consistently resolved those conflicts in favour of its own profits. “The result has been a system that amplifies division, extremism, and polarization — and undermining societies around the world.”Zuckerberg did not respond to issues Haugen has cited regarding how Facebook has shown more interest in elections in certain countries. He did not also address the issues related to hate speech systems taking down 0.2% or so of the reported posts, etc.Haugen highlighted how Bengali as a language is still not available as a classifier for content moderation even though Facebook claimed so in 2019. She cited how certain groups were allowed to post dehumanising content, incite violence, and run duplicate accounts to amplify their messaging. A lot of these issues raised in the complaint have a direct and significant impact on India and over 340 million Facebook users in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-senate-hearing-zuckerberg-draws-flak-for-lack-of-leadership-101633510058581.html
06-10-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi trying to misrepresent situation in Lakhimpur Kheri: BJP||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday accused Congress leader Rahul Gandhi of trying to misrepresent the situation in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri following Sunday’s violence that was triggered when a vehicle ran over protesting farmers and left eight people dead.Hours after Gandhi accused the Uttar Pradesh government of carrying out a “systemic attack” on farmers, the BJP hit back saying he was using Lakhimpur Kheri as an opportunity to draw political mileage. “What happened in Lakhimpur Kheri is saddening, both farmers’ organisations and the government agreed to an impartial probe. Both sides addressed the country and said a probe will be conducted,” BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said. He added Gandhi made reckless comments about the violence. “It is not a time for making reckless statements, but he has done that. Irresponsibility has become the second name of Rahul Gandhi.”Also Read: ‘Entire country awaiting justice in Lakhimpur Kheri violence’: Arvind KejriwalPatra criticised Gandhi for being selective in condemning attacks against farmers. He referred to the alleged police action against farmers in Congress-ruled Rajasthan’s Hanumangarh when they were demanding procurement of rice on the minimum support price (MSP). “What is this selective politics? In Hanumangarh farmers were attacked. Have he asked (chief minister) Ashok Gehlot about the incident?”Patra accused previous the Congress-led government of carrying out “systemic attacks on farmers” by not implementing the recommendations of the MS Swaminathan Committee on MSP for eight years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-trying-to-misrepresent-situation-in-lakhimpur-kheri-bjp-101633508498067.html
06-10-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi-led Congress delegation gets permission to visit Lakhimpur Kheri||The Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday granted permission to Rahul, his sister Priyanka Gandhi and three other Congress leaders to visit Lakhimpur Kheri, where eight people were killed in violence on Sunday, news agency ANI reported.Watch: Lakhimpur witnesses speak out, reveal what happenedRahul Gandhi landed at Chaudhary Charan Singh Airport in Amausi area of Lucknow on Wednesday afternoon. Party spokesperson Lallan Kumar said that Rahul Gandhi will first go to Sitapur and then leave with Priyanka for Lakhimpur Kheri. Gandhi arrived from Delhi along with Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and his Chhattisgarh counterpart Bhupesh Baghel. Till now, the state government had denied permission to politicians, due to which Priyanka Gandhi was detained at a guest house in Sitapur and Baghel stopped at Lucknow airport.The five-member Congress delegation will meet families of farmers who lost their lives in the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri.Also Read | Bodies of all farmers killed in Lakhimpur Kheri violence crematedLakhimpur Kheri district magistrate earlier announced that Section 144 has been imposed in the district, which prohibits assembly of four or more people, and denied permission to the Congress delegation. After this, Congress general secretary KC Venugopal sent a letter to UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath and the state's chief secretary saying many politicians have visited the area and only they are being denied the permission.He asked the state government to shed "obstructive and unconstitutional posturing" and allow Congress delegation to meet the families of the deceased farmers.The UP government, meanwhile, said on Wednesday that the opposition has adopted a “negative” attitude in the “sensitive” incident and warned that no one will be allowed to vitiate the atmosphere. Government spokesperson and cabinet minister Sidharth Nath Singh said that the state government will go deep into the Lakhimpur Kheri violence.Referring to Rahul Gandhi's visit, he said that "yuvraj" of a party has decided to go for political tourism as his sister is already there. Priyanka Gandhi has claimed that she was detained without any case and slammed the Yogi Adityanath government. The police registered a case against her and 11 others for trying to distub peace in the area.Violence broke out in Tikunia, about 70 koilometres from Lakhimpur district centre, after a car ran over a group of protesters. The protesters claimed the car belonged to the convoy of Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni's son Ashish. Four farmers were killed in the incident, and according to the police, four others died after being thrashed by the farmers.The Union minister has denied all the allegations and claimed his son was not present at the site. He added that some miscreants mingled with protesting farmers and pelted the stones at the car which lead to the 'unfortunate incident'. However, a viral video on social media shows the jeep running over the farmers who were coming back from a protest. The police have said that they are investigating the video.Since the incident, a number of politicians have tried to visit Lakhimpur Kheri but were not given the permission. Among them were Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav, his uncles Shivpal and Ramgopal Yadav and Bhupesh Baghel.Also Read | 'Entire country awaiting justice in Lakhimpur Kheri violence', says KejriwalBefore leaving for Lucknow, Rahul Gandhi addressed a press conference on the issue in New Delhi where he alleged that farmers are being "systematically attacked" and there is "dictatorship" in India now with politicians not being allowed to visit Uttar Pradesh to meet the families of the victims of the Lakhimpur Kheri incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-led-congress-delegation-gets-permission-to-visit-lakhimpur-kheri-101633507143753.html
06-10-2021||India||'Sorry! Your state doesn't permit…': Gaming apps as Karnataka bans online games||Sequoia Capital-funded Mobile Premier League (MPL) was among the first few gaming startups that began blocking access to users in the Indian state of Karnataka on Wednesday following a ban on online gaming.The law, which came into effect late on Tuesday, bans online games involving betting and wagering, and "any act or risking money, or otherwise on the unknown result of an event including on a game of skill".The latest ban has intensified concerns that growing state regulations could hit the nascent but booming gaming sector in India, where foreign investors have pumped in millions of dollars in recent months.On Wednesday morning, MPL's gaming app showed messages to users in Karnataka that said: "Sorry! The law in your state does not permit you to play Fantasy sports", "Fantasy games are locked" and "cash games are locked".The gaming app offers fantasy cricket and football games and allows real-money wagering on them.Dream11, one of India's most popular gaming apps backed by Tiger Global, was still operational, but Paytm First Games was not.Dream11 declined to comment, while MPL and Paytm did not immediately respond.Karnataka, home to some of the world's biggest tech companies and India's tech capital Bengaluru, is the latest Indian state that has banned such online games after Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. Tamil Nadu had also imposed such bans, but its bill was struck down by its high court.An industry source had told Reuters earlier that these states were important for the gaming business and account for roughly 20% of the total business for companies.Roland Landers, the chief executive of the All India Gaming Federation, said "the industry will challenge this in court and seek legal recourse".Two other industry sources told Reuters on Wednesday that gamers and some companies were planning to file court challenges against the new Karnataka law.The law imposes hefty fines and prison terms on violaters and has been implemented amid growing concerns that online gaming platforms, like gambling, are addictive and can cause financial harm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sorry-your-state-doesn-t-permit-gaming-apps-as-karnataka-bans-online-games-101633506112021.html
06-10-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi, two other Congress leaders depart via Lucknow for Lakhimpur Kheri||Rahul Gandhi and two other Congress leaders left via Lucknow for Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri, where assembly of over four people has been barred under the Code Of Criminal Procedure’s Section 144 after eight people were killed in violence that erupted there on Sunday when a car mowed down protesting farmers.“Three of us will be going (since) Section 144 prevents a gathering of four or more people. We want to go there and support the families,” said Gandhi at a press conference. He said the rights of the farmers were being “systematically robbed”. “And this is why they are protesting. It started from the land acquisition bill, then the farm laws were passed (last year) and now this.” He criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi for travelling to Lucknow on Tuesday for launching projects and not visiting Lakhimpur Kheri.On Monday, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was detained while she was on her way to meet the families of the farmers killed in the violence. Rahul Gandhi was expected to head to Lakhimpur Kheri via road after flying to Lucknow.Also Read: ‘Entire country awaiting justice in Lakhimpur Kheri violence’: Arvind KejriwalOn Tuesday, KC Venugopal, who is accompanying Rahul Gandhi, submitted a request for allowing a five-member delegation to visit Lakhimpur Kheri. He said they wanted to “express condolences to the bereaved families and to know the facts firsthand.” Venugopal cited the permission granted to members of other political parties to visit the area and added “in the same spirit, necessary arrangements may kindly be made” for the Congress delegation.The Uttar Pradesh government initially denied the permission citing imposition of Section 144, however, on Wednesday state government’s home department said it will allow Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi and three other people to visit Lakhimpur Kheri. A Trinamool Congress delegation met the families of the farmers on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-flies-to-lucknow-en-route-to-lakhimpur-kheri-101633507237958.html
06-10-2021||India||'Nation awaiting justice in Lakhimpur Kheri violence': Kejriwal tells Modi||Addressing a virtual press conference on Wednesday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal slammed the BJP-led government at the Centre for its “silence” over the violence in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri, in which eight people, including four farmers, were killed, on Sunday.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader also called for immediate removal of Union minister of state for home affairs Ajay Kumar Mishra, whose son Ashish was allegedly in the SUV that mowed down the protesting farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri.During the press conference, Kejriwal asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi why the culprits involved in the violence were not arrested yet. He also claimed that the government was trying to shield the killers.आदरणीय प्रधानमंत्री जी, लखीमपुर घटना को लेकर आज सारा देश न्याय की उम्मीद कर रहा है | Delhi CM Shri @ArvindKejriwal Addressing an Important Press Conference | LIVE #JusticeForLakhimpur https://t.co/JlyCQ0SwTC“Why have the accused who ran over the farmers have not been arrested? Why are they being shielded from punishment? The entire nation watched on television how the violence unfolded, how the farmers were run over. It appears as if the entire system is engaged in saving those who are behind the incident despite murdering people in broad daylight and in front of so many people. We have seen such things only in Hindi movies,” Kejriwal said.The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella of farmers' unions, alleged that one of the deceased farmers was shot dead by the minister’s son while the rest were allegedly run over by the vehicles of his convoy. The minister and his son, however, denied the claims even as an FIR has been registered against Ashish.On Tuesday, the Union minister refuted SKM's allegations by saying that his son was not present at the spot, adding he had evidence to prove that Ashish was innocent. The Union minister also said that his son will be ready to face any investigation from the agencies. ALSO READ | What happened in Lakhimpur Kheri: Sequence of events according to both sidesA 29-second video of Sunday’s violence surfaced in which an SUV could be seen ploughing through protesting farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri. The SUV reportedly belonged to the convoy of Ajay Kumar Mishra who was travelling to receive Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to an event in the area.While four farmers died after the convoy allegedly mowed down protesters opposing the deputy chief minister’s visit,  the other four people, reportedly BJP members, were allegedly thrashed to death. The farmer leaders claim that Ashish Mishra was in one of the cars which knocked down some protesters.Taking a dig at the government on this, Kejriwal said, “Today, people of this system are saying the vehicle involved in the violence did not have the minister’s son in it. After a week, this system will say there was no car in the incident and another week after that, they will say there were no farmers at the spot! The truth is that we do not have justice here. Today every citizen is demanding justice.”The BJP on Monday claimed that the Congress and the Samajwadi Party are “doing politics” under the pretence of farmers' protest. BJP’s IT-cell chief Amit Malviya claimed that SP workers were involved in Sunday’s violence.ALSO READ | Systematic attack on farmers, says Rahul Gandhi; adds will visit Lakhimpur KheriSlamming the NDA government at the Centre further questioned the move by the Uttar Pradesh administration to stop the leaders of opposition political parties from visiting the families of the victims of Lakhimpur Kheri violence.“On one hand we are celebrating ‘Azadi ka Mahotsav’ and on the other hand, opposition leaders are being stopped from visiting Lakhimpur Kheri. They are being put in jails. What kind of independence is this? This is how the British used to act. What is being hidden there, that neither journalists nor opposition leaders are being allowed to visit the area,” Kejriwal said.ALSO READ | UP Police manhandled me, tried to force me into their vehicle: Priyanka GandhiThe Uttar Pradesh government prevented several prominent politicians, including Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi and Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav, from visiting Lakhimpur Kheri after the violence.Kejriwal also asked the Prime Minister the reason behind his “hatred” towards the farmers of the country.“The farmers have been demonstrating at state borders over their rightful demand for the past one year. More than 600 of them have died while protesting so far. Now, vehicles belonging to BJP ministers are running over them and crushing them to death. Why do you have so much hatred towards the farmers? What have they done to you,” Kejriwal asked Modi during the press conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/entire-country-awaiting-justice-in-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-arvind-kejriwal-101633505320606.html
06-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri Violence: Internet to be suspended for 12 hours in Sitapur||A twelve-hour suspension of the internet will be imposed in Sitapur, the Uttar Pradesh Police said on Wednesday. The development comes ahead of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s attempt to visit Lakhimpur Kheri to meet the kin of eight people, including four protesting farmers, who died after being run over by an SUV on Sunday.Earlier today, Congress claimed internet services have been suspended in Sitapur district of Uttar Pradesh where Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has been detained.“The terrified UP govt has switched off the internet in Sitapur, where Smt. @priyankagandhi has been illegally held for over 48 hours. The dictatorial BJP rule in the Centre & state is trying to crush the voice of the Opposition. They will not succeed. We will not deter,” the party had tweeted.Meanwhile, in a press conference, Rahul Gandhi said that he will visit the Lakhimpur Kheri today with two chief ministers — Charanjit Singh Channi and Bhupesh Bhagel — to take stock of the incident and to meet the kin of the deceased. However, Lucknow police commissioner DK Thakur had informed that Gandhi did not have the permission to visit the area.“If Gandhi arrives in Lucknow, we’ll request him at the airport not to visit Lakhimpur Kheri and Sitapur. The SP and DM of the two towns have urged us to stop him from coming in the wake of the law and order situation,” Thakur told reporters.According to reports, internet services were also shut in Bahraich for a few hours on Wednesday morning when the last of the deceased farmers was being cremated but was restored later. Internet services were suspended in Lakhimpur Kheri between 8.30pm on October 3 till 6pm on Tuesday.Security has been tightened and police barricades have been erected along Sitapur Lakhimpur highway to prevent any political groups from entering Lakhimpur. The Uttar Pradesh government has also deployed police to stop opposition leaders from travelling to Tikunia, about 70 km away from the district headquarters of Lakhimpur Kheri.A 29-second video of Sunday’s violence surfaced in which an SUV could be seen ploughing through protesting farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri, killing eight people in total. The SUV reportedly belonged to the convoy of minister of state for home Ajay Mishra who was travelling to receive Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to an event in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-internet-to-be-suspended-for-12-hours-in-sitapur-101633499555169.html
06-10-2021||India||Bodies of all farmers killed in Lakhimpur Kheri violence cremated||The body of Gurvinder Singh, one of the four farmers killed in Lakhimpur Kheri violence, was cremated on Wednesday morning in Bahraich district of Uttar Pradesh following the completion of a second post-mortem as per his family’s demand. Bodies of all the four farmers that were mowed down by at least one four-wheeler on Sunday evening have now been cremated, officials said.The cremation was completed in the presence of top police officers, district administration and Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait. Bahraich’s assistant superintendent of police Ashok Kumar said security personnel have been deployed in the area as precautionary measure, however, the situation was peaceful and under control.Rakesh Tikait spent the night with Gurvinder’s family and demanded that Ashish Mishra, the son of Union minister of state for home Ajay Kumar Mishra,  is arrested within 7 days. Tikait said the agitating farmers will plan their further strategy after 13 days of mourning for the dead farmers.Also Watch: Rahul Gandhi heads to Lakhimpur Kheri despite denial of permission by UP govtFamilies of Daljeet (42) and Gurvinder (22), both Bahraich residents killed in Lakhimpur violence, had initially declined to cremate the bodies on Monday night but Daljeet’s family relented on Tuesday following the district administration’s effort to convince them.Upon Gurvinder’s family’s insistence on a second post-mortem, alleging the first one tried to hide a bullet injury that they claimed caused his death, the administration agreed. The second post mortem was done early on Wednesday morning with a panel of doctors from Lucknow observing the process. Besides, two doctors designated by family members were also present during the post-mortem.Family members of two other deceased farmers, Lovepreet Singh and Nachhatar Singh, who had initially refused to perform the last rites alleging that the administration may tamper with the post-mortem reports after cremation, too cremated the bodies on Tuesday .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bodies-of-all-farmers-killed-in-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-cremated-101633503697700.html
06-10-2021||India||Event in which MoS Ajay Kumar Mishra was chief guest put on hold||A Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPRD) event, in which union minister of state for home Ajay Kumar Mishra was invited as the chief guest on Thursday, has been put on hold, people familiar with the development said. He was to attend ‘7th national conference of heads of prisons of all states/union territories’, organised by BPRD at its headquarters in Mahipalpur, as the chief guest. However, a BPRD spokesperson said on Wednesday that the October 7 program is ‘on hold’, without giving any specific reasons. Mishra’s son Ashish Mishra and others are accused of running over farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday, following which a case of murder has been registered by the Uttar Pradesh police. Eight people, including four farmers and a local journalist Raman Kashyap, died on Sunday in violence that broke out after at least one car, allegedly driven by the minister’s son, hit protesting farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri, prompting an angry crowd to burn two vehicles and widen their agitation. Also Watch: Rahul Gandhi heads to Lakhimpur Kheri despite denial of permission by UP govtOpposition parties have demanded the sacking of Ajay Mishra as union minister while farmers have sought the arrest of father-son duo. The minister has defended himself saying he or his son was not present at the spot on Sunday. Several opposition leaders including Priyanka Gandhi tried to make their way to the Lakhimpur Kheri but were prevented from doing so.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/event-in-which-mos-ajay-kumar-mishra-was-chief-guest-put-on-hold-101633502737778.html
06-10-2021||India||Changes in NEET super specialty exam pattern from next year, Centre tells SC||The Centre on Wednesday told the Supreme Court that the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test-Super Specialty (NEET-SS) super specialty examination for this year will be held as per the old examination pattern while the modified exam pattern that was challenged in the apex court will be given effect to from 2022-23 academic year. The Supreme Court recorded this statement and closed all proceedings pending in Court. The Centre has sought two months to hold the examination as per the old pattern.Earlier on Monday, the Centre told the Supreme Court in an affidavit on Monday that it has decided to postpone the postgraduate National Eligibility cum Entrance Test-Super Specialty (NEET-SS) 2021 for two months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/changes-in-neet-super-specialty-exam-pattern-from-next-year-centre-tells-sc-101633500195929.html
06-10-2021||India||Jio down? Downdetector shows sharp spike attributing to user queries||After Facebook, Instagram, and WhatsApp, the outage fiasco seems to have hit closer to home this time as several users reported that the Jio network was down across India. The graph on Downdetector, which analyses tens of millions of daily problem reports, itself showed a sharp spike around 11am – indicating that a large number of complaints regarding disruptions in the Reliance Jio cellular network was reported around that time.The reported disruptions came a day after the Facebook family of apps, including WhatsApp and Instagram, hit a technical snag leaving scores of users unable to access their social media platforms for nearly six hours before the services were restored. With the Jio cellular network reportedly going off on Wednesday, social media users had a field day again. The #jiodown hashtag was trending on Twitter, with users picking a day-old tweet from Reliance Jio to mock the network over disruption.Now it's your turn..!!#JioDown @reliancejio https://t.co/SC7PNhF34mThe Jio outages reported on Downdetector showed a steady hike from 9am onwards, with the graph peaking around 11am. At 11:08am, there were almost 4,000 reports complaining of Jio cellular network outages across India. Of the reported problems, 41 per cent said there was no signal, 37 per cent had trouble accessing their emails, while 23 per cent said they faced a total blackout.The live outage map on Downdetector shows the ‘spikes’ in reports over time; it helps users gauge the kind of response the website is getting across the world. If there are a lot of spikes corresponding to the timestamps, it means users all over the world are experiencing similar problems with the website. Downdetector also has a daily historical view of problem reports compared to the baseline volume.How Downdetector worksDowndetector, according to its official website, offers real-time status information for more than 6,000 services across 45 websites representing 45 countries. When a service provider’s customers are experiencing problems, Downdetector aggregates and analyses this data to determine the potential nature of the issue and then works to alert both the company and community of possible issues.Also Read | Facebook's longest outage yet was flagged by Downdetector. Here's how it worksAs more and more users submit problem reports directly on a company status page on Downdetector, along with an indicator of the type of problem they are experiencing, the tracking service gathers data through Twitter and uses ‘sentiment analysis’ to detect issues for a given company and its location. It also looks at other key indicators from across the web to determine if an extraordinary volume of users is having issues with a monitored company or service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jio-down-downdetector-shows-sharp-spike-attributing-to-user-queries-101633499672465.html
06-10-2021||India||India's Covid-19 active caseload drops to 2,46,687, lowest in 203 days||The number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases continue to remain low trend in India, with the country reporting 18,833 fresh cases in the last 24 hours, according to Union health ministry data. This is, however, slightly above Tuesday's numbers (2.65 per cent), but the overall count has stayed below 20,000.And in another big achievement, India's caseload dropped to 2,46,687, the lowest in 203 days, the health ministry data showed. It showed that 24,770 recoveries were recorded in the last 24 hours.The active infections account for less than 1 per cent of total cases and are currently at 0.73 per cent, the health ministry said.According to the ministry's data, the weekly positivity rate is at 1.68 per cent, which is less than three per cent for the last 103 days whereas the daily positivity rate has remained under 3 per cent for the last 37 days and is currently at 1.34 per cent.Active cases of Covid-19 in Kerala continue to remain over 1 lakh (1,25,030 to be exact). Maharashtra has 36,744 active infections while there are 16,749 active cases in Tamil Nadu.More than 920 million (92.17 crore) Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered so far under the nationwide vaccination drive which began on January 16 this year, the ministry data further showed.On October 4, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya had said that 70 per cent of the population has been administered the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-19-active-caseload-drops-to-2-46-687-lowest-in-203-days-101633500230348.html
06-10-2021||India||‘Shubho Mahalaya’: PM Modi extends his greetings, seeks Maa Durga's blessings||Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended his greetings to the nation on the occasion of Mahalaya, the day which marks the beginning of Durga Puja festivities at the end of ‘Pitru Paksha’, or the 16-day lunar day period when Hindus pay homage to their ancestors (Pitrs) by offering food, money, and other gifts as a sign of reverence. The Prime Minister greeted his fellow countrymen on the auspicious occasion and sought Goddess Durga's blessings for the “well-being of our planet and the welfare of our citizens.” May everyone be happy as well as healthy in the times to come, Modi wished.“Shubho Mahalaya! We bow to Maa Durga and seek her blessings for the well-being of our planet and the welfare of our citizens. May everyone be happy as well as healthy in the times to come,” posted Prime Minister Modi from his official Twitter handle on Wednesday.The auspicious occasion of Mahalaya is also believed to be an invitation to Goddess Durga to descend upon the Earth. It is believed that ‘Maa Durga’ came to her devotees on Mahalaya, which is celebrated with much fervour and zeal.The dawn of Mahalaya holds a special significance to the millions of Bengalis in India, Bangladesh, and beyond. At 4am sharp, households tune in to their FM radios, where the All India Radio (AIR) continues to broadcast editions of the Mahishasura Mardini programme every year. Although the radio may now have been replaced by its more modern, easily accessible alternatives – the age-old tradition continues in several homes with its peculiar mix of nostalgia and hope as if to defy the passage of time.The Sanskrit recitations – Chandi Path – by Birendra Krishna Bhadra describes the epic battle of goddess Durga with the demon king Mahishashura; the script for the show was written by Bani Kumar, while the music was directed by Pankaj Kumar Mallik. It is believed that mantras called 'Mahisasura Mardini' invoke the Goddess; the most famous one being ‘Jago Tumi Jago.’The fervour and festivity surrounding Durga Pooja and Navaratri start with Mahalaya. Idols of Goddess Durga are transported to various pandals from this day, with the onset of the last round of preparation for the grand festival. Mahalaya brings with it a feeling of positivity, festivity, and warmth ahead of the start of the most anticipated festival. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shubho-mahalaya-pm-modi-extends-his-greetings-seeks-maa-durga-s-blessings-101633494160787.html
06-10-2021||India||Drugs seizure case like novels of Sherlock Holmes and Agatha Christie: NCB||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), probing the seizure of banned drugs from a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast, on Tuesday told a court here that the matter has become like the novels of Agatha Christie and Sherlock Holmes with "new twists and turns every moment". The NCB has so far arrested 16 people, including Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan (23), in the drug seizure case. Earlier on Tuesday, additional chief metropolitan magistrate R M Nerlikar remanded Abdul Qadir Sheikh (30), Shreyas Nair (23), Manish Rajgariya (26) and Avin Sahu (30) to the NCB custody till October 11. The court on Monday remanded Aryan Khan and seven others to the NCB custody till Thursday. Before making his submissions for the remand of the four accused, special public prosecutor (SPP) Advait Sethna on Tuesday told the court that this case has become "like Agatha Christie and Sherlock Holmes novels as there is a new twist and turn at every moment". Remanding the four in the NCB custody till October 11, additional chief metropolitan magistrate R M Nerlikar said that considering the nature of the offence, a detailed investigation was necessary to go to the root of the case. Sethna then moved an application seeking to conduct the remand proceedings of Sheikh in the presence of limited people. To this, the judge said, "It means you want in-camera proceedings". The SPP's response was affirmative. The NCB said, "it was forced to take this step (seeking proceedings in the presence of a limited number of people) as today's remand is already in (media) coverage". The anti-drugs agency said it wanted to find out how it (remand) was leaked. It further submitted that a request has been made to minimise the exposure of the accused. However, the magistrate asked how Sheikh's identity could be protected when his name is already mentioned in the remand application. On the NCB's regarding the presence of media persons, the court said it cannot restrain media and rejected the application. Seeking custody, Sethna told the court that Sheikh was arrested from suburban Jogeshwari in Mumbai around 6 PM on Monday and a commercial quantity (of a drug) was seized from him. The NCB said it had seized 2.5 gm Ecstacy and 54.3 gm Mephedrone from Sheikh. He was arrested based on the information revealed during the custodial interrogation of other arrested accused Mohak Jaswal, the NCB said. The agency further submitted that 2 gm Charas was recovered from Nair. According to the NCB, both Sheikh and Nair are (drug) suppliers. The two other arrested accused (Rajgariya and Sahu) were guests on the cruise ship. In view of the seizures, "a nexus, links, role and involvement of all these persons required further corroboration," the NCB said. Sheikh, Nair, Rajgariya and Sahu were booked under sections 8(c) (produce, manufacture, possess, sell or purchase of drugs) and 27 (punishment for consumption of any narcotics or drugs) and 27 A ( punishment for financing illicit traffic and harbouring offenders) of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS). Advocate Apoorv Srivastava, appearing for Sheikh, said his client was made a "scapegoat to hide big faces". Srivastava contended that Sheikh didn't know Jaswal. The advocate said he didn't understand why Jaswal took Sheikh's name. He further said that Sheikh was arrested a day after the seizure of drugs which means it was a "premeditated case". The advocate, however, said Sheikh may be sent to custody for investigation for a brief period. Advocates of other accused objected to the remand application of the NCB, saying either a small number of drugs was seized from their clients or no seizure was made at all. The anti-drugs agency has so far arrested 16 people, including Aryan Khan, after raiding the Goa-bound ship on Saturday. The court on Monday had remanded Aryan Khan (23) and seven other accused to the NCB custody till Thursday. The NCB had told the court that "shocking and incriminating" material recovered in WhatsApp chats of Aryan Khan and two others arrested in connection with the case showed international drug trafficking. The NCB had also claimed that in the WhatsApp chats, Aryan Khan is discussing modes of payment to be done for procurement (of drugs) and that several code names are being used. Aryan Khan's lawyer had claimed drugs were not recovered from the possession of his client. The NCB on Sunday said they had seized 13 grams of cocaine, five grams of MD, 21 grams of charas and 22 pills of Ecstasy and ₹1.33 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drugs-seizure-case-like-novels-of-sherlock-holmes-and-agatha-christie-ncb-101633495878299.html
06-10-2021||India||Pradhan raises issue of return of Indian students with Australian counterpart||Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Tuesday raised the issue of the return of Indian students to Australian university campuses during a virtual interaction with his Australian counterpart Alan Tudge. A ban on the entry of international students holding temporary visas for the last 18 months, following the outbreak of coronavirus pandemic, has prevented several Indian students from joining the universities down under. During the virtual interaction, both the ministers also agreed to strengthen India-Australia partnership in higher education. “Productive discussions with HE @AlanTudgeMP, Australian Min. for Education & Youth. We agreed to strengthen the growing Australia-India partnership in higher education, especially in two-way student mobility, teacher exchanges, applied research and other areas of mutual priority,” Pradhan said in a tweet.Pradhan noted that India’s National Education Policy, 2020 will be “instrumental” in channelising the aspiration and future needs of our youth and in making India more “relevant” in the global arena. “The education and skills spectrum has a significant potential for further cooperation between India and Australia,” he said. Also Read: Australia won’t welcome tourists until 2022, allows only migrants and studentsPradhan said that Tudge shared details on Australia’s preparation for the return of students. “HE @AlanTudgeMP also elaborated on Australia’s preparation,including a student’s arrival pilot for the return of International and Indian students to Australia. Both India and Australia are committed to support Australia-bound Indian students at every stage,” the minister said.According to a report released by the Council of International Education in Australia in 2019, more than one lakh Indian students were studying in higher education institutions there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/return-of-indian-students-to-australian-varsities-discussed-101633496856144.html
06-10-2021||India||Systematic attack on farmers, says Rahul Gandhi; adds will visit Lakhimpur Kheri||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi attacked the central government over violence in Lakhimpur Kheri, claiming that systematic attack is happening on the farmers. Addressing a press conference in New Delhi, Gandhi said he will try to visit Lakhimpur Kheri along with two chief ministers to meet the families of those farmers who were killed on Sunday.The Uttar Pradesh government has already denied permission to Congress delegation for the visit citing imposition of prohibitory orders under Section 144. Police barricades have been erected on the road to Lakhimpur Kheri since Tuesday night to prevent political leaders from entering the district.Also Read: TMC leaders ‘dodge’ cops, meet victims’ kin"The rights of the farmers are being systematically robbed. And this is why they are protesting. It started from land acquisition bill, then the farm laws were passed and now this," said Gandhi.He slammed Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who visited Lucknow for launching various projects on Tuesday, saying he did not visit Lakhimpur Kheri."Our work as an opposition party is to build pressure to force government to act. If we didn't do this, nothing would have happened in Hathras too," said the Congress leader. He also criticised the Uttar Pradesh government for stopping Chhattisgarh chief minister and Congress leader Bhupesh Baghel at Lucknow airport, saying Section 144 deals with gathering of four or more people, but Baghel was alone.Gandhi is expected to land at Lucknow airport at 12.30pm, from where he will try to head to Lakhimpur Kheri.Among them was Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, who claimed on Tuesday that he was going to meet Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in Sitapur where she was detained but was not being allowed to leave the Lucknow airport.Also Read: Locals say video evidence proves gruesome episodeThe Uttar Pradesh Police has registered an FIR against Priyanka Gandhi and 11 others for "disturbing the peace" in the state. The Congress general secretary, meanwhile, claimed she has been put under detention without any order or FIR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/systematic-attack-on-farmers-says-rahul-gandhi-adds-will-visit-lakhimpur-kheri-101633496355883.html
06-10-2021||India||Odisha brings policy to ensure equal opportunity to transgenders||The Odisha government has issued an equal opportunity policy for transgenders which will result in the appointment of a complaint officer for redressal of their grievances within 15 days of lodging a complaint.The police issued by department of social security and empowerment of persons with disabilities, the nodal department for transgenders in the state, also mandates the head of department to act on the enquiry report submitted by the complaint officer within 15 days of its submission.“The policy would strive to ensure that no opportunity is denied to transgender persons merely on ground of sexual orientation. Transgender persons would not be discriminated in terms of any position, training, promotion, transfer posting level. Any employee who violates the policy, or in any manner discriminates with any transgender persons, or harasses them would be dealt with as prescribed in the service rules,” a senior government official said, adding that department will provide equal employment opportunities without any discrimination on the grounds of age, sex, sexual orientation, colour, disability, marital status, nationality, race and religion.Also Read: Ex-Koraput MP seeks Union Territory status for erstwhile Dandakaranya regionIn June this year, Odisha police allowed transgenders to apply for the post of sub-inspectors while revenue and disaster management department opened its doors to transgenders for the post of revenue inspectors. So far 26 transgender persons have applied for the post of sub-inspector in Odisha police while around 20 applied for the post of revenue inspector. Around 40 transgenders are working in urban development department in the state.According to the Socio Economic and Caste Census (2011) in Odisha, there are 4,316 transgender households in rural areas and 463 transgender persons in urban areas. However, their present numbers would be much higher as they now have the courage to express their transgender identity with the Supreme Court of India granting legal recognition to a person‘s self-identified gender as either male, female or the third gender.Leading transgender activist Meera Parida said the equal opportunity policy was a welcome step in mainstreaming the transgenders. “For long we have been marginalised. Around 14.5% of the respondents in a statewide online Transgender Survey conducted by a government department in 2017 found that transgenders have no income and were living in poverty. We hope the Odisha would reserve 1% of government jobs for transgenders like Karnataka has done,” said Parida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-brings-policy-to-ensure-equal-opportunity-to-transgenders-101633494095700.html
06-10-2021||India||Key changes proposed in Forest Conservation Act 1980||The Union environment ministry has come out with a consultation paper on amending the Forest Conservation Act 1980 to bring significant changes to forest governance in India including facilitating private plantations for harvesting and exploration or extraction of oil and natural gas deep beneath forest land by drilling holes from outside the forest areas.Here are the highlights of the environment ministry’s proposal:Forests on private landUntil December 1996, provisions of the Forest Conservation Act only applied to the forests notified under the Indian Forest Act, 1927 or any other local law, and to those managed by the forest department. But after the Supreme Court judgement dated December 12, 1996 in TN Godavarman Thirumulpad versus Union of India and Others case, all areas that conformed to the ‘dictionary’ meaning of ‘forest’ were ordered to be also considered as forests.“Identification of such land is subjective and arbitrary to some extent. This leads to ambiguity and has been observed to have resulted into a lot of resentment and resistance particularly from private individuals and organisations. Considering any private area as forest, would restrict the right of an individual to use his/her own land for any non-forestry activity,” the ministry has said in its consultation paper.Even when diversion of such areas is allowed, the owner has to provide equivalent area of non-forest land and other compensatory levies to use his own land for intended non-forestry purpose. “This has further led to the tendency to keep most of the private lands devoid of vegetation even if there’s scope for planting activities. In view of this, it is felt extremely necessary to define the scope of application of the act in an objective manner,” it added.Achieving India’s climate targetOne of India’s nationally determined contributions (NDC) under the Paris Agreement is to create a carbon sink expansion of additional (cumulative) 2.5–3 billion tonnes through additional forest and tree cover by 2030. “We also want to reduce the flow from foreign exchange for import of wood and wood derivatives to the tune of approximately ₹45 thousand crore. We had a thriving market for timber and wood products which disappeared. It has to be revived now,” a senior environment ministry official said.Also Read:We brought an ordinance to combat pollution in NCR: Bhupender YadavThe paper says that to achieve the NDC extensive plantations in all possible available lands outside the government forests was necessary. “But to ensure this, there is a need to dispel the apprehension among tree growers that vegetation or tree plantation raised on their private/ non forest lands will attract the provisions of the Act,” the paper states.Keeping some forests intactThe environment ministry is considering introducing a provision in the forest conservation act to keep certain pristine forests “showcasing rich ecological values” intact for a specific period.Go ahead to strategic projectsThe paper asks whether use of forest land for strategic and security projects of national importance should be exempted from the need to obtain prior approval from the Central government. Doling this will allow states to permit diversion of forest land for strategic and security projects that are to be completed in a given time frame.Oil and natural gas extractionThe paper proposes to facilitate new technologies such as extended reach drilling (ERD) for extraction of oil and natural gas found deep beneath the forest land by drilling holes from outside the forest areas. The paper suggests that this will not impact the soil or aquifer that supports the forest. “Ministry considers use of such technology is quite environment-friendly and as such should be kept outside the purview of FC Act,” it adds.Building in forestsTo ease the grievances of the individuals whose land fall in state specific private forests act or within the purview of dictionary meaning of forest, the ministry has proposed to allow them the right to construct structures for bonafide purposes including forest protection measures and residential units up to an area of 250 sq mtr as one time relaxation.According to the ministry, the amendment has been proposed to recognise the considerable changes in the ecological, social and environmental regimes in the country in the last 40 years. State governments have been asked to send their comments within 15 days."With these amendments the environment ministry looks to unlock land for infrastructure development and plantations, both of which are high on economic priorities. The 1996 Supreme Court order had banned the use of domestic timber for wood-based industries, including saw mills. This hugely increased raw material imports as a trade-off to conserve plantations and important forest areas. So, the underlying presumption is that private land, once released from the requirement of prior forest clearances will incentivize plantation-based carbon sinks. In reality, these lands will become market commodities and tradable assets both for private parties to sell, and government to acquire on behalf of private parties," said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher at Centre for Policy Research."On the infrastructure side, the environment ministry has prioritized the requirements of government agencies like NHAI and railways. It assumes that land once acquired by these agencies should be allowed for unencumbered use. However, this does not explicitly take into account that these acquisitions themselves may be based on unresolved land rights or may have created new livelihood base for people brought in to raise, maintain and sell the plantations on government land." she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/key-changes-proposed-in-forest-conservation-act-1980-101633492055682.html
06-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: First phase of Tamil Nadu civic polls today||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Tamil Nadu civic polls: First phase in 9 new districts to be held todayThe first of the two-phased Tamil Nadu rural local body elections will be conducted in newly-carved nine districts on Wednesday. The model code of conduct came into effect in these districts 48 hours before the voting. The schedule to these polls was announced by state election commissioner V Palanikumar on September 13. Read moreCongress delegation denied permission to visit Lakhimpur Kheri: 10 pointsThe Uttar Pradesh government has denied permission to a Congress delegation led by Rahul Gandhi to visit Lakhimpur Kheri. The party leaders had planned to meet the family members of four farmers who were among eight killed in Sunday's violence. Read moreMahalaya: Bengal wakes up to an age-old tradition, why it still inspires hopeDurga Puja, for the festival-loving Bengalis, is practically here already; with the land waking up as usual in the dawn of Mahalaya to an age-old tradition – tuned in to the enchanting melody of Birendra Krishna Bhadra's voice on ‘Mahishasura Mardini’, a set of Sanskrit recitations on India's oldest radio show aired by the All India Radio Calcutta (now Kolkata) for the first time in the 1930s. Read moreArvind Trivedi, Ramayan’s Raavan, dies of heart attack, Sunil Lahiri offers condolencesActor Arvind Trivedi, who is best known for his portrayal of Raavan in Ramayan, died Tuesday night following a heart attack. He was 82. Read more'You'll get opportunity to bid farewell to me' - MS Dhoni announces venue of his possible last match as CSK playerChennai Super Kings captain MS Dhoni's future with the franchise remains unclear. Dhoni, who announced retirement from international cricket in 2020, has been struggling with the bat for the past two years, and at his age, there is a chance that he may be retiring from IPL as well as CSK player by the next season. Read moreKeerthy Suresh in beautiful red Banarasi saree shows how to deck up for festive seasonThe festive season has begun, which means it is time to take your favourite ethnic looks out from the wardrobe and wear them all to your heart's content. However, if you are bored of your old collection and want to ramp it up this season, you have to look at Keerthy Suresh's latest photoshoot in an exquisite bright red Banarasi saree. Read moreBigg Boss 15’s Pratik Sehajpal reveals what he'd do if Zeeshan Khan joins showPratik Sehajpal shares his views on how he will use the opportunity of appearing in Bigg Boss 15, soon after participating in Bigg Boss OTT. He also talks about his contestants from the previous show, and more in this interview. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-first-phase-of-tamil-nadu-civic-polls-today-101633489841752.html
06-10-2021||India||Monson Mavunkal: Kerala opposition stages walkout from assembly, attacks CM||Kerala Assembly witnessed some angry scenes on Tuesday over Monson Mavunkal, who has been arrested in connection with the fraudulent sale of antiquities. Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) staged a walkout from the state assembly alleging that chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan was protecting top police officials who had nexus with Mavunkal.The UDF had moved a notice of adjournment motion on the issue.Vijayan, however, denied opposition's allegations and said that the police investigation in the case is progressing."The government received a complaint on September 6 against Monson Mavunkal for fraudulently embezzling crores of rupees by displaying fake antiquities. The complaint was lodged with the police and the case was registered on September 23 and an investigation was started. In this case, the police have been able to defend the accused's attempt to seek anticipatory bail in court. The accused was arrested by the police on September 25 on the basis of clear evidence. The accused is still in police custody," Vijayan said while replying to Congress MLA PT Thomas.He also denied the opposition's allegation that the government supported those who tried to deceive the people by fabricating chempola (old engraving) regarding the rituals at Sabarimala.Leader of the opposition VD Satheesan claimed that the intelligence wing of the state police had red-flagged Mavunkal as a fraudster in May 2019 and submitted a detailed enquiry report in January 2020. "For two years no action was taken and now a probe is carried out when top cops who visited the house are still holding the position of power," said Satheesan before staging a walkout.The opposition noise in the Assembly came on a day when Kerala high court asked the state police chief whether he trusts the police under his command to carry out a proper investigation into the complaints against Mavunkal.“Allegations are flying thick and high against police officers of several ranks in the state. In such a situation, can the Crime Branch conduct a proper investigation (into complaints against Mavunkal),” was one of the queries posed to DGP Anil Kant by Justice Devan Ramachandran.The court said while the allegations against the police officers may not be correct, but since the force provided protection to the antique dealer despite being aware about the kind of items he had in his possession, it wants an answer from the police chief.For close to a decade, Mavunkal, 52, used a mixture of deceit, charm, and carefully cultivated influence to make the implausible possible. He sold a walking cane as the staff of Moses, small earthen pots as Lord Krishna's favourite “dahi handi” and paintings by someone in Kochi as Pablo Picasso's art.He was arrested by the crime branch, which kept the local police in the dark.There are 14 FIRs registered against Mavunkal in various police stations across the state, with the sections ranging from 450 (cheating), 506 (criminal intimidation), 34 (impersonation) and 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) to 471 (using forged documents) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monson-mavunkal-kerala-opposition-stages-walkout-from-assembly-attacks-cm-101633489919264.html
06-10-2021||India||Ex-Koraput MP seeks Union Territory status for erstwhile Dandakaranya region||Former parliamentarian from Odisha’s Koraput Jayaram Pangi on Tuesday said he will quit the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to fight for conferment of Union Territory status to undivided Koraput district along with some portions of Andhra Pradesh and Chhattisgarh.Pangi, who joined the BJP in 2017 and lost the Lok Sabha polls from Koraput in 2019, said after remaining in politics for 44 years, he wanted to do some defining work for betterment of his native place and its people.“I have been doing party politics for the last 44 years but in the dusk of life, I want to dedicate my time towards the greater development of undivided Koraput. The only way to resolve the issues is to accord Union Territory status to these areas for which I have formed the Dandakaranya Parbatmala Vikash Parishad,” Pangi said.Koraput district was part of the Dandakaranya settlement project that began in September 1958 to rehabilitate those East Bengal migrants who could not be accommodated in West Bengal. Spread over an area of 80,000 square miles, the Dandakaranya Project also aimed to develop the tribal areas through construction of all-weather roads and railways, irrigation, agriculture and establishment of industries based on mineral and forest resources of the area. The first phase of the project was confined to the districts of Bastar in Chhatisgarh, undivided Koraput and Kalahandi districts of Odisha.Also Read: Father of Odisha’s forest officer seeks CBI probe in son’s death“The tribals of the undivided Koraput district living near the border areas of Andhra Pradesh and Chhattisgarh are yet to see any development. Among other issues, these villages do not have road communication. Though I have raised their problems with the state government several times, I am told that I am doing it since I am a member of an opposition party. If this is the case, why should I remain in politics?” Pangi said.Pangi’s demand for Union Territory status to the hilly region is being seen as an attempt to be politically relevant. He, however said he will seek support from all parties towards his new found cause.A four-time MLA of Pottangi, Pangi was elected to the Parliament from Koraput Lok Sabha seat as a Biju Janata Dal candidate in the 2009 elections. However, after he was suspended, he quit the BJD in May 2017 and joined the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ex-koraput-mp-seeks-union-territory-status-for-erstwhile-dandakaranya-region-101633489835142.html
06-10-2021||India||Ahmednagar bucks the trend while Covid cases in rest of Maharashtra dip||Maharashtra recorded 2,401 fresh Covid infections, pushing the count to 6,564,915 on Tuesday. The tally of active cases further reduced to 33,159 as 2,840 recoveries were reported in the last 24 hours. The day also saw 39 Covid related casualties including 10 in Ahmednagar, taking the state wide toll to 139,272. Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra is under control as the average daily cases is on a decline for the past few months and active cases has also declined in the past two weeks to hit a new low since February 5 when 33,936 cases were reported. However, districts such as Ahmednagar continue to be a cause for concern for the state by reporting 400 to 500 cases a day. On Tuesday, it clocked 397 cases including 14 cases in the city. Ahmednagar’s daily Covid infection was the second highest in the state after Mumbai. In the past five days, it has clocked 2,277 cases at a daily average of 455 new cases. The weekly positivity rate of the district is less than 5%. Last week, it was recorded at 4.28%, which was also highest among all other districts of the state. The district administration has imposed a 10-day lockdown in 61 villages of the district starting Monday, October 4 and all shops, except essential ones will remain shut in this period and assembly of more than five people will not be allowed. Resumption of in person learning in schools at these 61 villages has not been allowed. Rajendra Bhosale, district collector, said it was a precautionary step . “The daily cases are more concerning for us even though it has become stable. As a precautionary step, I decided to impose a ten-day lockdown in the villages from where most of the cases were coming,” he said. Bhosale, however, said that expansion of testing was also behind high number of daily cases registered in the district. “We are taking all precautionary measures and have stepped up the daily testing and the number of daily cases is high. We are conducting around 20,000 tests a day and are looking to increase it even further,” he added. Also Read: Amid 2nd Covid wave, revenue collection of Maharashtra at 35% in first half of fiscalThe lockdown in Ahmednagar district is likely to be further extended and the decision will be taken by the district administration after holding a review before October 13. Ahmednagar has reported a total of 333,222 Covid cases till date and currently has 4,280 active cases. Only 30% Covid beds in the district are vacant. There was a delayed peak in the district, said Dr Shashank Joshi, member of the state task force. “Definitely there is a delayed peak in Ahmednagar and it has persisted for some time. In contrast, daily cases in Kolhapur, Satara, Sangli and Pune have come down, whereas in Mumbai and Thane they are still high but their testing numbers are also reasonably high. We are very aggressively looking at any new variant coming up in Ahmednagar district.” From Monday, schools in urban areas were reopened for class 8 to 12. In rural areas, physical classes have also been resumed for class 5 to 7. In-person learning in schools was stopped in Maharashtra in March 2020 after the Covid-19 pandemic first hit the state. All religious places in the state will reopen from October 7 and cinema halls, theatres and multiplexes will reopen from October 22. With 427 fresh Covid cases, Mumbai reported the highest number of infections in Maharashtra on Tuesday, taking its overall tally to 746,079 cases. It also recorded two fatalities, taking the city’s Covid death toll to 16,129. In the past 24 hours, Maharashtra tested 131,340 samples and had a positivity rate of 1.82%. However, the overall positivity rate of the state stood at 11.04%, according to the data issued by the state health department. The state also administered 427,782 doses of Covid vaccine on Tuesday, taking total number of doses given so far to 84,639,659, according to the data available on CoWin portal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahmednagar-bucks-the-trend-while-covid-cases-in-rest-of-maharashtra-dip-101633486414514.html
06-10-2021||India||Congress delegation denied permission to visit Lakhimpur Kheri: 10 points||The Uttar Pradesh government has denied permission to a Congress delegation led by Rahul Gandhi to visit Lakhimpur Kheri. The party leaders had planned to meet the family members of four farmers who were among eight killed in Sunday's violence.This has been done due to the prohibitory orders imposed in the area under Section 144 of the CrPC. The Uttar Pradesh government has also deployed police to stop opposition leaders from travelling to Tikunia, about 70 km away from the district headquarters of Lakhimpur Kheri.The state government has announced a judicial inquiry under a retired high court judge in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident.Here are the top developments in this big news:1. Rahul Gandhi will hold a press conference at 10am today at Congress headquarters in New Delhi. The party had sought permission from UP government for Gandhi-led five-member delegation to to visit Lakhimpur Kheri as leaders from Trinamool Congress (TMC) and Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) were allowed to visit the district on Tuesday.2. Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Tuesday gave a week’s ultimatum to the Uttar Pradesh government for arresting Teni's son. “We have given a week to the government to arrest the son of the Union MoS (Home). We all will gather here again on the day of ‘bhog’ (a ritual during the 13-day post-death mourning period) and then will discuss and decide the future strategy,” Tikait told media.3. A petition has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the Lakhimpuri Kheri violence. The petitioners have sought FIR against the ministers involved in the incident.4. Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Tuesday met Union home minister Amit Shah at his residence and discussed the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. Channi said such barbaric acts would not be tolerated. Besides, he also condemned the manner in which Congress leaders were arrested, who were on their way to meet the victim families. "I also told him that we will not tolerate barbaric killings in Lakhimpur Kheri. This system of arresting our leaders should stop," added Channi.5. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Tuesday demanded the arrest of Ashish Mishra, son of Ajay Mishra, over the Lakhimpur Kheri incident.6. Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) chief Jayant Chaudhary has pushed for President's rule in Uttar Pradesh. He said that the entire state machinery under the Yogi Adityanath government is trying to suppress the truth of what happened in Lakhimpur Kheri.7. A case has been registered against Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and 10 others in Sitapur, where she has been kept under detention at a guest house. Gandhi, aloong with Uttar Pradesh Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu, party leader Deependra Hooda and others have been booked under sections 151, 107, 116 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), which relate to preventive detention due to apprehension of breach of peace.8. Rajasthan’s former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot on Tuesday demanded a probe into Lakhimpur Kheri violence by a sitting judge of the Supreme court. “The inquiry should be conducted by a sitting judge of the Supreme Court because people have no trust that the state agencies will get them justice in the matter,” Pilot told media.9. The Shiv Sena has called for joint action by political parties against the "oppression" of UP government. Sena leader Sanjay Raut met Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday in this regard.10. A 29-second video of the incident surfaced online which shows a vehicle plough through protesters from behind. This again ratcheted up tensions in Lakhimpur Kheri. Three farmers were cremated on Tuesday but the family of a fourth demanded a second post-mortem examination, which was conducted on Tuesday. The police have said that they will probe the video.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-delegation-denied-permission-to-visit-lakhimpur-kheri-10-points-101633483038989.html
06-10-2021||India||Central team in Mizoram to assess Covid-19 situation amid spike in infections||A four-member central team, led by National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) consultant-epidemiologist Dr Vinita Gupta, arrived in Aizawl on Tuesday to assess the Covid-19 situation, amid the spurt in infections in Mizoram, an official statement here said. Shortly after the team's arrival in the state capital on Tuesday, its members held a meeting with officials of State Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), chief medical officers (CMOs) of Aizawl East and Aizawl West and discussed ways to combat the situation. The team will hold another virtual meeting with chief medical officers of various districts on Wednesday to review the measures being taken to control the spread of the disease across the state, the statement said. The members of the central team will also visit Covid-19 care facilities in Aizawl West during the day. Mizoram continues to register a spike in coronavirus cases with 1,681 new infections reported on Tuesday, which pushed the state's tally to 99,856, a health department official said. The death toll rose to 331 as five more people succumbed to the infection, he said. The single-day positivity rate stood at 18 per cent as the fresh cases were detected from 9,331 sample tests. At least 322 children were among the newly infected people, he said. Meanwhile, a state-level expert team on Covid-19 management, which was formed in September, underlined that more attention has to be paid to symptomatic patients, high-risk groups such as pregnant women and the elderly with comorbid conditions. The team convener, Dr F Lallianhlira, who is also principal director of state health department, told a press meet on Tuesday that a report has been submitted to the state government, seeking revision of standard operating procedurew (SOP) for Covid-19 test and home isolation, among other suggestions. The expert team has also recommended strengthening of Covid-19 care facilities in the state and establishment of a dedicated wing in all district hospitals, he said. Mizoram currently has just one Covid-19 hospital, the Zoram Medical College (ZMC), with 341 beds including 34 in ICU, and around 18 dedicated health centres (DCHCs). A ten-day campaign to sensitise people about the importance of using face mask and sanitiser is likely to be organised from October 11, Lallianhlira added. Opposition Congress, during the day, staged a demonstration in Aizawl, blaming the state government for the Covid-19 situation in Mizoram. The protesters sought setting up of a Covid-19 designated hospital in all the districts, and arrangement of relief for the poor amid the pandemic. They also demanded health minister Dr R Lalthangliana's resignation. Addressing an event, Congress Legislature Party leader Zodintluanga Ralte alleged that the ruling Mizo National Front government, headed by Chief Minister Zoramthanga, has "completely failed to control the rising Covid-19 cases" in the state. He held Lalthangliana and health and family welfare board senior member Dr Z R Thiamsanga, who is also chairman of medical operational team of Covid-19, responsible for the current state of affairs in Mizoram. "I deeply regret the fact that over 300 people lost their lives due to Covid-19. Several residents are facing livelihood crisis due to the inefficiency of the health minister and medical operational team chairman," Ralte added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-team-in-mizoram-to-assess-covid-19-situation-amid-spike-in-infections-101633482732573.html
06-10-2021||India||Mahalaya: Birendra Krishna Bhadra heralds the arrival of Durga Puja; here's why an age-old tradition still inspires hope||Durga Puja, for the festival-loving Bengalis, is practically here already; with the land waking up as usual in the dawn of Mahalaya to an age-old tradition – tuned in to the enchanting melody of Birendra Krishna Bhadra's voice on ‘Mahishasura Mardini’, a set of Sanskrit recitations on India's oldest radio show aired by the All India Radio Calcutta (now Kolkata) for the first time in the 1930s. According to the scriptures, it is on Mahalaya that the ‘Pitru Paksha’, or the 16-day lunar day period when Hindus pay homage to their ancestors (Pitrs), ends – thereby beginning the ‘Devi Paksha’ (“the era of the goddess”) which the arrival of Goddess Durga, and the festival centered around her worship – Durga Puja – heralds.Also Read | Mahalaya 2021: All you need to know about the history, significance and dateThe dawn of Mahalaya holds a special significance to the millions of Bengalis in India, Bangladesh, and beyond. At 4am sharp, households tune in to their FM radios, where the All India Radio (AIR) continues to broadcast editions of the Mahishasura Mardini programme every year. Although the radio may now have been replaced by its more modern, easily accessible alternatives – the age-old tradition continues in several homes with its peculiar mix of nostalgia and hope as if to defy the passage of time.Birendra Krishna Bhadra, the late radio broadcaster, playwright, actor, narrator, and theatre actor from Kolkata, is undoubtedly still the star of the show. His legacy – the Sanskrit ‘Chandi Path’ recitation – has been described as “bewitching”, and without it, the occasion of Mahalaya remains incomplete for many Bengalis. They wait for the riveting chant to begin at the onset of the day, eyeing the arrival of Durga Puja with as much enthusiasm.Also Read | ‘Ban on carnival, cultural programmes…’: Bengal govt issues Covid-19 guidelines ahead of Durga PujaMahishashura Mardini, the two-hour programme, describes the epic battle of goddess Durga with the demon king Mahishashura; the script for the show was written by Bani Kumar, while the music was directed by Pankaj Kumar Mallik. The rendition recorded by Birendra Krishna Bhadra eventually went on to become so popular that even Uttam Kumar, the late Bengali actor of fame, did not receive a favourable reception when he was employed to recite the programme back in 1976. It was later shifted back to Bhadra's original version of the recitations; his daughter Sujata Bhadra received accreditations from Saregama India Ltd on Mahalaya day in 2006 in recognition of the legacy and royalty of work.Did you miss listening to Mahishasur Mardini that was aired this morning by All India Radio on the auspicious occasion of Mahalaya?Listen to Mahishasur Mardini from here!Hindi, Sanskrit - https://t.co/Kxnv46JIx5Bengali - https://t.co/l6CHH31uI7#Navratri #MahalayaA 90-minute-long Mahishasura Mardini was first composed in 1931 under the supervision of Pankaj Kumar Mallik. A live performance of the recitations was aired by the radio every year hence, featuring notable artists like Manabendra Mukhopadhyay and Arati Mukhopadhyay. The show was first recorded in 1966, following which the All India Radio continued to air the recorded version each year at the dawn of Mahalaya. The broadcaster also attempted to “re-record” the programme multiple times with several different artists, but those never received popular appreciation among the nostalgic Bengalis, who believe no one else could neither emulate nor succeed Bhadra's riveting melody. Birendra Krishna's tour de force remains his enduring legacy for the millions in this land and beyond; one that is not unending, but everlasting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mahalaya-birendra-krishna-bhadra-heralds-the-arrival-of-durga-puja-here-s-why-an-age-old-tradition-still-inspires-hope-101633478469579.html
06-10-2021||India||Tamil Nadu civic polls: First phase in 9 new districts to be held today||The first of the two-phased Tamil Nadu rural local body elections will be conducted in newly-carved nine districts on Wednesday. The model code of conduct came into effect in these districts 48 hours before the voting. The schedule to these polls was announced by state election commissioner V Palanikumar on September 13According to the order, polling will be held from 7am to 6pm with the last hour (5pm to 6pm) reserved for Covid-19 patients and those with symptoms of the coronavirus infection. The counting of votes will take place on October 12.In the first phase, polls will be held for 78 district panchayat ward member posts, 755 panchayat union ward member posts, 1,577 village panchayat president posts and 12,252 village panchayat ward member posts. It will be held in 14,573 booths - 7,921 polling booths in the first phase.These are the first elections after MK Stalin-led DMK came to power in the state in May this year. Though experts say the party has an advantage, the DMK is taking caution and banking on Stalin's popularity and the welfare schemes launched by the state government. The challenger AIADMK hopes to break their losing streak hoping that the legacy of their past leaders MG Ramachandran and J Jayalalithaa will work.Actor Kamal Haasan’s Makkal Needhi Maiam is also contesting in the local polls.According to the state election commission, 7,659,720 voters are eligible to vote across the two phases. The second phase will be held on October 9.More than 15,000 police officers have been deployed across the nine districts for the first phase, according to officials.Indirect elections to 3,067 posts, including that of Panchayat presidents will be held on October 22. A total of 37.77 lakh voters will cast their votes in nine districts, a release from the authorities said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-civic-polls-first-phase-in-9-new-districts-to-be-held-today-101633478856207.html
06-10-2021||India||Pakistan court gives India more time to appoint lawyer for Kulbhushan Jadhav||The Islamabad high court on Tuesday allowed India more time to appoint a lawyer to represent Kulbhushan Jadhav to hear a review of his conviction and sentencing by a military court. Jadhav has been sentenced to death for alleged involvement in spying.Attorney General for Pakistan Khalid Javed Khan reminded the court that it had passed an order on May 5 asking the authorities to make one more effort to contact India for the appointment of a counsel.He informed the court that the message was conveyed to India but there has been no response so far. The court then adjourned the hearing of the case for an indefinite period.Kulbhushan Jadhav, a former Indian Navy officer, was arrested in March 2016 in Pakistan’s Balochistan province on charges of spying and sentenced to death by a military court the following year. India has rejected the charges levelled against him and said he was kidnapped by Pakistani operatives from the Iranian port of Chabahar, where he was running a business.India approached the International Court of Justice (ICJ) against Pakistan for denial of consular access to Jadhav and challenging the death sentence.After hearing both sides, the Hague-based ICJ issued a verdict in July, 2019, asking Pakistan to give India consular access to Jadhav and also ensure review of his conviction.No progress has been made on the review issue as India refused to appoint a local lawyer while demanding Pakistan to let an Indian lawyer represent Jadhav in the court.Pakistan has said that India is engaging in a campaign to obfuscate the issue of appointing a lawyer to represent Jadhav. Pakistan’s Foreign Office said paragraph 118 of the ICJ’s judgement requires India to “act in good faith, and arrange legal representation” for Jadhav.The statement came after India asked Pakistan to address the "shortcomings" in a bill brought out to facilitate reviewing the case of Jadhav, saying the proposed law does not create a mechanism to reconsider it as mandated by the ICJ.India said the bill passed by Pakistan's National Assembly in June has several shortcomings and does not “create a machinery to facilitate effective review and reconsideration of Jadhav’s case, as mandated by the judgement of the ICJ”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-court-gives-india-more-time-to-appoint-lawyer-for-kulbhushan-jadhav-101633479589830.html
06-10-2021||India||US deputy secretary of state on 3-day India visit; Afghanistan on agenda||United States deputy secretary of state Wendy Sherman, who is in India on a three-day visit, will be holding talks with foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla on Wednesday. The two officials are expected to discuss the recent political developments in Afghanistan following the Taliban takeover, and also hold key talks to take forward bilateral ties between India and the US.The development comes nearly two weeks after Prime Minister Narendra Modi, during his visit to the US, held bilateral talks with President Joe Biden and discussed key areas of cooperation with Quad leaders, especially in relation to maritime developments and otherwise in the Indo-Pacific region.Also Read | India, US reaffirm commitment to free, open Indo-PacificWendy Sherman, the US deputy secretary of state, arrived in New Delhi on Tuesday. The ministry of external affairs (MEA) said that her arrival heralds a “useful opportunity” to amplify the India-US comprehensive global strategic partnership."Deputy Secretary Sherman's visit will be a useful opportunity to continue the regular dialogue and further strengthen the India-US Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership," the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said.Sherman will also call on minister of external affairs, S Jaishankar, and National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, the statement added. However, Sherman's key meeting with foreign secretary Shringla on October 6 will have her focus on regional issues, “pertaining to South Asia and the Indo-Pacific region”, as well as contemporary global issues - including the evolving situation in the war-torn land of Afghanistan, it said.Also Read | Chinese air intrusions over Taiwan challenges US military might in Indo-PacificSherman and Shringla will also participate today in a special session of the India-Ideas summit being organised by the US India Business Council (USIBC). On Thursday, Sherman will travel to Mumbai for engagements with the business community.Separately, a delegation of the US trade representative (USTR) is also visiting India. The delegation comprises US trade representative for south and central Asia Christopher Wilson, deputy assistant Brendan Lynch and director Emily Ashby. The delegation was earlier welcomed at the US embassy by Charge d'Affaires Patricia Lacina Lacina.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-deputy-secretary-of-state-on-3-day-india-visit-afghanistan-on-agenda-101633476993001.html
06-10-2021||India||PM Modi to interact with beneficiaries of Svamitva scheme today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with the beneficiaries of Svamitva (Survey of Villages And Mapping With Improvised Technology In Village Areas) scheme in Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday via video conferencing. The event will take place at 12:30pm. He will also distribute e-property cards to 1,71,000 beneficiaries under the scheme on the occasion, according to the Prime Minister's Office (PMO).Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan will also be present during the event.About the schemeSvamitva is a scheme of the Union ministry of panchayati raj, which will pave the way for the use of property as a financial asset by villagers for taking loans and other financial benefits, like in urban areas, the PMO stated.The scheme aims to demarcate inhabited lands in rural areas through the latest surveying drone-technology. It has also provided a boost to the ecosystem of drone manufacturing in the nation.According to the panchayati raj ministry, the survey will be done across the nation in a phase-wise manner over a period of four years-- from 2020 to 2024.Aim of the schemeThe scheme which aims to provide property rights to the residents of rural areas, will bring financial stability to people by enabling them to use their property as financial asset for taking loans and other financial benefits. It will also lead to creation of land records for rural planning and determination of property tax. The government hopes that through this scheme, property disputes and legal cases will be reduced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-interact-with-beneficiaries-of-svamitva-scheme-today-101633476945332.html
06-10-2021||NA||Breaking: Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra meet family members of farmer who died in Lakhimpur Kheri||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:Uttarakhand Cong workers to visit violence-hit Lakhimpur Kheri tomorrow Uttarakhand Congress workers will undertake a visit to violence-hit Lakhimpur Kheri tomorrow. The party delegation will be led by the party's state chief Harish Singh Rawat, news agency ANI reported.Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra meet family members of farmer who died in Lakhimpur Kheri violenceCongress leaders Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi met with the family of the farmer who died in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence on Sunday. The Gandhi siblings set off for Lakhimpur Kheri on Wednesday evening after Rahul Gandhi reached Sitapur guest house where Priyanka Gandhi was detained. Read MoreIndia administered over 40 lakh Covid-19 vaccines today : Health minMore than 40 lakh COVID vaccine doses were administered today, taking India’s vaccination coverage to 92.60 crores: Union Health MinistrySupreme Court takes up Lakhimpur Kheri violence caseSupreme Court takes suo motu cognisance of Lakhimpur Kheri violence. A bench of Chief Justice NV Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli will hear the matter on Thursday. NIA takes over probe on heroin seizure at Mundra portThe National Investigation Agency (NIA) declared on Wednesday that it has takes up the investigation into seizure of 2988.21 kgs of heroin at Adani's Mundra Port in Gujarat. Family members and relatives of farmer who lost his life in Lakhimpur Kheri incident await arrival of Rahul, Priyanka Family members of and relatives of Nashhatar Singh, who was killed in Sunday's incident in Lakhimpur Kheri are awaiting the arrival of Congress leaders Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi. The Congress leaders left for Lakhimpur Kheri on Wednesday evening. Rahul Gandhi along with sister Priyanka leaves for Lakhimpur Kheri Congress leaders Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi left for Lakhimpur Kheri to meet the families of those who lost their lives in Sunday's incident. Rahul Gandhi met up with his sister at the PAC guesthouse in Sitapur where the latter was being detained before leaving for Lakhimpur Kheri. Mumbai train services near Airoli station on trans-harbour railway route disruptedMumbai suburban railway services on the trans-harbour railway route were impacted near Airoli station on Wednesday due to a technical snag following heavy rainfall and thunderstorm. CBDT issues refunds of over ₹82,229 cr to more than 53.54 L taxpayersCentral Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) has issued refunds of over ₹82,229 crore to more than 53.54 lakh taxpayers from April 1 to October 4 of this year, the income tax department said on Wednesday. NCP, Congress, Shiv Sena call strike in Maharashtra on October 11Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Congress, and Shiv Sena, the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) alliance, have called for a Maharastra bandh on October 11 protest of Lakhimpur Kheri incident and demanded the arrest of the accused, NCP state chief Jayant Patil announced on Wednesday. Rahul Gandhi-led Congress delegation reaches Sitapur to join Priyanka Gandhi The Congress delegation led by Rahul Gandhi reached Sitapur to join party secretary Priyanka Gandhi, who has been detained at a guest house there. The delegation is en route to violence hit Lakhimpur Kheri. Stretch of road in Srinagar to be named after Makhan Lal BindrooThe road from Haft Chinar Chowk to Jehangir Chowk (where Bindroo Medicates is located) will be named Shaheed Makhan Lal Bindroo Road to honour tribute Bindroo's contributions to society, Srinagar mayor Junaid Mattu told reporters on Wednesday. Bindroo, 68, one of the last remaining Kashmiri Pandits was shot dead by terrorists on Tuesday. AAP leaders meet family of farmer killed in Lakhimpur Kheri incidentAam Aadmi Party (AAP) delegation consisting of leaders Sanjay Singh and Raghav Chadha met the family of deceased farmer Nachhatar Singh who was killed in Sunday's Lakhimpur Kheri violence. AAP delegation was the first such political one that met the family today. They were also the first one released from their detention in Sitapur.Lakhimpur DM says ex-gratia already given to 2 deceased farmers' families, 4 others to get soonLakhimpur Kheri district magistrate Arvind Kumar Chaurasiya told reporters that ex-gratia cheques of ₹45 lakhs each have been handed over to families of two farmers who lost their lives in the violence, on Tuesday. He added that 4 more families will receive theirs on Wednesday. Court grants NCB custody of 4 more linked to cruise ship drug case A Metropolitan Magistrate Court on Wednesday granted Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) custody of four people associated with the Delhi-based-event management company Caneplus Trading Private Limited till 14th of October. This event management company had organised the event on Cordelia Cruises' Empress ship which Aryan Khan was supposed to attend. Benjamin List and David WC MacMillan awarded 2021 Nobel Prize in ChemistryThe 2021 Nobel Prize in Chemistry has been awarded to Benjamin List and David WC MacMillan “for the development of asymmetric organocatalysis", the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences announced on Wednesday. Rahul Gandhi leaves Lucknow airport after UP police allows him to use personal vehicle Congress leader Rahul Gandhi left for Lakhimpur Kheri after Uttar Pradesh Police allowed him to use his personal vehicle for travelling. The Congress leader sat in a dharna along with Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel as they were briefly stopped from coming out of the airport, Gandhi said. "Whenever I come to UP, I travel in my own car. But now they want to take me like a prisoner. I will sit here. There is no question of moving now," he told reporters. Read MoreChattisgarh, Punjab announces ex-gratia of ₹50 lacs to kins of farmers and journalist killed in Lakhimpur Kheri Chattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel announced an ex-gratia of ₹50 lakhs for the kins of the farmers and journalist killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. “On behalf of Chhattisgarh Govt, I announce ₹50 lakhs each for the families of the farmers and the journalist who died in the violence (in Lakhimpur Kheri)," he said on Wednesday. Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi also announced an ex-gratia of ₹50 lakhs for the kins of the deceased. Read MoreDistrict admin holding discussions on Rahul Gandhi's Lakhimpur Kheri visit, says Congress District administration in holding discussion on the number of people to be allowed with Rahul Gandhi during his visit to Lakhimpur Kheri, Congress leaders told Hindustan Times on Wednesday. Punjab Cong to march to Lakhimpur Kheri from Mohali Punjab Congress will march to Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri district starting  Thursday to protest against Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for the “brutal murders” of farmers on October 3. The march will be led by Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu and will start from Mohali, said  an aide of the state unit chief. UP govt allows people in groups of 5 to visit LakhimpurUttar Pradesh government has allowed people to visit Lakhimpur Kheri but only in groups of five. UP Police said anyone is free to visit Lakhimpuri Kheri now. “The state govt had imposed restrictions to maintain law & order, not to restrict any movement,” ADG, Law and Order, Prashant Kumar told ANI.No accused will be spared in Lakhimpur Kheri violence: UP PoliceThe police will conduct a detailed investigation in the case, and no accused will be spared: ADG, Law & Order, Prashant Kumar on Lakhimpur Kheri violence.AAP workers protest outside Raj Bhawan in Chandigarh over Lakhimpur Kheri violenceAam Aadmi Party workers protest outside Raj Bhawan over Lakhimpur Kheri violence, police use water cannon to disperse them.PM Modi interacts with beneficiaries of Svamitva schemePM Narendra Modi interacts with beneficiaries of Svamitva scheme from Madhya Pradesh, via videoconferencing.Money is being sent directly to the bank accounts of farmers under PM Kisan Samman Nidhi: PM ModiThe drone is going to give a new flight to the villages of India. Today, money is being sent directly to the bank accounts of farmers under PM Kisan Samman Nidhi for small farming needs: PM Modi.Congress leaders granted permission to visit Lakhimpur KheriState government has given permission to Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi and three other people to visit Lakhimpur Kheri: Home Department, UP Government, reports ANI.Rahul Gandhi, Bhupesh Baghel and Charanjit Channi onboard a flight to LucknowDelhi: Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi, Bhupesh Baghel and Charanjit Channi onboard a flight to Lucknow, UP, to meet families of farmers who lost their lives in Lakhimpur Kheri violence pic.twitter.com/kL7btW3hqnCongress leaders Rahul Gandhi, Bhupesh Baghel and Charanjit Channi onboard a flight to Lucknow to meet families of farmers who lost their lives in Lakhimpur Kheri violence.Let the situation come under control, then political leaders will be allowed to visit Lakhimpur Kheri: Sidharth Nath SinghLet the situation come under control and last rites of the bodies be performed. When these things will happen, we will allow them (political leaders) to go there (Lakhimpur Kheri). We are trying to do the things as soon as possible: Uttar Pradesh Minister Sidharth Nath Singh.12-hour suspension of internet in Sitapur to imposed in half-an-hour12-hour suspension of internet in Sitapur to imposed in half-an-hour: Uttar Pradesh Police.Delhi CM to address conference on Lakhimpur incident todayArvind Kejriwal to address a digital press conference on Lakhimpur incident today at 12 noon.Border restrictions eased in Australian states despite surge in Covid-19 casesThe border restrictions between Australia's Victoria, Australian Capital Territory (ACT), and New South Wales (NSW) will be eased, as the "relative risks" change in Victoria amid the worsening Covid-19 situation.NEET to be held in accordance to old patternChanges in NEET super specialty exam pattern will be implemented next year, Centre tells SC.Rupee slumps 21 paise to 74.65 against US dollar in early tradeThe Indian rupee depreciated 21 paise to 74.65 against the US dollar in opening trade on Wednesday, as rising crude prices and strength of the American currency in the overseas market weighed on investor sentiments.My family doesn't fear manhandling, we're here to talk about farmers: Rahul GandhiWe don't care about manhandling. We just care about the farmers. My goal is to meet the people who are admitted in hospitals, says Rahul Gandhi.Do not involve with the democratic process: Rahul GandhiDo not involve with the democratic process. We are pushing to maintain the democratic process because it is a safety valve: Rahul Gandhi.Our work as opposition is to build pressure: Rahul GandhiOur work as opposition is to build pressure to force government action. If we didn't, then nothing would have happened in Hathras too. There’s a dictatorship in India now, you cant go to Uttar Pradesh: Rahul Gandhi.Farmers' rights are being systematically robbed: Rahul GandhiFarmers' rights are being systematically robbed, which is why farmers protesting. They are being repeatedly attacked, starting from land acquisition bill. PM Modi was in Lucknow yesterday, bout didn't go to Lakhimpur KheriWe will try to go to Lakhimpur Kheri: Rahul Gandhi.No action being taken against BJP Home minister MoS: Rahul GandhiNo action being taken against BJP Home minister MoS: Rahul GandhiRahul Gandhi to reach Lucknow at 12.30pm todayCongress leader Rahul Gandhi to reach Lucknow at 12.30pm today.India reports 18,833 new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hoursIndia recorded 18,833 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, which pushed the nationwide tally to 33,871881, according to Union health ministry.Taliban introduces 38 new members in caretaker govtTaliban on Monday announced 38 new members of its caretaker government of Afghanistan, in civil and military positions.Petrol price in Delhi at highest-ever level of ₹102.64/litrePetrol, diesel prices today; ₹102.94/ltr (up ₹0.30) & ₹91.42/ltr (up ₹0.35) in Delhi; ₹108.96 (up ₹0.29) & ₹99.17/ltr (up ₹0.37) in Mumbai, respectively.Taiwan defence minister says tensions with China are the worst in four decadesMilitary tensions with China are at their worst in more than 40 years, Taiwan's defence minister said on Wednesday, days after record numbers of Chinese aircraft flew into the island's air defence zone.Singapore reports record 3,486 new Covid-19 cases, 9 deathsSingapore on Tuesday reported record 3,486 new Covid-19 cases, including 713 from dormitories housing foreign workers, and nine more deaths.Zuckerberg says claim Facebook put profits over safety 'just not true'Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg says claim Facebook put profits over safety 'just not true', reports AFP.Metro timings in KolkataIn view of the festive season, metro services will ply till 11 pm. For crowd management, more frequency of trains in the evening with one metro running every 6 minutes. Secondly, RPF and station staff will manage crowd: Manoj Joshi, Chairman, Kolkata Metro Rail Corporation.PM Modi to interact with beneficiaries of Svamitva scheme todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with the beneficiaries of Svamitva (Survey of Villages And Mapping With Improvised Technology In Village Areas) scheme in Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday via video conferencing.Tamil Nadu civic polls: First phase in 9 new districts to be held todayThe first of the two-phased Tamil Nadu rural local body elections will be conducted in newly-carved nine districts on Wednesday.New Zealand records 39 new cases of Covid-19; one deathNew Zealand said on Wednesday that one person has died of Covid-19 in an Auckland hospital, and 39 new cases were recorded.Seven people died in Argentina house fireSeven people, including four minors, died in a house fire on Tuesday in the Argentine city of Bahia Blanca, some 635 km south of Buenos Aires, police said.Biden says he and China's Xi have agreed to abide by Taiwan agreementUS President Joe Biden said on Tuesday that he has spoken to Chinese President Xi Jinping about Taiwan and they agreed to abide by the Taiwan agreement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-october-06-2021-101633476606656.html
06-10-2021||India||Lawrence School marks 174th Founder’s Day||The three-day celebrations of the 174th Founder’s Day at Lawrence School, Sanawar, ended on Monday, with participation of over 300 on-campus students and others who joined online, said a statement from the school.The school in Himachal Pradesh’s Sanawar was established in 1847. Headmaster Himmat Singh Dhillon paid tributes to Mahatma Gandhi and said, “Students should lead a life that values character and integrity.” He reminded the students about the belief firmly held by the father of the nation: “Be the change you wish to see. Only changing oneself can lead to a sustainable change in the world.”While the school’s head boy, Nihal Singh Sidhu, spoke about many aspects of the virtuous life of Gandhi, the head girl, Pavya Singh, called upon everyone to shun all kinds of destructive weapons and fortify “oneself with the power of truth and non-violence.”The school also remembered the struggle of the freedom fighters including its alumni, Arun Khetarpal, who was awarded Param Vir Chakra for his supreme sacrifice in the 1971 Indo-Pak war.A special chapel service was organised to felicitate old students of the school who had graduated 25 years ago, 50 years ago and 60 years ago, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lawrence-school-marks-174th-founder-s-day-101633474263819.html
06-10-2021||India||TMC leaders ‘dodge’ cops, meet victims’ kin||Even as several opposition leaders struggled to visit Lakhimpur Kheri, where eight people were killed on Sunday, a five-member Trinamool Congress (TMC) delegation on Tuesday met families of four farmers who were allegedly mowed down by a car owned by Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra, people familiar with the developments said.TMC MPs Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar, Sushmita Dev, Dola Sen, Pratima Mondal and Abir Ranjan Biswas posed as locals and walked through paddy fields, dodging a large contingent of police watching out for political leaders, to enter the district, they said, requesting anonymity.“At Lucknow airport, we were told that we would be provided with security cover. We, however, managed to dodge the cops and took a different route, and even walked through paddy fields as police had blocked almost all the roads,” Dastidar told HT.Following her interaction with families of the deceased and villagers, the TMC lawmaker claimed that the “people are furious and want a fresh post mortem of the dead bodies in Delhi, as they don’t trust the post mortem conducted at the local level”.The TMC MPs were continuously in touch with West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who instructed them to camp in that area and interact with villagers, the people cited above said.“Beyond appalling how the @BJP4UP government is treating our farmers! Every day is turning out to be a new disaster while Mr. @narendramodi remains silent! Shameful state of affairs!” Dastidar tweeted.The local administration, however, refuted claims of MPs of ‘dodging the police’. “It is not that the district is completely sealed... And these are not the first ones who managed to reach. Some others also managed--for instance the Chandra Shekhar Azad (Bhim Army) or some leaders of RLD. If people if are not in large motorcades or if they are not big leaders, not conspicuous, they can. Aren’t you people (journalist) going there easily, without any hassle”, said a senior state government officer requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-leaders-dodge-cops-meet-victims-kin-101633473326839.html
06-10-2021||India||Tripura MLA Ashish Das shaves head in Kolkata, says it’s act of penance before joining TMC||KOLKATA/AGARTALA: Ashish Das, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator from Tripura who has been in touch with the Trinamool Congress (TMC) for months, on Tuesday shaved his head, took a dip in the Ganga and offered prayers at a temple close to chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s home, saying he was performing an act of penance before joining West Bengal’s ruling party.Ashish Das, who has repeatedly criticised Tripura chief minister Biplab Deb, arrived in Kolkata more than a week ago, TMC leaders said. He represents the Surma constituency.The TMC is trying to make inroads in Tripura and its leaders, including national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee, have been lately visiting the state. The young TMC Lok Sabha MP has announced that his party will oust the BJP government in the 2023 assembly polls. In Kolkata, Ashish Das told reporters that he, like many others back in Tripura, had put his faith in the BJP to end the “misrule of the Left Front government” led by Manik Sarkar. But it was a mistake, he said.“I will keep my head shaved till the BJP government is ousted in 2023. Today, I took a dip in the Ganga and offered prayers at the Kalighat temple because joining the BJP was a crime,” said Das. He shaved his head and performed puja after taking a dip in the Adi Ganga, an old distributary of the Hooghly river. “The problem in Tripura arises not because of Biplab Deb alone. BJP’s national leaders keep visiting states in the north-east but they have done nothing to solve problems people face in this region,” Das added. Das had a meeting with Abhishek Banerjee on Tuesday afternoon and he is likely to join the TMC on Wednesday, TMC leaders in Kolkata said.Tripura TMC leader Ashish Lal Singh said Ashish Das would join the TMC on Wednesday. BJP national vice-president Dilip Ghosh promptly took a dig at Ashish Das. “We will see how he goes through his penance in the TMC,” he said.Like Dakshineswar, the Kalighat temple is among the most famous temples of Kali and top BJP leaders, including Union home minister Amit Shah, offered prayers there before the March-April assembly polls. Shah’s wife visited Kalighat as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-mla-ashish-das-shaves-head-in-kolkata-says-it-s-act-of-penance-before-joining-tmc-101633465636257.html
06-10-2021||India||Ex-Odisha MP Jayaram Pangi says he will quit BJP, focus on UT demand for Koraput||BHUBANESWAR: Former Koraput lawmaker Jayaram Pangi on Tuesday announced his decision to quit the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and start a campaign to seek Union Territory status for undivided Koraput district and parts of Andhra Pradesh and Chhattisgarh.Pangi, once considered a tribal heavyweight who defeated Congress veteran and nine-time MP Giridhar Gamang in the 2009 Lok Sabha election on a Biju Janata Dal (BJD) ticket, hopped across to the BJP in May 2017. He contested the 2019 Lok Sabha election from tribal-dominated Koraput seat on a BJP ticket, lost to Congress’ Saptagiri Ulaka and subsequently found himself sidelined by the party.The four-time Pottangi legislator said he was quitting the BJP because he wants to do something for his native place and the people of the undivided Koraput district.“I have been doing party politics for the last 44 years but in the dusk of life, I want to dedicate my time towards the greater development of undivided Koraput which I have been unable to do so far,” the 66-year-old politician said.“The only way to resolve the issues is to accord Union Territory status to these areas for which I have formed the Dandakaranya Parbatmala Vikash Parishad. As it is very difficult for a person to shoulder two major responsibilities at a time, I have decided to quit the BJP,” Pangi said.Koraput district was part of the Dandakaranya settlement project that began in September 1958 to rehabilitate East Bengali migrants who could not be accommodated in West Bengal. Spread over an area of 80,000 square miles, the aim of project was not just to rehabilitate the migrants but also develop infrastructure for the resident tribals through construction of all-weather roads and railways, irrigation, agriculture and establishment of industries based on mineral and forest resources of the area.The first phase of the project was confined to the districts of Bastar in Chhattisgarh, undivided Koraput and Kalahandi districts of Odisha.“Tribals of the undivided Koraput district living near the border areas of Andhra Pradesh and Chhattisgarh are yet to see any development. Among other issues, these villages do not have road linkages. Though I have raised their problems with the state government several times, I am told that I am doing it since I am a member of an opposition party. If this is the case, why should I remain in politics?” Pangi said.He, however, said he will seek the support of all parties to raise the demand for UT status to the Dandakaranya Parbatmala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/exodisha-mp-jayaram-pangi-says-he-will-quit-bjp-focus-on-ut-demand-for-koraput-101633464376094.html
06-10-2021||India||Need guidelines on putting banners: Madras HC to Tamil Nadu govt||Expressing concerns over the practice of erecting banners and cut-outs of politicians, the Madras high court on Tuesday directed the Tamil Nadu government to draw up guidelines to be issued and indicate measures to stop the practice as it cause difficulties to the common man. The first bench comprising Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and P D Audikesavalu was hearing a Public Interest Litigation filed by a Villupuram-based advocate E R Manoharan. The matter pertains to footpaths and pathways along highways and also parts of carriageways in arterial roads and highways being blocked with posters, festoons, buntings and cut-outs of political leaders being put up for minor functions, and the plea sought directions to initiate action against politicians who do so. It brought up death in the Villupuram district earlier in August of a 13-year-old boy due to electrocution while helping the ruling party cadre of the DMK to tie flags on poles. The court directed the state to file counter-affidavits within the next six weeks for when the matter is posted to next. “A comprehensive set of guidelines need to be issued, and the State should indicate the appropriate measures necessary to discourage and completely stop this practice which impedes pedestrian and vehicular movement,” the court said in its orders. “It would be best if the State could suggest some disincentive or penalty if such temporary constructions are put up at any public space.”“It is especially dangerous when temporary constructions are put up at intersections in the form of welcome arches or gates to invite political leaders,” the court said. Tamil Nadu Advocate-General R Shunmugasundaram submitted to the court that the chief minister M K Stalin had instructed the party cadre against putting up banners, flex boards and cut-outs. “Though learned Advocate-General submits that the present government has prohibited such practice for the political party which is in power, the temporary constructions are seen to come up all over the place and remain long after the event is over,” the court observed. Several activists have rallied against erecting illegal poles and banners, which is a widespread culture across the state by all political parties.In Villupuram earlier this year, the deceased boy, Dinesh of class 9 was helping party workers decorate a road to welcome higher education minister K Ponmudy for a marriage function in Villupuram. The minister has announced a compensation of ₹1.5 lakhs to the boy’s family. This led to a political furore in the state with the AIADMK and BJP asking Stalin to take action against those responsible. Two years ago, a 23-year-old woman Subashshree died after an AIADMK banner fell on her in Chennai, which triggered a massive outrage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-guidelines-on-putting-banners-madras-hc-to-tamil-nadu-govt-101633461675961.html
06-10-2021||India||Ex-Bahrain cop held for drug trafficking from Kerala||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Monday arrested a 50-year-old man from Kerala, who was allegedly trafficking hashish to the Gulf countries with bases in metro cities across the country. According to NCB, the accused, a former police officer in Bahrain, procured the drugs from Manali and took them to Kochi via Bengaluru before smuggling them to Gulf counties. “Based on specific intelligence, the officers of the NCB, Cochin sub zone, seized 3.5 kgs of hashish oil from a courier consignment at Ernakulam on September 12. The said consignment was destined for Bahrain. In a swift follow-up action, the sender of the consignment was apprehended by officers of NCB, at Bengaluru on September 29, and his associate was also apprehended at Kasargod on October 4, by the Kochi team,” read a statement from the NCB. According to NCB officials, the interrogation of the man arrested on September 12, revealed that the operation was masterminded by the former cop. He was on the run since and had eventually come to Bengaluru. Based on a tipoff, the NCB team led by Amit Ghawate, zonal director, tracked the train he had boarded while returning from Manali after meeting his contacts. He was arrested and booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985. “The accused had packed the drug consignments into boxes as a ‘prasad’ and also as Ayurveda medicines. He is also responsible for managing the international contacts and coordinating the supply of the drugs,” said a senior NCB official. According to officials, he has been running the operation for the past three years. “He served as a police officer in Bahrain for 20 years. He retired and settled down in Kerala in 2014. With the contacts he made during this time in the police he began supplying drugs,” said the officials. The Kerala NCB sleuths came to know about the drug cartel run by the accused and managed to intercept courier consignment being sent to Bahrain from Kerala.The NCB further added that based on another specific intelligence, officers of Cochin sub zone seized 11.6 kg of Pseudoephedrine, a controlled substance from a courier consignment at Ernakulam on September 22. The said consignment was destined for Australia. In a similar operation, the officers of NCB, Chennai zonal unit seized around 8 kgs of Pseudoephedrine from two consignments at Air Cargo, Chennai International Airport, on September 26.“The said parcels were booked at a courier franchisee office at Karaikal. In a swift follow-up action, the consignor of the consignment was arrested in Chennai on September 29. Further, it is pertinent to mention that the details of another consignment send by the same consignor were ascertained during the investigation and the same was shared with Australian authorities, which resulted in the seizure of 4 kgs of Pseudoephedrine from the parcel in Australia,” read an NCB statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/exbahrain-cop-held-for-drug-trafficking-from-kerala-101633461566272.html
06-10-2021||India||Karnataka to set up sub-panel to look into Datta Peeta issue||The Karnataka Cabinet on Tuesday decided to set up a sub-committee to look into the Datta Peeta issue, a cave shrine in Chikmagalur district’s Baba Budangiri mountains, in which the high court had directed the state government to appoint a Hindu priest for the temple.JC Madhuswamy, Karnataka’s minister for minor irrigation, law and parliamentary affairs on Tuesday said that the sub-committee under his chairmanship would look at the next course of action in the issue.“What decision the high court has given, the pros and cons and how to proceed in the matter will be discussed in this sub-committee,” Madhuswamy said on Tuesday in Bengaluru.Revenue Minister R Ashoka, energy minister V Sunil Kumar and Minister for Muzarai, Haj & Wakf Shashikala Jolle will be the members of the sub-committee, he added.The shrine has been the centre of Hindutva movements in the district with pro-saffron outfits demanding that a Hindu priest be appointed and correct the wrongs done by the Siddaramaiah-led state government between 2013-18.BJP’s national general secretary and legislator from Chickmagalur, CT Ravi, last week, lauded the HC’s order and accused Siddaramaiah of weaving a web of lies to instate a Muslim maulvi as the priest of the shrine that dates back several centuries with conflicting accounts of its history. The shrine is on the Chandra Drona Range, some of the highest between the Himalayas and the Nilgiris, and history has it that it was a sufi Saint Baba Budan who first brought coffee seeds from Yemen that were introduced in these mountain ranges for the first time.The controversy is around the Peetha which, according to court documents, was a major Muzarai temple under the Mysore Religious and Charitable Institutions Act, 1927 but was taken over by the state Wakf board on April 6 1973, just before Emergency was imposed in the country. This was contested in 1978.The order stated that the Endowment commissioner’s report had rightly recorded that Shri Dattatreya is well known as son of Sage Athri by his virtuous wife Anasuya and embodiment of Hindu trinity, the Gods, Brahma, Vishnu and Shiva.The Endowment commissioners report was submitted on March 10 2010 before the Supreme Court, suggesting that a Hindu Archak or priest be appointed by the management committee of the shrine.The issue had gained traction in the run up to the 2018 assembly elections in Karnataka with the BJP accusing Siddaramaiah of pandering to the minorities vote bank.The Karnataka HC said that the order by the state government was unsustainable in law because it was contrary to the Supreme Court’s order that the state cabinet would take a decision in this regard considering the pros and cons of the matter but instead delegated it to a high level committee.The HC also listed five other reasons which included that the high level committee was not free from bias.In its sixth reason, the HC said that the 2018 order “infringes the right of both communities guaranteed under Article 25 of the Constitution by preventing Hindus from performing pooja as per their faith and compelling the Mujawar to offer puja contrary to his faith.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-to-set-up-sub-panel-to-look-into-datta-peeta-issue-101633461497144.html
06-10-2021||India||23-yr-old woman set ablaze for resisting rape in Yadgir, Karnataka, dies; 1 held||A 23-year-old married woman died after she was allegedly set on fire for resisting a rape attempt by a man at a village near Shahapur town in Karnataka’s Yadgir district, police said on Tuesday, adding that a case has been registered against the accused, who has surrendered. Superintendent of police, Yadgir, CB Vedamurthy, told the reporters that the accused entered the victim’s house post-midnight on October 3 when her husband was away. “Around 2 am, the accused barged into the home of the victim and tried to rape her. When the woman resisted his advances, the man left the house. He came back later carrying petrol he took from his motorcycle and set her on fire,” said the SP. Soon after the incident, the victim’s neighbours rushed to the spot and extinguished the flames. The woman was rushed to Surapura taluk hospital on October 4 morning and later shifted to Kalaburagi district hospital after her condition worsened. She succumbed to her injuries on Monday evening, police said. Surapura police have registered the case after recording the statement of the victim in the hospital before she succumbed. Police said the accused, identified as Gangeppa, a resident of Chowdeshwarihala village, has surrendered. “The police department has taken the case very seriously. Surapura police have registered a suo motu case and the matter will be investigated and a charge sheet will be filed at the earliest,” Vedamurthy said.Meanwhile, Karnataka home minister Araga Jnanendra on Tuesday told reporters that severe punishment will be handed out to the accused. “An unfortunate and inhumane incident has taken place at a village in Yadgir district. The accused has surrendered at Surapura police station. Police are investigating the case. Severe punishment will be awarded to the accused,” he said. Last month, another such incident rocked Yadgir district after a video showed four men stripping, sexually abusing, and assaulting a Dalit woman on the Yadgir-Shahapur state highway. The purported video, reportedly filmed a year ago, also showed the miscreants clicking selfies with the victim during the assault. Police have so far arrested nine people in connection with the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/23yrold-woman-set-ablaze-for-resisting-rape-in-yadgir-dies-1-held-101633461440729.html
06-10-2021||India||Karnataka govt plans ‘technology schools’, aim to build talent pool in other parts of state||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday emphasised the need for ‘technology schools’ at the high school level to spread out its prowess in the sector to other parts of the state.The initiative is part of “Beyond Bengaluru ‘’ where the state government will look to create a talent pool in other cities of the state, enabling them to attract investments away from its capital, leading to equitable growth of Karnataka.“There was a technology school in Hubli way back in 1960 which was closed later. But, technology schools need to be started considering the fact that perception ability will be more during childhood”, Bommai said on Tuesday.The chief minister added that the Atal Bihari Vajpayee’ tinkering labs should be upgraded and artificial intelligence must be included at that level at least to some extent. He also said that Polytechnics institutes need to be upgraded as well.A significant number of the world’s biggest corporations have a presence in Bengaluru and the administration has been trying to get some of these investors to consider expanding operations to other parts of the state to stem mass migrations into a city that already is home to almost a quarter of the state’s 70 million population.Dr.C.N.Ashwath Narayan, the minister for IT/BT and S&T said, a center of excellence (CoE) for Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Date Engineering will be set up soon in Hubballi.Karnataka is trying to be the first in the country to implement the National Education Policy (NEP) which, the minister said, aspires to ready the students as per the global technological developments and coding will be taught for students at the school level itself..“The government has brought in effective policies to promote innovative technologies and the duration of the internship has risen from 3 weeks to 30 weeks. Students will also be given the opportunity to undergo internship in foreign countries,” Narayan said.The gap in learning--and teaching--is getting wider as government schools in the state, especially in rural areas, have not been able to compete with private educational institutions, adding to the problem of unemployment in states like Karnataka and other regions of the country.The Karnataka government was forced to restart physical classes for school children after most of them lost a year without access to the internet or other devices to benefit from online education.Data shared by the Karnataka government on July 1 shows that of the 9.3 million who have been accounted for, only 5,859,907 have smartphones/tablets and around 3,127,524 without any access to such devices. Further, there are just 5,134,386 students who have access to the internet while 3,779,965 students do not have access to the internet, rendering the exercise of online classes as a redundant practice for these children, mostly from rural and backward regions of the state.In Bengaluru (rural, south and north), there are 178,612 students who have been accounted for out of the total 1,992,100. Of this, only 1,387,299 have a mobile number in which they can be contacted and just 1,452,207 have access to smartphones or tablets. Only 1,305,527 students have access to the internet and at least 401,269 have no access, data from the education department shows, Hindustan Times had reported on July 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-govt-plans-technology-schools-aim-to-build-talent-pool-in-other-parts-of-state-101633461384066.html
06-10-2021||India||Dashboard launched to monitor projects in Bengaluru||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday launched the dashboard that allows real-time monitoring of major projects in Bengaluru to avoid delays and speedy implementation.The dashboard, according to the chief minister’s office (CMO), would provide accurate and up-to-date information on all major projects in the city that has become synonymous for its crumbling infrastructure as much as its prowess in Information Technology, startups and science.“Officers should pay equal importance to planning as well as implementation. Senior officers must ensure that the officials at grassroot levels deliver the facility to the last man in the society. Effective implementation will bring people closer to the system and they feel that someone is there for them. We need to strive to achieve this,” Bommai said on Tuesday.The chief minister had announced plans to bring out a dashboard on August 28 to monitor all mega projects in the city to help avoid delays and timely implementation.Bengaluru, home to almost a quarter of Karnataka’s total population, is a city that aspires to be recognized as a global hub but has been struggling to cope with its own rapid and unplanned growth.Many mega projects like the Metro, Outer Ring Road, flyovers and several other public works have led to huge challenges for the residents and the 9.4 million vehicles that ply on its poor quality roads.The chief minister had even admitted in the recently concluded monsoon session of the state legislature that around ₹20,000 crore has been spent on fixing roads in Bengaluru over the past five years.Bengaluru has 13,847 kms of arterial and sub-arterial roads, of which only 295 kms are said to be in good condition and another 246 kms have now been ridden of potholes, according to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP)Potholes and bad roads have even taken lives in the city as hapless citizens tread on dug-up streets, open manholes and other life-threatening conditions.The poor planning of drains, encroachments and unplanned nature of construction often leads to water clogging in Bengaluru. Rain water also gushes into basements of apartments and other buildings, causing crores of losses to residents who end up bearing the brunt of civic apathy.Most of Bengaluru’s roads are in tatters after being dug up on account of projects like “smart city” or any other developmental work, adding to the nightmare of the city’s over 12 million residents and 9.4 million vehicles.The rains in Bengaluru have made matters worse in the city as it poses a danger and a hurdle to pedestrians and motorists alike.But money spent, or claimed to have been spent, on infrastructure like roads, drains and other basic amenities have fallen short of meeting expectations.The Karnataka government on September 30 had said that all roads in Bengaluru will be pothole-free in 30 days, setting another deadline, after many missed ones, to provide one of the most basic amenities to the city’s over 12 million residents.The assurance on road repair comes ahead of the BBMP elections that are expected to be held early next year.Bommai had earlier said that he would dedicate his first working hour each day to monitor ongoing projects in Bengaluru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dashboard-launched-to-monitor-projects-in-bengaluru-101633461382847.html
06-10-2021||India||3 dead due to contaminated water; Karnataka CM orders ₹3L relief||The Karnataka government on Tuesday announced an ex gratia of ₹3 lakh to the families of those who died after drinking contaminated water in a village in the newly created Vijayanagara district recently and also ordered an inquiry into the deaths. At least three people had died after drinking contaminated water in Makarabbi village in Hoovinahadagali taluk in Vijayanagara district. While two people died on September 23, a 50-year woman succumbed on October 1, district officials said. According to officials, around 200 people, who fell sick after drinking contaminated water, are being treated in hospitals. Over 50 people whose health condition turned critical have been shifted to various hospitals in the neighbouring districts. “Our government has taken seriously people dying and falling ill after drinking the contaminated water. I have already said that an inquiry led by IAS officer Munish Moudgil will be conducted. He has to submit the report in a week,” Bommai told reporters Authorities said three more deaths have been reported in the village, however, are yet to confirm if the deaths were due to water contamination. .According to the district administration, during the installation of a new pipeline to borewells, old pipes got damaged and sewage water got mixed up with drinking water. Makarabbi village where the tragedy took place has a population of more than 2,000 people. Talking to the media, taluk health inspector Vinod said that 9 cases of vomiting and loose motion were reported first on August 26, and they were admitted to a nearby hospital. “They responded to the treatment and recovered. A team of officers visited the village and collected three samples of water. Among these, 2 samples report showed that the water is unfit to be used for drinking,” he said. Later, on September 23, cases of vomiting and loose motion were reported again. The district administration opened a temporary hospital at the village and two ambulances were stationed to shift the patients in case of emergency, he added. The piped water supply in the village has been stopped since the incident. Water is being provided by tankers and a RO plant has also been established in the village. Action has also been taken to close three bore wells and a well in the village, said officials of the district administration. The district administration has also opened a temporary hospital in the village and two ambulances were stationed to shift the patients in case of emergency. The chief minister further said those responsible for sewage water getting mixed with tap water, be it local officers or engineers, will face action. Expressing sorrow over the tragedy, Bommai said an ex gratia of ₹3 lakh will be given to the families of those who died after consuming contaminated water. On three deaths due to monkey fever in Afzalpur in Kalaburagi, Bommai said he has asked the district health officers to furnish a report, based on which the relief amount will be announced Vijayanagara is Karnataka’s newest district, demarcated with a government notification on October 3. Earlier, it was part of Ballari district. The new district was inaugurated by Bommai on October 3. Inputs from PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-dead-due-to-contaminated-water-karnataka-cm-orders-3l-relief-101633461315970.html
06-10-2021||India||Andhra Pradesh logs 671 fresh Covid cases, 11 new fatalities||Andhra Pradesh logged 671 new Covid-19 infections, taking the tally to over 2.53 million, while the toll went up to 14,219 with 11 casualties.West Godavari district accounted for the highest number of cases with 109 followed by Chittoor (102), a state government bulletin said on Tuesday, giving figures of the last 24 hours ending at 9 AM.The active cases stood at 9,141. The total number of cases in the state stood at 2,053,863, while with 1,272 people being cured, the total recoveries are at 2,030,503.Over 41 thousand samples were tested on Tuesday, taking the total number of specimens examined so far to over 2.85 crore.Two people each in Krishna, Prakasam and West Godavari and one each in Guntur, YSR Kadapa, Nellore, Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts died of the killer virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-logs-671-fresh-covid-cases-11-new-fatalities-101633461197310.html
06-10-2021||India||Delhi high court disposes of plea against Twitter, says satisfied with IT Rules compliance||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Tuesday disposed of the plea against Twitter India for not complying with the recently implemented Information Technology Rules, 2021, saying it was satisfied with the compliance shown by the micro-blogging website.Justice Rekha Palli took note of the Union government’s affidavit that expressed satisfaction over Twitter’s action. The Centre had told the high court that Twitter has complied with the Information Technology Rules, 2021 and has appointed three-tier grievance redressal officers as their “employee” and not as a “contingent worker”.“I submit that Twitter has appointed the personnel in compliance to the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 hereinafter referred as IT Rules, 2021,” Centre’s response in the high court said.It said that Twitter has provided the names of the personnel appointed along with their respective positions, date of employment and contracts.Taking note of the submissions, Justice Palli disposed of the plea. Twitter, in its affidavit, said it had appointed a permanent Resident Grievance Officer (RGO), Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) and Nodal Contact officer (NCO) in compliance to the new Information Technology (IT) Rules, 2021 on August 4.The affidavit was filed on September 22, in a petition by lawyer Amit Acharya who had contended that IT Rules came into effect from February 25 and the Centre had given three months to every social media intermediary, including Twitter, to comply with them.However, even after the lapse of three-month period on May 25, till date no resident grievance officer was appointed by Twitter to deal with complaints regarding tweets on its platform, due which, he could not take action against two alleged offensive tweets by TMC MP Mohua Moitra and journalist Swati Chaturvedi.Twitter had later disposed of his plea saying that the tweets in question were not offensive according to its policies.On August 6, Twitter, through an affidavit, had told the court that it had appointed Vinay Prakash, an Indian resident, as the RGO and CCO on August 4. It further added that Shahin Komath has been employed as the NCO.However, the Centre had said that the position was “yet to be verified” and had sought time to recheck the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-high-court-disposes-of-plea-against-twitter-says-satisfied-with-it-rules-compliance-101633461137063.html
06-10-2021||India||Tamil Nadu reports 1,449 new Covid cases, 16 fresh deaths||Tamil Nadu on Tuesday logged 1,449 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the overall tally to 2,671,411, while 16 deaths took the toll to 35,682.Recoveries eclipsed new infections with 1,548 people getting discharged in the last 24 hours, aggregating to 2,618,980 leaving 16,749 active infections, a health department bulletin said. Three districts comprised the majority of new infections with Chennai accounting for 179 cases, Coimbatore 151, Chengalpet 113, while the remaining were scattered across other districts.Four districts reported below 10 cases each, while there were no fresh deaths in 27 districts.A total of 146,735 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, pushing the cumulative number of specimens examined so far to 47,745,420. Three of the deceased did not have any co-morbidity or pre existing illness, the bulletin said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-reports-1-449-new-covid-cases-16-fresh-deaths-101633461135927.html
06-10-2021||India||Kerala HC raps police over Mavunkal probe||The Kerala high court on Tuesday asked the State Police chief whether he trusts the police under his command to carry out a proper investigation into the complaints against controversial antiques dealer Monson Mavunkal when allegations are “flying thick and high” against police officers of various ranks in the state.“Allegations are flying thick and high against police officers of several ranks in the state. In such a situation, can the Crime Branch conduct a proper investigation (into complaints against Mavunkal),” was one of the queries posed to DGP Anil Kant by Justice Devan Ramachandran.The court said that while the allegations against the police officers may not be correct, but since the force provided protection to the antique, dealer despite being aware about the kind of items -- including elephant tusks -- which he had in his possession, instead of taking him into custody, “can Kerala Police be trusted”?”I don’t know. Let the State Police Chief (SPC) tell me,” Justice Ramachandran said.“The DGP has to tell me whether he trusts the police under his command to carry out a proper investigation. The SPC has to inform the court whether an investigation would be apposite by an agency in Kerala when allegations have been made against police officers of several ranks,” the court said.It said that it was indicating its prima facie view as it was interested in ensuring a proper probe.The court directed that the SPC has to file a detailed counter affidavit touching all the points raised by the court and the investigation carried out so far on complaints against Mavunkal.The court’s searching queries assume significance as Mavunkal has been a source of embarrassment and concern for the state government and the police due to his alleged links to senior officials of both.On Tuesday, the opposition UDF tried to corner the Left government and its police force in the Kerala Assembly over the high profile cheating cases involving the self-styled antique dealer even as Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan rejected their charges saying the investigation in the case was progressing in the right direction.The UDF also accused former DGP Loknath Behera, a close confidant of Vijayan, for having connections with Mavunkal.The photos of the retired police chief, sitting on the “throne of Tipu Sultan” along with senior IPS officer and ADGP Manoj Abraham holding an “antique” sword at the accused’s house, were widely circulated on social media platforms and in news reports which also claimed that the former DGP granted police protection to the fake antique dealer despite an intelligence report against him.Referring to news reports on the police protection, the court asked how such a decision was taken “Instead of taking him into custody”.“How did the police and the intelligence not see what he was up to? How was he allowed to operate? How no suspicions were raised regarding him,” were the other queries posed by the court.It further said that when someone is given police protection, he acquires a certain status and credibility in society and people tend to trust such persons as a result.The court was hearing a plea by the antique dealer’s former driver-cum-mechanic alleging harassment by his former employer and some police officers close to him after he made certain disclosures to police in connection with a cheating case against Mavunkal.In his petition, filed through advocates Philip T Varghese and Thomas T Varghese, the driver -- Ajith E V -- has alleged that Mavunkal has also threatened to implicate him in criminal cases and get him put behind bars.The court on September 30 had ordered police protection for Ajith.Ajith, who was Mavunkal’s driver-cum-mechanic from 2009 till January this year, has alleged that after he made the disclosures in the criminal case, the Circle Inspector of Cherthala and the Station House Officer of Ernakulam Town North Police Station both summoned him to their offices the same day and threatened him with dire consequences if he failed to appear before them.He has claimed, in his petition, that he had informed the District Police Chief of Alappuzha and the Commissioner of Police, Ernakulam about the alleged harassment, but no action was taken against the two officers.He has said that the disclosures he made to the Deputy Superintendent of Police, Crime Branch, Alappuzha, were in connection with a cheating complaint made against Mavunkal by Rajendran Pillai of Sreevalsam Group of Companies alleging that the dealer had cheated him of ₹6 crore.Soon after he gave his statement, Mavunkal came to know about it and called him up and threatened him with dire consequences, the petition has said.The petitioner has also alleged in his plea that Mavunkal has made false representations about himself and his business to various persons and collected money from them.Cherthala native Mavunkal, who claims to be in possession of rare and historic antiques, was arrested by the district Crime Branch which has been probing complaints against the dealer of having swindled ₹10 crore from several people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-hc-raps-police-over-mavunkal-probe-101633461078220.html
06-10-2021||India||Home Minister Amit Shah likely to visit J&K this month||New Delhi: In his first visit to Jammu and Kashmir since article 370, which somewhat gave special status, was scrapped on August 5, 2019, union home minister is set to travel to the erstwhile state as part of Centre’s mega-outreach programme and to review the development schemes, people familiar with the development said. He is likely to be on a three-day tour between October 23 and 25, but the dates can change as well, said the officials cited above. During the tour, Shah is expected to interact with various stakeholders, review certain projects and also take stock of law and order situation. Several members of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s council of ministers have travelled to the newly carved union territory in last four-five weeks as part of the public outreach programme. These include Narendra Singh Tomar, G Kishan Reddy, and John Barla among others. During his trip, Shah will visit remote areas of the Kashmir valley and the Jammu region during which he is also likely to interact with public. On August 5, 2019, the Centre effectively revoked Article 370, which bestowed special status to the erstwhile state, and Article 35A, which barred non-locals from buying or owning immovable property in Jammu and Kashmir, settling there permanently, or availing benefits of state-sponsored scholarship schemes. The constitutional provision acknowledged the special status of the (then) state of Jammu and Kashmir in terms of autonomy and its ability to formulate laws for the state’s permanent residents. Shah visited the erstwhile state in June 2019, immediately after the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) led by PM Modi swept to power for the second term. Last month, he held a top-level review meeting on J&K with the Lt Governor Manoj Sinha and senior security officials including the National Security Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval. He also reviewed various development initiatives being implemented in Jammu and Kashmir, including the ₹80,000 crore package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2015. The home minister has said in the past that all-round development and welfare of the people of the Union Territory are on top priority list of the government. In June this year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi invited J&K leaders including Farooq Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti at his residence in Delhi, during which they demanded restoration of special status of J&K.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/home-minister-amit-shah-likely-to-visit-j-k-this-month-101633461077030.html
06-10-2021||India||Another Kerala Congress leader resigns, alleges disfunction||The Congress suffered another setback in Kerala’s Wayanad, which is also a VIP Lok Sabha seat represented by Rahul Gandhi, with former DCC president P V Balachandran quitting the party on Tuesday, alleging that the grand old party has failed to check the growth of the BJP in the country.Ending his 52-year-long association with the party, Balachandran, a member of the KPCC executive committee, said both majority and minority communities are moving away from the Congress and the people would not stand with a party which has lost its direction.He also slammed the style of functioning of the Congress state leadership, alleging that they were not able to take a clear political stand on the issues affecting the people.Announcing the decision at a press conference here, Balachandran said his decision to quit the party was based on the realization that it will not be able to function anymore in accordance with the spirit of the Congress workers.Balachandran’s is the latest in the series of resignations happening in the Congress in Wayanad.Former MLA K C Rosakutty, KPCC secretary M S Vishwanathan, and DCC general secretary Anil Kumar had quit the party before the Assembly polls held in the state in April this year.Balachandran’s decision to quit the party has also come as a setback for the current leadership of the Congress, which is rattled by the resignation of prominent leaders like K P Anil Kumar and P S Prasanth in protest against the style of functioning KPCC Chief K Sudhakaran and Leader of Opposition in the assembly V D Satheesan.Meanwhile, after coming a cropper in the recent state Assembly polls, the BJP in Kerala on Tuesday announced a major organisational revamp, changing five of its district presidents and inducting some fresh faces as office bearers with an eye on a strong comeback.Though there were widespread rumours that K Surendran would be removed as the party’s state chief in the wake of the drubbing of the party, there seemed to be no change in the top post as per the new list.Senior leaders A N Radhakrishnan and Shobha Surendran would continue as the vice presidents, while another senior leader and party spokesperson K Gopalakrishnan was also elevated to the same post, according to the list released by the state president.E Krishnadas would be the new treasurer of the state BJP, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-kerala-congress-leader-resigns-alleges-disfunction-101633461075921.html
06-10-2021||India||Madras high court asks Tamil Nadu forest dept to capture Nilgiris’ tiger alive||The search and hunt for the “problematic tiger”, which has become “dangerous to human life in the area” in Tamil Nadu’s Nilgiris district reached the Madras high court on Tuesday.A bench comprising Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P D Audikesavalu heard public interest litigation (PIL) filed by a Chennai-based animal rights group, People for Cattle in India, seeking directions that the tiger identified as MDT-23 is captured alive and not killed. Tamil Nadu chief wildlife warden Shekar Kumar Niraj had last Friday issued an order to hunt the tiger since they received reports of the animal killing two human beings and livestock. Appearing for the Principal Chief Conservator, government learner P Muthukumar, informed the court that there is no plan to kill the animal or maim it. “Efforts are on in the Mudumalai area to capture the animal alive and study its psychology and behaviour to assess what future course of treatment may be adopted,” he told the court. From Saturday onwards, efforts have been strengthened to capture the male tiger that is said to be about 13-years-old. The tiger has remained elusive. The tiger belonging to the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve has been active in the human habitation of Gudalur and has been preying on livestock since July 2021. The court took the note from newspapers that there is huge bandobast in the area to capture the animal so the bench directed the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests to “use his best discretion” to ensure that the least number of persons intrude into any forest since the natural habitat gets destroyed the moment a large posse of humans enters any forest. “However, the respondents are left free to deal with the relevant animal for its treatment and for ascertaining its conduct and behaviour,” the court said in its orders. “All that can be said at the moment is that the other animals in the area should not be disturbed to the extent avoidable to track down this animal, though some discrete measures may be used for such purpose with the object of ultimately treating the animal and respecting its right to remain wild and free to roam in the forest.” The court has asked for a status report to be filed when the matter appears immediately after the reopening of the court following the ensuing pooja holidays. More than 75 forest officials are on the ground to capture the tiger alive without harming him by using tranquillizer darts. Five cages have been placed in vital locations. Special teams, including forest veterinarians, have been formed under the supervision of the Conservator of Forests. The field director of the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve and officers from Kerala’s forest division in Wayanad district have also been brought in. Drones, sniffer dogs are also part of the search operations, and two kumki elephants are on stand-by.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-high-court-asks-tamil-nadu-forest-dept-to-capture-nilgiris-tiger-alive-101633461021390.html
06-10-2021||India||Complete repeal of farm laws alone will lead to normalcy, peace: Stalin||Tamil Nadu chief minister M K Stalin on Tuesday asserted that the revocation of the three farm laws brought by the Centre, in toto, will alone lead to harmony in the country, as he condemned the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh, in which eight people were killed and demanded a judicial enquiry against those responsible for it.The chief minister claimed that there has been violence since the Sunday incident. “Farmers have been protesting for the last 300 days against the farm legislations and the ongoing events in Uttar Pradesh are the result of the Centre’s indifference to the riots’ demands,” he said.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi, who was on her way to Lakhimpur Kheri to know about the tumultuous situation was detained, as was former Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister and Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav for a brief while at his house before being arrested and suddenly released, Stalin, also the DMK president, said in a party statement here.“A judicial enquiry should be ordered against those responsible for the violence. The Central government must realise that complete repeal of the three farm laws alone will lead to normalcy and total peace,” Stalin said. A local journalist was among the eight people killed in the violence that erupted during a farmers’ protest at Lakhimpur Kheri. Four of the dead were farmers, allegedly knocked down by vehicles driven by BJP workers, travelling to welcome Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. The others were two BJP workers and a driver, who were allegedly pulled out of the vehicles and lynched by protestors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/complete-repeal-of-farm-laws-alone-will-lead-to-normalcy-peace-stalin-101633460960540.html
06-10-2021||India||Telangana CM KCR demands increase in SC quota||Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Monday demanded that the Centre increase the percentage of reservations for Scheduled Castes in tune with their growing population in the country and conduct a caste census.“The Centre has fixed a 15 per cent reservation for the SCs in education and employment at the national level as well as in the states. Over the years, the population of SCs has gone up considerably all over the country. Therefore, the Centre should also consider increasing the quota of the SCs,” KCR, as the chief minister is known, said while replying to a short discussion on his government’s flagship programme, Dalit Bandhu, in the state assembly.He said a Comprehensive Household Survey conducted in Telangana six years ago had revealed that there were 10.03 million families in the state, of which 1.82 million families belong to the Scheduled Castes, accounting for 17.53% of the total families.At least nine out of 33 districts in the state have more than 20% SC population. Mancherial district has the highest Dalit population of 25.64%, while Hyderabad has the lowest percentage of Dalit population, 11.71%. The average population of SCs in the state, thus, stands at 17.53%, he said.“Since the figures were six years old, the Dalit population in the state might have gone up substantially. Therefore, there is a need to increase the reservations for SCs in tune with the increase in their population,” KCR said.The chief minister also demanded that the Centre take up enumeration of castes while taking up the nation-wide census. “I don’t understand why the Centre is refusing to take up the enumeration of Other Backward Classes (OBCs) in the country. It even submitted an affidavit to the Supreme Court in this regard,” he pointed out.He announced that the state assembly would pass a resolution demanding that the Centre take up caste-based Census, so that justice could be done to all the backward classes. “We shall send the resolution to the Centre for necessary action,” he said.The chief minister explained in detail about the Dalit Bandhu scheme, whose pilot project was launched in Huzurabad assembly constituency in Karimnagar district on August 16. Under the scheme, each eligible Dalit family would be provided with a financial assistance of ₹10 lakh through direct benefit transfer, so that it would help the beneficiary to take up any business of their choice.Claiming that it was the first of its kind scheme for empowerment of Dalits in the country, KCR said though successive governments at the Centre and the state had taken up programmes for the uplift of Dalits, there was no significant improvement in their condition.“Even after 75 years of Independence, Dalits continue to face discrimination and lack empowerment and financial independence. We have made a humble beginning by taking up Dalit Bandhu scheme,” he said.Stating that his government would implement the Dalit Bandhu scheme with more vigour if the Centre comes forward to help the state, KCR said in the coming years, the Telangana Rashtra Samithi might play a role at the Centre.“We might even be part of the government at the Centre to implement our agenda. Anything might happen in politics,” he said.The chief minister announced that in the next year’s annual budget, his government would allocate ₹20,000 crore for Dalit Bandhu scheme. “We shall provide financial assistance to an average of 2,000 Dalit families in each constituency. This is a constant exercise till all the Dalit families are covered under the scheme,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-cm-kcr-demands-increase-in-scquota-101633460958979.html
06-10-2021||India||Afghanistan, bilateral ties focus of US deputy secretary’s visit to India||The situation in Afghanistan and India-US cooperation to ensure a free and open Indo-Pacific are expected to top the agenda for meetings this week between visiting US deputy secretary of state Wendy Sherman and her Indian interlocutors.Sherman, who is on her first visit to India since assuming office in April, is also set to meet top business people in New Delhi and Mumbai to boost trade and investment during her three-day trip.On Wednesday, Sherman will meet foreign secretary Harsh Shringla in New Delhi to review the India-US bilateral agenda and outcomes of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s recent visit to the US, the external affairs ministry said.“They will exchange views on regional issues pertaining to South Asia and the Indo-Pacific region and contemporary global issues,” the ministry said without giving details.Sherman will meet external affairs minister S Jaishankar and National Security Adviser Ajit Doval, and join civil society events on Wednesday. Sherman and Shringla will also participate in a special session of the India-Ideas Summit organised by the US India Business Council later in the day.On Thursday, Sherman will travel to Mumbai for engagements with the business community and civil society.People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that the situation in Afghanistan, especially the way forward in the war-torn country following the Taliban takeover in Kabul, and cooperation to ensure a free and open Indo-Pacific against the backdrop of China’s increasing assertiveness across the region are expected to be a key part of discussions during Sherman’s meetings with Indian interlocutors.The Indian side is also expected to raise its security-relations concerns on Afghanistan, including the risk of Afghan soil being used for terror attacks, during the visit.The discussions are also expected to prepare the grounds for the first India-US 2+2 foreign and defence ministers’ dialogue under the Biden administration in November.Sherman’s visit will be a “useful opportunity to continue the regular dialogue and further strengthen the India-US comprehensive global strategic partnership”, the external affairs ministry said.From India, Sherman will travel to Pakistan for the final leg of her four-nation trip that began on September 29. She first travelled to Geneva in Switzerland to lead a US interagency delegation for a strategic stability dialogue with Russia on September 30.The strategic stability dialogue was the outcome of a commitment made by US President Joe Biden and his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin during their meeting in Geneva in June to have a robust dialogue to lay the groundwork for future arms control and risk reduction measures.Sherman then went to Bern to inaugurate the first US-Swiss strategic partnership dialogue, before travelling to Uzbekistan to meet senior officials and civil society on Monday.CIA chief William Burns had visited India and Pakistan last month for discussions on the situation in Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghanistan-bilateral-ties-focus-of-us-deputy-secretary-s-visit-to-india-101633460955923.html
06-10-2021||India||Phase 1 of rural local body polls in 9 new Tamil Nadu distts begins today||Chennai: The first phase of the two-phase rural local body polls in Tamil Nadu’s nine newly carved districts will begin on Wednesday, the first elections after the DMK came to power in the state in May. Though political experts say that the trend indicates that the ruling party has an advantage in local polls, DMK leaders are taking all caution, considering the elections as a referendum for the five-month-old government under chief minister M K Stalin. They are banking on the first-time chief minister’s popularity and several welfare schemes rolled out by the party. The principal opposition, the AIADMK jointly led by Edappadi Palaniswami and O Panneerselvam, hopes their losing streak doesn’t continue, banking on the legacy of their two-leaves party symbol and their past leaders MG Ramachandran and J Jayalalithaa. In a statement released on October 4, the dual leadership said, “Only the AIADMK can give good governance in the local bodies.”The elections will be held for 27,003 posts, including panchayat presidents and ward councillors, in Kancheepuram, Chengalpattu, Vellore, Tirupathur, Ranipet, Villupuram, Kallakurichi, Tirunelveli and Tenkasi. According to the state election commission, 7,659,720 voters are eligible to vote across the two phases. The second phase will be held on October 9. All political parties and local leaders campaigned until the last day on Monday evening. Stalin hasn’t campaigned in these districts which have been tasked to his ministers, legislators and MPs. The alliance partners of both the DMK and AIADMK bargained for better share of posts. Congress leaders negotiated with the DMK until the last minute when nominations were closing in September. The Left parties of CPM and CPI are contesting alone in certain districts. But the AIADMK had it tougher. The Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) which has been a part of the AIADMK-led NDA alliance in Tamil Nadu announced that they would go it alone, but clarified that they will remain in the alliance. PMK is a caste-based party with its core vote bank being the backward but influential Vanniyar community that is dominant in the northern and western districts of Tamil Nadu. PMK has a stronghold in seven out of the nine districts that are going to polls. The PMK justified its decision by saying that there wasn’t enough time to negotiate for posts and candidates with the AIADMK. The BJP which is contesting along with the AIADMK in most districts has decided to go it alone in Kallakurichi district. In the southern districts, such as in Tirunelveli, the elections are being conducted in the shadow of caste-based revenge murders. Four beheadings -- two in Tirunelveli and two in Dindigul -- happened within a span of 10 days in September. “The law and order is back to normal now,” said a senior police officer on election duty in Tirunelveli. The voting patterns in these regions are usually based on the caste factor.More than 15,000 police officers have been deployed across the nine districts for the first phase, according to officials. The results will be announced on October 12.Political experts say that the trend is for the ruling party to win the rural polls. “The DMK as a ruling party has an upper hand but they are adopting abundant caution,” says political commentator Raveendran Duraisamy. “Congress and other allies of the DMK have no bargaining power but in the case of AIADMK, their allies, PMK and BJP, are playing power politics. I see the PMK and NTK (Naam Tamizhar Katchi) fighting for third place in not just rural body polls but also the urban body polls (which will be conducted later).” NTK emerged as the third largest party in the assembly elections held in April. Actor Kamal Haasan’s Makkal Needhi Maiam is also contesting in the local polls.Candidates with disabilitiesAs many as 43 people with disabilities who belong to an NGO, December 3 Movement, are contesting as independent candidates in the rural local body elections. “This is the first time that a disability rights association has fielded candidates in an organised manner,” said TMN Deepak, founder of December 3 Movement. “Local governance is the first point of contact for people, so grassroots representation and empowerment is important for us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/phase-1-of-rural-local-body-polls-in-9-new-tamil-nadu-distts-begins-today-101633460897052.html
06-10-2021||India||Suspected Taliban fighters attack gurdwara in Kabul||Suspected Taliban fighters entered Gurdwara Karte Parwan, the main Sikh shrine in the Afghanistan capital, on Tuesday and damaged CCTV cameras and broke several locks, according to members of the Afghan Sikh minority.Puneet Singh Chandhok, head of the Indian World Forum, who has played a role in facilitating the evacuation of members of Afghanistan’s Hindu and Sikh minorities, tweeted that armed men had entered the gurdwara and “vandalised” it.A member of the Afghan Sikh minority, Sardar Govind Singh, said in a video posted on social media that the armed men had damaged most of the CCTV cameras at the gurdwara and broken open several locked doors.Several posts on social media said the armed men who entered the gurdwara were believed to be Taliban members.There was no official word from the Indian side on the incident.Soon after the Taliban marched into Kabul on August 15, hundreds of members of the Sikh and Hindu minorities had taken refuge in Gurdwara Karte Parwan. Taliban commanders had visited the gurdwara soon after the takeover of the country and assured Sikh leaders about the safety of members of the community.Nearly 240 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus were, however, barred from entering Kabul airport to board the last military evacuation flight from the Afghan capital.The Indian government has said it will take all steps to facilitate the evacuation of Afghan Sikhs and Hindus who want to leave Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suspected-taliban-fighters-attack-gurdwara-in-kabul-101633460845712.html
06-10-2021||India||Plea in Allahabad HC seeks CBI probe, says law and order in ‘great danger’||A letter petition has been moved before the Allahabad high court, seeking a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) or a judicial inquiry into the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in Uttar Pradesh, in which eight people died, including four farmers.The letter plea moved on Monday by non-profit Swadesh and Prayagraj Legal Aid Clinic requested that in case of a CBI probe, the entire investigation be monitored by the high court. The petition said the role and negligence by police, from Lakhimpur Kheri to Lucknow, be made part of the probe.“Article 21 of the Constitution guarantees citizens right to life and personal liberty. State machinery has failed to secure lives of eight persons who died in a dreadful manner,” the petition stated.It further contended that the “law and order situation in Uttar Pradesh” was in “great danger” and there could be “consequences if preventive action is not taken by the state at [the] earliest”.Eight people, including four farmers, were killed in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri district on Sunday, in the bloodiest clash since the farmers’ protest over the Centre’s three farm laws enacted last year. The farmers were allegedly run over by vehicles driven by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers travelling to welcome deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to the area. The remaining deceased – two BJP workers, a journalist and a driver – were allegedly pulled out of the vehicles and lynched by angry protesters.Uttar Pradesh police on Monday booked Union minister of state for home Ajay Kumar Mishra, also known as Teni, his son Ashish Mishra, and others for murder and other charges based on a complaint lodged by farmers. Lakhimpur Kheri superintendent of police Vijay Dhull said the first information report was filed under Indian Penal Code sections 302 for murder, 120-B for criminal conspiracy and 147 for rioting at Tikunia police station.Meanwhile, the petition by the NGO further prayed that a suo motu public interest litigation should be registered based on the letter and cognizance should be taken against the respondent state authorities in the matter.The plea also sought suspension of Director General of Police and other concerned officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-in-allahabad-hc-seeks-cbi-probe-says-law-and-order-in-great-danger-101633460357517.html
06-10-2021||India||Mamata Banerjee, two TMC MLAs to take oath on October 7: Governor||West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Tuesday said he will administer on October 7, the oath to chief minister Mamata Banerjee and two Trinamool Congress (TMC) legislators as members of state legislative assembly. The governor also asserted that he will not delegate the responsibility to assembly speaker Biman Banerjee, whose power to administer the oath of office to members of the state legislature was withdrawn by Raj Bhawan before the bypolls. As per convention, it is the speaker who administers the oath to legislators while the governor administers the oath of office to ministers. Besides Banerjee, newly-elected TMC legistors Jakir Hossain and Amirul Islam from Jangipur and Samsergang constituencies, respectively, in Murshidabad district will also take oath in the assembly on Thursday.“Under Article 188 (of the Constitution), oath or affirmation is to be ‘before the governor, or some person appointed in that behalf by him.’ However, prior to this, in terms of Section 67 of the Representation of People Act, 1951 ‘the appropriate authority shall cause to be published in the official gazette and declarations containing the names of the elected candidates’,” a statement released by Raj Bhawan said. “In view of the above, invoking powers vested in me under Article 188 of the Constitution, I direct that oath/affirmation to the elected members of the WBLA viz Mamata Banerjee (Bhawanipore), Jakir Hossain (Jangipur) and Amirul Islam (Samserganj) shall be administered by the undersigned at the premises of the West Bengal legislative assembly on October 7…at 2 pm..,” it added. Banerjee won the September 30-Bhabanipur bypoll with a record margin of 58,835 votes on October 3. She needed to win the election to retain the chief minister’s chair, after losing the May assembly elections from Nandigram seat to her former protege and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Suvendu Adhikari. Banerjee, who took oath as chief minister on May 5, needs to be sworn in as a member of the state assembly within six months, i.e, by November 4. In a letter to Dhankhar on October 1, the state government requested him to authorise the speaker to conduct the ceremony. However, the governor sought a gazette notification on the Bhabanipur bypoll results, due to which, the government could not carry out its original plan of holding the ceremony on October 4.“We have formally requested the governor to administer the oath before noon on October 7. We hope that once the notification is issued, he will come to the assembly house and administer the oath of office to the chief minister and the two legislators,” parliamentary affairs minister Partha Chatterjee told reporters on Monday. Assembly speaker Biman Banerjee expressed his anguish. “I do not know why the governor has to come to the assembly to administer oath of office to legislators. Such a thing has never happened anywhere. I will take this up later,” he said. Chatterjee made it clear that although unhappy with the governor, the TMC will not create a controversy. “We do not know why he (Dhankhar) took this decision. Let the programme take place peacefully. I am not going to say anything controversial.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-two-others-to-take-oath-on-october-7-governor-101633460356346.html
06-10-2021||India||Supreme Court raps Centre over NEET-SS date change||The Supreme Court on Tuesday described the Union government’s offer to defer the National Eligibility Entrance Test for super speciality courses (NEET-SS) from November to January as a “sop”, wondering why the government couldn’t have waited a year to introduce changes to the pattern of the entrance exam. The court also underlined that the changes, introduced by the government at the last minute, appeared to have been taken to help private medical colleges where super specialty course seats go vacant every year.“We have read your affidavit and it prima facie appears that the entire haste shown by you (government) is for filling the vacant seats. The seats that go vacant are never in government colleges. This gives a strong impression that regulation of medical education has become a business. We will hear this matter. Please put your house in order otherwise the hands of the law are very long,” the bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, Vikram Nath and BV Nagarathna said on two petitions by over 41 post graduate doctors.The doctors complained that the examination was notified on July 23, but on August 31, the National Board of Examinations (NBE), which conducts NEET-SS, announced a change in the exam pattern for NEET-SS for admission to over 4,200 seats for DM (Doctorate of Medicine), M.Ch (Master of Surgery) and DrNB (Doctorate of National Board). The exam was to be held on November 13 and 14.The doctors said they had prepared for the exam based on the older pattern used since 2018.In its affidavit filed on October 1, the Centre and NBE declined to modify the examination pattern but said it was open to defer the examination by two months to January 10-11, 2022 to let the doctors prepare.The court wasn’t satisfied. “You have held up some sop to the court when your fundamental process of holding the exam is under question. Deferring the examination for two months will do no good,” the court told the government at Tuesday’s hearing.The bench told Centre, NBE and National Medical Commission “to apply wisdom in its decision-making process”. It will continue hearing the case on Wednesday.The post graduate doctors who filed the petition said that the existing exam pattern tested the candidate on their knowledge of the super specialty stream that they wished to pursue. The examination asked 60% questions from the super specialty of the candidate’s choice while the remaining 40% tested the candidate on a mix of broad specialty courses of which one was general medicine.Under the new pattern, 100% questions were to come from the broad specialty course of general medicineAdditional solicitor general (ASG) Aishwarya Bhati, appearing for the Centre, told the court that every year, seats in the super specialty courses ended up vacant due to the exam pattern. Last year, 805 out of 4,286 seats remained vacant while in 2019, the vacant seats totalled 545.“Heavens would not have fallen if you would have introduced the changes from next year,” the bench said, adding, “Seats falling vacant is the concern of the management of medical colleges. Tell us how many seats go vacant in government colleges. You can give us the breakup between government and private colleges where seats fall vacant.”Senior advocate Maninder Singh Singh, who appeared for NBE, said the old examination scheme tested the candidate on a subject that he was supposed to join. The new pattern allows all candidates to be tested on the same footing, he said, asserting that the board will “prove to the court that the change in pattern has not been done to fill the vacancies”.Senior advocate Shyam Divan, appearing for the petitioners, told the court that clinical practice was an important component for admission into super specialty courses. Due to this, many doctors practised in the super specialty stream to get admission into the course of their choice. Some even left their jobs and prepared for the examination for over a year.“This is the tragedy of our medical education,” the court said. “See how botched up our education system is. You first make them study for this super specialty course and after they have prepared for the examination of which 60% questions would come from their choice of discipline, you are privileging candidates who did general medicine at the cost of other super specialties. Have some concern for these doctors.”Advocate Prashant Bhushan, who appeared in a fresh petition filed by post graduate doctors specializing in Oncology, said the largest number of seats going vacant were in private colleges. He also stressed that there was no consultation on changing the examination pattern before July 23. He further added that before 2018, when the existing pattern was introduced, 100% questions in NEET-SS test came from the specialty course opted for by the candidate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-raps-centre-over-neet-ss-date-change-101633460236494.html
06-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur violence: Families cremate bodies, seek probe, proper aid||Three of the farmers killed in UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday were cremated on Tuesday, after the families initially refused to carry out funerals unless the administration met their demands for a quick investigation and adequate compensation. Family members gathered in shock as senior police officers kept guard nearby. The cremations came as tensions persisted, especially after new videos showed some who were part of a protest gathering being mowed down by a car approaching from behind. Four other men died of injuries after the protesters caught hold of them -- who are believed to have been in the car that ran over the victims – and assaulted them. The youngest of the farmers cremated on Tuesday was of 18-year-old Lovepreet Singh. Singh’s father Satnam Singh lit his pyre on a path on a paddy field that villagers cleared to cremate the body. Senior police officials were at the site. A few kilometres away in Dhaurara area of Lakhimpur Kheri, more than 200 Sikh men assembled on a field where, Nachhatar Singh, 50, was cremated. One of his two sons, Mandeep Singh, a jawan in the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSSB) performed the last rites. “We never imagined this kind of an end to my father’s life. He was killed for speaking for the cause of farmers and we will remember this,” said Mandeep. On Monday, family members of the deceased refused to cremate the bodies and held a protest. They relented after the government announced ₹45 lakh compensation to the families, jobs, and the promise of a swift investigation into the violence. Family members of Lovepreet Singh and Nachhatar Singh initially refused to perform the last rites, alleging that the administration may tamper with the post-mortem reports after cremation. Senior police officials were rushed to the spot and the families agreed after assurances. Cheques of the compensation amount were handed over to the family members of Lovepreet and Nacchatar Singh by the evening and a team under the additional SP was formed to investigate the case. In the adjoining Bahraich district, Daljeet Singh was cremated by his 14-year-old son. ASP (rural) Ashok Kumar and other local officers were present during the cremation. Singh’s wife and 20-year-old daughter also attended the funeral from a distance. Family members of the fourth victim, 18-year-old Gurvinder Singh, of Mohraniya village in Bahraich, refused to cremate his body alleging he was shot dead and the autopsy hid that fact. Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait reached the spot to speak to the family members. The local administration agreed for a second post-mortem by experts. ASP (rural), Bahraich, Ashok Kumar said a panel of doctors had been deputed for the second post-mortem examination of the body. Apart from casualties of four farmers, the incident at Lakhimpur Kheri’s Tikonia on Sunday claimed the lives of four others: MoS for home, Ajay Kumar Mishra Teni’s driver Hari Om (35), BJP workers Shyam Sundar (40) and Shubham Mishra (30), and a local journalist Raman Kashyap (28).All four were attacked by the mob after the farmers were run over and were rushed to Kheri district hospital where they succumbed to their injuries.Nighasan scribe Raman Kashyap remained unidentified for several hours till his father Ram Dulare identified him. The post-mortem examination of all the four was carried out late on Sunday night and their bodies were handed to their family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-violence-families-cremate-bodies-seek-probe-proper-aid-101633460176434.html
06-10-2021||India||Modi in Lucknow: World is looking at India’s success||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday targeted the previous Samajwadi Party government in Uttar Pradesh by saying it had no interest in constructing houses for the poor, a remark that came during his visit to the poll-bound state to inaugurate a three-day event to commemorate 75 years of Independence.Modi inaugurated the “Azadi@75 – New Urban India: Transforming Urban Landscape” conference-cum-expo in Lucknow under Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsava, an initiative of the Union government. He digitally handed over keys of Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana—Urban (PMAY-U) houses to 75,000 beneficiaries in 75 districts of Uttar Pradesh and also interacted virtually with beneficiaries of the scheme.The Prime Minister accused the previous government of causing hurdles in the implementation of the central housing scheme, adding that the people in the state will not forget such acts. Uttar Pradesh goes to the polls early next year.He said that before 2017, “18,000 houses were approved for Uttar Pradesh for construction under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana but not even 18 houses were built by the previous government”. “There was money, there was sanction but those who were running the government were creating hindrance as they did not want to construct houses,” the PM said.On the other hand, the Yogi Adityanath-led government has “completed nine lakh houses under the scheme and 14 lakh are under construction”, Modi said.The Prime Minister said his government has made 30 million poor families “lakhpati” under the scheme by providing them houses. He said the previous governments used power as a tool of politics, as electricity was supplied to areas visited by their leaders. He said all the parts of the state were getting electricity now.The Prime Minister inaugurated and laid the foundation stone of 75 urban development projects of Uttar Pradesh under the Smart Cities Mission and AMRUT; flagged off 75 buses under FAME-II for seven cities including Lucknow, Kanpur, Varanasi, Prayagraj, Gorakhpur, Jhansi and Ghaziabad; and released a coffee table book on 75 projects implemented under various flagship missions of ministry of housing and urban affairs. He also announced the setting up of Atal Bihari Vajpayee Chair in Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar University (BBAU), Lucknow.While digitally handing over keys of houses under the PM Awas Yojana, Modi spoke to some of the beneficiaries and said they will celebrate Diwali, Dussehra, Chhath and other festivals in their new houses.Modi said Vajpayee brought the Prime Minister Gram Sadak Yojana (PMGSY) and visualised the Golden Quadrilateral, a network of national highways. “When Atal visualised this connect with four metropolitan towns, some people did not believe this. Similarly, when I talked about toilets and houses, rapid rail, piped gas supply and optical fibre, then too some thought how this would be possible. But the world is looking at India’s success in these campaigns. India is building more PM Awas Yojana houses than the population of some countries,” he said.He said his claim on “lakhpatis” was based on an assessment about the price of the houses given to 30 million people.Modi emphasised that the government has made a serious effort to overcome the problems and challenges of the urban middle class and the law establishing the Real Estate Regulatory Authority was a major step.“RERA has helped in getting the entire housing sector out of the mistrust and fraud and has helped and empowered all stakeholders,” he said.The PM said urban bodies are also saving about ₹1,000 crore every year by installing LED street lights. “Now this amount is being used for other development works. Use of LEDs has also greatly reduced the electricity bill of the people living in cities,” he said.Mentioning the state government’s plan to light 750,000 “diyas” in Ayodhya on this Diwali, Modi asked the Yogi Adityanath government to ensure two such lamps are lit in each of the 900,000 houses already given to the beneficiaries under the PM Awas Yojana in the state on that day.Samajwadi Party leader Juhie Singh said: “The Prime Minister should do a fact check to compare the works of the SP government between 2012 and 2017 and by the Yogi Adityanath-led government in the past four-and-a-half-years.” Professor SK Dwivedi, former head of department, political science, Lucknow University, said: “The accusations and counter accusations being made on various issues indicated that the political parties were in poll mode now.”Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee spokesman Ashok Singh said the Prime Minister did not mention farmers, rising inflation and rising unemployment in his speech, and this reflected his concerns over such issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-in-lucknow-world-is-looking-at-india-s-success-101633460117476.html
06-10-2021||India||Working conditions of teachers in northeast, aspirational districts poor: Report||Teachers battle poor working conditions in India’s northeast and in so-called aspirational districts, and there are disparities in basic amenities like toilets between urban and rural schools, a Unesco report said on Tuesday.“Most of the aspirational districts have a higher percentage of single-teacher schools compared to the state. This is indicative of the challenges that the districts probably face with regard to staffing,” said the report released on World Teachers’ Day. “The proportion of women teachers in the selected aspirational districts is far lower than the state and in comparison with the all-India figure of 50%.”India defines aspirational districts as those that are poor in socioeconomic and human development indicators, and are in need of focussed efforts to improve overall conditions.The report – 2021 State of the Education Report for India: No Teachers, No Class – had selected seven aspirational districts, including Firozpur in Punjab, Nandurbar in Maharashtra, Raichur in Karnataka, Gumla in Jharkhand, Udalguri in Assam, Dantewada in Chhattisgarh and Ri-Bhoi in Meghalaya.Although in terms of accessibility, schools in the aspirational districts compared well with overall accessibility of schools in their respective states, with the exception of Gumla, they fare poorly while providing for separate and working toilets for girls and boys. Access to electricity is also lower in rural schools.“Special attention needs to be paid to rural areas, districts with high scheduled caste and tribe populations, and all across India’s north-east, where the ratio of teachers to students needs to improve and be rationalized. Working conditions in these ‘difficult to staff’ regions also need to be improved, including basic amenities, better provisioning of libraries, and access to information and communications technology,” the Unesco report said. “More state support for teacher education programmes is desirable in these regions.”Highlighting that there is a deficit of one million teachers in the country, the report said there is a need to strengthen recruitment. “In about 15 years, 27% of the current workforce will need to be replaced. The workforce has a deficit of over 1 million teachers (at current student strength), and is likely to grow overall,” the report said.The third edition of the state of education report, an annual flagship report of the Unesco, analysed data from the Unified District Information System for Education 2018-19 and the periodic labour force survey 2018-19.It revealed that teaching has just “average status” in India, but it is a career of choice for women and youth, particularly in rural areas.Calling it an overall gender-balanced profession, the report said some sectors like early childhood, special education and private unaided schools show a preponderance of woman teachers. “This may have to do with lower salaries, rendering teaching jobs as second incomes to be taken up by women. It is noticed that states high in postgraduate institutions are also states with a high proportion of women teachers,” it said.The report recommended more “professional autonomy” for teachers. “Teacher autonomy is essential for ensuring a learning environment that addresses the diverse needs of children,” the report said. ”Currently, the system of administrative hierarchies and control, examinations, and centralized planning for curriculum reform, constrain the autonomy of the headmaster and teacher.”It also advocated recognising teachers as front line workers amid the Covid-19 pandemic and highlighted prevailing job security concerns among private schools and contractual teachers.“It is time for the world to recognize the exceptional role teachers play in the life of children,” said Sridhar Srivastava, director, National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT). “NCERT is committed to empower them with training, professional development and academic support.”“We need to invest our efforts in their capacity building and professional development, so that educators can enrich their practice to adapt to diverse learners’ needs,” Srivastava said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/working-conditions-of-teachers-in-northeast-aspirational-districts-poor-unesco-report-101633460058686.html
06-10-2021||India||Curfew imposed in Chhattisgarh’s Kawardha town after communal violence; 15 detained||RAIPUR: Curfew was imposed in Kawardha town of Chhattisgarh’s Kabirdham district on Tuesday evening after when violence broke out between two communities over removal of religious flags from a thoroughfare. Around a dozen of people including three policemen sustained minor injuries in the violence. “Curfew has been imposed in the evening after the violence. We are registering FIRs and till now 40 people have been booked,” Kabirdham superintendent of police (SP) Mohit Garg said. Police said tension started on Sunday evening when people from two communities brawled over removal of religious flags from Lohara Chowk area. Restrictions under section 144 were imposed the same day to cool tempers on both sides.On Monday, Garg said the police arrested six people and two FIRs were been registered against people from both communities. Police also called a peace committee meeting where people were asked to remove religious flags from Lohara Chowk in view of upcoming festivals and to maintain peace and harmony.“On Tuesday, a protest was called by a right-wing organization turned violent when the protesters entered the areas dominated by the other community. The situation is under control and curfew has been imposed. A few people including some police personnel sustained minor injuries but they are stable,” said Director General of Police DM Awasthi. “On Tuesday, a group of people from a community entered areas of other community and violence started…Bikes were torched and some houses of other communities were also ransacked… Later, police lathi-charged at some places and strict curfew has been imposed in the town,” said a senior police official, adding that the internet services have been suspended for nowThe official added that around 15 people have been detained.“Stones were pelted on police, due to which, three policemen were injured. An inspector, Pradeep Sori, has been admitted to government hospital while the rest sustained minor injuries,” said the officer. Kawardha is home town of Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) former chief minister Raman Singh. Forest minister Mohammad Akbar is also from the district.Raman Singh blamed the local administration. “The administration and police were unable to solve a minor issue between the two communities, which led to violence and clash…The administration failed. Now the town is peaceful but what happened was unfortunate,” said Singh, who is also BJP vice-president.Chhattisgarh’s forest minister Mohammad Akbar said the situation was under control.“Kawardha is a peaceful town and such an incident has never taken place in the past. The violence was unfortunate but everything is under control now,” said Akbar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/curfew-imposed-in-chhattisgarh-s-kawardha-town-after-communal-violence-15-detained-101633460056009.html
06-10-2021||India||Monsoon withdrawal to begin from north-west India today: IMD||The southwest monsoon will begin withdrawing from many parts of northwest India from Wednesday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said, pointing out that it will likely be the second most delayed withdrawal since 1960.“Rain has stopped in many parts of northwest India. There is still some rain over Ganganagar region in Rajasthan. Water vapour has also reduced significantly, and an anti-cyclone is getting established, leading to change in wind direction to northwesterly. All these conditions favour gradual monsoon withdrawal and establishment of dry conditions with marginal fall in temperature,” said K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre.Delhi, however, saw localised thunderstorms on Tuesday. “The thunderstorm activity over some parts of Delhi is mainly due to high day temperatures and moisture. There is also a western disturbance, which is impacting the region,” Devi said.The withdrawal of the June-September monsoon means a gradual fall in temperature and humidity as dry winds blow in from the northwest. The most delayed monsoon withdrawal was observed in 2019, the Met department said, when it started withdrawing on October 9. Last year, monsoon began withdrawing on September 28, while in 1961, it started withdrawing on October 1.“There are still some clouds over Rajasthan, but by tomorrow (October 6) it will clear up and there will be very fast withdrawal of monsoon this time,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, climate change and meteorology at private forecaster Skymet Weather. “As per our analysis, monsoon will withdraw from Punjab, Haryana, Western Himalayas, Gujarat, northern parts of Madhya Pradesh, even parts of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh by October 10. Northwesterly winds will penetrate the entire region. There will be a slight drop in temperatures in the morning and evening and winds will be dry.”Delhi recorded a maximum temperature of 33 degrees Celsius on Tuesday.Meanwhile, harvesting has started in Punjab and Haryana. “The weather has not cleared up completely. Harvesting has started, but will pick up properly around October 10. Some isolated stubble fires have started. Until the government plans to give farmers a direct subsidy, most farmers will choose to burn stubble,” said Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary, Bharatiya Kisan Union, Punjab.The air quality in Delhi is likely to worsen on October 6 and 7, according to the ministry of earth sciences’ air quality early warning system. Air quality turns hazardous every year around this time in the national capital region, partly due to the burning of farm residue as farmers prepare their fields for the winter crop.Weather satellites have already observed burning fire points over Punjab and adjoining areas in Pakistan, the warning system said.IMD in its Tuesday bulletin said: “Isolated heavy rain is very likely over Tamil Nadu and Kerala on October 5 and 6 and over Karnataka during October 5 and 7. Isolated very heavy rain is also very likely over south interior Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Kerala and over coastal Karnataka on Wednesday. A cyclonic circulation is lying over Sub-Himalayan West Bengal and neighbourhood. Under its influence, isolated heavy rain is very likely over south Assam and Tripura on Wednesday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-withdrawal-to-begin-from-north-west-india-today-imd-101633459875891.html
06-10-2021||India||MP: 17-year-old rape survivor beaten to death by family, father detained||A 17-year-old girl was allegedly killed by her family members, who saw a neighbour raped her at their house in Jabalpur, police said on Tuesday, adding that the father of the minor has been detained for questioning. While the family members of the girl claimed she died by suicide, police said the postmortem report confirmed she was brutally beaten up before her death, pointing towards homicide. Jabalpur superintendent of police Siddharth Bahuguna said, “The father of the girl came to the police station on Monday night claiming their 21-year-old neighbour raped his daughter in their house by threatening to defame her in the locality. He further claimed that the girl’s mother saw the incident and shouted for help, but the accused hit her and fled.” The SP added, “The father came to the police station two hours after the incident. When police reached the victim’s house to register her statement, she was found dead. The family members, who were present at home, said the girl died by suicide by strangulating herself.” During investigation, it was found that the girl was beaten up before death, the SP said, adding prima facie it was a case of homicide. On Tuesday, police registered a case against an unidentified person under Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act. Police said they are questioning the girl’s father, adding that further investigation was on. (With inputs from Monika Pandey from Jabalpur)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-17-year-old-rape-survivor-beaten-to-death-by-family-father-detained-101633459635785.html
06-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur violence: Opposition keeps up heat; case against 11 leaders||The Opposition continued to take potshots at the government on Tuesday over the deaths of eight people in Uttar Pradesh with Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra alleging she was illegally detained and leaders from the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) and Trinamool Congress (TMC) attacking the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Hours after the incident on Sunday, the UP government clamped prohibitory orders, denied orders for flights to land and deployed police to stop Opposition leaders from travelling to Lakhimpur Kheri.On Tuesday, state police prevented Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel from leaving the Lucknow airport, prompting the Congress leader to stage a dharna at the terminal. Baghel’s flight had been denied permission to land on Monday.“The truth of Lakhimpur will come to light one day, it cannot be kept hidden forever,” Baghel told reporters at the airport.Priyanka Gandhi, who was detained on Monday and allegedly roughed up by police, used a 29-second clip showing a car mowing down protesters at Lakhimpur Kheri to target the BJP.“Modiji Namaskar, have you seen this video that shows son of a minister of your government crushing farmers under his vehicle….Why is this man free?” she asked in a video message filmed at a makeshift detention centre in Sitapur, where she has been since Monday.The source and the veracity of the video in question need to be ascertained but they are in sync with the version of the protesting farmers, who say that four protesters were knocked down by cars owned by Union minister of state for home, Ajay Mishra Teni. The identity of the individuals in the vehicles is unclear but farmers say that the minister’s son, Ashish Mishra, was in the car and later fired shots.While the minister’s version is that the vehicles came under attack and lost control, nothing of that sort can be seen in the video. The lead vehicle appears to deliberately run over the farmers — and from behind. To be sure, the video is only 29 seconds long and is only a blurry video shot at the time of the incident.In all, eight people were killed – four farmers, two BJP workers, a driver and a journalist. Mishra says that protesters lynched the BJP workers and the driver.Later in the day, Priyanka Gandhi alleged that police used illegal force, didn’t allow her to meet her lawyer and didn’t share a copy of the FIR. “I have not been produced in front of a magistrate or any other judicial officer,” she said in a statement.The Congress leader said she was “verbally informed” by police officials that she was arrested under section 151 of the CrPC -- on Monday. She also said that she didn’t violate section 144, which bars the assembly or movement of four or more people.Police in Sitapur said Priyanka Gandhi and 10 others were named in an FIR for attempting to disturb peace, but refuted reports that she was arrested.“The detention of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is done as precautionary measures under section 144 CrPC as she was adamant on going to Lakhimpur Kheri. He said the visit of political leaders to Lakhimpur Kheri has been prohibited following which she has been stopped in Sitapur,” said Sitapur district magistrate Vishal Bhardwaj and superintendent of police RP Singh.The charges will be removed once they are assured that there will not be any breach of peace, Sitapur sub-divisional magistrate Pyare Lal Maurya added.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi is keen to go to Lakhimpur Kheri on Wednesday and at least five senior leaders are likely to accompany him, said people aware of developments. Five Trinamool Congress MPs reached the hamlet on Tuesday and spoke to the family members of the victims.“Heartbreaking to meet the family of the young farmer who was crushed to death in Lakhimpur Kheri,” said TMC Rajya Sabha MP Sushmita Dev.RLD chief Jayant Chaudhury, one of the few leaders to reach Lakhimpur, demanded President’s Rule in UP.“There needs to be a separation between the state and the party which is not there in UP… from the district magistrate to state-level officials, police, it seems everyone has taken membership of the BJP,” Chaudhary said in a phone interview to PTI.CB Pandey, former adviser to the Uttar Pradesh governor, said section 151 of the CrPC empowered a police officer to arrest any person without a warrant. He said a person can be arrested and under sections 107, 116 of CrPC on apprehension of breach of peace and a magistrate was empowered to release such person on a person bond.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-violence-opposition-keeps-up-heat-case-against-11-leaders-101633459459821.html
06-10-2021||India||Re-registration of vehicles older than 15 years to get costlier from April 2022||Renewing registration certificates of vehicles that are older than 15 years will cost up to eight times more from April 2022, the Ministry of Road, Transport and Highway (MoRTH) said on Tuesday after it issued a notification finalising the revised rates for re-registering old vehicles and re-issuance of fitness certificates.The new rates will be a part of the central government’s vehicle scrapping policy which aims to incentivise the practice of purchasing new vehicles against scrapping old ones. The policy, once it comes into effect from next year, will disincentivise vehicles that are older than 15 years by charging heavily on the renewal of their registration and fitness certificates. It is meant to encourage people to scrap their old vehicles instead of running them, which contributes to air pollution.As per the latest notification issued by the MoRTH on Monday night, the renewal of registration of a 15-year-old car will cost ₹5,000 against the current rate of ₹600. Re-registration of two-wheelers that are older than 15 years will cost ₹1,000 from April next year, compared to the current fee of ₹300. For imported cars, the cost will be ₹40,000 against the existing fee of ₹15,000. A delay in renewing registrations for private vehicles will cost ₹300 a month and the penalty for commercial vehicles will be ₹500 per month. As per the rules, a private vehicle, once it attains 15 years, will have to be renewed every five years since then.“As an incentive, there will be a waiver of the fee for issue of registration certificate for a new vehicle, purchased against the authority of the Certificate of Deposit (CoD) issued by a registered vehicle scrapping facility for a vehicle being scrapped,” the MoRTH said in a statement.Coming to the renewal of fitness certificates which is required for transport and commercial vehicles, the cost for cabs will go up from ₹1,000 at present to ₹7,000 from next year. For heavy good vehicles, such as buses and trucks, the fitness fee will be ₹12,500 against the current rate of ₹1,500. A fitness certificate is mandatory for commercial vehicles once they cross 8 years.To be sure, these rates will not be applicable in Delhi-NCR unless there are specific orders from the Supreme Court or the national green tribunal (NGT) but will apply across all states, other than Delhi.Any registered diesel vehicle more than 10 years old, and petrol vehicles over 15 years old, cannot operate in NCR. Such vehicles cannot even be parked in public spaces. These rules have been laid down in various orders issued by the National Green Tribunal (2015) and the Supreme Court (2018).Unlike in Delhi-NCR, the Centre’s scrapping policy is based on the principle of vehicle fitness and not driven by age of the vehicle. Every state will have to notify this policy and only after that, it will get implemented. As of now, the Centre is seeking comments from various state governments to make the policy more inclusive. It will come into force from next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reregistration-of-vehicles-older-than-15-years-to-get-costlier-from-april-2022-101633459399685.html
06-10-2021||India||WHO to take final decision on Covaxin nod next week||The World Health Organisation’s (WHO) experts will meet next week to take the final decision on whether to grant emergency use listing to Bharat Biotech’s coronavirus vaccine, Covaxin, the UN health body announced on Tuesday in a series of tweets.The approval could greatly influence how other countries treat people vaccinated with Covaxin. Experts from WHO, and a group of independent experts, are going through data, and are expected to carry out the risk-benefit assessment before arriving at a conclusion.“WHO & an independent group of experts are scheduled to meet next week to carry out the risk/benefit assessment and come to a final decision whether to grant Emergency Use Listing to Covaxin,” said the UN health body in a tweet.It was not immediately clear whether the Strategic Advisory Group of Experts on Immunization (SAGE) meeting on Covaxin on the agenda for Tuesday took place or not.On July 12, Bharat Biotech announced that it had submitted all relevant documents to set in motion the EUL proceedings to WHO. At least 105, 984,630 doses of Covaxin have been delivered to people in India.WHO began a rolling review of Covaxin on July 6, 2021.In another tweet, WHO also confirmed that the company submitted all necessary documents, including the additional information that was sought towards the end of last month.“Covaxin manufacturer, Bharat Biotech, has been submitting data to WHO on a rolling basis & submitted additional info at WHO’s request on 27 September. WHO experts are currently reviewing this info & if it addresses all questions raised, WHO assessment will be finalized next week,” read the tweet.It also said that the emergency use listing was a thorough exercise undertaken by WHO and the technical advisory group of independent experts to determine if a manufactured product, in this case Covaxin, is quality-assured, safe and effective or not.As part of the analysis, experts will be looking at the presentation of clinical data on Covaxin from phase 1, 2, 3 and post marketing studies on safety, immunogenicity, efficacy and effectiveness.Bharat Biotech also attended a pre-submission meeting scheduled with representatives of WHO on June 23. A day earlier, on June 22, the subject expert committee (SEC) of the central drugs standards control organisation (CDSCO) assessed Bharat Biotech’s phase 3 clinical trials data of Covaxin and found it to be 77.8% efficacious.While the Indian regulator has approved six coronavirus vaccines for emergency use, Covaxin and Serum Institute of India-manufactured Covishield are the mainstay of the country’s inoculation campaign. Covishield was granted EUL in February this year; and with grant of EUL, Covaxin will be eligible for use in low and middle income countries under the COVAX facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-to-take-final-decision-on-covaxin-nod-next-week-101633459284248.html
06-10-2021||India||Over 800 Indian Army troops in Sudan get United Nations medal||A total of 836 troops from the Indian Army serving with the UN peacekeeping mission in South Sudan have been awarded the United Nations medal for their services to ensure durable peace in the world’s youngest country. The troops from an Indian battalion, who were deployed at Malakal in Upper Nile state, recently completed their tour of duty. India is the second largest troop contributor to the 18,300-strong peacekeeping mission in South Sudan, having provided nearly 2,400 soldiers. The civilian, police and military personnel from 73 countries serving with the United Nations Mission in South Sudan (UNMISS) are responsible for protecting civilians, creating conditions conducive to the delivery of humanitarian aid, supporting the implementation of a revitalised peace agreement, and monitoring and investigating human rights. UNMISS force commander, Lt Gen Shailesh Tinaikar of the Indian Army, lauded the Indian battalion for successfully completing its tour of duty. “When all of you arrived in Upper Nile state, it was a time of great flux,” he said at the event where the troops were awarded the medal. “You had to assume operational responsibility immediately with the threat of imminent inter-communal clashes looming over you. Your presence and patrolling acted as a much-needed deterrent at the time, enabling civilians to go about their daily lives without fear,” he said. Tinaikar also lauded the Indian peacekeepers for rescuing and sheltering 32 humanitarian colleagues at Renk and ensuring their safe evacuation to the country’s capital, Juba. Vishnu Sharma, India’s ambassador to South Sudan, was the guest of honour at the medal parade. “Your courage, commitment and sacrifice to the cause of durable peace in South Sudan is a beacon of hope for the communities you are on the ground to serve. You have done the United Nations and your country very proud,” he said. Sharma noted the contributions of Indian veterinarians who treated thousands of animals and built capacities among livestock owners on animal management, boosting their economic stability. Christian Mikala, the acting head of the UNMISS field office in Malakal, acknowledged the peacekeepers’ engagements with local communities. “You have been instrumental in extensive patrolling in your area of responsibilities and have built a relationship of trust and confidence with communities across Upper Nile,” he said. Col Neeraj Tiwari, the commander of the Indian battalion, said the troops had gone the extra mile for the communities they were serving. “We wish the South Sudanese the very best as they progress in building a sustainable peace from the grassroots to the very highest levels of society,” he added. Tinaikar was appointed the force commander of UNMISS by UN Secretary-General António Guterres in May 2019. Tinaikar earlier served as commandant of the Infantry School since July 2018, and as the additional director general of military operations at Army Headquarters during 2017-18. He also served in the UN Angola Verification Mission III during 1996-97and in the UN Mission in Sudan during 2008-09.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-800-indian-army-troops-in-sudan-get-united-nations-medal-101633459218351.html
06-10-2021||India||EC assigns new party names, symbols to warring LJP factions||The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Tuesday allotted new symbols and party names to the warring factions of Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) led by Lok Sabha MP Chirag Paswan and Pashupati Kumar Paras, Union minister of food processing industries.The ECI’s move came three days after it froze the ‘bungalow’ symbol for the party, barring both factions from using it in the bypolls on October 30.Following requests from Paswan, the lawmaker from Jamui in Bihar, the poll panel said his faction will be recognised as Lok Janshakti Party (Ram Vilas), while Paras’ team will be acknowledged as Rashtriya Lok Janshakti Party.The Paswan and Paras-led factions were assigned the ‘helicopter’ and ‘sewing machine’ symbols, respectively, by the poll panel.“Having considered the request, the Commission has allotted the name Lok Janshakti Party (Ram Vilas) for your group and has allotted the Symbol ‘Helicopter’ as the symbol to be allotted to the candidate set up, if any, by your group in the current by-election,” a directive issued by ECI to Paswan said.In the order issued to Hajipur MP Paras, the ECI said: “Having considered your request, the Commission has allotted the name Rashtriya Lok Janshakti Party for your group and has allotted the Symbol ‘Sewing Machine’ as the symbol to be allotted to the candidate set up, if any, by your group in the current by-election.”In June, the two warring factions had approached the ECI over the right on the party symbol.On October 1, Paswan moved the poll panel, seeking an early settlement on the issue ahead of bypolls to two assembly seats in Bihar – Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan – at the end of the month. The seats were earlier represented by the ruling Janata Dal (United), which will also be contesting the constituencies.“We welcome the EC’s decision. It is a vindication of our claim that we are the real holders of former Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan’s legacy. Some parties wanted to sabotage our election prospects, but truth has finally won,” LJP (Ram Vilas) spokesperson Ashraf Ansari said.LJP (Ram Vilas) leaders believe that the addition of Ram Vilas Paswan’s name would help the party secure Dalit votes. “It’s a blessing in disguise,” a leader belonging to this group said, requesting anonymity.Speaking on similar lines, Gyanendra Yadav, associate professor of sociology, College of Commerce in Patna, said: “Late Ram Vilas Paswan was a tall Dalit leader and he still has a strong following, which was proved during Chirag’s Aashirvad Yatra in July. Union minister Pashupati Paras could not get the same response.”Chirag Paswan had embarked on a state-wide rally on July 5 this year on the birth anniversary of his father Ram Vilas Paswan. Paras also welcomed the poll panel’s decision. “I welcome the EC’s decision. I have been allotted the name Rashtriya Lok Janshakti Party and the ‘Sewing Machine’ as the party symbol,” he said. The LJP has been in a crisis since June, when a faction headed by Paras removed his estranged nephew Paswan as party chief, prompting the latter’s loyalists to respond by stripping five rebel parliamentarians of the party’s primary membership.The party, which has six MPs but no MLAs, split after five lawmakers rebelled against Paswan’s leadership and chose Paras as the new leader of their parliamentary party. The MPs consequently met Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla, and the Lok Sabha secretariat recognised Paras as the parliamentary party chief hours later.Paswan has shown his willingness to take up a legal battle to regain control of the party.The LJP was founded by former Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan in 2000. Paswan, a heavyweight Dalit leader in Bihar politics, died in October last year.The LJP during the 2020 Bihar assembly polls had damaged the JD(U)’s prospects in at least 30-35 seats. The JD(U) managed to secure only 43 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-assigns-new-party-names-symbols-to-warring-ljp-factions-101633458977010.html
06-10-2021||India||Committed to tri-service integration to maximise combat capability: IAF chief||Indian Air Force chief Air Chief Marshal Vivek Ram Chaudhari on Tuesday said that the air force was fully committed to tri-service integration to maximise the country’s combat capability, its concerns about the theaterisation model have been factored into the planning process, and hoped that the new structures will cater for joint planning of operations at all levels.“The strength of each service needs to be taken into account and synchronised to increase the net combat capability of the nation,” Chaudhari said during his customary press briefing ahead of the 89th anniversary of the IAF on October 8.“The doctrines of each service also need to be kept in mind while redesigning our structures.”He said each service has its own strength and the rationale behind theatre commands is to capitalise on those strengths. “IAF is very keen on integration among the armed forces. Joint planning and execution of operations by the three services will result in maximum increase in our net combat capability, which is the need of the hour,” said Chaudhari, who took over as IAF chief on September 30 after Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria retired.The new IAF chief’s comments on jointmanship are significant as they come against the backdrop of some concerns flagged by his predecessor about the theaterisation model a few months ago.In July, Bhadauria argued that it was critical to first get the joint structures right, even as chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat gave out details of the theaterisation plan to achieve jointness and brushed aside the reservations revolving around asset split, leadership, and dilution of the powers of the service chiefs.IAF is fully committed to integration and jointmanship, and the points articulated by his predecessor basically focused on the fact that the structures and the processes have to cater for future warfare, Chaudhari said.“That is the key element of restructuring [the armed forces] into theatres… All our concerns have been taken into account, and deliberations and discussions are underway on this subject. We are hopeful that the ultimate structures that emerge will cater for joint planning and execution of operations,” IAF chief said.The current theaterisation model, a long-awaited military reform with the full backing of the government, seeks to set up four new integrated commands for synergy in operations --- two land-centric theatres, the Air Defence Command and the National Maritime Theatre Command.Bhadauria had earlier differed with Rawat’s assessment that IAF was “a support arm,” and countered the CDS’s statement, saying air power has “a huge role to play” in any integrated battle area.Responding to a question on the perception that IAF was a support arm, Chaudhari said air power had multiple roles to play in any conflict, ranging from offensive strikes to air transportation and support to the army and maritime forces.“If you examine any global conflict carefully, air power has played multiple roles. There are various roles for every air force, and it is true for IAF too. Our capability, training and equipment cater for executing multiple roles simultaneously,” he said.Chaudhari said no service could succeed in battle without the support of the other two services. “To be able to go singularly into any battle is not possible. We need the support of the other two services. It is true for all services. It is not that just IAF is a support arm, the army also at times has to support IAF in air operations.”The creation of theatre commands could take two to three years, with senior officers from the three services being assigned key responsibilities to finalise the joint structures.Defence minister Rajnath Singh recently said that discussions on the creation of joint commands and their implementation were progressing well and fast, indicating that differences between stakeholders on the theaterisation model were being addressed, and India was on course to set up theatre commands.Responding to a question on the border row with China in the Ladakh sector, Chaudhari said IAF was aware of the People’s Liberation Army Air Force’s (PLAAF) deployment at three airbases across eastern Ladakh. He said China had scaled up infrastructure across the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) but it would not affect air operations and IAF was fully prepared for any eventuality.He said that China had developed airfields in the Tibet Autonomous Region along with hardened shelters for aircraft but “they have a huge penalty of high altitude.” “Their (PLAAF’s) capability to launch missions from high altitude airfields will remain a weak area,” he said.IAF chief said there was nothing to fear about Pakistan-China collusion, with the only concern being dissemination of information of western tactics and western technology from Pakistan to China. “The two-front threat always remains in focus for us. We are prepared in terms of training and equipment to handle a two-front contingency,” Chaudhari said.The count of IAF’s fighter squadrons has reduced to around 30 compared to an optimum strength of 42 units. He said it was unlikely that IAF would be able to deploy 42 fighter squadrons in the next 10 to 15 years. He said the induction of new fighters and the phasing out of older ones would result in IAF achieving 35 fighter squadrons in the next decade.IAF is looking at buttressing its force levels in the coming 10 to 15 years with 83 LCA (light combat aircraft) Mk-1A fighters, 114 multi-role fighter aircraft to be made in India and 120 advanced medium combat aircraft (AMCA - India’s homegrown fifth-generation fighter programme), he said.Chaudhari said IAF was likely to induct by the year-end the first unit of the S-400 Triumf air defence missile systems ordered from Russia for ₹39,000 crore in October 2018. India is buying five S-400 missile systems capable of destroying a variety of aerial threats, including enemy fighter jets and missiles, at a range of 400km.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-chief-says-committed-to-tri-service-integration-to-maximise-india-s-combat-capability-101633458795883.html
06-10-2021||India||What explains the supply crunch in India’s coal-fuelled power plants?||India’s coal-fuelled power plants, which account for more than half (52.4%) of the country’s total installed capacity of 386.88 gigawatt (GW), are facing a crisis. As many as 72 coal-fuelled power projects have almost exhausted their coal stocks, a Mint report said on October 4. 
06-10-2021||India||BJP retains control over Gujarat civic body, Congress wins 2 seats||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday retained control over the Gandhinagar Municipal Corporation (GMC), winning 41 out of 44 seats, with the Congress managing just two seats and new entrant Aam Aadmi Party winning one.In all, BJP candidates romped home on 136 out of 184 seats in GMC, three municipalities, and by-elections to two seats in the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation, and several seats in district and taluka (tehsil) panchayats. The polling for all seats was held on Sunday.The GMC win is particularly significant as it is BJP’s first in the elections to Gandhinagar, the seat of power in the state.The win comes around 14 months ahead of assembly elections in the state, which are due by December 2022, and, with usual caveats of local body elections not being exactly representative of state polls, can be seen as the current state of play in Gujarat, where the Congress is hoping to repeat its heroics of 2017, when it ran the BJP close, and the AAP is hoping to make a successful debut. GMC came into being in 2010 and in its first election in 2011, the Congress won 18 seats against the BJP’s 14. Four councillors led by mayor Mahendrasinh Rana, defected to usher in the BJP. In the 2016 elections, the BJP and the Congress won 16 seats each, but the former snatched power after a defection by a Congress councillor. Out of the three municipalities (peri-urban bodies), the BJP retained Okha in Devbhoomi Dwarka in Saurashtra region and Thara in North Gujarat’s Banaskantha district, while the Congress sprang a surprise by snatching away Bhanvad municipality in Devbhoomi Dwarka district from the BJP.These elections were the first after a new chief minister, Bhupendra Patel, a lawmaker from Ahmedabad city, and a fresh Cabinet took office less than a month ago.Reacting to the results, the newly inducted chief minister and Gujarat BJP president CR Paatil taunted the AAP for making a huge noise but winning little, while they simply ignored any mention of the Congress party. “This is the reward for the BJP’s people-friendly policies,” they claimed, adding they were not surprised by the result. Gujarat Congress spokesperson Manish Doshi said, “The Gandhinagar results have demonstrated that the AAP is indeed a B-team of the BJP, which we have been stating right from the day one. In 2016, we had 46.93% of the vote share in GMC against BJP’s 44.76%. Now, the anti-BJP vote has split between the AAP and the Congress -- we got 27% and AAP got around 20%, while BJP got 51%.”He pointed out that in Bhanvad Municipality, the Congress won in a straight fight , with 16 out of 24 seats; the rest went to the BJP.Political scientist Ghanshyam Shah said he was not surprised by the results. “It is clear the BJP, which burnt its fingers in 2017 and earlier in 2015 local body elections, is focussing on the peri-urban and rural areas ahead of the assembly polls next year,” Shah said. He agreed that the AAP has split the anti-BJP vote, but pointed out, “The Congress can’t take solace in calling the AAP a B-team of the BJP. The Congress is in total disarray.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-retains-control-over-gujarat-civic-body-congress-wins-2-seats-101633458736260.html
06-10-2021||India||Why give quota once limit is breached: SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday called it “disturbing” that the Union government did not discontinue reservation in promotion for people belonging to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (SC/STs) even after their numbers exceeded the upper ceiling of 15% and 7.5% respectively, of positions in some classes of central government jobs.Observing that “there should be some justifications to continue with reservation in promotion”, a bench headed by justice L Nageswara Rao also put the Union government in the dock over lack of data on how it determined inadequacy of representation of SCs and STs, as laid down in two previous judgments by a Constitution bench of the top court, even as it kept promoting them on the basis of a 1997 memorandum. Attorney general KK Venugopal, appearing for the Union government, sought to explain it away by claiming that over-representation of SCs and STs in Group C and D posts should not worry the top court since there are “no takers” for these and that “general category candidates do not want these jobs”.But the bench, which also comprised justices Sanjiv Khanna and BR Gavai, was having none of this. “The data given by the attorney general is disturbing. The moment you (government) saw that representation of SCs and STs was beyond 15% and 7.5% respectively, a decision had to be taken that we won’t continue with the promotion. But the government did not do anything of that sort. The office memorandum of 1997 continued in a blanket manner,” it said. “The central government should have applied its mind. What is meant by adequacy? It may not mean exact 15% and 7.5% but there has to be some application of mind. Whether you are justified in providing reservation in promotion in such circumstances is the question before us,” said the court, adding that it would examine validity and legality of the government’s action between 2006 and 2017. In 2006, the top court delivered its ruling in the M Nagaraj case, making it incumbent upon the state to collect quantifiable data showing inadequacy of representation of a section of people in public employment in addition to maintaining overall administrative efficiency. The aspect of quantifiable data was endorsed by another Constitution bench in 2018. Citing the Nagaraj judgment, the Delhi high court in 2017 quashed the 1997 memorandum after noting the Union government had not collected data on inadequacy of representation of SCs and STs.While hearing a clutch of petitions raising various legal issues on the subject, the bench on Tuesday sought to know from the Union government whether it even carried out the exercise of collecting data to ascertain adequacy or inadequacy of SCs and STs before promoting them. On his part, Venugopal adduced some statistics relating to the Northern Railway where this exercise was done after the Delhi high court judgment. But the bench underscored two issues: first, there was no such data being shown for a period before the HC quashed the 1997 memorandum, and second, the data given showed that SCs and STs occupied more than 15% and 7.5% in Group B, C and D posts. “The data given by you is after 2017. It is clear that this data has been prepared only for the purpose of filing the special leave petition. Nagaraj (judgment) asked you in 2006 for collection of data on inadequacy but the Union clearly did not do anything for 10 years...You say in group A there are less than 15% and 7.5% while in groups B, C and D, they are more than this. We want to know if you stopped any promotion between 2006 and 2017 where the promotional posts had gone beyond 15% and 7.5%?” the court asked the A-G. Venugopal replied that the Union government was pressing for reservation in promotion proportionate to the population of SCs and STs as per a 1995 judgment by the top court in the RK Sabharwal case and that it should be left open to the Union government and states to decide on promotional avenues for SCs and STs. To this, the court retorted that it is not questioning the method finding favour with the Centre but that the government must satisfy itself that there is inadequate representation. “What method you follow could be left to you...vacancy-based or cadre-based, etc, can be seen later. But where is that exercise? What is the exercise done by the government to collect the quantifiable data? We are not disputing any method of collecting data but there has to be something exercise. Where is that exercise?” it asked.The bench reiterated that the statistics adduced by the A-G demonstrated that there were more than required percentage of reserved category candidates in public jobs in the Northern Railway and therefore, the government should come clear on any exercise ever conducted to ascertain the number of SCs and STs in central government jobs. Venugopal responded: “You will see more than required percentage mostly in Group C and D posts. There are no takers of these jobs. General category candidates do not want these jobs. This court should not be bothered about these posts in any case.” The top law officer added that the yardstick to determine reservation in promotion should be based on the proportion worked out in relation to the populations of backward classes. The court, however, asked the A-G to place the data before it on Wednesday to justify its decision to continue with reservation in promotion in all identified posts. During the last hearing on the matter on September 14, the bench clarified that Union and state governments’ policies on reservation in promotion for the SCs and STs will have to meet all the conditions laid down in two previous Constitution bench judgments in M Nagaraj case and Jarnail Singh case (2018). The two judgments mandate the Centre and the states to collect quantifiable data showing inadequacy of representation of SC/STs at different levels of public employment, assess the impact of reservation on overall administrative efficiency, and exclude the “creamy layer” before providing for reservation in promotions. Until the top court’s 2018 verdict, the concept of creamy layer applied only to Other Backwards Classes (OBCs). State governments complain that this policy is complicated and hard to implement, and creates backlog.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-give-quota-once-limit-is-breached-sc-101633458616737.html
06-10-2021||India||‘Crushed from behind’: Video fuels UP tension||A 29-second video showing a vehicle plough through protesters from behind ratcheted up tensions in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri on Tuesday, with farm groups and Opposition leaders blaming junior home minister Ajay Mishra ‘Teni’ and his son Ashish Mishra for the violence that killed eight people in the district two days ago.Three farmers were cremated on Tuesday but the family of a fourth demanded a second post-mortem examination, reopening an issue that appeared to have been settled on Monday with the government promising ₹45 lakh compensation and a judicial enquiry into the killings.“An agreement in Lakhimpur Kheri is not the end of the movement. The government has to dismiss the minister, arrest his son and fulfil its promises timely,” said farm leader Rakesh Tikait, who led the negotiations with the administration on Monday. Internet services were restored in the area on Tuesday evening.Farm groups say the car, a Mahindra Thar owned by Mishra, knocked down protesters in Tikunia hamlet on Sunday afternoon and sparked the violence but the minister and his son denied the charge, and blamed the cultivators of killing three people, including two Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers and a driver. A local journalist was also killed.“It all happened in front of me…my father was knocked down by the vehicle from behind. I tried to hold him but couldn’t do anything,” said 14-year-old Rajdeep Singh, whose father Daljeet, 35, was cremated on Tuesday. All four farmers killed were Sikhs and residents of the state’s Terai belt.The source and the veracity of the video need to be ascertained but they are in sync with the version of the protesting farmers. The identity of the individuals in the vehicles is unclear.While the minister’s version of the incident is that the vehicles came under attack and lost control, nothing of that sort can be seen in the video. The lead vehicle appears to deliberately run over the farmers — and from behind. To be sure, the video is only 29 seconds long and is only a blurry video shot at the time of the incident.The exact spot in the video appears to be of Tikunia road leading towards Lakhimpur and around 100 meters away from the playground where the farmers were staging the protest on the day of the incident. If authentic, the video is likely to inflame sentiments against Ajay Mishra and his son Ashish.Hardeep Singh, 38, a farmer from Tikunia who was at the spot at the time of the incident and who has seen this video said, “The video confirms what we have been saying all along. And we say that Ashish Mishra was present in one of the vehicles and is responsible for the killing of the innocent farmers”.Police said it will probe the videos. “All the videos and photographs of the Lakhimpur Kheri incident that have surfaced and surfacing will be authenticated and included in the investigation,” said Prashant Kumar, additional director general (ADG), law and order.Post-mortem reports of the farmers killed showed that there were no bullet injuries on any of the bodies, and that all four died due to shock, excessive bleeding and haemorrhage , said SN Sabat, officiating additional director general of police (Lucknow Zone).HT has not seen a copy of the post-mortem reports.The findings, experts say, are consistent with deaths arising from injuries, such as those caused in an automobile accident, although it isn’t known whether the reports themselves point to the farmers being run over by a vehicle, as indicated in the unauthenticated video that has emerged.Ashish Mishra and 20 others were booked by the police for murder and criminal conspiracy on Monday. The complainant, a local farmer, alleged in the first information report (FIR) that Ashish Mishra was in the car that mowed down protesters, and that he fired shots at the farmers, killing one.“The cars were at high speed, lost control and overturned… Ashish Mishra escaped into the sugarcane fields while firing shots,” read the FIR, accessed by HT. The document also mentioned three cars and the make and registration numbers of two of them.Ashish Mishra, however, said farmers pelted stones at the convoy, which made the driver lose control; farmers then set fire to two cars, pulled out two BJP workers and the driver and lynched them.“How can the allegations be proven when we were not at the spot?” Ajay Mishra asked reporters.The minister, and some of his colleagues in the BJP, speculated about the presence of external “anti-national elements” among the protesting farmers in interviews and comments. “From Indira Gandhi to Priyanka Vadra, nothing has changed for anti-national Congress.It was and is dependent on Khalistanis to grab power at the cost of Bharata Mata,” tweeted BJP general secretary CT Ravi.The Opposition continued to keep the pressure up on the government, citing the viral video. “Modiji Namaskar, have you seen this video that shows son of a minister of your government crushing farmers under his vehicle?” asked Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who was detained on Monday on her way to Lakhimpur.Officials said that the family of one of the dead farmers – Gurvinder Singh -- was not satisfied with the autopsy report and that a re-examination of the body was in progress.Gurvinder Singh’s family insisted that he died by gunfire. Senior district administration officials confirmed to PTI that his second post-mortem will be conducted at the district hospital. “We don’t want to conduct his last rites after a false post-mortem report,” a relative said.The bodies of the other four deceased -- Ajay Kumar Mishra’s driver, Hari Om, BJP workers Shyam Sundar and Shubham Mishra, and local journalist Raman Kashyap – were handed over to their families after post-mortem examinations at the district hospital late on Sunday night.The farmers had gathered on Sunday to protest UP deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya and laid siege to the helipad, leading to cancellation of the meeting. As farmers returned from the protest site, a speeding convoy of three ripped through the crowd around 2.30pm, protesters said. It had a Mahindra Thar in the lead, a Fortuner, and a smaller car.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crushed-from-behind-video-fuels-up-tension-101633458555169.html
06-10-2021||India||Kashmiri Pandit among 3 killed by terrorists in J&K||Three persons were killed by terrorists in three separate incidents in Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday, police said. The Resistance Force (TRF), an outfit affiliated with the Lashkar-e-Taiba, claimed responsibility for two of the attacks, they added. The deceased included Makhan Lal Bindroo, a Kashmiri Pandit and the owner of one of the most popular medical stores in Srinagar.Police said Bindoo was shot at by the terrorists around 7 pm while he was attending customers at his shop in Srinagar’s Iqbal Park area. The 68-year-old suffered multiple injuries and was declared brought dead, doctors at SMHS hospital said. “Terrorists fired upon owner of Bindroo Medicate namely Shri Makhan Lal Bindroo near Iqbal Park Srinagar. He was shifted to hospital where he succumbed to injuries. Area cordoned off and search to nab the terrorists is going on,” a police spokesperson said.Bindroo was among the few Kashmiri Pandits who did not migrate out at the onset of militancy in 1990.Within an hour, a street vendor was shot dead by terrorists near Madina Chowk in Lalbazar, police said. The vendor was identified as Virender Paswan, a resident of Bihar’s Bhagalpur.The TRF, police said, claimed responsibility for the attacks on Bindoo and Paswan. Later, a civilian was shot at by terrorists at Naidkhai in Bandipora district, police said. Mohammad Shafi Lone, the head of a local taxi stand, was rushed to a nearby hospital where he succumbed to injuries. Bindroo’s killing was widely condemned by political leaders in Jammu and Kashmir, with Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson Altaf Thakur seeking punishment for the accused. “Those behind the killing of Bindroo have no religion as the killing of unarmed persons is never justified in any religion. I express my solidarity with the family members of Bindroo and urge police to expose and punish his killers, sooner than better,” Thakur said.Peoples Democratic Party chief Mehbooba Mufti tweeted: “Condemn the killing of Shri M L Bindroo who chose to stay back in Kashmir even during peak insurgency. Such acts of violence have no place in our society. May his family find the strength to deal with this loss.” National Conference leader Omar Abdullah tweeted: “What terrible news! He was a very kind man. I’ve been told he never left during the height of militancy and remained with his shop open. I condemn this killing in the strongest possible terms & convey my heartfelt condolences to his family. God bless his soul.” People’s Conference chief Sajjad Lone also condemned the attack. “The fatal attack against the owner of Bindroo Medicates is outrageous and unacceptable. I knew the gentleman personally. He never left the valley. And terrorists made him pay for that. May he live in peace,” he posted on Twitter. CPI (M) leader Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami said he had no words to condemn such a heinous and shameful act. “His unfortunate death has sent shockwaves. No words to condemn such a heinous andc shameful act. This is indeed an irreparable loss for the whole society,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmiri-pandit-among-3-killed-by-terrorists-in-jk-101633458376288.html
06-10-2021||India||Specialised unit has taken over security of Delhi courts in shooting aftermath||A specialised unit has taken over security at the seven district courts in the national capital and necessary arrangements have been made in wake of the firing at Rohini court that left three including a gangster dead last month, the Delhi Police has informed the Delhi high court.In an affidavit filed before a bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh on Monday, the police informed the court that security audit of all seven district courts has been conducted and was being analysed for further course of action to revamp the existing security set up in the courts. It added security gadgets, installed at court premises, are outdated and should be updated or replaced with equipment such as high-resolution CCTV cameras and monitors.“District Courts may be directed to provide these security gadgets & logistics at the earliest to the Security Unit at each court,” the affidavit said. It added parking areas in the city courts were insufficient for lawyers and thus vehicles are parked inside and also all along boundary walls imposing a great security risk.“Similarly, clients/litigants are not having earmarked parking at all in any court. They are parking vehicles on the roads and traffic gets slow and jammed. This is a matter of concern day to day which also contributes towards increasing pollution. Thus, new infrastructure needs to be developed in nearby places with multilevel parking facilities for advocates and clients, etc,” the affidavit said.The affidavit came after the high court took up the matter following the shootout at Rohini court. The high court earlier asked the city police and all the other stakeholders, including bar associations, to give suggestions to improve the situation.Jailed gangster Jitendra Gogi and his two assailants posing as lawyers were killed inside the Rohini courtroom on September 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/specialised-unit-has-taken-over-security-of-delhi-courts-in-shooting-aftermath-police-to-hc-101633457477268.html
06-10-2021||India||Goa seafarer dies at sea; family alleges ship denied him medical assistance||The Goa Seamen Association of India (GSAI), a collective of seafarers, has called for a ‘fair inquiry’ into the death of Beejoy Sequeira, a local lad who worked as a chef on board Ship MV Jabal Alkawar on September 17. His family has accused the shipping company of neglecting his health and denying him emergency medical evacuation, which they say, resulted in his death. Sequeira, 37, was believed to have contracted Covid-19 with symptoms developing while he was at sea and. His family has alleged that he was denied medical attention despite his symptoms taking a turn for the worse. According to the family, he was not allowed to disembark, neither was he hospitalized. He is survived by his wife and two young daughters aged six and four. Sequeira was employed as a chief cook on board MV JABAL AL KHAWR, bulk carrier, registered in Marshall Islands, ship owned and operated by Oman Shipping Company. “He was sick since 5th September when the vessel was in port in Malaysia, his condition deteriorated and there was no initiative taken by the master and the company to medi-evac him or divert the ship to the nearest port. The company has not replied as to what events led to his death, the company only called to inform that he expired on 17th September 2021,” president of the GSAI, Frank Viegas, said. His family is now running from pillar to post to try and get his body from Mauritius where it presently lies after the ship made a late decision to divert to Mauritius en route from Malaysia to South Africa. Beejoy joined the ship in March this year well before the vaccination drive began in India and was unvaccinated. On September 7, Beejoy informed his brother Eldon that he was experiencing a high fever with Covid-19 symptoms for the last two days and that another crew member was also displaying similar symptoms.“At this point, the ship was in port in Malaysia discharging cargo. His condition appeared to improve with his fever subsiding but he continued to experience cough and body ache. By this time, the ship had left port and the next port of call was Cape Town, South Africa. On 11 September he again informed me that his health was deteriorating and that he was not able to move around and was coughing constantly and that three other crew members were kept in isolation by the master,” Eldon said. Eldon asked him to request the shipmaster to divert the ship and disembark him as his health was deteriorating rapidly. “The master also agreed that his health was certainly worsening and that he would request the company to get him off the ship after diverting to the nearest port. Instead, on 12 September, the master informed him that medical aid was being arranged at Cape Town, South Africa, where they were scheduled to reach by 26-27 September,” Eldon said. This would mean a further period of 15 days before any medical attention could be administered. Increasingly desperate, his family back home urged him to continue to “somehow convince the master to divert the ship” while simultaneously calling the crewing agency ‘V-Ships Mumbai and requested them to arrange for his emergency relief. However, they were curtly told that he was ‘stable’ and his condition was being monitored. On 17 September he sent voice messages that he was too weak to even stand up and was having difficulty in breathing. The same day, the company called up the family to inform them that he was no more.“It is clearly evident that the complete negligence on the part of the master, DPA, the owners of the Oman Shipping Company and the V-ships management is the cause of my brother’s death. The master should have carried out the RT-PCR test while the vessel was still in port. He also provided false information to Malaysia port control regarding Covid-19 clearance protocol before departure knowing that some of his crew members were sick with Covid symptoms, later, he also failed to divert the ship and request Emergency Medical Evacuation even after my brother’s health condition worsened,” Eldon said. “I personally feel that he decided to ignore the facts and carry on with the voyage at the behest of the owners and management, keeping in mind the cost involved if the ship is quarantined,” he added. The GSAI has demanded an inquiry to establish the facts and hold those responsible accountable. “It was utter negligence on the part of the master for not diverting the ship when he was advised by the shore medical team. There is always lots of commercial pressure from the owners/managers. Ultimately, it’s the responsibility of the master to make the right decision. Today, a life was lost due to sheer negligence,” Viegas said. “Due to the casual approach of all stakeholders, precious time and opportunities were lost, whereby medical attention could have been administered, which would have saved his life, instead of allowing his health to deteriorate over a period of ten days since he first displayed symptoms,” Viegas added. “I have notified all the concerned authorities including Port state control of Mauritius (where the ship is anchored to disembark my brother’s mortal remains) Flag state of Marshall Islands, ITF, IMO, DG Shipping India, Ministry of Shipping and Request them to take strong action against the above-mentioned parties involved. But sadly there’s no reply from any of the Authorities,” Eldon said.The shipping company has offered a similar version of events but said it took the best course of action available.“Bejoy Ressel Sequeira first reported feeling unwell on September 9 and was immediately isolated in his cabin as per Master’s instructions, who then immediately contacted the managers and the International Radio Medical centre (CIRM) for advice and treatment. The company reviewed options for diverting the vessel to obtain further medical support, but as the vessel was through the Sunda Strait and into the Indian Ocean, the best option was identified as Mauritius. Tragically, the chief cook passed away on September 17 and the vessel anchored in Port Louis on September 20th,” Pat Adamson, representing Oman Ship Management Company, said.“An autopsy carried out in Mauritius on September 30 showed that the chief cook passed away as a result of pulmonary embolism, the body being free of infection or any contagious diseases,” he added.“Managers and crew managers, offer their heartfelt sympathy and condolences to the family and friends of Bejoy Sequeira at this tragic time, with support and information to families being provided via V.Ships India,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-seafarer-dies-at-sea-family-alleges-ship-denied-him-medical-assistance-101633443195497.html
06-10-2021||India||Two-finger test not done on woman officer, claims IAF chief||No illegal two-finger test was conducted on a woman air force officer to confirm rape after she accused a flight lieutenant of the crime in Coimbatore, Indian Air Force (IAF) chief Air Chief Marshal Vivek Ram Chaudhari claimed on Tuesday.“Let me assure you that the IAF is very strict when it comes to such incidents. We have no latitude for any misconduct or moral turpitude cases. The two-finger test is misreported. In actual fact, this has not been done,” Chaudhari said in response to a question on the Coimbatore rape case.Chaudhari’s comments came during the air force chief’s customary media interaction ahead of the 89th anniversary of IAF on October 8. He said action will be taken in the case according to law.“We are well aware of the rules. And all disciplinary action that will come out from this inquiry(into the case) will be taken,” the IAF chief said. He took over as air chief on September 30 after Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria retired.Coimbatore-based advocate R Mohanakrishnan, who was present in court during the hearing and handing over of the accused flight lieutenant from judicial custody to the IAF, said that since the magistrate court did not have any power in this case, the court had not recorded statements and evidence given by the victim.“Now, the medical officers will not go against the Air Chief Marshall. The victim can only come out and say they have conducted the finger test. The only material evidence now is an entry in a register kept in the Medical Inspection room in the Air Force where any person going for a medical check has to register their name, rank and service number,” he added.According to people aware of the developments, the victim has not engaged a personal lawyer. “As per the Air Force Act, the victim cannot keep a lawyer. The enquiry officer will be there on the side of the victim,” said Mohanakrishnan who was in service in the Air Force until the early 1990s.According to the first information report (FIR) filed by Tamil Nadu police on September 20, which was seen by HT, the 28-year-old woman officer said she was raped on campus at the Air Force Administrative College in Tamil Nadu’s Coimbatore district.In the FIR, the woman officer accused IAF doctors of subjecting her to an illegal two-finger test to confirm rape, of adopting a hostile attitude towards her during the inquiry, and of tampering with the evidence, as previously reported by HT.She reached out to the police after losing confidence in how the Air Force Administrative College was conducting the investigation, but a Coimbatore court went by the book and accepted the accused’s plea that he could only be court martialled, not tried in a civilian court.The case comes at a time when women are being given more opportunities in the armed forces to realise their potential.The headcount of women in the military has increased almost three-fold over the past six years, with more avenues being opened to them at a steady pace. As of February 2021, there were 9,118 women serving in the army, navy and air force.One of the turning points for women in the military came in 2015 when IAF decided to induct them as fighter pilots. Earlier this year, the Indian Navy deployed four women officers on warships after a hiatus of almost 25 years. But tanks and combat positions in the infantry are still no-go zones for women.The Union Public Service Commission on September 24 opened an application window for women candidates to apply for the National Defence Academy and Naval Academy Examination, 2021.This came after the Supreme Court stressed on September 22 that it “cannot belie the aspirations of young girls” as it rejected the Union government’s request to delay the first-ever examination for women candidates for their entry into NDA, and directed that they be allowed to sit for the exam on November 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twofinger-test-not-done-on-woman-officer-says-iaf-chief-101633428493849.html
