07-10-2021||India||Bengaluru civic body eases curbs on Durga Puja festival||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) on Thursday relaxed restrictions on Durga Puja after outcry by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders and other Hindu groups who raised objections over the guidelines. The BBMP said that its chief commissioner Gaurav Gupta spoke to senior officials and Durga Puja associations and then revised the guidelines.“The restriction of installing Durga idols not more than 4 feet is removed. During the pushpanjali and sandhi puja, one has to follow all Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and allow only 50 people in batches. There is no restriction on the total number of batches,” the BBMP said in a statement on Thursday. The BBMP also added that a ward can have more than one idol with the permission of the joint commissioner. “During the prayer rituals, musical instruments like drums use are allowed,” the BBMP said. Tejasvi Surya, the BJP MP from Bengaluru south on Wednesday had said that there was tendency to put restrictions on Hindu festivals. “There is a general tendency in sections of the bureaucracy to think that it’s OK to put any and every kind of restrictions on Hindu festivals. This is a colonial relic. Post 2014, the awakened Hindu resists such attempts. This colonialism must end too,” he said in a Twitter post on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-civic-body-eases-curbs-on-durga-puja-festival-101633631286517.html
07-10-2021||India||BJP names candidates for Oct 30 by-elections in Karnataka||In a bid to get its cadres focus on winning the upcoming elections, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Thursday announced its candidates for the October 30 bypolls in two constituencies of the state, ending weeks of hectic lobbying. While the candidate for Sindgi bypoll is Ramesh Bhusanur, Shivaraj Sajjanar has been named for the Hanagal bypolls, with just one day to go before the deadline for nominations. Bhusanur came in second in the 2018 assembly elections behind MC Managuli of the JD(S). Sajjanar is a former MLA from Haveri and is said to be close to former chief minister BS Yediyurappa. The selection of Sajjanar also comes as a surprise as Shivakumar Udasi, the son of late CM Udasi, was lobbying hard to secure the ticket for his wife, Revathi Udasi. It was Udasi’s demise in June this year, which had necessitated the bypolls in Hanagal constitiuency. By denying Shivakumar Udasi’s wife a ticket, the BJP is also trying to circumvent allegations of continuing dynasty politics even though it had fielded the wife of late Suresh Angadi in the Belagavi bypolls in May. The Sindgi constituency also fell vacant after its MLA MC Managuli from the Janata Dal (Secular) passed away this January. However, Managuli’s son has since joined the Congress and has been announced as the party’s candidate from the constituency, according to the All India Congress Committee on October 5. The JD(S) has fielded a candidate from the Muslim community in Sindgi. “JD(S)’ target is the Congress and not the BJP,” Siddaramaiah, the leader of the opposition said on Thursday. He implied that the JD(S) fields minority candidates to help the BJP. “I am not saying that you (JD(S)) should not field a minority candidate. But they don’t do it where they are supposed to,” Siddaramaiah said. He added that the JD(S) will not field a Muslim candidate in Mandya and Hassan, the stronghold of the regional outfit, since their main support base, the Vokkaligas are found in large numbers here. The bypolls come at a time when the Basavaraj Bommai-led BJP government has been facing increasing pressure from Hindu groups over restrictions over the Durga Puja celebrations and temple demolition in Nanjangud. The Bommai government is also under pressure from dominant communities like the Panchamasali, the largest sub-sect within the Lingayats, to change their reservation status and continues to give the administration new deadlines to yield to their demands. Bommai was made chief minister on July 28, replacing Yediyurappa, but has not been able to come out of the latter’s shadow. Yediyurappa, people aware of the developments said, remains firmly in charge of the government and its ministers who are all considered close to the 78-year-old former chief minister. The three political parties are trying to consolidate its respective support base in the bypolls that will precede the yet-to-be announced Zilla and Taluka panchayat elections and the 2023 assembly polls.The BJP is hoping to up its tally in the lower house and the upper house of the state legislature to continue its dominant position and ensure the easy passage of contentious bills despite opposition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-names-candidates-for-oct-30-by-elections-in-karnataka-101633631228245.html
07-10-2021||India||Karnataka high court gives civic body 2 weeks to submit report on potholes||The Karnataka high court on Thursday pulled up the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) for its inability to fill potholes in the city. The court directed the civic agency to ensure that filling up potholes are taken up at the earliest and submit a status report within two weeks. A division bench of acting Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum, while hearing a petition on the condition of Bengaluru’s roads said that the pothole problem in the city resurfaces within two to three months of filling. “BBMP shall also ensure that quality is maintained while filling up the potholes because it is noticed that the potholes which are filled up, again become a pothole, after two to three months,” said the bench. The counsel for BBMP told the bench that it had entered into an agreement with a single agency to fill up potholes and that this was being done every day. “Every day we are attending to filling up potholes in the entire city. However, because of heavy rains, we could not achieve the target. Wherever necessary we are doing it,” said the BBMP counsel. The counsel further reassured the court that a status report with all photographs would be filed before the high court. In response, the bench said that the process adopted by the BBMP for repairing the potholes is not very transparent. “You see potholes only on this Kumara Krupa road, the road in front of 7 ministers’ bungalow, the road towards the high court. But you don’t see potholes of other localities, where the common man lives,” the bench observed orally. The court also granted the BBMP counsel’s request for two weeks’ time to submit a status report. “Time of two weeks is granted to file a status report. He will also file all documents relating to the procedure adopted to filling up potholes,” the court observed. Bommai on Wednesday said that a task force has been created to fill the potholes on the roads. “They will look into the condition and repair history of all roads in Bengaluru and report. This will be the first part. The refilling of potholes and other repairs will take place at the same time. We have asked BBMP to finish these works in a scientific manner. We will finish the work of filling all potholes as soon as the rains are over,” the CM said. When questioned why the work won’t be finished before monsoons are over, Bommai said that the priority was to have a permanent solution to the pothole problem. “From our experience so far, we know areas where there are (pothole) problems. So, we want to fix them properly,” he said. Karnataka revenue minister on October 1 had said that that all roads in Bengaluru will be pothole-free in 30 days, setting another deadline, after many missed ones, to provide one of the most basic amenities to the residents. R Ashok, Karnataka’s minister for revenue and interim in-charge of Bengaluru city, said an additional ₹1,000 crore has been released for the purpose of fixing roads in the newly added localities of Bengaluru, where damaged roads have added to the nightmarish experience of residents, especially during monsoons. According to government data, Bengaluru has 13,847 km of arterial and sub-arterial roads, of which only 295 km are said to be in good condition and another 246 km have now been ridden of potholes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-high-court-gives-civic-body-2-weeks-to-submit-report-on-potholes-101633631166631.html
07-10-2021||India||I-T raids close aid of Yediyurappa, others across Bengaluru||The Income Tax department on Thursday carried out raids and searches across Bengaluru and other places in connection with a possible scam by the irrigation department during BS Yediyurappa’s term as chief minister in Karnataka, according to people aware of the developments in the IT department. The IT department confirmed multiple raids in Bengaluru but did not divulge details. The raids were said to be against contractors, material suppliers and chartered accountants among others. “Among those raided was Umesh, a contractor and close aide of Yediyurappa,” AH Vishwanath, the BJP MLC from Karnataka said. Vishwanath on Thursday said that the raids were “welcome” as he had made complaints against corruption in various departments of the government at the behest of BY Vijayendra, the son of Yediyurappa. In June this year, Vishwanath, the former state president of the Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S), who defected to the BJP in 2019 along with 16 others, alleged a large scam in awarding the Bhadra Upper Canal project (DATED?). He said that the tender for ₹21,473 crores was prepared without any clearance from the financial department or meeting of the state cabinet. He said that around ₹2000 crores were given as kickback to Vijayendra and others for awarding these tenders without due process. “Before Yediyurappa gave up his post as chief minister, I had spoken about this scam in the Bhadra Upper Canal project. Without the clearance of the finance department, they (Vijayendra and others) had prepared tenders and would receive ₹2000 crore in kickback,” Vishwanath said on Thursday. Vishwanath said that even Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said that it was Vijayendra who was responsible for Yediyurappa losing his chair. “No one other than Yediyurappa’s son was the reason for him stepping down. All these (including Umesh) are Vijayendra’s disciples,” Vishwanath said, adding that the son would get his people in every department of the government. “Yediyurappa had given his tongue and his pen to his son and the BJP got a bad name, the government collapsed and the father too was discredited. The person responsible for all this is Vijayendra,” Vishwanath said. The role of Yediyurappa’s family in alleged scams has come out more than once during his four stints as chief minister since 2008. Basanagouda Patil (Yatnal), the BJP legislator from Bijapura city, also made similar allegations against Yediyurappa and his family in the past. Yatnal, a vocal critic of Yediyurappa has constantly alleged that the former chief minister and his family indulge in corruption and will be removed soon. The main cause for dissent within the BJP during Yediyurappa’s last term as chief minister was primarily attributed to the involvement of his son in government affairs, including allegations that he was running a parallel administration at the behest of his father, according to multiple BJP legislators since 2018. Though Yediyurappa stepped down from the chief minister’s post in July, people aware of the developments said that they remain wary of the former chief minister and his plans in Karnataka ahead of the 2023 assembly elections. “Income tax persons can raid anyone. But don’t know why Yediyurappa’s close aides were targeted,” Siddaramaiah, the Congress’s leader of the opposition said on Thursday. HD Kumaraswamy, the former chief minister and Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S) leader said that the IT raids before the October 30 polls could be because of any specific information or the possibility to control the former chief minister. “IT has conducted these raids before the bypolls. They probably did it based on some information,” Kumaraswamy said. He added that the raids were conducted against Yediyurappa’s close aides which may be due to the internal relations within the party and possibly because they want to control the former chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-raids-close-aid-of-yediyurappa-others-across-bengaluru-101633631164289.html
07-10-2021||India||Woman, 4-yr-old daughter found murdered in Bengaluru||A 36-year-old woman and her four-year-old daughter were found murdered in their south Bengaluru apartment on Wednesday, police said. The deceased have been identified as Yamuna aka Chandrakala, 35, and her daughter has been identified as Ratanya, 4. Police said the bodies of the mother and daughter had signs of assault and multiple stab wounds. The murder came to light around 6.30 pm when Chandrakala’a sister Chaitra came to the apartment in Chowdeshwari Layout near Begur. In a statement to the police, Chaitra said that the door of the apartment on the third floor was open when she arrived. As soon as she entered the house, she found the body of the Chandrakala in the hall, while the child was found in one of the rooms in the house. Chaitra then called husband of the deceased Channaveeraswamy and the police. Chandrakala, her husband, and two children had moved to Bengaluru from Chitradurga district four years ago after her husband got a job in a garment factory in the capital city. “One of the children was in a hostel and the family was living in an apartment in Chowdeshwari Layout. Yamuna used to work as a marketing agent for an ayurvedic company,” said a Begur police official. The murder is said to have taken place after her husband went to work around 9.30 am. “We have some evidence that a person had entered the house in the morning after Chandrakala’s husband Channaveeraswamy went to work. This person who entered the house in the morning left around noon. He is a prime suspect in the case and the investigation is on,” said a Begur police official. A case of murder under section 304 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered at the Begur police station. The cops are getting CCTV footage from the surrounding areas to get clues about miscreants who have entered the house of the victim. Police also said that since there were no signs of any forced entry, it is suspected that the attackers were known to the victim. “There was no sign of forced entry into the house. But it’s not clear if Chandrakala had locked the house from the inside or just shut the door,” said a Begur police official. Sniffer dogs scoured the area while fingerprint and forensic experts collected samples. According to police, Chandrakala and her daughter were stabbed more than 20 times and their throats were slit. It is suspected that some gold and other valuables are missing from the house. Additional commissioner S Murugan said that four special teams have been formed to investigate the case. “As per the preliminary probe, it is suspected that the murder took place in the afternoon. The house is ransacked, and hence, we are suspecting it could be a case of murder for gain,” the officer told reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-4-yr-old-daughter-found-murdered-in-bengaluru-101633631112375.html
07-10-2021||India||Two minors raped in Nizamabad, one held: Police||A 30-year-old man was on Thursday arrested in Nizamabad district for allegedly sexually assaulting two minor girls, both cousins, police said.The accused, a neighbour, lured the girls, aged eight and 10, on the pretext of offering them chocolates while they were playing in front of their home on October 2 and took them to his house, where he allegedly committed the crime, a senior police official told PTI.The family members of the victims lodged a complaint with the police after the girls narrated the incident to them. A case was registered under relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and IPC and the accused was arrested.In another incident, a middle-aged man was arrested for allegedly sexually assaulting a two-and-half-year-old baby girl in Nirmal district on October 4, police said.The accused had lured the toddler while she was playing in her locality and took her to an isolated place. He then allegedly sexually assaulted her, they said based on a complaint filed by the girl’s mother.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-minors-raped-in-nizamabad-one-heldpolice-101633631110708.html
07-10-2021||India||Telangana reports 176 Covid cases, one death||Telangana’s overall Covid-19 tally mounted to 667,334 with 176 fresh infections being reported on Thursday, while the toll rose to 3,926 with one related fatality.The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) accounted for the most number of cases with 53, followed by Karimnagar and Ranga Reddy 14 each, a state government bulletin said, providing details as of 5.30 PM on Thursday.The number of recoveries outnumbered fresh cases on Thursday with 216 people recuperating from the infectious disease. The cumulative number of recoveries till date was 659,043.The number of active cases stood at 4,365, the bulletin said.As many as 37,857 samples were tested on Thursday and the total number of samples tested till date was 26.6 million. The samples tested per million population was 716,469.The case fatality rate in the state was 0.58 per cent, while it was 1.3 per cent at the national level.The recovery rate in Telangana was 98.75 per cent, while it was 97.93 per cent in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-reports-176-covid-cases-one-death-101633631045565.html
07-10-2021||India||Covid declining trend continues in Andhra, state reports 643 new cases, 8 deaths||Andhra Pradesh reported 643 fresh cases of Covid-19, 839 recoveries and eight deaths in 24 hours ending 9 am on Thursday. The number of active cases fell further down to 8,550, the latest bulletin said.The state’s Covid-19 chart now showed 2,055,306 positives, 2,032,520 recoveries and 14,236 deaths so far.After over 28.6 million sample tests so far, the cumulative infection positivity rate stood at 7.20 per cent while the recovery rate improved to 98.86 per cent. The mortality rate remained stable at 0.69 per cent.According to Medical and Health Department data, the daily average number of new coronavirus cases in the state fell to 805 from over 1,200 the previous week.Last week, all 13 districts showed a declining trend in the infection positivity rate, for the first time since the second wave began in March this year.While East Godavari still showed the highest weekly positivity rate of 4.69 per cent (down from 5.2 per cent), four districts registered over two per cent each and three more over one per cent each.The remaining five districts each had a positivity rate of less than one per cent.Only two out of 676 rural mandals in the state had more than 50 active cases while 420 had less than four each. Another 138 mandals had less than 10 active cases each.Only Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam municipal corporations now have more than 250 active cases each while 101 civic bodies have less than 50 each. Four urban local bodies have between 100 and 200 active cases each, the data said.Just over 2,000 infected people are now undergoing Covid-19 treatment in hospitals across the state.According to the day’s bulletin, Chittoor district reported 145 fresh cases in 24 hours while 10 districts added less than 100 each. Two districts logged less than 10 new cases each.Prakasam district reported three fresh Covid-19 deaths, Krishna two, Guntur, Visakhapatnam and West Godavari one each in a day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-declining-trend-continues-in-andhra-state-reports-643-new-cases-8-deaths-101633631044334.html
07-10-2021||India||UDF demands plan to end man-animal conflict in Kerala||The Congress-led UDF opposition on Thursday demanded a comprehensive programme, involving international experts, to end the increasing incidents of man-animal conflict in forest fringe areas of Kerala and protect the lives and livelihood of people. They urged the Left government to increase the compensation amount for those who die or are injured in the wildlife attack and to implement a special insurance scheme for those living in the fringe areas.The government has the responsibility to protect not just wildlife but also human beings, they said while raising the issue during the zero hour demanding a discussion stopping other House proceedings.Congress legislator Sunny Joseph, who sought a notice for the motion, said a serious situation was prevailing in many parts of the state as several people had been killed and injured and crops damaged widely due to the attack of wild animals which strayed into human settlements.Leader of opposition in the state Assembly V D Satheesan drew the government’s attention on the need to evolve a comprehensive programme to check the wildlife menace on a time-bound manner without losing any more lives.“The programme should be formulated in consultation with the global and national experts after taking into account the geographical peculiarities of Kerala. A special wing should be formed under the Chief Conservator of Forest for this purpose,” he said.However, Forest minister A K Saseendran admitted the absence of a scientific programme to end the man-animal conflicts in human settlements. He said the department was making all efforts to erect solar fencing and trenches in all possible areas to check wild animals entering the human habitats.Compensation would be given to those farmers who are ready to shift from the forest-fringe settlement areas, he said, adding that over 200 vigilant committees had been set up as part of efforts to regulate the menace and monitor the situation. He also said the government could not give permission to kill wild animals indiscriminately.In view of the reply of the minister, speaker M B Rajesh denied permission to leave for the motion||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/udf-demands-plan-to-end-man-animal-conflict-in-kerala-101633630985853.html
07-10-2021||India||Operations to trap tiger in Tamil Nadu intensifies on Day 13||The Forest department has intensified the combing operations to trap the suspected man-eater tiger on the 13th day on Thursday in Masanagudi and Gudalur areas in the Nilgiris district.The operations, to trap the tiger, coded T23, started after it killed four people, two in the gap of 14 days, in Gudalaur, Masinagudi and Singara area and more than 20 head of cattle, involves officials from Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Karnataka.To assist the teams, two tamed elephants and sniffer dogs were also requisitioned, with modern drone to trace the location and movement.With the Madras High Court directing to catch the tiger and not to kill it, the four special teams are working to tranquilise the animal, with the help of veterinarians and medical teams.As there was no trace of the tiger for the last four days, the strategy now was to camp on tall trees, based on the earlier movement recorded in the cameras, with medical team sitting so that they can tranquilise immediately.Similarly, to attract the tiger, cows were tied so that veterinarians can use the dart to tranquilise it, Forest department sources said.The department appealed to the people not to venture out particularly in the operational area, which would prevent the tiger from coming out from its hideout.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/operations-to-trap-tiger-in-tamil-nadu-intensifies-on-day-13-101633630984444.html
07-10-2021||India||Cauvery majorly polluted by pharma industry: Study||A team of researchers from IIT-Madras in a study have found that river Cauvery and its tributaries are polluted by a range of contaminants that includes pharmaceutically active compounds, personal care products, plastics, flame retardants, heavy metals, and pesticides, among others. The findings of the study, which the team said is “alarming” was published in an international peer-reviewed journal, Science of the Total Environment in their August issue. Pharmaceutical contaminants included anti-inflammatories such as ibuprofen and diclofenac, anti-hypertensives (atenolol and isoprenaline), stimulants like caffeine, antidepressants such as carbamazepine, and antibiotics such as ciprofloxacin. There was significant contamination by metals such as arsenic, zinc, chromium, lead and nickel. Freshwater intake points were also found to be loaded with extraordinarily high concentrations of pharmaceutical contaminants.According to the paper co-authored by Jayakumar Renganathan, Insamam Ul Huq S, Kamaraj Ramakrishnan, Manthiram Karthik Ravichandran, and professor Ligy Philip, the team monitored the water quality of the Cauvery River for two years to assess the seasonal variation of emerging contaminants, especially pharmaceutically active compounds. The Study commenced in 2018 and the process of taking samples was completed by 2020, said a spokesperson for the institute.“Our observations are alarming. So far, not much is known about how pharmaceutical contaminants affect human health and the ecosystem over time,” said Philip. According to the environmental risk assessed by the team, it shows that pharmaceutical contaminants pose medium to high risk to aquatic life forms in the river. SIGNIFICANCE OF CAUVERY IN TAMIL NADU & KARNATAKA? WHICH MAJOR CITIES USE THEIR WATER? The team collected water from 22 locations along the entire stretch of the river, which originates in Karnataka and also irrigates the rice bowls of Tamil Nadu. Cauvery river has been mired in disputes between the two neighbouring states for decades. “We also set up 11 sampling stations near discharge points of partially treated or untreated wastewater and 11 locations near intake points of water supply systems. The quality of water at the catchment sites was also monitored,” Philip said.Pointing out that river networks contribute to 0.006% of global freshwater serving for domestic and industrial usage, whose quality across the world has been deteriorating, the institute stated that south India’s Cauvery river has been subjected to the constant human threat. “Of these, pharmaceutical contamination is serious in India, which is the second-largest pharmaceutical manufacturing country in the world,” the institute said in a statement. “These drug compounds, when released even in minuscule amounts into water bodies, can harm human beings and the ecosystem in the long run.”The team found that the monsoon season influences the quality of water quality and levels of pharmaceutical contaminants. “The post-monsoon period showed an increased level of various types of contaminants, including pharmaceuticals, due to reduced riverine flow and continuous waste discharge from multiple sources,” their statement read.The quality examination of the river water was done to understand the factors that influence the distribution of contaminants and their impacts on the ecosystem. The team said that the study shows it is essential to regularly monitor rivers and their tributaries and upgrade the wastewater treatment systems to reduce the levels of emerging contaminants in receiving water bodies such as rivers. The findings of this work also point to the need for more research into assessing the long-term impacts of emerging contaminants on human health and the environment.Experts said that the polluting situation in the Cauvery basin and its tributaries have gone from bad to worse. President of SaciWATERs and former professor of Madras Institute of Development Students, S Janakarajan, who has conducted several surveys on the Cauvery river basin and delta since 2003, said, “As far as Cauvery in Tamil Nadu is concerned, it has got four-five major tributaries. Whatever pollution load that is let into the river, goes up to the delta and then to the sea.” Noyyal, Kodaganar, Amaravathi and Bhavani are the major tributaries, which are located along with polluting industries such as dyeing and bleaching units. “In the Cauvery basin, where several towns are located starting from Mettupalayam, Coimbatore, Tripur and downstream Trichy, the sewage, solid waste, debris is all dumped into the river and its tributaries. Because of the sewage and effluents that the river carries, it looks black in the summer.”This study has been carried out with joint funding from Water Technology Initiatives of the Department of Science and Technology, Government of India and the UK Natural Environment Research Council.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cauvery-majorly-polluted-by-pharma-industry-study-101633630926924.html
07-10-2021||India||Tamil Nadu MP urges state post offices to print scheme forms in Tamil, English||Continuing with his opposition against imposition of Hindi in Tamil Nadu, Lok Sabha MP from Madurai, S Venkatesan has ensured that forms in postal saving schemes, which are currently in English and Hindi, will be printed in Tamil as well. Responding to Venkatesan’s letter, the department of posts on Wednesday said that they have issued instructions to officers to get all customer related forms in post offices to be printed bilingually in Tamil and English. These will be distributed immediately to all post offices in the Tamil Nadu circle. “It stops the imposition of Hindi. More than 40 forms used across 14,000 post offices operating in Tamil Nadu will be in Tamil. Post office officials have told us that it will be fully effective in a month,” said Venkatesan. Venkatesan took up the issue with postal forms as the public found it difficult to fill them and they had to depend on others for making deposits under postal saving schemes. In his letter sent to the chief postmaster general of Tamil Nadu, dated September 22, Venkatesan said that money order forms, payment slips and withdrawal slips were previously available in Tamil but were discontinued after digital forms were introduced. “First, our country is having multi-lingual diversity and government departments have to be sensitive with regard to make customers comfortable in communications. Regional languages would ensure that,” he said in his letter. “But a government entity which has to perform like blood vessels to connect common man with the society is not doing it. How this attitude be termed- indifference or bias or imposition?” Language is a sensitive issue in Tamil Nadu, where anti-Hindi agitations date back to the 1930s. In August, based on a petition filed by Venkatesan, the Madras high court directed the Union government to strictly follow the provisions of the Official Languages Act mandating the use of English for official purposes of the Union and Parliament. The MP belonging to the Communist Party of India (Marxist), an ally of the ruling DMK had filed a petition seeking adherence to the law after a central ministry responded to his letter in Hindi. He sought action against officials who reply in Hindi without English translation, saying it violated the rights guaranteed under the Constitution as well as the Official Languages Act. The Union government at that time told the court that replying in Hindi was “was inadvertent and not intentional”. But the court ruled in the MP’s favour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-mp-urges-state-post-offices-to-print-scheme-forms-in-tamil-english-101633630925547.html
07-10-2021||India||Scrap weekend curb on temples: Tamil Nadu BJP to govt||Tamil Nadu Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) unit president K Annamalai on Thursday demanded the DMK-ruled state government open places of worship on weekends, currently shut due to Covid-induced restrictions, and protested in front of 12 major temples in the state to sound his disagreement over the decision. Annamalai also gave the state government an ultimatum to roll back the decision in ten days. “If they do not do it, we don’t have a choice than to go against the government and all its activities,” Annamalai told reporters. “We will take to the streets, and this government will not have a choice other than to listen to people’s voices.”Annamalai led the demonstration in front of Kalikambal temple in Chennai’s Harbour constituency, from where the minister for Hindu religious and charitable endowments (HR & CE) Sekar Babu was elected. “They are pushing their ideology into people’s personal space, and our sacred temples in the name of Covid control,” the leader of the saffron party said. “The second wave is pretty much contained in Tamil Nadu. Vaccination has crossed 4.7 crores. Seroprevalence also says we are in safe territory,” he said.He said that the DMK government “has shown urgency” to open cinema theatres and schools, accusing chief minister MK Stalin’s family of controlling the movies production and party cadre of running private schools. He added that the government should have allowed temples, churches and mosques to continue being open. “This is the same government who, when they were in opposition, said that if they come to power, they will not follow the Centre’s rules related to Covid-19 because a state has to decide on its own in a federal set-up. But now, they’re showing the advisory circular of the Centre to justify their ways. When it suits them, they go by the advisory but when they don’t require it, it’s DMK’s habit to blame the Centre. When our rights are being dismissed, BJP has no other option but to turn this into a people’s protest,” Annamalai said.He added that the closure of places of worship was an advisory and not an order from the Centre. Coincidentally, Stalin’s wife Durga on Thursday prayed at Trichy’s famous Srirangam temple. Reacting to the protests, Babu said that though temples were closed from Friday to Sunday, required poojas were being conducted during the weekend. “Once coronavirus abates, the chief minister will re-open temples,” he said. “Those who are protesting are doing so blindly when they should also understand the importance of saving lives during this time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scrap-weekend-curb-on-temples-tamil-nadu-bjp-to-govt-101633630924321.html
07-10-2021||India||Physical hearings to resume at Supreme Court on 2 days in a week from October 20||The Supreme Court will begin physical hearing of cases on Wednesdays and Thursdays from October 20 while continuing with the earlier arrangement of having hybrid hearings on Tuesdays and hearing of cases on Mondays and Fridays strictly through videoconferencing/teleconferencing. The decision taken on Thursday was released by the Supreme Court Registry on the official website of the Court. As per the new arrangement, Thursday’s circular said, “In view of the encouraging response from the Bar and with a view to further facilitate hearing through physical mode, all the matters listed on Wednesday and Thursday, as non-miscellaneous days, would be heard only in physical presence of the counsels/parties in Court-rooms.”Even on such days, if the judge presiding in a courtroom feels that in a particular matter, the number of lawyers is more than the working capacity of the courtroom as per Covid-19 norms, the hearing of such matters shall be facilitated through video/teleconferencing/hybrid mode.For hearing on Tuesdays, the new rules said, “All the matters listed on Tuesday, as a non-miscellaneous day, would also be heard in physical mode; however, on prior application by the lawyer for the party, appearance through video/tele-conferencing mode will be facilitated.” The lawyer will have to apply for the link by 1.00 p.m. on the previous working day.Three lawyers per party shall be permitted to appear before the judges and entry into the high security zone of the Court will be by way of proximity cards already issued to lawyers practicing in the Supreme Court. Litigants who have to appear shall be issued photo identity cards by the Supreme Court Registry near the entry gates. Every party will be allowed to have one clerk for carrying the files, books and law journals.The new rules marked a departure from the earlier standard operating procedure (SOP) issued on August 28 when the Court allowed hybrid (physical and virtual) hearing for interested lawyers/litigants. However, the SOP attracted dissent from the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) as a non-starter as the SCBA President senior advocate Vikas Singh demanded full-fledged physical hearing. He also opposed the rules requiring lawyers to get a Special Hearing pass made and demanded that proximity cards alone should be allowed for facilitating entry of lawyers.All persons entering the court will have to wear masks, maintain social distancing, and undergo thermal check and other Covid-19 protocols, the new circular stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/physical-hearings-to-resume-at-supreme-court-on-2-days-in-a-week-from-october-20-101633630266586.html
07-10-2021||India||School principal and teacher killed by terrorists in J&K||A teacher in a government school and its principal were shot dead by terrorists in the city’s Eidgah area on Thursday, as a string of targeted attacks against civilians, minorities and outsiders continued in and around Jammu & Kashmir’s capital.Thus far, five people have been killed by terrorists in three days. Police said Satinder Kour, the principal of Government High School Eidgah, and a teacher at the school, Deepak Chand, died on the spot when they were fired upon inside the school premises by unknown assailants. Chand was from Jammu, and both he and Kour, a Sikh, lived in Srinagar’s Aolochi Bagh area.Police said that the militants are aiming to create an atmosphere of fear and that an attempt is being made to give these incidents communal colour.One of Kaur’s relatives said the two were profiled and then killed. “This is a blot on our Kashmir. For the last three days there have been targeted attacks on the members of the minority community. What was their fault? They have left their home to teach the students.”The Resistance Front (TRF), which police say is front for terror group Lashkar-e-Taiba, claimed responsibility for the attack on both the teachers and said that Shaheed Gazi Squad carried the attack. A statement circulating on social media from the terror group said the teachers were killed for their role in getting students to participate in the “ function at school on August 15”, India’s independence day. TRF also claimed responsibility for the killing on Monday of one of Srinagar’s best-known pharmacists, Makhan Lal Bindroo, who refused to leave the erstwhile state even when most Kashmiri Pandits were forced to flee. Monday also saw street vendor Virender Paswan from Bihar’s Bhagalpur, and Muhammad Shafi Lone, a taxi driver and taxi union head, being shot dead at separate places in Srinagar. Since last week, seven civilians have been killed in Srinagar alone. The killings in the city have spread panic and many leaders have raised questions over security in the city.“After back to back attacks there is panic in city and these attacks has exposed the claims that situation has changed in Kashmir. These incidents indicate that the situation is worrisome,” said Shabir Ahmad a resident of RajbaghLt Governor Manoj Sinha on Thursday condemned the killing of the two teachers.“I strongly condemn the barbaric killing of two of our teachers, Supinder Kour and Deepak Chand by terrorists. A befitting reply will be given to the perpetrators of the heinous terror attacks on innocent people,” Sinha said in a tweet.“The terrorists & their patrons will not succeed in disturbing peace, progress & prosperity of J&K UT. My deepest condolences to the bereaved family, friends and colleagues,” he added.J&K’s director general of police Dilbag Singh, who visited the spot along with inspector general Kashmir, Vijay Kumar, said that police has already got some viable leads in the killings of civilians . “Our investigation is underway. We got some leads in the previous attacks on civilians in Srinagar and people responsible for the attacks will be unveiled.”Singh told reporters that militants are targeting innocent people. “The aim of the killings is to create atmosphere of fear and attempt is being made to give these incidents communal colour to damage communal brotherhood in Valley. This is being done on the behest of agencies that are based in Pakistan. “The targeting of Kashmiri Pandits, Sikhs, and outsiders has created ripples in the respective communities. All Party Sikh Coordination Committee chairman Jagmohan Singh Raina said that the killings are part of the conspiracy hatched to create a wedge among the majority and minority communities living in the Kashmir valley. “People should be vigilant about the elements who want to exploit the situation for their own ulterior political motives.” He asked the Sikh youth working in different government departments to boycott their duties and sit at their homes as long as their security is not ensured by the government and also asked members of the majority Muslim community to intervene and secure the lives of minority community members.In Thursday’s attack, teachers at the school said: “We heard gunshots and attackers were shouting ‘now raise flags’”, an apparent reference to hoisting of national flags in hundreds of government buildings across Jammu and Kashmir on Independence Day. The hoisting of the national flag on August 15 was made mandatory for all government institutions, including schools this year.Former chief minister Omar Abdullah said condemnation was not enough for this inhuman act of terror. “Shocking news coming in again from Srinagar. Another set of targeted killings, this time of two teachers in a government school in Idgah area of the city. Words of condemnation are not enough for this inhuman act of terror but I pray for the souls of the deceased to rest in peace.”In a tweet, the People’s Democratic Party of former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti said: “Terrible news of killing of two teachers in Srinagar coming to fore. When will this dance of death come to an end. Will the administration stop trumpeting the hollow slogans of ‘Normalcy’ now. Deepest condolences with the families.”Former minister Sajad Lone tweeted: “Reports of cowardice emerging. Two teachers shot dead. It is important to understand that terrorists have no religion. Muslims have been killed too. I personally had a killing in my family. This is a lunatic fringe which is a curse for Kashmir. May Allah rid us of this curse.”Srinagar mayor Junaid Mattu wrote on Twitter: “Heartbroken, devastated and shattered by the news of the brutal killing of two school teachers at a school in Eidgah. No words can express my anger and anguish. My heart goes out to their families. I stand by them in this hour of grief and trauma. Inconsolable tragedy!”Soon after the attack, security around the city was strengthened and police established checking points at several places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/school-principal-and-teacher-killed-by-terrorists-in-jk-101633629844948.html
07-10-2021||India||Gauhati HC directs Assam govt to file affidavit on eviction drive that claimed 2 lives||The Gauhati High Court on Thursday directed the Assam government to file a detailed affidavit on last month’s clashes during an eviction drive in Darrang district which claimed two lives and injured nearly 20 others including 11 policemen. Acting on a PIL filed by Congress’s legislature party leader Debabrata Saikia and another suo motu petition, a bench comprising Chief Justice Sudhanshu Dhulia and Justice Soumitra Saikia asked the government to file the affidavit within three weeks. The next date of hearing on the petition is November 3. “The court took the matter seriously and directed the state government to respond on its policy regarding evictions and rehabilitation. The court rejected the advocate general’s contention that the petition was politically motivated since I am the Leader of Opposition in assembly,” petitioner Saikia said. Appearing on behalf of the petitioner, advocate Chander Uday Singh sought compensation for those evicted and also an inquiry into the killing of the two civilians by the police. On the other hand, advocate general Debajit Saikia mentioned that on September 23, the plan was to evict 125 families, but nearly 20,000 people including outsiders and with doubtful credentials gathered at the site and attacked the policemen, which in turn led to retaliatory action. In his PIL, Saikia had sought court’s intervention on conducting mandatory social impact assessment and ensure that the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013 is followed in the state. The petition mentioned that those who were being evicted at Dholpur were from marginalized and socio-economically disadvantaged sections who were forced to migrate due to floods and erosions. The eviction drive at Dholpur was carried out following a state government plan to start an ambitious agriculture project on nearly 77,000 ‘bighas’ of government land. The petition, however, challenged the eviction stating that it was “arbitrary, violative of Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution, violative of parts IX and IXA of the Constitution which requires democratization of economic and social planning, in contravention of Panchayat Act, 1994”. It added that on September 23 there was use of “excessive, illegal and disproportionate force and firearms by police officials, allegedly in response to the protests against the eviction drive”. The Assam government has already ordered a judicial inquiry on violent eviction drive at Dholpur 3 village on September 3 where clashes erupted while police were trying to forcibly remove settlers from government land. The deceased included a 12-year-old boy and a 33-year-old man. A photographer engaged by the district administration, seen jumping on an injured civilian in a viral video, has been arrested. Three residents of the area have also been arrested for instigating violence during the drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gauhati-hc-directs-assam-govt-to-file-affidavit-on-eviction-drive-that-claimed-2-lives-101633629487587.html
07-10-2021||India||Will accept India’s vaccine certificate, says UK days after Delhi’s tit-for-tat||NEW DELHI: The UK said on Thursday it will begin accepting India’s vaccine certificates from October 11, ending a row that had resulted in British nationals facing a 10-day mandatory quarantine on arrival even if they are fully vaccinated. New British guidelines on approved Covid-19 vaccines and the requisite proof of vaccination said India would be added to a “list of countries and territories with approved proof of vaccination [from] 4 am [on] Monday 11 October”. British high commissioner Alex Ellis tweeted there would be “no quarantine” for Indian travellers who were fully vaccinated with Covishield or any other UK-approved vaccine, and thanked the Indian government for its close cooperation on the issue over the past month. “From Monday... a traveller from India to the UK, double jabbed with Covishield or another vaccine recognised by the UK regulator does not have to quarantine. It will be easier and cheaper to enter the UK. This is great news,” Ellis said in a video statement. The move was in line with the comprehensive strategic partnership agreed to by the prime ministers of two countries in May, he said. Britain has issued thousands of visas to students, business travellers and tourists in recent months, Ellis added, while calling for further opening up of travel between the two sides. “Some of the noise about this issue over the last few weeks just shows how keen people are to travel to the UK and I’m delighted by that. So, let’s now go further. Let’s open up more flights between the two countries, let’s get British tourists able to come in to India... let’s facilitate business travellers who are trying to come in to India with e-visas,” Ellis said. Indians arriving in the UK before October 11 must follow the “rules for people who are not fully vaccinated”, according to the new guidelines. “If you arrive after that, you can use a vaccine certificate to prove your vaccination status,” a government notification said. Earlier in the day, India had said it was hopeful of finding a solution to the vaccine certification row. “Discussions are ongoing and we remain hopeful that some solution may emerge,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told a regular news briefing. He described Britain’s travel restrictions on Indian nationals with valid vaccine certificates as “clearly discriminatory” and said measures imposed by the UK from October 4 were “not right”. He added, “We took up the issue with the UK at various levels but without success.” Once the British travel rules came into force on October 4, India imposed “reciprocal measures” that apply only to UK nationals arriving in India from Britain. The measures kicked in as the UK government didn’t make a call on accepting India’s vaccine certification more than 10 days after the conclusion of technical discussions between the two sides. The row erupted because Indians travelling to the UK had to undergo 10-day home quarantine under new rules. The British government’s failure to recognise Covishield, an Indian version of the Britain’s AstraZeneca jab, had also given rise to allegations of vaccine racism. The UK subsequently included Covishield in its list of approved vaccines. As part of an update of its travel rules, the UK also removed 47 countries and territories from its “red list”. From October 11, the red list will be reduced to seven countries, and proof of vaccination will be recognised from 37 new countries and territories, including India, Brazil, Ghana, Hong Kong, Pakistan, South Africa and Turkey. Eligible travellers vaccinated in these 37 countries and territories will “be treated the same as returning fully vaccinated UK residents, so long as they have not visited a red list country or territory in the 10 days before arriving in England”, an official statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-accept-india-s-vaccine-certificate-says-uk-days-after-delhi-s-titfortat-101633629244415.html
07-10-2021||India||If you're honest about fighting for farmers, quit BJP: Lamba tells Varun Gandhi||The Congress on Thursday said if BJP leader Varun Gandhi is honest about his fight for farmers, he should quit his party and take to the streets in support of the protesting peasants.Congress leader Alka Lamba also said Varun Gandhi would be mistaken if he feels that he will be given a ministerial berth in the next cabinet expansion."I would suggest to Varun Gandhi that if he has a little self-respect left and if he is honest about his fight for the farmers who have been crushed in Lakhimpur Kheri, then instead of fighting the battle on Twitter, he should come out of the BJP, take to the streets, raise his voice and strengthen it."But if he feels he will be included in the cabinet in its next expansion, then I feel he is mistaken. He must decide now," she told reporters.Asked if she is inviting the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader to join the Congress, Lamba said, "I am no one to give any invitation to him, it will be Varun Gandhi's decision."Varun Gandhi shared a video clip purportedly of the Lakhimpur Kheri incident on Twitter on Thursday showing an SUV belonging to the convoy of a BJP leader crushing protesting farmers."The video is crystal clear. Protestors cannot be silenced through murder. There has to be accountability for the innocent blood of farmers that has been spilled and justice must be delivered before a message of arrogance and cruelty enters the minds of every farmer," the Pilibhit MP of the BJP said.The 37-second video clip showed a speeding Mahindra Thar running over people. Two SUVs -- one black-coloured and another white -- were seen following the Thar, while there was a commotion of people shouting and crying in the video.Eight people were killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence on Sunday. Of the eight, four were farmers, who were allegedly knocked down by vehicles driven by BJP workers travelling to welcome Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to an event in the area.The other four were two BJP workers, a driver of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra and Raman Kashyap, a journalist working for a private television channel.An FIR under section 302 of the IPC (murder) has been registered against the Union minister's son, Ashish Mishra, and others in connection with the incident but no arrest has been made so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-you-re-honest-about-fighting-for-farmers-quit-bjp-lamba-tells-varun-gandhi-101633628205402.html
07-10-2021||India||I-T raids on premises of BSY's close aide, ex-CM refuses to drag politics into operation||Taxmen raided on Thursday the premises of a close aide of former Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa as part of a coordinated search at about 50 places across the state. The senior BJP leader’s associate, Umesh, was among the several raided during the day.Confirming the operation, Yediyurappa said the truth would be out a day later and then he would react to the issue. “A raid has taken place at Umesh's residence. He was not working with chief minister Basavaraj Bommai but with me. Truth will come out tomorrow morning and then I will react," Yediyurappa told reporters, adding that officials of the Income tax department never spared a wrongdoer."They never spare anyone. They have taken action as per law," the former chief minister said.When asked the reason behind the raid, Yediyurappa said he was not aware of it and knew only what had been reported in the media. He said I-T officials had summoned Umesh at 11am on Friday, following which he would be able to know the reason behind the raids.He, however, refused to drag any politics into the raids at a time when the bypolls were round the corner. "I don't want to link the raid with politics. I-T raids are different from politics. The raids keep happening normally. There is no need to find reasons unnecessarily."Sources in the I-T department said contractors in the irrigation department were the prime target of the coordinated raids. The taxmen also conducted searches at the residences and offices of a few chartered accountants. The sources said the raids took place in over 50 places across Bengaluru, Bagalkote, Belagavi, Vijayapura and Davangere.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-raids-on-premises-of-bsy-s-close-aide-ex-cm-refuses-to-drag-politics-on-op-101633628299328.html
07-10-2021||India||India, Nepal sign agreements to boost cross-border train services||India and Nepal have signed two agreements aimed at boosting cross-border train services and reviewed ongoing railway projects as part of efforts by the two countries to improve regional connectivity and trade. The agreements were inked as the two sides held the fifth meeting of a joint working group and the seventh meeting of a project steering committee in New Delhi during October 6-7 to review the implementation of cross-border railway links and bilateral cooperation in the railways sector. The signing of the standard operating procedures (SOPs) for starting passenger train services on the Jaynagar-Kurtha section will help finalise the technical aspects of running passenger trains in this region. The SOPs will also serve as a guiding document for the early start of services in upcoming cross-border railway links. The two sides also signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) for a final location survey (FLS) for a proposed broad gauge railway line between Raxaul and Kathmandu. This proposed link is aimed at boosting connectivity between the two countries, the external affairs ministry said in a statement on Thursday. The officials of the two countries reviewed progress on the Raxaul-Kathmandu railway link and discussed several phase-II railway link projects. Both sides agreed to enhance technical cooperation in the railways sector, including in the areas of capacity-building, logistics support and training of Nepal’s railway personnel. Both sides also discussed ongoing work on the Jaynagar-Bijalpura-Bardibas and Jogbani-Biratnagar broad gauge cross-border railway lines, which are being developed with grant assistance from the Indian government. The technical preparedness of a 34-km section of the railway line from Jaynagar in India to Kurtha in Nepal for starting passenger train services was also reviewed. The Nepali side said the required regulatory framework will be put in place to facilitate early operationalisation of services. The Nepali side said it will facilitate the completion of the 17.25-km railway line from Kurtha to Bilajpura at the earliest. Both sides also agreed to expedite work to complete the 18.6-km railway line from Jogbani to Biratnagar. The Indian side at the JWG meeting was led by Manoj Singh, executive director (traffic transportation-freight) in the railway ministry, while Anurag Bhushan, joint secretary in the external affairs ministry led the Indian side at the PSC meeting. The Nepali team for both meetings was led by Keshab Kumar Sharma, joint secretary in the ministry of physical infrastructure and transport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-nepal-sign-agreements-to-boost-cross-border-train-services-101633627744104.html
07-10-2021||India||Kerala remains nation's top Covid contributor, logs 12k cases for second straight day||Kerala witnessed a single-day rise of over 12,000 Covid-19 cases for the second day in a row and continued to contribute over half of the total cases being recorded across the country. The Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) said the state alone was contributing to 50.37 per cent of the active cases in the country.Kerala reported 12,288 fresh coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours pushing the cumulative tally to 47,63,695, according to the state government’s health bulletin data.Thursday’s figures, however, were marginally lower than that of Wednesday’s when Kerala reported 12,616 new cases. On Tuesday, the state had seen a significantly less number of fresh cases at 9,735.Also, 141 people succumbed to the virus during the day pushing the total fatalities to 25,952.Meanwhile, 15,808 people were declared cured from the disease on Thursday, thereby taking the cumulative number of recoveries to 46,18,408.The government’s health bulletin data showed 93.1 per cent of Kerala’s eligible population (2,48,81,668) have been vaccinated with the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine, while 43.1 per cent (1,15,23,278) have been jabbed with both the shots till October 7.The joint secretary of the Union health ministry, Lav Agarwal said five states in India were reporting more than five lakh active cases. Kerala topped the list by accounting for 1,22,996 cases, constituting 50.37 per cent of the total active caseload in the country. It was followed by Maharashtra (15.06 per cent), Tamil Nadu (6.81 per cent), Mizoram (6.58 per cent), and Karnataka (4.85 per cent).“We need to control (the) spread of infection in these states,” Agarwal said while addressing a press briefing on India’s Covid-19 situation.The Centre also said that 62 districts across 15 states and Union territories (UTs) in India have a high weekly Covid-19 positivity rate. A total of 23 districts of them have a rate between five per cent and 10 per cent, while there are 34 districts that have a weekly positivity rate of more than 10 per cent. Of these 62 districts, 14 are from Kerala – Kasaragod falls in the 23-district category, while as many as 13 districts fall in the 34-district category.Despite India’s Covid-19 graph showing a dipping trend, Agarwal emphasised that people should not put their guard down as the challenge is not over yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-remains-nation-s-top-covid-contributor-12k-cases-for-second-straight-day-101633626462239.html
07-10-2021||India||What message is PM Modi conveying by not sacking Union minister, asks Priyanka Gandhi||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday wondered what kind of message was Prime Minister Narendra Modi sending out by not removing Union minister Ajay Kumar Mishra whose son was an accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case in which at least eight persons, including farmers and a journalist, were killed on Sunday.Vadra said by allowing Mishra, a junior minister in the home department, to continue in his post, Modi was giving the message that those in power could do anything.“PM Modi needs to think what kind of message he is giving to the nation. Why is he (Mishra) still in the PM’s government? Doesn't he (PM Modi) have any moral responsibility? Why has the minister not been terminated yet?” the Congress leader was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also read | UP Police manhandled me, tried to force me into their vehicle: Priyanka GandhiThe Union minister's son, Ashish Kumar Mishra, and others have been booked in connection with the violence that erupted during a farmers' protest on Sunday. On Thursday, police said the minister’s son had been summoned before the crime branch on Friday. Unable to find him, they pasted a notice outside the Union minister’s residence later in the evening.Vadra said if the minister of state for home did not resign or if the government failed to sack him, it would prove that one could get away with anything if the individual was a person of power or a minister. Vadra said at Moharnia, where she met family members of Gurvinder Singh, one of the four farmers killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence."There is no justice for the common people, the poor, farmers, Dalits and women. I want to tell Narendra Modiji that this is the message that he is giving to people," the Congress general secretary said.Also read | 'Why is this man free?' Priyanka Gandhi poses question for PM Modi on LakhimpurSpeaking about her meetings with the bereaved families since Wednesday, when the Uttar Pradesh government released her from detention and allowed her to go to Lakhimpur and Bahraich , Vadra said, "We have met the families of all the deceased farmers. Everyone says they are not bothered about the compensation, they are only concerned about the dismissal of the minister of state for home and the arrest of the criminals."She also said the families of the victims had some video clips of Sunday's incident that showed what had transpired that day. "The family members have said that they want justice," she added.Gandhi's convoy of vehicles was stopped by the district administration near the Ghaghra Ghat bridge as soon as it entered Bahraich from Barabanki as Section 144 of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) was in force and the Congress workers accompanying her raised slogans against the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh in protest.The magistrate and the police officers present on the spot subsequently allowed only Congress leaders Naseemuddin Siddiqui and Tanuj Punia, who had come with Vadra to proceed along with her to meet the families of the deceased farmers.The Congress general secretary, who has so far met the family members of five of the eight people killed in Sunday's violence, said she also wanted to meet the kin of the BJP workers who lost their lives."I had asked the IG to enquire if they (the BJP workers' families) were ready for the same, but was outrightly told that they do not want to meet me. I then asked him to convey my sympathy to them," she added.On her way to Bahraich, Vadra also performed a "puja" at a temple in the Arjunganj area of Lucknow.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-message-is-pm-modi-conveying-asks-priyanka-gandhi-on-mos-mishra-101633625908368.html
07-10-2021||India||No quarantine for fully vaccinated Indians travelling to UK from October 11||Indian travellers fully vaccinated with both doses of Covishiel will not require to be quarantined in the United Kingdom, starting from October 11, British high commissioner to India Alex Ellis tweeted on Thursday, bringing an end to the ongoing India-UK tussle over recognition of vaccination against Covid-19 in both the countries. "Good evening! From Monday, 11th October, travellers from India to the UK, double jabbed by Covishield or any other vaccine recognised by the UK regulator does not have to quarantine. So it will easier and cheaper to enter the UK. This is great news," Alex Ellis said in a video message, thanking the Indian government for the continuous cooperation with the UK government. No quarantine for Indian 🇮🇳 travellers to UK 🇬🇧 fully vaccinated with Covishield or another UK-approved vaccine from 11 October. Thanks to Indian government for close cooperation over last month. pic.twitter.com/cbI8Gqp0QtThe UK is open for Indian travellers for months and processed thousands of visas to students, business travellers and tourists, the British high commissioner said in his message. "Some of the noise about this issue in the last few weeks just shows how keen people are to travel to the UK and I am delighted by that... Let's open up more flights between the countries..." he said.The issue started after the UK tweaked its travel rules from October 4 and did not initially mention Covishield in the list of its accepted vaccines against Covid-19. Then the UK government accepted the Covishield vaccine as it is a formulation of the Oxford-Astrazeneca vaccine, already recognised by the UK regulatory authority,  but did not accept India's vaccine certificates, generated by Cowin. Several rounds of talks were held between India and the UK government to end this stalemate as not recognising India's vaccine certificate means travellers vaccinated with both doses of Covishield have to undergo the mandatory quarantine in the UK. While the talks went on, India also imposed a similar restriction on people coming to India from the UK. It said irrespective of the vaccination status, all UK travellers in India will have to be quarantined for 10 days.Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla had expressed his disappointment with the UK's Covishield curb. The government reiterated that there was no issue with either Covishield or the vaccine certificate. While the certificate adheres to global standard, India exported Covishield to the UK, the government said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-quarantine-for-fully-vaccinated-indians-travelling-to-uk-from-october-11-101633625787767.html
07-10-2021||India||Countries should refrain from commenting on issues of other countries in their parliaments: Om Birla||In an apparent reference to UK lawmakers discussing the three farm laws in the British Parliament, Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla said that no country should raise issues related to the internal affairs of other nations in their own parliaments. Last year, some British lawmakers raised the farmers’ protests against the three farm laws in the UK Parliament last year.Birla said that every nation has its own sovereignty which other nations should respect, a statement released by the Lok Sabha Secretariat quoted Birla as saying. Birla said that no country should raise the internal affairs of other nations in its parliament unless those matters affect the interest of that country.Birla is leading an Indian parliamentary delegation to the G20 Parliamentary Speakers’ Summit in Rome. He also held a bilateral meeting with his British counterpart Lindsay Hoyle, the speaker of the House of Commons. Hoyle and Birla agreed that members of their parliaments should exchange views through parliamentary diplomacy and seek measures to strengthen democratic institutions in the interest of the people.Birla also spoke at the first working session on ‘Response to the Social and Employment Crisis caused by the Pandemic’, where he underlined that to deal with future global disasters it is necessary to treat the world as one family. He also highlighted the need for formulating an integrated and coordinated strategy to deal with global issues. He said that parliaments can work together to achieve this goal.Birla said that emphasis must be placed on formulating developmental policies that ensure the welfare of all sections of society. Birla also said development policies need to be deliberated upon extensively and these should also be discussed on multilateral platforms with the aim of preparing a suitable and sustainable global roadmap founded on the principles of social and economic justice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-comment-on-internal-affairs-of-other-nations-in-your-parliaments-birla-101633625444325.html
07-10-2021||India||'Whether Rhea Chakraborty or Aryan Khan': Nawab Malik now accuses NCB of extortion||Nationalist Congress Party leader Nawab Malik on Thursday accused the Narcotics Control Bureau of running an extortion racket in connection with the cruise rave party in which Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan has been arrested. He said he will expose more wrongdoing of the agency in a press conference on Friday. Earlier, the Maharashtra minister alleged that the recent raid was a forgery and was influenced by BJP leaders. On Thursday, as Aryan Khan and seven others arrested with him were sent to 14-day judicial custody, Nawab Malik said both Rhea Chakraborty and Aryan Khan were arrested for publicity. Rhea Chakraborty was arrested by the agency in a drugs case in connection with Sushant Singh Rajput's death."Through high-profile BJP leader Manish Bhanushali, a network of NCB are trapping & extorting people," the minister alleged.Aryan Khan arrest: Nawab Malik releases new videos, questions WankhedeThe Maharashtra minister released videos of KP Gosavi and Manish Bhanushali claiming they were present during the raid and afterwards, which the agency should not allow, he said. KP Gosavi is the person with whom Aryan Khan's photo went viral after Aryan was arrested by the NCB on Sunday. The agency clarified that the person in the photo was not NCB staff. Then what was he doing there, Nawab Malik asked.Reports said Gosavi and Bhanushali were there as independent witnesses and the duo might have been NCB's informer in this particular case. Bhanushali has admitted that he is a BJP leader and he cooperated with the NCB by providing them information about the rave party that he knew was going to be held.The NCB on Wednesday reacted to the allegation and said the agency did nothing wrong. The party can approach the court if it wants, the NCB said. "Some allegations levelled against the organisation are baseless and seem to have been with malice and probable prejudice that may have been harboured in retaliation against earlier legal action carried out by NCB," the agency said in a veiled reference to the arrest of Nawab Malik's son-in-law in a drugs case early this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/whether-rhea-chakraborty-or-aryan-khan-nawab-malik-now-accuses-ncb-of-extortion-101633625218745.html
07-10-2021||India||Sitharaman approves new bridge over Brahmaputra connecting Palashbari, Sualkuchi||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday gave her ministry’s approval for a new bridge over the Brahmaputra River connecting Palashbari and Sualkuchi. Construction of the bridge will reduce the distance between Palashbari, located 27 km from Guwahati, and Sualkuchi, the centre of Assam’s silk production, located around 35 km from Guwahati. The bridge is expected to cost ₹3,094 crore. Making the announcement at a function in Guwahati, Sitharaman, who was on a day’s visit to Assam, said that the bridge would reduce travel time to Guwahati from districts Nalbari, Barpeta and Baksa located on the north bank. Earlier, the Union minister also inspected the construction of an 8.4 km long six-lane bridge connecting Guwahati with North Guwahati. To be constructed at a cost of ₹2,608 crore by the state PWD department, the foundation stone of the bridge was laid by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2019 and it is expected to get completed in 2023. Launching the web-portal of Right to Public Services, Sitharaman said that the service would bring the public close to development without them having to run after government systems and procedures. “This web-portal is a way forward towards electronic delivery of public services to the people as a means of real time governance,” Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on the occasion adding that it will ensure that nobody is left behind from development agenda. Earlier in the day Sitharaman conducted ‘bhoomi pujan’ of the 120 MW hydro-electric project on the Kopili River at Dima Hasao district. The Asian Development Bank funded project is expected to be completed by 2024. The finance minister also laid the foundation stone of improvement and upgradation work of the 90 km long road from Halflong Tiniali to Lower Halflong in Dima Hasao district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sitharaman-approves-new-bridge-over-brahmaputra-connecting-palashbari-sualkuchi-101633625643863.html
07-10-2021||India||India-US ties consequential enough for bigger purpose: MEA Jaishankar||External affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Thursday India and the United States had focussed on a relationship that not only expanded steadily but was now consequential enough to be imbued with a bigger purpose.“As stakeholders let us reflect on how to take that forward,” Jaishankar said.Addressing the India Ideas Summit organised by the US-India Business Council (USIBC), the minister said the views of India and the US in dealing with major global challenges like terrorism, pandemics and climate change ran along parallel paths.“On many of the big challenges of the day -- terrorism, pandemics and climate change -- our thinking is along parallel paths. We not only work together on global issues but are dedicated to the well being of the global commons. That provides the basis for coordinated action," Jaishankar added.A fortnight ago we saw the first in-person meeting btw PM Modi & US Prez Joe Biden, this was followed by the first in-person Quad summit. These meetings provided an opportunity to not only refresh our ties but give them an updated relevance: EAM at USIBC India Ideas Summit pic.twitter.com/jGgGw4JDwx“A fortnight ago, we saw the first in-person meeting between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and US President Joe Biden. This was followed by the first in-person Quad summit. These meetings provided an opportunity to not only refresh our ties but give them an updated relevance,” the EAM said.Also read | India, Asean should focus on resilient supply chains, sustainable recovery: JaishankarJaishankar further said the benefits of India being a major defence partner of the US were becoming evident."When it comes to defence and security, the benefits of India being a major defence partner of the US are becoming evident. Our collective Quad commitment to maritime security is equally relevant," he said.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indiaus-ties-consequential-enough-for-bigger-purpose-mea-jaishankar-101633623904971.html
07-10-2021||India||Sabarimala: 25,000 jabbed devotees daily, negative RTPCR valid. Details here||The Kerala government on Thursday said 25,000 fully vaccinated devotees would be allowed to visit the famous Lord Ayyappa hill shrine in Sabarimala when the pilgrimage season begins with the Mandala-Makaravilakku on November 16. Those carrying a negative test report of Covid-19 would also be allowed entry.The decision was taken at a review meeting convened by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan during the day that was attended by the ministers of devasom, transport, forest, health and water resources and the state police chief.The government said changes to the number of entrants may be done if required. Kerala has remained one of the worst-hit states in terms of the coronavirus disease for the past few weeks having recorded about half of the total cases registered across the country on a daily basis.Enlisted below are some of the rules the government has been in place ahead of the Mandala-Makaravilakku season1. A total of 25,000 devotees will be allowed to enter the temple during the initial days. Changes to this number can be made later if needed, the government said2. Only those who have been inoculated with both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine or those carrying a negative RTPCR report would be permitted to enter the shrine3. Devotees below the age of 10 and above the age of 65 will be allowed to entry4. Pilgrims visiting the shrine will not be allowed on the forest path via Erumeli or on the traditional route to Sannidhanam via Pulmedu. However, they would be able to take the ceremonial dip in the Pampa river5. Vehicles carrying devotees will only be allowed upto Nilackal. From there, buses of the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) will ferry them6. The Devaswom Board has been asked to make arrangements to anoint devotees with 'Neyyabhishekam' (the anointed ghee) and they would not be allowed to stay at the ‘Sannidhanam’ after their darshan.Vijayan has urged the administration to provide devotees with adequate toilet facilities and KSRTC buses. He also cautioned pilgrims suffering with comorbidities to take the journey only after a health check up. (with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sabarimala-25-000-jabbed-devotees-daily-negative-rtpcr-valid-details-here-101633621326207.html
07-10-2021||India||BJP leaders, their sons think this is the way to deal with farm stir: Rahul Gandhi||As Haryana farmers on Thursday claimed that protesters have been hit by BJP MP Nayab Saini's convoy in Naraingarh near Ambala, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said BJP leaders and their sons think this is the way to deal with the protesting farmers -- crushing them by the car.The alleged incident in Haryana comes only days after eight were killed in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday after Union minister's car mowed down a few protesters and violence ensued. Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi and other Congress leaders visited Lakhimpur Kheri on Wednesday and met the families of the deceased. The Congress on Thursday submitted a memorandum to UP governor demanding the arrest of the accused in the incident. भाजपा नेताओं और उनके बेटों को लगने लगा है कि कृषि आंदोलन से निबटने के लिए किसानों को गाड़ियों से कुचल देना चाहिए। pic.twitter.com/m6mB02IeFlThe Lakhimpur Kheri violence led to national outrage as one of the accused in the incident is Ashish Mishra, the son of Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni. Ajay Mishra, the junior minister of the home department, met Union minister Amit Shah on Wednesday. No action has been taken so far against either the minister or the son.The Uttar Pradesh police on Thursday arrested two in connection with the violence and asked the minister's son to appear at the crime branch office on Friday.Earlier on Thursday, the Supreme Court termed the Lakhimpur Kheri incident as 'unfortunate and asked the UP government to submit a report on Friday informing how many arrests have been made in the case.Union minister Ajay Mishra has maintained his claim that his son was not there in the car. The minister claimed that the driver of the car lost balance after being attacked by protesters who were pelting stones. He admitted that some protesters came under the car as the car lost balance. However, a recent video that has now come to thesurface claims that there was no attack on any car. The video shows a car ramming a group of peaceful protesters at a very high speed.The Haryana incident, which Rahul Gandhi referred to in his tweet, is under investigation, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leaders-their-sons-think-this-is-the-way-to-deal-farm-stir-rahul-gandhi-101633621524403.html
07-10-2021||India||India hopeful of resolving vaccine certification row with UK||India said on Thursday it is hopeful of finding a solution to a vaccine certification row with the UK that has resulted in British nationals facing a 10-day mandatory quarantine on arrival even if they are fully vaccinated.“Discussions are ongoing and we remain hopeful that some solution may emerge,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said.He described Britain’s travel restrictions on Indian nationals with valid vaccine certificates as “clearly discriminatory” and said measures imposed by the UK from October 4 were “not right”.He added, “We took up the issue with the UK at various levels but without success.”Once the British travel rules came into force on October 4, India imposed “reciprocal measures” that apply only to UK nationals arriving in India from Britain.The reciprocal measures put in place by India marked an escalation in the vaccine certification row between the two sides. The measures kicked in as the UK government didn’t make a call on accepting India’s vaccine certification more than 10 days after the conclusion of technical discussions between the two sides.The row erupted because Indians travelling to the UK have to undergo 10-day quarantine under new British rules. The British government’s failure to recognise Covishield, an Indian version of the Britain’s AstraZeneca jab, had also given rise to allegations of vaccine racism.The UK subsequently included Covishield in its list of approved vaccines, but the process for accepting India’s vaccine certification is expected to take longer.The mandatory quarantine by UK nationals has to be done at home or at the destination address.All UK nationals travelling to India will also have to undergo a pre-departure Covid-19 RT-PCR test within 72 hours before travel, another RT-PCR test on arrival at the airport, and a third RT-PCR test on the eighth day after arrival.People familiar with developments said the British side is considering the issue and a resolution is expected soon. The British high commission spokesperson has said the UK is continuing to work on expanding its travel policy to countries and territories in a phased approach. “We are continuing to engage with the government of India on technical cooperation to expand UK recognition of vaccine certification to people vaccinated by a relevant public health body in India,” the spokesperson said. Britain’s decisions on vaccine recognition are made by ministers after taking into account public health factors. The UK is looking at ways for people who have been fully vaccinated elsewhere to enter the country. Visa applications from all categories of Indian travellers continue to be processed and they don’t need to be vaccinated to travel to the UK.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-hopeful-of-resolving-vaccine-certification-row-with-uk-101633621623764.html
07-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: India condemns targeted killing of civilians in J&K and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India condemns targeted killing of civilians in Jammu and KashmirIndia on Thursday strongly condemned the “targeted killing” of civilians in Jammu and Kashmir, saying the attacks reflected its concerns about cross-border terrorism emanating from Pakistan. The principal and a teacher of a government school in Eidgah area of Srinagar were gunned down by unidentified armed men on Thursday, taking the toll from targeted attacks on civilians in Kashmir since Tuesday to five. [Read more…]Vandalism at Kabul gurdwara concern for India and world community: MEAIndia on Thursday said the vandalisation of a gurdwara in Kabul by armed men is a matter of concern and the world community must insist on the protection of the human rights of all segments of Afghan society. Suspected Taliban fighters entered the Gurdwara Karte Parwan on October 5, tied up guards and destroyed CCTV cameras. [Read more…]Double vaccination mandatory to take part in Durga puja rituals, says Calcutta HCThe Calcutta high court on Monday relaxed some of the curbs on Durga Puja festivities while allowing local residents to take part in puja rituals, such as pushpanjali and sindur khela, provided they were fully vaccinated. The court has already banned the entry of visitors in the puja pandals. [Read more…]First LUH military variant to make maiden test flight next AugustAfter wrapping up rigorous flight testing of prototype helicopters in challenging conditions, state-run plane maker Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) has set August 2022 as the deadline for carrying out the maiden test flight of the first chopper in the indigenous light utility helicopter (LUH) limited series production, senior officials familiar with the development said on Thursday. [Read more…]Classy KL Rahul misses ton, eases Punjab Kings to win over Chennai Super KingsA stand-out innings from Punjab Kings skipper KL Rahul, who smashed an astonishing 42-ball 98*, proved the difference against Chennai Super Kings in the first of two double-headers on Thursday. PK’s six-wicket victory in 13 overs brought them up to fifth on the points table and dropped CSK down to third, giving Royal Challengers Bangalore an outside chance to finish in the top two if they can win handsomely against toppers Delhi Capitals on Friday. [Read more…]Navjot Singh Sidhu fumes after UP cops stop him from visiting Lakhimpur KheriPunjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, who was en route to Lakhimpur Kheri along with party workers and supporters, was detained by Uttar Pradesh Police in Saharanpur on Thursday. Sidhu, along with others, has been detained at Yamuna Nagar (Haryana) - Saharanpur (UP) border. Fuming at UP police, Sidhu said, “Why has the government not arrested Ashish Mishra? Is the Minister's son above the law? Arrest Mishra." [Watch the full video here]Suhana Khan reacts to Hrithik Roshan's open letter for Aryan KhanShah Rukh Khan's daughter Suhana Khan has reacted to Hrithik Roshan's open letter in support of her brother Aryan Khan. On Thursday, the actor took to Instagram and penned a letter addressed to Aryan. In the letter, Hrithik sympathised with Aryan and extended his support after the 23-year-old was arrested in a drugs-related case. [Read more…]Xiaomi 11 Lite NE vs Samsung Galaxy M52 5G: Which SD 778G phone is better?The Xiaomi 11 Lite NE 5G sparked off a slew of launches in the midrange smartphone segment (between ₹25,000 – ₹30,000). This phone marked Xiaomi’s second outing where the company was less concerned about packing high-end specs and more about how the end user experience. This was despite packing a 5G Snapdragon 778G chip and a display with support for Dolby Vision. And, it starts at ₹26,999 only. [Read more…]World Egg Day: Know the health benefits of eating eggs every dayA protein powerhouse and loaded with 13 different vitamins & minerals, omega-3 fatty acids and antioxidants, eggs are a popular breakfast choice not without a reason. Health studies show that eating eggs in breakfast not only makes you feel full for long, it also helps maintain healthy blood sugar and insulin levels. [Read more…]||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-india-condemns-targeted-killing-of-civilians-in-j-k-and-all-the-latest-news-101633617804150.html
07-10-2021||India||First LUH military variant to make maiden test flight next August||After wrapping up rigorous flight testing of prototype helicopters in challenging conditions, state-run plane maker Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) has set August 2022 as the deadline for carrying out the maiden test flight of the first chopper in the indigenous light utility helicopter (LUH) limited series production, senior officials familiar with the development said on Thursday. LUH will replace the army and the Indian Air Force’s ageing fleets of Cheetah and Chetak helicopters whose safety record has been blemished by a string of crashes --- two army pilots were killed last month in the latest Cheetah crash near Patnitop in Jammu and Kashmir. Around 15 Cheetah and Chetak helicopters have crashed during the last 10 years killing several pilots. Chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat (then a lieutenant general) survived a Cheetah crash in Dimapur on February 3, 2015. “The first test flight of the LUH in the limited series production (LSP) will be carried out next August, in the 75th year of the country’s independence. HAL is on the verge of getting an order for 12 LUHs --- six each for the army and IAF,” said one of the officials cited above. At his annual press conference on October 5, IAF chief Air Chief Marshal Vivek Ram Chaudhari said the air force would soon place an order for six LUHs. The design of the Cheetah and Chetak helicopters is more than 50 years old, and their airworthiness was questioned once again after the Patnitop crash. HAL expects the army and IAF to place combined orders for at least 187 light helicopters in the coming years (126 for the army and 61 for IAF). “All trials on the four LUH prototypes are over. The last set of trials to establish LUH’s extra manoeuvrability concluded in Ladakh this week. The army and IAF wanted some changes and LUH performed much better than expected,” said a second official. HAL is expected to deliver the first set of LUHs to the two services in two to three years of the signing of the contract. Subsequent orders will be executed at a faster pace as LUH production will also begin at HAL’s new helicopter factory in Tumakuru in Karnataka. LUH’s first test flight will be carried out from the Tumakuru facility. The Bengaluru and Tumakuru facilities will be capable of rolling out 100 light helicopters every year, the second official added. “The Cheetah and Chetak replacement has been long overdue. They were designed in the 1960s. LUH has proved its capabilities in multiple rounds of trials in extreme conditions in the northern sector. It’s quite an achievement in indigenous helicopter manufacturing,” said Air Marshal Anil Chopra (retd), director general, Centre for Air Power Studies. Currently, the Cheetah and Chetak helicopters are a critical lifeline for troops in high-altitude areas, including the Siachen glacier. HAL has licence-produced 625 Cheetah and Chetak helicopters. It no longer builds them but is responsible for their maintenance and repair. The Army Aviation director general Lieutenant General AK Suri on Thursday visited aviation squadrons in forward areas including Leh and flew a test sortie in LUH whose trials have been successfully completed, the Udhampur-based Northern Command said. India is also looking at jointly building with Russia the Kamov-226T light helicopters in the country. The Kamovs are also expected to replace the Cheetah and Chetak helicopters. However, the $1-billion programme under which Russia will supply 60 helicopters in flyaway condition and the remaining 140 will be manufactured in India is yet to kick off. The army, IAF and navy together need around 500 light helicopters. HAL is also awaiting a contract from the defence ministry for 15 light combat helicopters (LCHs) and expects follow-on orders as the army band IAF have a combined projected requirement of 160 LCHs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-luh-military-variant-to-make-maiden-test-flight-next-august-101633618863623.html
07-10-2021||India||Why Aryan Khan was not granted bail today? Why NCB was denied custody? All you need to know||Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan was not granted bail on Thursday after the court heard all the parties in a hearing that went on for hours and sent all eight to 14-day judicial custody. Aryan Khan's interim bail plea will be heard tomorrow. Aryan Khan and the other seven arrested in the case will spend tonight at the NCB office as their RT-PCR test will be done before his judicial custody begins. The case that was before the court today was a collective one for all the eight arrested. The interim bail plea that will be heard tomorrow pertains to only Aryan Khan and he might be given bail as no drugs were found on him, reports said. On Thursday, the court heard the Narcotics Control Bureau and all the lawyers of the arrested eight people. In its order, the court said that no custodial interrogation is required as sufficient time was already granted for investigation.No bail for Aryan Khan, sent to 14-day judicial custody in cruise rave party caseWhat NCB saidThe Narcotics Control Bureau sought custody of all the eight arrested and said their custody is required as they will have to be confronted with each other. Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh said that the main supplier has been intercepted.1. The custody of Aryan Khan and 7 others was required to make them confront Achit Kumar who was named by Aryan Khan and Arbaaz Merchant as the supplier.2. Satish Maneshinde (Aryan Khan's lawyer) argued as if no one knows anyone. It is not right to claim that these eight are not connected.3. Considering the seriousness of the crime further custody is required. The investigation is at an imminent stage and the accused are required to be confronted.4. Question of these persons at one spot where drugs are found cannot be ignored, the NCB said.5. Achit, who has been arrested and sent to NCB custody, is part of a racket, the NCB said.What Aryan Khan's lawyer Satish Maneshinde said1. There is no need for custody as Aryan Khan can be called anytime to be confronted with Achit, the dealer. Also, the agency had enough time to do so as the arrested were in NCB custody only.2. The investigation has not progressed much in the past few days and Aryan Khan has not been interrogated by NCB officials in the past two days.3. Aryan Khan and Arbaaz Merchant are friends but they did not plan to attend the party together.4. Aryan Khan can be held hostage because the NCB wants to reach the main culprit.5. Just knowing a person does not mean that one had dealt with him, Aryan Khan's lawyer said in connection with Aryan Khan knowing Achit.The court found NCB's custody plea weak and said that the agency had enough time to confront the arrested with those who have been arrested afterwards. Hence, the NCB was denied custody and all the arrested have been sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-aryan-khan-was-not-granted-bail-today-why-ncb-was-denied-custody-101633617203822.html
07-10-2021||India||India condemns targeted killing of civilians in Jammu and Kashmir||India on Thursday strongly condemned the “targeted killing” of civilians in Jammu and Kashmir, saying the attacks reflected its concerns about cross-border terrorism emanating from Pakistan.“We strongly condemn the targeted killing of civilians. We are concerned about cross-border terrorism from Pakistan,” said external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi. “We discuss cross-border terrorism at meetings with our partners and what steps the international community should take,” he said at a regular media briefing.The principal and a teacher of a government school in Eidgah area of Srinagar were gunned down by unidentified armed men on Thursday, taking the toll from targeted attacks on civilians in Kashmir since Tuesday to five. On Tuesday, Makhan Lal Bindroo, a well-known pharmacy owner, was killed in Srinagar by terrorists.India has for long blamed Pakistan for supporting, training and arming terrorists operating in Jammu and Kashmir, a charge denied by Islamabad. Relations between the two countries continue to be strained despite their fresh commitment to a ceasefire on the Line of Control (LoC) in Kashmir in February following several months of back channel contacts between senior intelligence officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-condemns-targeted-killing-of-civilians-in-jammu-and-kashmir-101633617723940.html
07-10-2021||India||Over 60 districts in India still have high Covid positivity rate; 14 in Kerala||As many as 62 districts in India still have a high coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infection rate, joint secretary of the Union ministry of health and family welfare Lav Agarwal said on Thursday at a press briefing.These districts are from a total of 15 states and Union territories, including in Kerala and Maharashtra — two of the five states that are contributing to most of the fresh cases in the country.According to data by the Union health ministry, 23 districts have a weekly positivity rate between 5% and 10%, while there are 34 districts where the rate is more than 10%.Of the 23 districts, as many as seven are from Arunachal Pradesh, followed by five in Assam, and three each in Himachal Pradesh and Manipur, among others. One of these 23 districts is Kolkata, capital of West Bengal, and Kasaragod in Kerala.Also Read | Double vaccination mandatory to take part in Durga puja rituals, says Calcutta HCMeanwhile, of the 34 districts, Kerala accounts for 13, followed by Mizoram at seven, Sikkim at four, and three each in Meghalaya and Manipur, among others. “There is a need to consistently work for bringing down the case positivity rate in these 34 districts,” Agarwal said. “It is important to understand that the fear of infection still persists in the country,” he noted during the press briefing, adding that to a large extent and in several regions of India, it is being presumed that the dip in active case count means “Covid-19 is over.”Agarwal cautioned against showing any laxity, and said that there are “not one or two but many states,” which still have a high weekly case positivity rate.During the press briefing, the Centre emphasised that although India’s declining Covid-19 graph may “give comfort,” the challenge is not over yet.“While weekly positivity was 21.48% during the second wave, it is now 1.68%,” Agarwal said, adding that citizens need to remain alert during October, November and December.India on Thursday reported 22,431 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the overall tally of the country to 3,38,94,312, according to data by the Union health ministry’s bulletin. With 24,602 new recoveries lodged, the number of recovered patients stands at 3,32,00,258. The recovery rate stands at 97.95% – the highest since the pandemic struck the country. The weekly positivity rate for the overall Covid-19 cases tally stands at 1.68%, remaining below 3% for the past 104 days. On the other hand, the death toll stands at 449,856 with the addition of 318 fresh fatalities on Thursday.Meanwhile, the nationwide vaccination coverage against Covid-19 has surpassed the 92-crore mark, and is nearing the 1 billion target that the Centre has its eyes on. According to the CoWin portal, more than 47 lakh people have been administered Covid-19 vaccines on Thursday till the time of writing this report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-60-districts-in-india-still-have-high-covid-positivity-rate-14-in-kerala-101633616611849.html
07-10-2021||India||Double vaccination mandatory to take part in Durga puja rituals, says Calcutta HC||The Calcutta high court on Monday relaxed some of the curbs on Durga Puja festivities while allowing local residents to take part in puja rituals, such as pushpanjali and sindur khela, provided they were fully vaccinated. “The court said that local residents, who have already received their double doses, may take part in puja activities such as sindur khela and pushpanjali. The certificates of double vaccination would have to be submitted to the organisers. Police would conduct spot verification. All other curbs imposed by the court in its earliest order remain the same,” said Sabyasachi Chatterjee, advocate. The court has already banned the entry of visitors in the puja pandals. A cap has also been put on the number of organisers who can enter the pandals at one go – while for a bigger puja the number is 60, for a small puja the number is 15. The puja committees need to put up barricades - 10 metres away from the outer end of the big pandal and five metres away from the outer end of the smaller pujas – to make the pandals a no-entry zone for visitors. This is the second year that the Durga Puja would be held in a muted manner because of the high court orders to check the spread of Covid-19. Last year the court had banned pushpanjali and sindur khela. Joint teams comprising senior officers of the Kolkata Police, fire brigade department and the power supply corporation among others have been visiting some of the biggest puja pandals to check if the court directions were being followed. At least 36,000 community pujas are held across the state, while in Kolkata alone 2,500 community pujas are held by various clubs. These are just the clubs that are registered with the state government. This apart there are pujas held in housing societies and residences. There are around 1,500 pujas which are organised by women only. Durga Puja is the biggest annual festival in West Bengal. Even though the five-day-long Durga Puja starts this year from October 11, the festivity starts much before and it extends for more than a week every year. The immersion process will start on October 15 and continue till October 17. The state government has cancelled the puja carnival during the immersion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/double-vaccination-mandatory-to-take-part-in-durga-puja-rituals-says-calcutta-hc-101633616823677.html
07-10-2021||India||Vandalism at Kabul gurdwara concern for India and world community: MEA||India on Thursday said the vandalisation of a gurdwara in Kabul by armed men is a matter of concern and the world community must insist on the protection of the human rights of all segments of Afghan society. Suspected Taliban fighters entered the Gurdwara Karte Parwan on October 5, tied up guards and destroyed CCTV cameras. The men also briefly occupied the building, smashed several locks and conducted a search, triggering concerns within the Sikh minority. “The reports of vandalism and intolerance raise concerns not just for us, but across the world,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told a regular news briefing. “It is important that the international community continues to insist on the fulfilment of goals outlined in the UN Security Council resolution 2593,” he said.He was referring to a Security Council resolution adopted on August 30, when India held the rotational presidency of the UN body.He said the resolution guides the world community’s collective approach towards Afghanistan, and states that all countries should ensure that Afghan territory isn’t used for terrorism and that the rights of all Afghans, including women and minorities, are protected.The resolution also encourages all parties to seek an inclusive and negotiated settlement in Afghanistan, he said. Bagchi said the regional security situation, including Afghanistan, had figured in US deputy secretary of state Wendy Sherman’s talks with her Indian interlocutors on Wednesday.“We highlighted our perspective on the role of Pakistan and what our concerns are regarding that,” he said.In response to several questions, Bagchi said the issue of resumption of commercial flights to Afghanistan for the evacuation of Indian nationals and return of Afghan citizens is a sensitive issue. The visas of Afghan citizens stuck in India, facing problems for their return, are being automatically extended, he said.He further said India is yet to decide on the level of its participation in a meeting on Afghanistan convened by the G20 on October 12. He added that there was no information about India being extended any invitation for a meeting on Afghanistan being organised by Russia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vandalism-at-kabul-gurdwara-concern-for-india-and-world-communitymea-101633616403600.html
07-10-2021||India||Post-Covid world order offers new opportunities: IT min at US-India biz summit||Rajeev Chandrasekhar, minister of state for electronics and IT, skill development and entrepreneurship, attended the India Ideas Summit organised by US - India Business Council (USIBC) and spoke on creating manufacturing economies.In his opening remarks, Chandrasekhar mentioned about the progress of world’s largest technology driven vaccination programme (Covid-19) that is currently underway in India. He highlighted the remarkable feat of vaccinating 930 million people and affirmed that the target of vaccinating 1.3 billion people by December shall be met shortly.He credited the success of this programme to the vision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who emphasized upon leveraging Information technology for running the largest ever vaccination Campaign. Fast track Development of platform like Cowin, has not just provided a strong backbone to this campaign but also acted as a tool for empowering people now various governments are looking forward to use it. He summarised it as a symbol of new India which is fast emerging under the leadership of PM Modi.Speaking about the impact of Covid pandemic on digital economy and the road map ahead, Chandrasekhar informed that “The Post COVID world order offers new opportunities to India as the world now looks towards new trusted Global Value chains”. He termed it as a “Y2K type moment”, an inflection point, for the tech Industry in India. He added that the rate of digitization across the globe is increasing at a fast pace and India alone has around 800 million users connected on to the internet. This number is bound to cross the 1 billion mark soon as the Narendra Modi Government aims to achieve universal internet coverage. This shall increase the demand for digital products and services and hence boost the digital economy.Emphasising upon the important roles of both the ministries he is entrusted with, Chandrasekhar remarked –“Ministry of Electronics and IT as well as Skill Development have a critical role to play as India looks to expand to 1 Trillion Dollar Digital economy over the next 5 years.”On electronics manufacturing, he mentioned that the government is working on a policy roadmap to develop the overall semi conductors and electronics system design and manufacturing ecosystem that shall position India as a major player in this sector. “We expect to grow this space through policy action “ he added.Interacting with Virat Bhatia, Managing Director, Apple India, who was moderating the session, Chandrasekhar also informed about the openness that the government has towards consultation with both private and public stakeholders in its policy formulation process. “Consultative approach to policy making is in the DNA of our government. Every policy is driven by twin benefits of consumer’s ease of living and ease of doing business” he added. He assured all the representatives and members of USIBC that “We are open to consultations. We are open to engage with people. We are setting up advisory groups at MeitY bringing all stakeholders – academia, industry, together to guide us through.”Speaking about the imminent need of skilled persons, he mentioned that the rapid pace of digitization has increased the demand for digital services which has outpaced capacity, leading to an interim shortage of skilled persons. He mentioned that the “ PM has given us a mandate that India should emerge as the skill capital of India”. He also informed that a new approach towards skilling is being worked out with greater impetus on traditional and heritage skills, tighter industry linkage, employability etc so that there is a continuous runway of skilling and upskilling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/postcovid-world-order-offers-new-opportunities-it-min-at-us-india-biz-summit-101633614916093.html
07-10-2021||India||Health ministry flags five states for high number of active Covid-19 cases||The Union health and family welfare ministry said on Thursday that India’s efforts to combat the Covid-19 pandemic is ongoing, insisting that “to some extent, we say that we haven't controlled the second wave of Covid”. The ministry also listed five states — Kerala, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Mizoram and — Karnataka for having a high number of active cases. States were also urged to exercise caution and be “watchful” during the months of October, November, and December.Read on to find out more about the Covid-19 scenario in these five statesKerala: The southern state reported 12,616 new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the state’s tally of cases to 47,51,434. Among the 14 districts in the state, Ernakulam (1,932) contributed the highest number of cases, followed by Thiruvananthapuram (1,703), Kozhikode (1,265), Thrissur (1,110) and Malappuram (931). Kerala’s daily tally of Covid-19 cases have been declining since reporting 30,000-plus cases in August after Onam festivities ended. However, the state continues to contribute the most number of cases to India’s daily tally, with about 56% cases being reported from Kerala on Thursday.Maharashtra: The western state recorded 2,876 cases of Covid-19 in the past 24 hours. The total number of cases recorded till date now stands at 65,67,791. Capital city Mumbai recorded 624 cases, the highest single-day spike since July 14. The financial capital’s numbers went up just a day before religious places were scheduled to be opened all over the state as part of the government’s phased relaxation of Covid-19 restrictions. The Mumbai civic body has banned religious congregations and Garba celebrations all over the city in view of the ongoing pandemic.Tamil Nadu: The state reported 1,432 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the caseload to 26,72,843. In the last 24 hours 25 fatalities and 1,519 recoveries have also been recorded. The number of recoveries have continued to eclipse the daily spike in Tamil Nadu. Chennai accounted for the most number of infections (176), followed by Coimbatore (149) and Chengalpet (110). The state government has extended existing Covid-19 preventative measures in the state till October 31, and announced that schools will be allowed to open for physical classes for students of grades 1 to 8 from November 1.Mizoram: The north eastern state reported 1,302 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, recording a slight decline from the 1,471 cases the state had reported on Wednesday. Of the 1,302 found to be infected with Covid-19 in the past 24 hours, 263 are children, and seven have a travel history, and 38 are inmates at Kolasib district prison, news agency PTI reported. Aizawl district registered the highest number of fresh infections at 728, followed by Lunglei (147) and Champhai (113). Mizoram also recorded six fatalities, and as of Thursday the single-day Covid-19 positivity rate in the state stands at 13.35%.Karnataka: The state recorded 523 new cases of Covid-19 and nine fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 29,79,331 and the toll to 37,854. Total number of single-day recoveries stood at 621, outnumbering the daily tally of cases. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 12,47,664, followed by Mysuru 1,78,298 and Tumakuru 1,20,357. District administration have claimed that the Udupi and Bengaluru Urban have achieved 100% first dose vaccination rates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-ministry-flags-five-states-for-high-number-of-active-covid-19-cases-101633611886966.html
07-10-2021||India||No bail for Aryan Khan, sent to 14-day judicial custody in cruise rave party case||Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan was denied bail in the cruise rave party case, as the metropolitan magistrate court on Thursday sent Aryan and seven others arrested with him to 14-day judicial custody. Aryan Khan's lawyer Satish Maneshinde filed an application for an interim bail soon after the verdict, which will be heard on Friday. Aryan Khan and seven other accused will be spending the night at NCB office as jail requires compulsory RT-PCR reports and vaccine details before admitting the inmates. The Narcotics Control Bureau sought the custody of the arrested till October 11 claiming that the agency is making progress in the investigation and had recently arrested Achit and a foreign national in connection with the case. The lawyers of the arrested individually countered NCB's plea and made it clear that the investigation has not progressed much.'Longest in custody': 5 points Aryan Khan said in court through lawyerThe court in its verdict rejected NCB's plea for custody and decided in favour of judicial custody. “As per the submissions made by the prosecution, they want to confront Aryan Khan and Arbaaz Merchant with Achit Kumar who was arrested recently. I don't do not want to go into that aspect and discuss the fact that why despite a statement given on the first day itself, they arrested Achit now…Each remand cannot be given NCB custody going through the investigations. Considering of the past custody given. No custodial interrogation is required as sufficient time was given to the agency,” the verdict said. Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh who appeared from the NCB said the agency has made progress in the present case as it has intercepted organisers, suppliers named by the accused. Praying for an extension of the custody of the eight, including Aryan Khan, the Singh said the extension of their custody is needed to establish the entire operation of the gang.One Achit Kumar who was arrested by the NCB in the same case has been sent to NCB custody till October 9. Achit was named as the supplier by Aryan Khan and Arbaaz Merchant and the NCB sought his custody to probe into the drug case further.Contesting the prayer of the NCB that the custody of Aryan Khan and others need to be extended so that they can be confronted with Achit Kumar, Aryan's lawyer Satish Maneshinde asked the NCB why it has not been done so far. "If they have arrested someone (Achit) based on my statement, any senior officer will make him confront with me on the first day to ascertain if there is any association," Maneshinde said."The question of confronting me with someone cannot be the only ground to remand me to custody. Now they have arrested cruise organisers. Now conspiracy will be if I have any association with anyone else on the ship," Maneshinde said on behalf of Aryan Khan.Aryan Khan's lawyer also contested that the NCB does not require his client's custody as Aryan Khan was not interrogated in the last two days that he spent at NCB custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aryan-khan-bail-cruise-rave-party-case-shah-rukh-khan-satish-maneshinde-live-101633605534726.html
07-10-2021||India||UP govt stops Jharkhand Congress workers heading to Lakhimpur Kheri at border||Congress workers led by Jharkhand unit chief Rajesh Thakur who left for Lakhimpur Kheri on Wednesday night were stopped by the Uttar Pradesh administration at the state border leading to a six-hour sit-in on the road by the party workers in protest. Scores of party leaders and workers that included state ministers Banna Gupta and Badal Patralekh besides legislators and other office-bearers and workers were denied entry by the UP administration, with the state police having barricaded the highway on the Wyndhmganj-Garhwa border. The UP administration stopped the Congress party contingent from entering the state at around 3 am on Thursday. “We were going to Lakhimpur Kheri to support the farmers and strengthen the protest being led by our leaders Priyanka Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi. The Uttar Pradesh government did not allow us entry despite the fact that two state ministers were part of the contingent and we had informed the UP government on Wednesday of our plans. And the policemen who were at the border had no clue what to do and why they were stopping us,” said Jharkhand Congress president Rajesh Thakur. “The Yogi government and the BJP want to subvert democracy by using the brute force of the police but we will not budge. We will chalk out our plans again and reach Lucknow and Lakhimpur Kheri whenever required,” he added. The state Congress president led his workers back to the Jharkhand capital-- Ranchi after protesting for around six hours at the border. Others who attended the protest included party working president and legislator Bandu Tirkey, working president Shahzada Anwar, spokespersons Rajiv Ranjan Prasad and Kumar Raja. Reacting to the development, the BJP described it as ‘political tourism’ of the Congress ministers.“State agriculture minister Badal Patralekh is very concerned about farmers in Uttar Pradesh, but he is not bothered about dues to farmers against paddy procurement and black marketing of fertilisers in Jharkhand,” Jharkhand BJP general secretary Aditya Sahu told reporters last evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-govt-stops-jharkhand-congress-workers-heading-to-lakhimpur-kheri-at-border-101633613223357.html
07-10-2021||India||India to grant tourist visas to foreigners coming via chartered flights from Oct 15||India will begin granting fresh tourist visas to foreigners who enter the country via chartered flights starting from October 15, the government said on Thursday. It will also allow foreign tourists to enter the country by flights other than chartered aircraft from November 15 onwards.“MHA has decided to begin granting fresh tourist visas for foreigners coming to India through chartered flights with effect from October 15. Foreign tourists entering into India by flights other than chartered aircraft would be able to do so from November 15 on fresh tourist visas,” the government said in a statement.The government said that the decision was taken based on recommendations from state governments as well as stakeholders from the tourism industry. The stakeholders from the tourism industry highlighted the need of issuing tourist visas to foreign travellers. The home ministry also discussed the issue with state governments who earn revenues from tourism and who expect high footfall from foreigners. It also held consultations with the Union ministry of health and family welfare, the Union ministry of external affairs, the Union ministry of civil aviation and the Union ministry of tourism.The home ministry asked foreign tourists, air carriers and other stakeholders to ensure that all Covid-19 preventative measures are strictly followed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-grant-tourist-visas-to-foreigners-coming-via-chartered-flights-from-oct-15-101633610770099.html
07-10-2021||India||Resumption of flights with Afghanistan complicated issue, says MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi||Ministry of external affairs (MEA) spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said on Thursday resumption of flights to Taliban-ruled Afghanistan was a complicated and sensitive issue.He said there were various factors that would have to be taken into account with taking a decision on the issue and at the moment, he had no update on the same.“I don't have any update on the resumption of the flights. It is a complicated and sensitive issue. There are various factors that need to be taken into account,” Bagchi was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also read | Kabul airport ready for international flights: Afghanistan civil aviation bodyThe MEA spokesperson’s comments came days after the civil aviation department of Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan, as the war-torn country is officially called by the Islamic militant group, wrote to the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) urging resumption of commercial flight operations to Kabul.ANI had earlier quoted a government source as saying the decision to resume commercial flights to Kabul was being jointly reviewed by the DGCA and MEA.On October 4, Afghanistan's civil aviation authority said Kabul airport was completely operational, domestic flights had started at the airport and the facility was ready for international flights to resume normal activity. According to local news agency ToloNews, a spokesperson for the country's civil aviation body said the department had written to neighbouring countries and the international community urging them to resume flights at the airport."Technically, there is no problem ahead of international flights. We are looking to find answers from neighbouring countries about whether they will start flights to Kabul airport or not. Currently, domestic flights are continuing," the agency quoted spokesperson Mohammad Naeem Salehi as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/resumption-of-flights-to-kabul-complicated-issue-says-mea-spokesperson-101633610661395.html
07-10-2021||India||Why Zydus Cadila vaccine rollout delayed? VK Paul points towards needle-free jet||The government is working on trainers and logistics issues as Zydus Cadila’s Covid-19 vaccine is not administered using a conventional syringe or a needle, the Union health ministry said on Thursday. Explaining the reason behind the delay in ZyCoV-D vaccine rollout, Dr VK Paul, Niti Aayog member (Health), told a media briefing that an applicator will be used for the first time in India to administer the Covid-19 shots.“Zydus Cadila vaccine is not administered using conventional syringe or a needle but through an applicator, which will be used for the first time in the country. We are working on the trainers and its logistic issues,” Paul said.In August, Zydus Cadila received the emergency use authorisation from the drug controller general of India (DCGI) for its Covid vaccine ZyCoV-D. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had also announced the world’s first plasmid DNA vaccine for Covid-19 at the 76th UN General Assembly session but didn’t declare any specific timeline for its rollout under the national vaccination programme.Also Read | Centre okays Covid vaccination at home for people with special needsSpeaking to news agency ANI, Paul said that preparations to introduce the ZyCoV-D vaccine are underway, without giving a specific date for the rollout. “Preparations are underway to introduce the Zydus Cadila's COVID vaccine under the national vaccination programme. It is only a matter of a short period of time,” the Niti Aayog member said.The vaccine will be administered in three doses using a painless needle-free jet, as against the other two-dose regimen vaccines currently under the national vaccination programme administered using syringe. For the first time in India, the vaccine will also be administered to adolescents in the age group of 12-18 years.The vaccine contains genetic material from the virus, instructing the body to generate the specific spike protein that the immune system responds to. The vaccine has shown 66.6% efficacy in preventing the infection, with greater efficacy in protecting against moderate and severe cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-zydus-cadila-vaccine-rollout-delayed-vk-paul-points-towards-needle-free-jet-101633609336151.html
07-10-2021||India||'Longest in custody': 5 points Aryan Khan said in court through lawyer||Aryan Khan's lawyer Satish Maneshinde on Thursday said the investigation into the cruise rave party in connection with which his client has been arrested has not actually progressed from 6 gram of charas seized from Arbaaz to 2.6 gram of ganja seized from Arbaaz Merchant and Achit, respectively. The Narcotics Control Bureau on Thursday appealed for an extension of the custody of the eight arrested in the case to October 11 claiming that the agency is widening the probe and new revelations are being made every day. In particular, it mentioned the arrest of Achit, who was named as the supplier by both Aryan Khan and Arbaaz Merchant. The agency said that it needs the custody of the arrested to crosscheck with Achit's statement.Aryan Khan produced at court for bail hearing, NCB seeks custody till October 11‘No progress in investigation’Aryan Khan through his lawyer Maneshinde said that there has been no progress in the investigation though they are in custody since October 2. “I readily agreed to one-day remand first. In the second remand, they asked for seven days of custody. We were thinking the investigation will progress but nothing has happened,” Maneshinder said. ‘Called for glamour probably’“I was called by a friend called Pratik Gaba who had co-ordinated and invited me. I don't know anybody else. I was called probably for glamour as I am from Bollywood,” Aryan Khan said explaining why he attended the party.Aryan Khan arrest: Nawab Malik releases new videos, questions Wankhede‘Chats with Pratik has no mention of rave party’“There are series of chats between me and Pratik and none talks of rave party of consumption of drugs when we talk about the cruise event. Pratik is also a friend of Arbaaz and Arbaaz was invited by Pratik. I didn't cooperate with it,” Maneshinde said on behalf of Aryan.‘Me and Arbaaz were not together’Though Aryan and Arbaaz Merchant are friends, they did not attend the party together, Aryan claimed. “I reached the gate I saw Arbaaz as we knew each other so we spoke. There we meet NCB Officers. NCB officers asked me if I was carrying drugs. I said no. They searched me and found nothing. Later, they searched Arbaaz and I was asked to come to NCB Office. Arbaaz is a friend of mine, I don't deny friendship. He himself has said he came all alone to the spot. We didn't coordinate to come to the ship. I wasn't aware he is even coming,” Aryan said explaining how both of them were there at the rave party. ‘Longest in custody’“Achit is the only person they want to confront with me now they could have done yesterday. They can do it anytime. I am available, even later. They have everything from me, now, phone, chats. They have not interrogated me for the last two nights.  They want to reach the main accused but they can't keep me in custody till then. I haven't seen the head of the cartel. We have been longest in the custody. NCB investigation has not progressed from 6 grams of Charas seized from Arbaaz to 2.6 grams of ganja seized from Achit,” Maneshinde said on behalf of Aryan Khan. Aryan Khan, Arbaaz Merchant, Munmun Dhamecha, Nupur Satija, Ishmeet Singh, Mohak Jaswal, Vikrant Chhoker, Gomit Chopra were arrested by the NCB on October 3 following the NCB's raid on a cruise party. On October 4, they were refused bail for the sake of investigation into the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/longest-in-custody-5-points-aryan-khan-said-in-court-through-lawyer-101633608521918.html
07-10-2021||India||Former model held in hit-and-run case in Guwahati remanded to police custody||A former model arrested for injuring nine people with her vehicle in an accident in Guwahati last week was on Thursday remanded to police custody by a city court. Rejecting her bail application, the court of chief judicial magistrate Abhijeet Kumar Baruah remanded Rajkanya Baruah, a former model and Femina Miss India finalist, to a day’s police custody. Guwahati police had sought five days police custody of the former model. The court also directed the police to cancel the driving license of Baruah, who had knocked down nine persons with her car on the early hours of October 2 during Covid-19 curfew. She was arrested on Wednesday from a private hospital in Guwahati in connection with a new case after a medical board ruled out “any serious or acute condition that warranted her to be admitted into a hospital”. “There are two cases that have been registered against Baruah now. She managed to get bail in the first case registered after the accident. We have added two new charges under sections 308 and 326 of IPC to that case,” informed Subhrajyoti Bora, DCP (East), Guwahati. The new charges are for culpable homicide not amounting to murder and voluntarily throwing or attempting to throw acid. Earlier, the police had slapped charges of causing injury due to rash and negligent driving. “We have also registered a fresh case under sections 294, 325, 394, 427 and 506 of IPC against Baruah with regards to an alleged attack on one more person who is at present admitted in hospital. Both cases have been lodged at the Dispur police station in Guwahati,” said Bora. The new charges are for uttering obscene words in public place, voluntarily causing grievous hurt, voluntarily causing hurt, causing damage as part of mischief and criminal intimidation. The 29-year-old who reportedly works on cyber security issues and runs a luxury flower boutique was admitted in semi-intensive care unit (ICU) of the private hospital on Tuesday after getting summons from the police to join investigation. “After she was summoned, her mother wrote to police saying she is not well and can’t join investigation for two weeks. That’s why we requested Guwahati Medical College Hospital to probe her illness as we were also concerned about her well-being and it could affect the case as well,” Guwahati commissioner of police Harmeet Singh said on Wednesday. “We will look at all aspects of the case and will also ask the private hospital under what basis was she hospitalized. Our officers are conducting investigations,” he added. Eight of the injured persons were on their way to carry out some road repair works in connection with Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu’s visit to the city when the auto-van carrying them was hit by the car driven by Baruah. The accident took place during night curfew imposed due to Covid-19 and the former model was reportedly inebriated at that time. Both legs of another person, who was reportedly hit by Baruah’s car after hitting the vehicle carrying the labourers, had to be amputated. The incident as well as the bail granted to Baruah allegedly due to flimsy charges labelled against her led to a public outcry on social media forcing Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma to state that appropriate action would be initiated. Two police sub-inspectors from Dispur police station were ‘closed’ to the police reserve for allegedly slapping bailable charges on her and not adding provisions of Disaster Management Act in the charges for violating Covid-19 curfew. As per police, this is not the first time Baruah has come under police probe. In 2017, she had hit a former BJP MLA’s son with her car following a quarrel and a year later another case was lodged against her for hitting a policeman posted outside a bar. Both incidents took place in Guwahati.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-model-held-in-hit-and-run-case-in-guwahati-remanded-to-police-custody-101633608843498.html
07-10-2021||India||Mehbooba Mufti, J-K DGP condemn series of attacks on civilians||Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti on Thursday condemned the series of attacks carried out by terrorists on minorities in the Union Territory. The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) chief said that the security situation in the Valley was deteriorating.Mufti’s response came via a tweet after two teachers were killed on Thursday morning. “Disturbing to see the deteriorating situation in Kashmir where a minuscule minority is the latest target. The government of India's claims of building a Naya Kashmir has actually turned it into a hellhole. Its sole interest is to use Kashmir as a milch cow for its electoral interests,” Mufti tweeted.Junaid Azim Mattum, the mayor of Srinagar, expressed his condolences over the killing.Junaid said he was heartbroken and devastated after receiving the news of the killing of the school teachers in Eidgah. “No words can express my anger and anguish. My heart goes out to their families. I stand by them in this hour of grief and trauma. Inconsolable tragedy,” the Srinagar mayor tweeted.Two teachers, Supinder Kour, a resident of Alochi Bagh area, and Deepak Chand, a resident of Jammu, were shot dead when terrorists shot dead two school teachers at Sangam Eidgah. No students were present at the time of the killing. This comes two days after terrorists in three separate attacks killed a renowned pharmacy owner, a bhel puri seller and taxi stand worker in Srinagar. Of the five victims, four belonged to minority communities of Jammu and Kashmir. One of the victims who was killed on Thursday was a woman.Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha said that a befitting reply will be given to the terrorists. Jammu and Kashmir director general of police Dilbag Singh said that it is an attempt to defame Kashmiri Muslims, “These recent incidents of targeting civilians are to create an atmosphere of fear, communal disharmony here. This is a conspiracy to target local ethos, values and defame local Kashmiri muslims. This is being done on instructions from agencies in Pakistan,” Dilbag Singh was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mehbooba-mufti-j-k-dgp-condemn-series-of-attacks-on-civilians-101633608002230.html
07-10-2021||India||Congress opted to deal with Lakhimpur Kheri violence politically||A section of Congress leaders in Delhi and Uttar Pradesh prepared a three-point legal plan to take on the Uttar Pradesh government over the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri that left eight people dead on Sunday. But the party’s top leadership instead chose to deal with the issue politically and mount pressure on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the farmers’ plight, two Congress leaders aware of the matter said.The violence was triggered when a car ran over a group of farmers protesting against the three farm laws enacted last year. Local farmers have blame junior home minister Ajay Mishra Teni and his son Ashish Mishra for the violence. Farm groups say a Mahindra Thar owned by Mishra mowed down protesters from behind. The minister and his son have denied the charge. Some unverified videos of the incident have appeared to back the farmers’ version of the incident.The Congress leaders cited above the legal plan involved an appeal to the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), moving the Supreme Court for a monitored probe into the incident and challenging the imposition of Code of Criminal Procedure Section 144. The section bans the assembly of over four people and was cited to detain Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and prevent her from visiting Lakhimpur Kheri to meet the farmers killed there. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra eventually visited Lakhimpur Kheri on Wednesday along with Rahul Gandhi.“We even prepared the legal note,” said one of the two Congress leaders, requesting anonymity. The leader added leaders including both Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi instead decided to fight it politically.“So far, no mainstream Opposition party has gone to the NHRC to seek its intervention in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. But we had a plan. ...even within our own organisation, a section was sceptical...” said the second leader on condition of anonymity.The plan to move the court was kept in abeyance as the party felt that it was important for the Congress leaders to first reach Lakhimpur Kheri to step up pressure on Uttar Pradesh’s Yogi Adityanath government.“The state government has ordered a probe by a retired judge. Thus, at this stage, a fresh demand for a court-monitored probe was found unnecessary. But we can make a demand for a court-monitored probe at an appropriate time if we see the investigation is not progressing in the right direction.”Also Read: Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu taken into custody at UP borderWhen asked about the probe ordered by the government, Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday avoided a direct answer. “First of all, I want to go there and understand the matter and what is the ground reality. ...no one knows yet, first of all, we want to go and understand that...”A former Union minister, who was in touch with Priyanka Gandhi, communicated to other leaders involved that she too wants to continue the political fight. “Anyways, a sub judice matter can take away the political sheen,” said the second leader.Regarding challenging the imposition of Section 144, the first leader cited a 2020 Supreme Court order saying it cannot be applied to restrict citizens from assembling peacefully. “It cannot be a tool to prevent legitimate expression of grievance or exercise of any democratic rights.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-opted-to-deal-with-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-politically-101633608302994.html
07-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: India's Covid-19 graph plateauing, but challenge not over, says govt and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India's Covid-19 graph plateauing, but challenge not over yet: GovtThe government said on Thursday the country’s Covid-19 graph was plateauing even though about 20,000 fresh cases were being reported every day. Read MoreLakhimpur Kheri violence: 2 arrested, minister Ajay Mishra's son untraceableFour days after eight were killed in Lakhimpur Kheri after a minister's car allegedly ran over protesters, the UP police arrested two persons identified as Luvkush Rana and Ashish Pandey, while union minister of state Ajay Mishra Teni's son Ashish Mishra is still untraceable. Read MoreChina-US talks: Joe Biden, Xi Jinping likely to meet virtually before year-endTop Chinese and US diplomats have held talks which were constructive and conducive to enhancing mutual understanding in Zurich, paving the way for further talks in the future, the Chinese official media reported on Thursday. Read More‘Two new teams coming up’: MS Dhoni hints at ‘uncertainties’ about playing for CSK in next IPLMS Dhoni's statement at the toss mentioning the ‘uncertainties’ of him turning up for Chennai Super Kings(CSK) in the season of IPL gave rise to a whirlwind of speculations. Read MoreHrithik Roshan writes open letter in Aryan Khan's support, says 'I know you must feel anger, confusion, helplessness'Actor Hrithik Roshan has written an open letter addressed to Shah Rukh Khan's son, Aryan Khan. Aryan was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau after a drugs bust on a Goa-bound cruise ship on Sunday. Read MoreRakul Preet goes bold this Navratri in Manish Malhotra's backless hot pink sareeGearing for Kondapolam, her upcoming Telugu film after a long gap, Bollywood actor Rakul Preet Singh stepped out for promotions in a backless hot pink saree from Manish Malhotra and our fashion woes this Navratri look sorted. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-india-s-covid-19-graph-plateauing-but-challenge-not-over-says-govt-and-all-the-latest-news-101633605510845.html
07-10-2021||India||Mamata Banerjee, two other TMC lawmakers sworn in as assembly members||West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar administered oath to Mamata Banerjee and two other Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders, Jakir Hossain and Amirul Islam, as members of the assembly on Thursday. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) stayed from the event with its leaders saying it did not carry any special significance.Banerjee, who was sworn in as the chief minister on May 5, needed to be elected to the assembly by November 4 to continue holding the post. She lost the March-April assembly polls from Nandigram.The oath-taking ceremony on Thursday was preceded by a tussle between the state government and the Raj Bhawan. According to the convention, it is the speaker who administers the oath to legislators while the governor to ministers.The governor withdrew the speaker’s power to administer the oath a few days before the September 30 by-polls to three seats in the state. On October 1, the government wrote to the governor, requesting him to authorise the speaker to administer the oath. But Dhankhar sought a gazette notification on the poll results. Because of the governor’s decision, the oath-taking ceremony could not be held on October 4.Also Read: The Rahul versus Mamata versus Arvind battleFormer lawmaker Sabyasachi Dutta separately quit the BJP to return to the TMC. He joined the BJP after the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. “I took an emotional decision and joined the BJP. I will earnestly serve the TMC in whatever role it gives me,” Dutta said.BJP leader Jay Prakash Majumdar called Dutta an opportunist. “Probably he came to the BJP looking for lucrative opportunities and found that our party does not allow its members to make fortunes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-two-other-tmc-lawmakers-sworn-in-as-assembly-members-101633605902920.html
07-10-2021||India||Srinagar no more 'heaven': Family reacts as terrorist attack kill 2 in firing||At least two people lost their lives on Thursday after terrorists opened fire in a school in the Eidgah area of Srinagar, Jammu and Kashmir. The shooting killed the school's principal and a teacher, taking the toll from targeted attacks on civilians in Kashmir to five since Tuesday.The latest attack has sparked countrywide condemnation, while many raised concerns over the targeted killing. A relative of the school teacher identified as Deepak Chand, also expressed his anguish and said that the valley, renowned as heaven on earth, has become a "hell." "We are still receiving threat calls. Kashmir is not heaven, it's hell. We're been targeted for the last 30 years," news agency ANI quoted the relative as saying.Meanwhile, the government has assured of a befitting reply to the perpetrators. "I strongly condemn the barbaric killing of two of our teachers, Supinder Kour and Deepak Chand by terrorists. A befitting reply will be given to the perpetrators of the heinous terror attacks on innocent people," tweeted Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha after the attack.Jammu and Kashmir DGP Dilbag Singh reacted to the killing and said that the civilians are being targeted to create communal tension in the Union Territory (UT). "These recent incidents of targeting civilians are to create an atmosphere of fear and communal disharmony here. This is a conspiracy to target the local ethos and values to defame local Kashmiri Muslims," Singh said.Srinagar Mayor Junaid Azim Mattu also condemned the civilian killings and appealed to all communities to stand together on this matter. "The elements backed by Pakistan are behind this. We should all come out on the streets and take a stand as a society that we will not allow this," the mayor said, as per the ANI report.Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chief Mehbooba Mufti also expressed her condolences and said, it is "disturbing to see the deteriorating situation in Kashmir where a minuscule minority is the latest target."This is the third such attack over the last four days. Earlier on Wednesday, a street hawker was shot dead by terrorists in Srinagar. The incident took place near Madina Chowk, Lalbazar in Srinagar where terrorists fired upon the victim, identified as Virender Paswan.On Tuesday, a businessman was killed by terrorists near Iqbal Park in Srinagar. The terrorists fired upon the owner of Bindroo Medicate namely, Makhan Lal Bindroo. Following this, Bindroo was shifted to hospital where he succumbed to his injuries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/srinagar-no-more-heaven-family-reacts-as-terrorist-attack-kill-2-in-firing-101633605267796.html
07-10-2021||India||Indian Railways extends Covid SOP for 6 months, announces fine for not wearing masks||The Railway Board has extended its current coronavirus disease (Covid-19) guidelines for another six months amid a sustained decline in fresh infections nationwide. In the new order, the board stated that anyone found violating the mask mandate in railway premises or during travel can be fined up to ₹500.In April, Indian Railways had first announced a fine of ₹5,00 for violating the mask mandate owing to the second wave of Covid-19 when the country was reporting more than 200,000 new infections each day. Under the standard operation procedure (SOP) for movement of trains, the railways had mandated that "all passengers shall be wearing face cover/mask at entry and during travel".The fine for mask mandate violation was supposed to be in place till September but has now been extended for another six months."Now, the matter has been reviewed and it has now been decided that the validity of the said instruction is further extended by six (6) months i.e. up to 16.04.2022 or till further instructions issued in this regard," the order reads.India reported 22,431 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, according to the ministry of health and family welfare. With active cases accounting for 0.72% of the total cases, India active caseloads stand at 2,44,198, the lowest in 204 days. Union health ministry official told a press conference that on average, 20,000 Covid cases have been recorded daily last week, of which 56% cases were reported from Kerala.Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, ministry of health and family welfare, informed that Kerala, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Mizoram and Karnataka have over 10,000 active Covid cases. He said that the overall positivity rate of the country was nearly at 1.68% last week as compared to that of 5.86% in the previous week.Meanwhile, India’s cumulative Covid-19 vaccination coverage exceeded 92.63 crores on Wednesday after 43,09,525 doses were administered in the last 24 hours.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-extends-covid-sop-for-6-months-announces-fine-for-not-wearing-masks-101633604044932.html
07-10-2021||India||India's Covid-19 graph plateauing, but challenge not over yet: Govt||The government said on Thursday the country’s Covid-19 graph was plateauing even though about 20,000 fresh cases were being reported every day. It said the challenge of Covid-19 was not over yet and the effort to bring the pandemic under control was a continuous one.“To some extent, we say that we haven't controlled the second wave of Covid-19. We need to make continuous efforts,” a senior government official said, adding that there was a need to remain alert over next few months. “We need to be watchful of the months of October, November and December. We need to be alert,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary of the Union health ministry at the government's pandemic-related briefing.Kerala contributed 50 per cent of the total cases reported the entire last week, Agarwal said. Besides Kerala, there were four other states that have over 10,000 active Covid-19 cases and these were Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Mizoram and Karnataka, he added.The challenge of COVID has not ended yet. To some extent, we say that we haven't controlled the second wave of COVID. We need to make continuous efforts: Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary, Union Health Ministry pic.twitter.com/ev3KtLZUPsHe said there were 28 districts across 12 states and Union Territories that reported a weekly positivity rate between five and 10 per cent.Also read | From just one testing lab, India became exporter of Covid-19 vaccines: PM ModiThese 28 districts include a few in Arunachal Pradesh and Assam. “There are 34 districts which are reporting a weekly positivity rate of over 10 per cent,” Agarwal said.The ministry, however, said the overall positivity rate was nearly at 1.68 per cent last week as compared to 5.86 per cent recorded earlier.Also, Lakshadweep, Chandigarh, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Andaman & Nicobar and Sikkim have inoculated 100 per cent of its population with the first dose of vaccines against the virus, Agarwal added. Niti Aayog member (health) Dr VK Paul said the government had adequately prepared against any oxygen-related crisis in future as he gave details of pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants that are operational in the country at the moment.During the second wave of the pandemic, the country had suffered majorly due to a crisis of medical oxygen.  “At least 1,200 PSA plants are functional now. After the current program of establishing PSA plants, which is underway, there will be 4,000 PSA plants across the nation. This is our security against any oxygen constraints in future,” Dr Paul said. His statement came hours after Prime Minister Narendra Modi virtually inaugurated 35 PSA plants that are being set up across the 35 states and Union Territories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-19-graph-plateauing-but-challenge-not-over-yet-govt-101633604574395.html
07-10-2021||India||Medical college student found dead in Odisha||A 20-year-old student at Bhima Bhoi Medical College in Odisha’s Bolangir was found hanging from the window of her hostel room on Wednesday night, said the dean of the institute Sabit Mohapatra. The student’s father alleged his daughter was murdered“She was found hanging by her dupatta and had already died. Some smell of chemical was coming out of the room,” said Mohapatra. He added that the third-year MBBS student was watching a cricket match on her mobile phone in a room adjacent to her room with her friends shortly before she was found dead.“Later, all of them went to their respective rooms for having dinner. Later in the night, the hostel mate (of the student) got a call on her mobile asking her to inquire about her condition. As she went towards (the student)’s room, she found the door locked from inside. There was no response despite repeated knocks by her and other hostel inmates,” said Mohapatra.Also Read: Cops trace 4 Facebook accounts of woman handler in DRDO espionage case to PakBolangir police superintendent Nitin Kushlkar said the student’s post-mortem has been conducted and they are waiting for its report before reaching any conclusion. “We have also sealed the room of the student and would send a forensic team to test any possible traces of chemical as has been alleged.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/medical-college-student-found-dead-in-odisha-101633604582580.html
07-10-2021||India||BSF foils cross-border attempt to smuggle weapons near Jammu||The Border Security Force (BSF) on Thursday said it has foiled an attempt from the Pakistani side to smuggle arms and ammunition across the India-Pakistan border at Manguchak in Samba near Jammu. It said a cache of arms and ammunition including four pistols, eight magazines, and 232 rounds were seized.“There were inputs about terrorists planning to smuggle arms and ammunition from the Samba area while taking advantage of sarkanda (wild grass) and terrain. Accordingly, BSF troops were alerted and the area between fencing and the border was regularly patrolled,” said a BSF spokesperson. “Today (Thursday) morning, the consignment was found hidden in a polythene bag near the international border in Samba area by the alert troops of BSF while patrolling the area.”Also Watch: Terrorists kill 2 govt teachers in Srinagar; 5th civilian killing in 3 daysDeputy inspector general Sudhir K Singh praised the efforts of BSF troops and said they are ever vigilant on the border to thwart the designs of anti-national elements.Another BSF officer said there was not any drone involvement in the dropping of the consignment. “The terrorists had come close to the border and hidden it in the bushes before fleeing back to Pakistan.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsffoils-cross-border-attempt-to-smuggle-weapons-near-jammu-101633604042946.html
07-10-2021||India||‘Will give befitting reply’: J&K LG Manoj Sinha on killing of teachers in Srinagar||Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha said that a “befitting reply” will be given to terrorists who killed two teachers at a school in Srinagar’s old town Eidgah earlier on Thursday. The victims were reportedly shot from point blank range after some unidentified men barged inside the building.“A befitting reply will be given to perpetrators of the heinous terror attacks on innocent people. Terrorists and their patrons will not succeed in disturbing peace, progress and prosperity of Jammu and Kashmir,” Sinha was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.J&K LG Manoj Sinha condemns the killing of two teachers in a Srinagar school"A befitting reply will be given to perpetrators of the heinous terror attacks on innocent people. Terrorists & their patrons will not succeed in disturbing peace, progress&prosperity of J&K," he says. pic.twitter.com/XnMvhw6C24The deceased teachers have been identified as Satinder Kour, the principal of the Boys Higher Secondary School, and another teacher named Deepak.The J&K Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) also condemned the killing as “terrible news” and also expressed “deepest condolences with the families.” “Will the administration stop trumpeting the hollow slogans of 'normalcy' now?” a statement by the party read.With the killing of the teachers, a total of five civilians have been targeted by terrorists in the three days. On Tuesday, Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorists gunned down three persons, including a popular pharmacist Makhan Lal Bindroo, whose death triggered widespread criticism.Bindroo, 68, was attending to customers at his pharmacy shop when the terrorists shot him. He suffered several injuries, and was declared brought dead to the hospital.Also Read | ‘He will never die’: Kin of pharmacist killed in Kashmir stay defiant in griefTwo other civilians – a street hawker from Bihar’s Bhagalpur, and the head of a local taxi stand, were also killed by the LeT terrorists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-lg-manoj-sinha-says-will-give-befitting-reply-to-killing-of-teachers-101633601870132.html
07-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan produced at court for bail hearing, NCB seeks custody till October 11||Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan along with others was produced at a magistrate court on Thursday for his bail hearing after his bail plea was rejected on Monday. The Narcotics Control Bureau has sought the custody of the arrested till October 11 as it said it is probing further into the case. Before the hearing on Thursday, Aryan Khan's lawyer Satish Maneshinde met Aryan Khan who has been in the NCB custody since Sunday after he was arrested in connection with the cruise rave party.In its remand, the NCB said the agency has recently arrested Achit Kumar who was named by Aryan Khan and Arbaaz Merchant. "Hence for further investigation, confrontation with the already arrested persons is necessary," the agency said.Aryan Khan arrest: Nawab Malik releases new videos, questions WankhedeThe NCB counsel also told the court that this Achit Kumar has been named by Aryan and Arbaaz as the supplier. When Achit Kumar was arrested, 2.6 gram of ganja was recovered from him, the NCB counsel informed the court saying that this Achit Kumar is part of a ganja supply network.The NCB counsel contested that as new facts and nuances are coming up, it is necessary to keep everyone on the same pedestal and that is why the agency is seeking Aryan Khan and Arbaaz Merchant's custody till October 11. Achit Kumar has been sent to NCB custody till October 9.Early on Thursday, Arbaaz Merchant filed for a bail plea at Mumbai's Esplanade Court along with an application seeking CCTV footage of the cruise ship to check if the agency recovered something from Arbaaz or whether it was planted on him.The cruise rave party has become a political issue with the Nationalist Congress Party and the Congress raising questions over the functioning of the agency after photos and videos of the arrested with two outsiders surfaced||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aryan-khan-produced-at-court-for-bail-hearing-ncb-seeks-custody-till-11th-oct-101633602048777.html
07-10-2021||India||BJP leader Sabyasachi Dutta returns to TMC, welcomed back by state ministers||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Sabyasachi Dutta returned to his parent party, the Trinamool Congress, on Thursday, exactly about two years after having switched over to the saffron camp.Dutta was welcomed back to the TMC in the presence of state ministers Firhad Hakim and Partha Chatterjee in Kolkata.West Bengal: BJP leader Sabyasachi Dutta joins Trinamool Congress in the presence of State Ministers Firhad Hakim and Partha Chatterjee in Kolkata pic.twitter.com/Mi9doVHFuTDutta, a former chairman of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, had joined the BJP just before the Durga Puja in 2019 and unsuccessfully contested the April-May Assembly election from the Bidhannagar constituency.Dutta is among a host TMC turncoats who have either returned or are looking at coming back to the ruling party months after it romped back to power following a bitter battle with the BJP.Earlier in the day, Dutta reportedly met chief minister Mamata Banerjee. According to a report by India Today, Dutta said some misunderstandings had left to leaving the TMC. “Whatever I am or whatever I have received, is all because of the grace of Mamata Banerjee,” he was quoted as saying in the report.   A day ago, Dutta had described the death of farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri in as "barbaric" the death of farmers under the wheels of a car during a protest in BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh.Dutta, who had not been taking any active role in the BJP’s work ever since his defeat in the assembly election, said the leaders who were responding mildly to the Lakhimpur Kheri incident were actually condoning it without naming anyone. "Those giving mild responses to such a barbaric act seem to be condoning such acts. I strongly denounce such mindsets," said Dutta, who was the state BJP secretary, when asked to comment on the party national vice-president Dilip Ghosh's reaction to the incident.Ghosh, a former state BJP president, had stated that the UP administration is taking appropriate steps and political leaders need not visit Lakhimpur Kheri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leader-sabyasachi-dutta-returns-to-tmc-welcomed-back-by-state-ministers-101633602009581.html
07-10-2021||India||India, Asean should focus on resilient supply chains, sustainable recovery: Jaishankar||India and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Asean) should focus on cooperation to ensure resilient supply chains and sustainable recovery to address vulnerabilities exposed by the Covid-19 crisis, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Thursday. Businesses can also play a key role in forging new partnerships for collaboration in areas such as vaccine and pharmaceutical production to cope with the inadequacies in the global health system brought out by the pandemic, Jaishankar said during his virtual address at the inaugural session of the Indo-Asean Business Summit. The business summit, organised by the external affairs ministry and the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), saw envoys of Asean states and India’s ambassadors to the region participating in brainstorming sessions on strengthening business links between India and the 10-nation grouping in order to drive post-pandemic recovery. The pandemic provides the backdrop for how most countries approach their economic policies and global outlook because it disrupted supply chains, impacted manufacturing, affected trade and “veritably ruined many services sectors”, Jaishankar said. “From the prolonged crisis of the last two years, four areas have come into sharp focus for international business cooperation – resilient and reliable supply chains, health security, digital for development and green and sustainable recovery. They should constitute the core agenda for us,” he said. He added, “Covid-19 has brought out many inadequacies in the global health system. Meaningful partnerships, sharing of advanced technologies, collaboration in vaccine and pharmaceutical production, capacity-building and transparency in health information are all part of the answers.” Jaishankar also said that the uncertainties arising from Covid-19 cannot be seen as a one-time phenomenon, and countries will have to plan for the future. “A large part of the answers – both short-term and beyond – lies in diversification, expansion and transparency. De-risking our national economies will only be possible if we achieve a strong measure of success quickly in that regard,” Jaishankar said. He added that while India’s “Look East” policy has matured into “Act East”, there is a need to re-imagine India-Asean cooperation following the pandemic. “There is no doubt that Asean is one of the major hubs for India’s global economic engagement. As it develops, it is natural that we would like to revisit the level of ambition that we have set for our partnership,” he said. Also Read | India, US ready to compete with China: US diplomatIndia’s success in developing the first DNA vaccine for Covid-19, its role as a major global vaccine production centre, and the Quad vaccine partnership could lead to significant benefits for countries in the Indo-Pacific region, Jaishankar said. At the same time, strengthening of digital connectivity with Asean and the larger Indo-Pacific has assumed greater importance, and India can offer science and technology-based innovations to help the region, he added. Jaishankar said that the pandemic has given additional impetus to diversification of the global value chain, and India’s campaign for self-reliance will make it a trustworthy partner for global industrial resiliency. “At the same time, we need to take full advantage of building back better by ensuring a greener economic recovery,” he said. He added that India has a strong record on climate action and an ambitious vision for renewable energy sources and green hydrogen. “It is important that we – India, the Asean and our relationship – we recognise that a different world awaits us. It is one that puts greater premium on trust and transparency, resilience and reliability, as also on choices and redundancy,” Jaishankar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-asean-should-focus-on-resilient-supply-chains-sustainable-recovery-jaishankar-101633600862687.html
07-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: 2 arrested, looking for minister’s son, say police||Four days after eight were killed in Lakhimpur Kheri after a minister's car allegedly ran over protesters, the UP police arrested two persons identified as Luvkush Rana and Ashish Pandey, while union minister of state Ajay Mishra Teni's son Ashish Mishra is still untraceable. Police said the two are close aides of Asish and more raids are going on. Their arrest come hours after the Supreme Court on Thursday asked the UP government to submit a report within a day on how many arrests have been made so far in connection with the case. "In the status report also tell us about the eight persons who have been killed. Farmers, journalists etc. It is an unfortunate incident. Tell us whom you registered FIR against. How many have you arrested," the Supreme Court said as it heard a case on Lakhimpur violence. "The grievance is that you are not registering a proper FIR and a proper investigation not taking place," Chief Justice NV Ramana said.The Lakhimpur Kheri violence has triggered a major political storm as the main accused Asish Mishra, who has been named in police FIR, is the son of the minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni. As the opposition leaders are raising demand for the removal of Ajay Mishra, the minister of state on Wednesday met Union home minister Amit Shah in New Delhi. Ajay Mishra has been claiming that his son was not there in the car which ran over the protesters. He claimed the driver lost the balance after being attacked by stone pelters and then some protesters came under the car. Later, his driver was lynched and the car was set on fire, the minister has claimed.The FIR has named Ashish Mishra and said that he was driving the car which ran over the protesters. According to the FIR, Ashish also opened fire after getting down from the car and then he went into hiding. However, a fresh video of the incident suggests that three cars were involved in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence and those cars were not under any attack. The first car rammed a group of protesters who were walking with flags at an unexpectedly high speed, followed by the two other cars.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-2-arrested-minister-s-son-untraceable-101633599529070.html
07-10-2021||India||'Will stage hunger strike': Sidhu demands arrest of Union minister's son over Lakhimpur Kheri violence||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Thursday led a march to Lakhimpur district in Uttar Pradesh, where eight people were killed in a violence that erupted during farmers' protests on Sunday. During the march, which began from Mohali in Punjab, Sidhu also threatened to stage a hunger strike in case the Uttar Pradesh government fails to arrest Union minister of state for home affairs Ajay Mishra Teni's son, Ashish, by Friday. "If arrests are not made or he (Teni's son) doesn't join the investigation by tomorrow, then I will sit on hunger strike," he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Ashish Mishra is accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case, in which eight people, including four farmers and a journalist, were killed after a SUV ran over protesters. According to farmers, the Union minister's son was sitting in the vehicle which mowed down the farmers, leading to violent clashes.However, Union minister Ajay Mishra refuted the allegations, saying that his son was "not present at the spot where the incident took place." Some miscreants mingled with protesting farmers and pelted stones at the car which lost control, leading to the 'unfortunate incident,' the minister reportedly claimed.The incident has triggered a major political storm with opposition parties accusing the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh of shielding the culprits.Meanwhile, the Supreme Court held its first hearing in the case on Thursday. During the hearing, the bench headed by Chief Justice NV Ramana and comprising Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli asked the Uttar Pradesh government to file a status report on how many accused have been arrested in the case so far. The top court has now posted the matter for hearing on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-stage-hunger-strike-sidhu-demands-arrest-of-union-minister-s-son-over-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-101633597889796.html
07-10-2021||India||Hours after fresh tweet on Lakhimpur Kheri, Varun Gandhi, mom Maneka out of BJP national body||Hours after BJP MP Varun Gandhi shared a video on the Lakhimpur Kheri violence demanding accountability, the parliamentarian and his mother Maneka Gandhi’s names were found missing from the party’s national executive committee list that was released by national president JP Nadda.Sharing a 37-second video, the BJP MP from Pilibhit constituency in Uttar Pradesh said, "The video is crystal clear. Protestors can't be silenced through murder. There has to be accountability for innocent blood of farmers that has been spilled and justice must be delivered before a message of arrogance and cruelty enters the minds of every farmer.”A little later when Nadda announced the 80-member National Executive of the party, the names of Varun and his mother, a former Union minister, were absent. The names of its top brass, ranging from Prime Minister Narendra Modi to many Union ministers, several state leaders and veterans like LK Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi figured in the list.भाजपा राष्ट्रीय अध्यक्ष श्री @JPNadda ने राष्ट्रीय कार्यसमिति एवं राष्ट्रीय कार्यसमिति के लिए विशेष आमंत्रित और स्थायी आमंत्रित (पदेन) सदस्यों की नियुक्ति की। https://t.co/7FRFUICsx7The National Executive is made of top leaders who meet to discuss key issues facing the government and shapes the organisation’s agenda.Varun, a three-time BJP MP, had earlier said the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in which at least eight persons, including farmers and a local journalist, had died was a result of a crime by an individual or by a group and should not be seen as an administrative failure.Also read | 'Those tweeting Godse zindabad irresponsibly shaming the nation': Varun Gandhi on Gandhi JayantiA day after the violence, he had said in an interview with HT, communication between farmers protesting against the three central agri laws and the government had to be a continuous process. He sought action against the perpetrators and cautioned against using pejorative terms for any community.Varun had also written to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath urging him to take strict action against the culprits of the Lakhimpur Kheri incident and suggested a Supreme Court-monitored probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in a time-bound manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/varun-gandhi-maneka-out-of-bjp-nat-l-body-hours-tweet-on-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-101633597107051.html
07-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan arrest: Nawab Malik releases new videos, questions Wankhede||Nationalist Congress Party leader Nawab Malik has released another video purportedly showing Kiran P Gosavi and Manish Bhanushali entering and leaving the NCB office the same night the cruise ship was raided and Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan was arrested among others. Kiran P Gosavi was the man who apparently took a selfie with Aryan Khan which went viral. The NCB had to issue a statement that the man in the viral photo is not linked with the agency. Bhanushali was seen with Aryan Khan's friend Arbaaz Merchant. Nawab Malik claimed Bhanushali is a BJP leader. The NCB on Wednesday said if the party has any problem, it can approach the court as the agency did not do anything wrong.Cruise rave party: Who took the selfie with Aryan Khan? What did NCB say?Training the gun on NCB official Sameer Wankhede, Nawab Malik questioned a video in which Wankhede said 8-10 people have been arrested by the NCB in connection with the cruise rave party case. The Maharashtra minister said at that time eight people were arrested. "Why was he not sure about the number of arrests. Did they have an intention to frame 2 more people?" Nawab Malik said. Sameer Wankhede's statement where he said 8 to 10 people have been arrested by the NCB, while 8 people were arrested. Why was he not sure about the number of arrests?Did they have an intention to frame 2 more people? pic.twitter.com/28A8uoXUuiHere’s the video of Kiran P Gosavi and Manish Bhanushali entering the NCB office the same night the cruise ship was raided. pic.twitter.com/25yl9YsrSJA day after Nawab Malik raised suspicion over the functioning of the Narcotics Control Bureau, the issue of Shah Rukh Khan's arrest has snowballed into a political controversy with the Maharashtra Congress demanding action against NCB officers for violations of norms laid down in the NCB handbook. “There are discrepancies in the statements given by the NCB officers related to the seizure of the drug and about the private persons present during the raids. The officers said that Manish Bhanushali was an independent witness while Bhanushali himself has stated that he was an informant in the case. The officers have not followed the law while handing over the custody of the accused to a private person. We demand an internal inquiry by DG, NCB to clear the air. Otherwise, there will be room to believe that the agency is working to implement political agenda to defame the Maharashtra government,” Congress leader Sachin Sawant said. Who are KP Gosavi and Manish Bhanushali?According to reports, KP Gosavi is a private investigator and Manish Bhanushali is a BJP leader. Both of them might have been NCB's informer pertaining to this particular case. NCB did not clarify their identity; it neither commented on their presence during or after the raid. It just said the man in the photo was not an NCB official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aryan-khan-arrest-nawab-malik-releases-new-videos-asks-2-questions-to-wankhede-101633596614856.html
07-10-2021||India||I-T raids at premises linked to Maharashtra deputy CM Ajit Pawar, kin||The Income Tax department carried out searches at premises of multiple sugar mills and real estate groups, including those linked to Maharashtra’s deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and his three sisters. I-T sleuths searched official and residential premises of the linked individuals in Mumbai, Pune and Satara.Also Read: Aryan Khan’s NCB custody ends today, will seek bail in drugs caseThe tax department has not revealed names of business entities or individuals being raided. However, Pawar himself told journalists that the I-T department was raiding places linked to him and his three sisters. He also said he doesn’t know the purpose of these raids as he was tax compliant. I-T sources said premises of a company linked to Pawar’s son Parth was also searched on Thursday’s operation. “It is true, I-T has raided a few firms related to me. It is their right…I don’t know whether they were conducted for political purposes or they want more information as we have been paying taxes on time. However, my only grief is that they conducted raids on the premises related to my three sisters. One stays in Kolhapur and the other two in Pune after getting married 35 to 40 years ago.I could not understand the reason behind raids on them,” said the deputy CM. “If they are getting raided because they are my sisters, then the people of the state should ponder about the extent of misuse of central agencies. I am repeating that I have no complaint over raids on sugar mills [related to me], they [I-T department] can do whatever they feel like but I am feeling bad for those who are not related [to my businesses] in that context and [if] people can go [to] this level…Raids were conducted on sisters [establishments] even when they have no relation with my firms and politics,” he said.Reacting to the I-T raids, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief and Pawar’s uncle Sharad Pawar, said, “I came to know about IT raids on three of my nieces but don’t know why as they are not related to politics. As raids are still going on, I would be able to comment only after they are over,” Pawar told reporters before the raids ended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/itax-raids-at-premises-linked-to-maharashtra-dy-cm-ajit-pawar-kin-101633595522414.html
07-10-2021||India||'Crystal clear': BJP's Varun Gandhi tweets new Lakhimpur video, demands justice||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Varun Gandhi on Thursday took to Twitter posting the viral video purportedly of the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, demanding accountability and justice for those who were killed in Sunday’s violence."The video is crystal clear. Protestors can't be silenced through murder. There has to be accountability for innocent blood of farmers that has been spilled and justice must be delivered before a message of arrogance and cruelty enters the minds of every farmer,” tweeted the BJP MP from Pilibhit constituency in Uttar Pradesh.He posted a 37-second video, the latest and longer clip in which a speeding SUV – a Mahindra Thar jeep – is seen ramming a group of protesters and mowing them down. Four farmers were killed in the incident, and four more in the violence that followed, the police said. Two SUVs - one black and another white - followed the jeep out of the site as a group of protesters is seen shouting and crying in the video. The video is crystal clear. Protestors cannot be silenced through murder. There has to be accountability for the innocent blood of farmers that has been spilled and justice must be delivered before a message of arrogance and cruelty enters the minds of every farmer. 🙏🏻🙏🏻 pic.twitter.com/Z6NLCfuujKThe video, which is said to be taken on October 3, the day of the horrific incident in Lakhimpur Kheri, has gone viral on social media. The protesters claim that the vehicles allegedly belonged to a convoy of Union minister Ajay Kumar Mishra's son Ashish. Farmer groups claim that the minister's son was in the car that ran over the protesters.Of the eight deceased, four were farmers, two were workers of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), one was journalist and one driver.Meanwhile, the Supreme Court asked the Uttar Pradesh government to file a status report on who are the accused are and whether they have been arrested. The top court has given time till Friday for the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crystal-clear-bjp-s-varun-gandhi-tweets-new-lakhimpur-video-demands-justice-101633590882060.html
07-10-2021||India||From just one testing lab, India became exporter of Covid-19 vaccines: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday dedicated to the nation 35 pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants established under the PM CARES fund across 35 states and Union territories in an event at AIIMS Rishikesh in Uttarakhand. With this, all districts of the country now have commissioned PSA oxygen plants, according to the Prime Minister's Office (PMO). Speaking about India's battle against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Modi said, “From just one testing lab, India became an exporter of Covid-19 vaccines.” What India achieved is a symbol of unity, he added.Also Read | Experts say Covid-19 spike can’t be ruled out in Maharashtra, advise cautionTill now a total of 1,224 PSA oxygen plants have been funded under the PM CARES fund across the country, according to Prime Minister, and more than 1,100 plants have been commissioned – providing an output of over 1,750 MT oxygen per day. “From 900 MT, India increased production of liquid medical oxygen 10 times,” Modi said. “This was an impossible target, but we achieved it.”The operations and maintenance of the oxygen plants have been ensured by training more than 7,000 personnel. They come with an embedded Internet of Things (IoT) device for real-time monitoring of their functioning and performance through a consolidated web portal, according to the PMO.Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami and Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya were also present on the occasion and hailed Modi's efforts in boosting health infrastructure across the country. The Prime Minister, too, said that the central government has been extending all help for Uttarakhand's progress, adding that this “double engine” of development will take the state to new heights.Also Read | Covid: Will India see a third wave in winter?With the state heading to the assembly polls early next year, the prime minister noted that Uttarakhand, which was created in 2000, will complete 25 years in the near future and told people that this is the right time to decide where it will be heading. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-just-one-testing-lab-india-became-exporter-of-covid-19-vaccines-pm-modi-101633587994215.html
07-10-2021||India||PM Narendra Modi completes 20 years in public office, events planned||Prime Minister Narendra Modi completed two decades in public office on Thursday. He became the Gujarat chief minister first on October 7, 2001, before taking over as the Prime Minister in 2014. A special drive called “Sewa Aur Samarpan Abhiyan” was launched in September on Modi’s 71st birthday to mark his 20 years in office.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader congratulated Modi for his accomplishments over the last two decades. In a tweet, BJP chief JP Nadda said: “On completing 20 years of public service as the head of the state and central government, I would like to give my heartiest congratulations to supreme leader @narendramodi. #20YearsofSevaSamparan”.Also Read: PM Modi to dedicate 35 oxygen plants funded by PM CARES to nationUnion home minister Amit Shah tweeted: “On completing 20 years of public service as the head of the state and central government, congratulations to @narendramodi ji. In these 20 years dedicated to poor welfare and antyodaya, Modi ji has made the impossible possible by thinking ahead. #20YearsofSevaSamparan.”BJP workers will mark the day by cleaning the rivers and spreading awareness about Modi’s work, news agency ANI reported earlier this week.“Prime Minster Narendra Modi has completed 20 years of his political life,” union minister for information and broadcasting Anurag Thakur said as he congratulated Modi. “He has served as chief minister, prime minister and a dedicated public servant. He is strong, resourceful and far sighted.” It was his vision that enabled children and common people to access several services during the Covid-19 pandemic, Thakur added. “He provided 80 crore people with free ration. No other country has managed to do this. India is about reach the 100 crore mark in the Covid-19 vaccination drive… He provides visionary directions and follows up on the process, and that is why he is successful.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-completes-20-years-in-office-101633592349797.html
07-10-2021||India||Ajit Pawar confirms income tax raids on firms, shares 'only grief'||Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said on Thursday that some firms related to him were raided by the income tax department earlier in the day. Pawar said he has no complaint, but feels bad over similar action taken against his relative's firms."It is true IT has raided a few firms related to me. It is their right... I don’t know whether they were conducted for political purposes or they want more information as we have been paying taxes on time," the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader told reporters in Mumbai."However, my only grief is that they conducted raids on the premises related to my three sisters. One of them stays in Kolhapur and other two in Pune," he added.The deputy chief minister said he could not understand the reason behind raids on them."If raids were conducted because they are my sisters, then people of the state should think about the level the central agencies are being misused," said Pawar.Pawar's name had surfaced in a money laundering case involving Maharashtra State Co-operative (MSC) Bank in July. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) had attached assets worth ₹65.75 crore belonging to a sugar mill in Satara district in connection with the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ajit-pawar-confirms-income-tax-raids-on-firms-shares-only-grief-101633591877306.html
07-10-2021||India||After 3 including chemist, 2 teachers killed by terrorists in Srinagar||The principal and a teacher at a government school in Srinagar were shot dead in the city’s Eidgah area on Thursday, taking the toll from targeted attacks on civilians in Kashmir to five since Tuesday. Police said Satinder Kour, the principal, and teacher Deepak Chand died on the spot when they were fired upon at the school. Chand was from Jammu and both he and Kour lived in Srinagar’s Aolochi Bagh area.The two were killed two days after Makhan Lal Bindroo, a 68-year-old chemist, street vendor Virender Paswan from Bihar’s Bhagalpur, and Muhammad Shafi Lone, a taxi driver, were shot dead at separate places in Kashmir on Tuesday. Since last week, seven civilians have been killed in Srinagar alone.Top police officers rushed on the spot as the shooting was reported but remained tight-lipped about the fresh killings as condemnations poured in. Former chief minister Omar Abdullah said condemnation was not enough for this inhuman act of terror. “Shocking news coming in again from Srinagar. Another set of targeted killings, this time of two teachers in a Govt school in Idgah area of the city. Words of condemnation are not enough for this inhuman act of terror but I pray for the souls of the deceased to rest in peace.”Also Read: Prominent Kashmiri Pandit businessman shot dead in SrinagarIn a tweet, the People’s Democratic Party of former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti said: “Terrible news of killing of two teachers in Srinagar coming to fore. When will this dance of death come to an end. Will the administration stop trumpeting the hollow slogans of ‘Normalcy’ now. Deepest condolences with the families.”Former minister Sajad Lone tweeted: “Reports of cowardice emerging. Two teachers shot dead. It is important to understand that terrorists have no religion. Muslims have been killed too. I personally had a killing in my family. This is a lunatic fringe which is a curse for Kashmir. May Allah rid us of this curse.” Srinagar mayor Junaid Mattu wrote on Twitter: “Heartbroken, devastated and shattered by the news of the brutal killing of two school teachers at a school in Eidgah. No words can express my anger and anguish. My heart goes out to their families. I stand by them in this hour of grief and trauma. Inconsolable tragedy!”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-killed-in-another-targeted-attack-on-civilians-in-kashmir-101633591741813.html
07-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur violence: SC asks UP govt to file status report on arrests||The Supreme Court on Thursday asked the Uttar Pradesh government to file a status report by October 8 on whether all the accused named in the FIR have been arrested in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case. The order came as the top court a three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana was hearing the matter.The Lakhimpur violence case pertains to the deaths of eight people, who died after a jeep ran over farmers, protesting against the Centre's three laws. The deceased also include a journalist and three others.Apprising court on the steps taken so far in the investigation, the Uttar Pradesh government said a Special Investigation Team (SIT) has been constituted to probe the case. The government has also formed "a single-member enquiry commission," it informed the court.The apex court has posted the matter for hearing on Friday.The farmers have alleged that the Union minister of state for home affairs, Ajay Mishra's son was sitting in the car when it ran over protesters. However, the Union minister has denied any wrongdoing by his son and says that he was not even present there at the time of the incident. Some miscreants mingled with protesting farmers and pelted the stones at the car which led to the 'unfortunate incident,' Ajay Mishra has claimed.An FIR under section 302 of IPC (murder) has been registered against the Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra and others in the incident in Tikonia police station but no arrest has been made so far.Earlier on Wednesday, the Supreme Court took suo motu cognisance of the violence.Several farmer organisations are protesting against the passage of three laws -- The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 and Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 since last November.The apex court had stayed the implementation of these laws in January.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-violence-sc-asks-up-govt-to-file-status-report-on-arrests-101633591234352.html
07-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: At 109.25 a litre, petrol price crosses all-time high in Mumbai and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Petrol price crosses all-time high in MumbaiThe petrol price crossed the all-time high in Mumbai on Thursday. A litre of petrol was priced at Rs.109.25 and diesel at Rs.99.55 in the city. Read MoreJharkhand Congress workers on way to Kheri stopped at UP borderJharkhand Congress workers led by state chief Rajesh Thakur en route to Lakhimpur Kheri from Ranchi were stopped at Windhamganj on UP-Jharkhand border in the early hours on Thursday. Read MoreLakhimpur Kheri: Priyanka Gandhi sticks to her demand, says Union minister must resignCongress leader Priyanka Gandhi on Thursday reiterated her demand for the resignation of Union minister Ajay Mishra whose son allegedly ran over an SUV on protesting farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh. Read MoreIPL 2021, Kolkata Knight Riders Predicted XI vs RR: With Playoffs berth in near sight, will Morgan make any changes?It's all come down to this last game for two-time champions Kolkata Knight Riders (KKR). Despite sitting fourth in the points table currently, they are yet to seal their IPL 2021 Playoffs spot. Read MoreWhen Shah Rukh Khan said Salman Khan will always be there if his family is ‘in trouble’, watch emotional videoAn old video from Salman Khan’s game show, Dus Ka Dum, is now going viral. Read MoreRanveer Singh loves Arunachal Pradesh kid’s rendition of Apna Time Aayega, Deepika Padukone reactsA video of a kid performing a rendition of the famous song Apna Time Aayega has wowed people, including actor Ranveer Singh. Read MoreWindows 11 slows down Ryzen CPUs by up to 15% but a fix is coming, says AMDThe Windows 11 update arrived earlier this week and like every new major software release, bugs and issues have begun to show up. Read MoreNavratri 2021: A nutritionist tells us what to eat while fastingNavratri 2021 is here and the days of fasting and feasting have just begun. A satvik meal is best during your fasting period while deep fried food should be avoided. Read MoreMahindra opens bookings for XUV700 SUV. Details hereMahindra has opened bookings for the XUV700 SUV today ahead of its launch in the Indian car market in the upcoming festive period. Read MorePakistan earthquake: At least 20 dead, hundreds injured after roofs collapsedAt least 20 people were killed after a massive earthquake hit Pakistan on Thursday. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-at-109-25-a-litre-petrol-price-crosses-all-time-high-in-mumbai-and-all-the-latest-news-101633588610839.html
07-10-2021||India||CJI-led Supreme Court bench hears Lakhimpur Kheri violence case||The Supreme Court on Thursday began hearing the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case in which eight people were killed after farmers' protests turned violent in the Uttar Pradesh district over the weekend. A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana is hearing the matter.On October 3, a group of farmers was coming back after holding a protest against the Centre's three farm laws when a jeep ran over them, leading to the death of four cultivators. Four others were killed in the ensuing violence, according to the police, including a journalist.The farmers have alleged that the Union minister of state for home affairs, Ajay Mishra's son was sitting in the car when it ran over protesters. However, the Union minister has denied any involvement in the violence and claims that his son was not even present at the site. Some miscreants mingled with protesting farmers and pelted the stones at the car which led to the 'unfortunate incident,' Ajay Mishra has claimed.The hearing comes as the opposition parties have been demanding justice for the families of the deceased farmers. Earlier in the day, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said that she will continue to fight for justice for the victims of the violence. "Justice is a right in a democracy and justice is not served yet," she was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. "Every eyewitness has identified MoS Home's son and had said that he was involved in the matter. The Union minister needs to resign to ensure an unbiased investigation," Priyanka Gandhi added.After being detained for days, Priyanka Gandhi met the families of the deceased farmers on Wednesday. She is scheduled to meet the remaining families on Thursday. "All the affected families I met yesterday only demanded justice. The police force was used to stop the Opposition leaders but not to arrest the accused," Priyanka Gandhi also said.Meanwhile, the Uttar Pradesh police is investigating the matter and a case has been registered against Ashish Mishra.The Uttar Pradesh police has also registered an FIR against Priyanka Gandhi and 11 others for "disturbing peace" in the state as they were trying to visit the district, a day after the violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cjiled-supreme-court-bench-hears-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-case-101633589609913.html
07-10-2021||India||Home alone: Helping pets deal with anxiety||Caesar the Labrador is never home alone. When he first came home as a puppy, last year, his parents were working remotely due to work-from-home routines brought on by the pandemic. They didn’t leave his side for even a second. He was a part of every celebration and sad moment. And Caesar is not an exception as he represents a host of pandemic puppies and Covid kitties that are used to lots of quality time with their human friends. Indeed, with vaccination coverage getting better and cases dropping, such pets may now need to be prepared to spend more unsupervised time alone.Dr Kalpana Pawar, veterinarian, Wiggles, believes that post-pandemic period’s separation anxiety is one of the biggest concerns that pet owners face today. “These thousands of so-called ‘pandemic pets’ have never experienced a full day away from their humans,” she says.Pets have played a major role in the lives of many families during the past year. “Over the last 18 months, the number of pets in our neighbourhoods have increased exponentially. Deprived of human company during lockdown, we choose to turn towards our furry friends,” says Divya Singh Vishwanath, pet parent, lifestyle blogger and stylist. “I’ve a 1.5 year old cat that I adopted in October last year. The purpose was to bring company home for my daughter. However, we did not realise cats can feel lonely too. Once things started getting normal, we realised he had lost weight and was diagnosed with anaemia. After prolonged medication, she is now doing well,” says Tanushree Roy Chowdhury, a cat mum, who is dealing with her cat’s anxiety.As pet parents return to work, pets may be at risk of developing or displaying signs of separation distress. “Some pets cry when their humans leave but just need time and a bit of training. But some have genuine separation anxiety—to the point where they start tearing up the blinds or barking non-stop. They’re not just upset, they are terrified,” says Dr Aditti Tiwari, veterinarian.But if dealt properly there can be a smooth transition for the pets. “If you need to step out, ensure that someone known is at home. Alternately, pet boarding facilities are also a great option,” says Kushal Chipkar, dog trainer, Wiggles.Your dog or cat will need time to build up their confidence and be ready to spend time alone, so start prepping them beforehand. Schedule waking up, feeding and walking as you might for your expected workday routine, then introduce a consistent departure schedule that builds on that routine. “Make sure the transition is gradual. Don’t suddenly pull the plug on the attention you give your doggo. Friendly treats and toys always help calm the nerves and it’s important to make sure your work schedule doesn’t majorly affect your pet’s meal times. It is important that your pet feels secure and well fed,” adds Vishwanath.“Healthy and nutritious food is known to calm pets. One of the most reliable and natural ways is to include Hemp Seed Oil as it has naturally calming and healing properties. Include essential fatty acids like Omega 3 and 6 in their diets, as a deficiency affects a pet’s mood, behavior and immunity,” says Dr. Pawar.What your dog eats has a major effect not only on his health and well-being but may also give your dogs a sense of calm. “Blueberries, Turkey,fishes like Atlantic Salmon, mackerel, sardine and anchovies. Grains like whole oats and brown rice. You can also administer Bach flower remedies to your dogs under the guidance of your nutritionist or a pet homeopath, Bach flower remedies are completely natural and safe and available in good homeopathic stores,” suggests Akershika Mishra Clinical pet Nutritionist.An exercised pet (especially dogs) will likely find it easier to relax while you’re away. Keep their mind busy with activities like food-dispensing toys—it keeps them from getting bored while you’re away. “Involve them in agility training, confidence-building exercises, teach them new tricks, get them enrichment toys, puzzles for indoor activities,” suggests Chipkar.By adjusting our routines now, the transition back to office will be easier for pets and for people. Tips to prep your pet—Start practising to give them a routine and sense of predictability, taking small steps incrementally. Take walks without them and don’t take them on every car ride. If you don’t drive, find another venue to create space.—Provide them with toys and treats to focus on while you work in a different room.—Even if the weather isn’t good for driving, pull your car out of the parking area and sit for a while making your pet familiar with the routine.-Leave the TV on or play music—the background noise can help soothe your pet. You can also install a camera to check on your pet during the day.-Sometimes a blanket or shirt with their pet parent’s scent helps comfort pets, consider adding one to their safe space.- Keep departures low key, as prolonged goodbyes may increase your pet’s anxiety. A swift approach helps your dog or cat stay calm and teaches them to worry less when you’re gone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/home-alone-helping-pets-deal-with-anxiety-101633589462943.html
07-10-2021||India||MoS Home Ajay Mishra attends BPRD event in Delhi||Union minister of state for home affairs Ajay Kumar Mishra on Thursday attended the Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPRD) event, but media was not allowed to cover it, suggesting that the Central government was unlikely to concede to the demand by farmers and opposition parties to sack him over Lakhimpur Kheri violence. Several videos have emerged over last two days that show a convoy of vehicles linked to the minister’s son Ashish Mishra run over a group of farmers walking on a rural road in Lakhimpur Kheri. The Uttar Pradesh police has registered a case against Mishra’s son and others but no action has been taken against them as of now. Several political leaders have accused the Centre of insensitivity and questioned why the accused has not been arrested and the minister removed.The BPRD had initially suggested on Wednesday that the event, ‘7th national conference of heads of prisons of all states/union territories’, organised at its headquarters in Mahipalpur, had been put on hold.However, the event took place and Mishra attended it as the chief guest as per the original programme and even addressed the officers present there. The content of his speech was not provided to the media.Also Read: Jharkhand Congress workers on way to Kheri stopped at UP borderEight people, including four farmers and a local journalist Raman Kashyap, died on Sunday in violence that broke out when at least one car, allegedly driven by the minister’s son, hit protesting farmers, prompting an angry crowd to burn two vehicles and lynch the occupants of one of the vehicles. Farmers have sought the arrest of father-son duo. The minister has defended himself saying he or his son was not present at the spot on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mos-home-ajay-mishra-attends-bprd-event-in-delhi-101633588621649.html
07-10-2021||India||Shots fired at school in Srinagar's old city, 2 teachers presumed dead||Unidentified men entered a school in Srinagar's historical old town Eidgah on Thursday morning and gunned down its principal and another teacher.The victims have been identified as the principal of Boys Higher Secondary School, Satinder Kour, teacher Deepak. Both of them reportedly died on the spot.Preliminary reports show the victims were shot from point blank range inside the school. J&K Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) condemned the killing. “Terrible news of killing of two teachers in Srinagar coming to fore. When will this dance of death come to an end. Will the administration stop trumpeting the hollow slogans of 'normalcy' now. Deepest condolences with the families,” the party said in a statement.This was the fifth such incident of civilian killing in Kashmir in the past three days, four of which happened in Srinagar itself.On Tuesday, terrorists belonging to an outfit affiliated to Lashkar-e-Taiba killed three people, including a prominent pharmacist, in three separate incidents. ALSO READ | ‘He will never die’: Kin of pharmacist killed in Kashmir stay defiant in griefThe deceased included Makhan Lal Bindroo, a Kashmiri Pandit and the owner of one of the most popular medical stores in Srinagar, Bindroo Medicate. He was shot dead at his shop in Srinagar's Iqbal Park area.The terrorists then killed a street vendor from Bihar, identified as Virender Paswan, near Madina Chowk in Lalbazar and a taxi driver, Mohd Shafi Lone, in a separate incident at Naidkhai in Bandipora district.The Indian Army launched a massive search operation in Uri last month, after it detected suspicious movement along the Line of Control on the intervening night of September 18 and 19. Three terrorists were killed during their infiltration bid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shots-fired-at-school-in-srinagar-s-old-city-2-teachers-presumed-dead-101633587689835.html
07-10-2021||India||PM Modi announces ₹5 lakh ex-gratia for kin of victims of Belagavi incident||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday expressed condolences over the loss of lives after a house collapsed in Karnataka's Belagavi and announced an ex-gratia of ₹5 lakh each from the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund (PMNRF) for the kin of the deceased."The loss of lives due to a house collapse in Belagavi, Karnataka is saddening. My thoughts are with the bereaved kin in this hour of sadness. An ex-gratia of ₹5 lakh each from PMNRF would be paid to the next of kin of the deceased," tweeted PMO India.Seven people including two children died in a wall collapse due to heavy rain in Badala Ankalagi village, Belagavi in Karnataka on Wednesday.Earlier, Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has also announced ₹5 lakh compensation for the deceased's families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-announces-rs-5-lakh-ex-gratia-for-kin-of-victims-of-belagavi-incident-101633586715941.html
07-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Priyanka Gandhi sticks to her demand, says Union minister must resign||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi on Thursday reiterated her demand for the resignation of Union minister Ajay Mishra whose son allegedly ran over an SUV on protesting farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh. “The Union minister needs to resign to ensure an unbiased investigation,” the general secretary of the All India Congress Committee (AICC) in charge of Uttar Pradesh said, adding that “justice is a right in a democracy”.Also Read | Lakhimpur Kheri LIVE: Supreme Court hearing to begin shortly“Justice is a right in a democracy,” the ANI news agency quoted Priyanka Gandhi as saying. “I will continue my fight for justice. All the affected families I met yesterday only demanded justice. The Union minister needs to resign to ensure an unbiased investigation.”Justice is a right in a democracy. I will continue my fight for justice. All the affected families I met yesterday only demanded justice. The Union minister needs to resign to ensure an unbiased investigation: Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Congress, on Lakhimpur Kheri deaths pic.twitter.com/tpjDC6RuyZPriyanka Gandhi was speaking to reporters the morning after her visit to Lakhimpur Kheri, which is around a four-hour drive from the state capital, Lucknow. “All the affected families I met yesterday only demanded justice,” she said. “The police force was used to stop the opposition leaders but not to arrest the accused.” There, Priyanka alleged that the voices of justice for the farmer are being muffled by the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in the state.Notably, the Uttar Pradesh police have alleged that the Congress leaders are “disturbing peace” in the state and registered an FIR against Priyanka Gandhi and 11 others.Also Read | BJP slams Rahul Gandhi over Lakhimpur Kheri; says 'trying to fan unrest' for political mileageA total of eight people including four farmers died in the violence that took place in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3.Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of several farmer unions, alleged that Ashish Mishra Teni, son of Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Mishra Teni arrived with three vehicles around the time that farmers were dispersing from their protest at the helipad and mowed down farmers and towards the end also attacked SKM leader Tajinder Singh Virk directly, by trying to run a vehicle over him.However, Ashish Mishra refuted SKM's allegations and said he was not present at the spot where the incident took place. MoS Teni also said that his son was not present at the spot, adding that some miscreants mingled with protesting farmers and pelted the stones at the car which lead to the ‘unfortunate incident’.  (With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-priyanka-gandhi-sticks-to-her-demand-says-union-minister-must-resign-101633585009138.html
07-10-2021||India||9 dead, 27 injured in bus-truck collision at Barabanki in UP||Nine people were killed and 27 injured in a head-on collision between a double decker bus and a truck under Dewa police station limits of Uttar Pradesh’s Barabanki district on Thursday morning, said police officers. The bus was ferrying passengers to Bahraich from Delhi via Lucknow, they added.Barabanki district magistrate Adarsh Singh and superintendent of police Yamuna Prasad said rescue operations were on and most of the injured were being treated at the Barabanki district hospital. Those with critical injuries, they said, had been sent to KGMU trauma centre in Lucknow. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath directed Barabanki district officials to provide best possible treatment to the injured and announced an ex gratia of ₹2 lakh each to the kin of the deceased and ₹50,000 to the injured.Also Read | Lakhimpur Kheri: UP govt appoints retired Allahabad HC judge to probe violenceThe local police officers said preliminary investigation suggested that the truck lost control and rammed into the bus coming from the opposite direction.Barabanki police chief said administration had set up helpline number- 9454417464- for relatives to get information about the deceased and injured passengers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/9-dead-27-injured-in-bus-truck-collision-at-barabanki-in-up-101633585981597.html
07-10-2021||India||Forbes India Rich List 2021: Mukesh Ambani retains top spot||Reliance chairman Mukesh Ambani retained the title of richest Indian as he added $4 billion to his net worth (which has now reached $92.7 billion) in the year 2021, according to Forbes magazine's 100 richest Indians list, which was released on Thursday. It is the 14th year in a row since 2008 that Mukesh Ambani has been named the wealthiest man in the country.On number two is Gautam Adani who is "now a close second with a $74.8 billion fortune, only $17.9 billion shy of Ambani," according to the list. Industrialist Shiv Nadar retained his third spot as the country's buoyant tech sector increased his wealth by $10.6 billion. His total net worth has now soared to $31 billion. Shiv Nadar is the founder and chairman of HCL technologies.Meanwhile, Savitri Jindal, chairperson of OP Jindal group, re-entered the top-10 club with $18 billion.The cumulative wealth of India's richest saw a rise of 50 per cent in the year two of the pandemic, the business magazine also mentioned. India's 100 richest are now worth $775 billion, according to Forbes.Here is the full list of top ten richest Indians:1) Mukesh Ambani ($92.7 billion )2) Gautam Adani ($74.8 billion)3) Shiv Nadar ($31 billion)4) Radhakishan Damani ($29.4 billion)5) Cyrus Poonawalla ($19 billion)6) Lakshmi Mittal ($18.8 billion)7) Savitri Jindal ($18 billion)8) Uday Kotak ($16.5 billion)9) Pallonji Mistry ($16.4 billion)10) Kumar Birla ($15.8 billion)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/forbes-india-rich-list-2021-mukesh-ambani-retains-top-spot-101633584948769.html
07-10-2021||India||Petrol price crosses all-time high in Mumbai||The petrol price crossed the all-time high in Mumbai on Thursday. A litre of petrol was priced at Rs.109.25 and diesel at Rs.99.55 in the city. Fuel prices have been on the rise since September 27. The petrol and diesel prices have since gone up by Rs1 and Rs3.36. The prices increased by 29 paise and 38 paise for petrol and diesel on Thursday in the country’s financial capital.In Mumbai’s neighbouring Thane, a litre of petrol was priced at Rs.109.39 and diesel at Rs.99.68. Petrol was the costliest in Mumbai among the big cities of the country followed by Hyderabad at Rs.107.40. A litre of diesel crossed ₹100 in Hyderabad on Thursday and was priced at Rs.100.13.Also Read: ‘By 2047, at least 100 cities to have their own Metro networks’In Maharashtra’s Parbhani, a litre of petrol was priced at Rs.111.81 and Rs.101.09 in Amravati. A litre of petrol was priced at Rs.103.3 while diesel was available at Rs.91.83 in New Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/petrol-price-crosses-all-time-high-in-mumbai-101633584781925.html
07-10-2021||India||BJP announces nominee for Haryana’s Ellenabad by-poll||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Thursday named Govind Kanda as its nominee for the October 30 Ellenabad assembly by-poll in Haryana. Govind Kanda is the brother of Gopal Kanda, the lone lawmaker of the Haryana Lokhit Party, who joined the BJP last week. He unsuccessfully contested assembly polls in 2014 and 2019.The by-poll is significant in view of the ongoing farmer agitation against the three farm laws passed last year. Haryana is among the states where the agitation has drawn much support.Also Read: Haryana CM approves ₹78.36 crore budget for Mansa Devi Shrine BoardThe Jat-dominated Ellenabad seat fell vacant after Abhay Singh Chautala, the lone lawmaker of the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) resigned in January in protest against the laws. Chautala will contest the by-poll.Pawan Beniwal, who contested the seat on a BJP ticket in 2019, has since left the party to show solidarity with the ongoing farmer agitation and joined the Congress, which is yet to announce its candidate for the by-poll.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-announces-nominee-for-haryana-s-ellenabad-bypoll-101633582801751.html
07-10-2021||India||Uneasy calm in Chhattisgarh’s violence-hit Kawardha town||An uneasy calm prevailed in Kawardha town in Chhattisgarh’s Kabirdham district after communal violence prompted authorities to impose curfew there on Tuesday. Around 1,500 policemen were deployed in the town and the borders of the district were sealed.“No violence was reported after Tuesday evening. Heavy police forces have been deployed in the city. Police are scanning all the videos of violence and identifying the miscreants and the process of registering FIRs is going on,” said police superintendent Mohit Garg. He added the situation is under control and peace talks between the two communities are going on.Around 70 people have been arrested for rioting.On Tuesday, the curfew was imposed when violence broke out after a clash over the removal of religious flags from a thoroughfare. Around a dozen people including three policemen sustained minor injuries in the violence.The tension started on Sunday evening over the removal of religious flags from the town’s Lohara Chowk area.On Tuesday, a protest turned violent as bikes were torched and some houses were ransacked, forcing police to resort to lathi-charge.Also Read: Punjab, Chhattisgarh announce ₹50 lakh for farmers killed in Lakhimpur KheriOn Wednesday, a delegation of the opposition BJP leaders visited the town.The BJP said the delegation was not allowed to meet the “victim” families. The members of the delegation staged a sit-in in protest.The authorities cited the ban on the assembly of over four people for the denial of permission.“The state government is not at all concerned for the people of the state and it is responsible for the tension in Kawardha. The administration has made the situation uncontrollable by taking one-sided action and when we want to meet the victims, we are being stopped which is undemocratic,” said opposition leader Dharmlal Kaushik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uneasy-calm-in-chhattisgarh-s-violence-hit-kawardha-town-101633582261184.html
07-10-2021||India||A year on, assembly poll defeat to steal sheen from Bengal BJP’s Durga Puja||October 22, 2020 was a significant day in Bengal politics as Prime Minister Narendra Modi virtually joined the commencement of the first Durga Puja the state unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) organised at the campus of the Eastern Zonal Cultural Centre (EZCC) in Salt Lake, a township located on eastern outskirts of Kolkata. No other prime minister had inaugurated a Durga Puja in Bengal.As Modi invoked the goddess in Bengali and talked of female empowerment, laws to curb crime, Jan Dhan accounts for 22 crore women and Central schemes such Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao (save and educate the girl child), the speech was streamed by the party to its supporters at all 294 assembly constituencies of the poll-bound state.EZCC, which is the under the Union ministry of culture, wore a festive look with innovative decor, cultural activities and live performance by esteemed artists, drawing people from all over.Buoyed by the party’s record performance in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, in which the BJP bagged 18 of the state’s 42 seats, leaders from the state and national executive committees did their best to turn the five-day puja into a grand event.However, months after the BJP ended up winning only 77 assembly seats in the keenly watched March-April assembly polls, many in the saffron camp are now apparently trying to distance themselves from the puja.“It is not the BJP’s puja. BJP does not organise pujas,” the state unit’s former president Dilip Ghosh, who was recently made a national vice-president, said on Monday.Hours later, Sukanta Majumdar, Ghosh’s successor to the state president’s chair, said, “The puja will be held. Tradition and religious customs rule that if you do it once, you must continue for two more years.”Also Read: Modi completes 2 decades in public office, BJP to hold day-long eventsBJP state general secretary Sayantan Basu, a resident of Salt Lake, said, “I may pay a couple of visits to EZCC. I did the same last year. I was never involved in organizing the event.”Another state BJP leader who resides in the Salt Lake area did not even want to comment on record.President of the state Mahila Morcha (women’s wing) of the BJP and legislator from the Asansol South assembly constituency, Agnimitra Paul, told HT that the women’s unit will take the entire responsibility.“The Mahila Morcha did everything last year. The Yuva Morcha (youth wing) helped us. We expect their cooperation this year as well. But the festival will be scaled down. The reason is not what people are perceiving. The BJP increased its tally from three to 77. This cannot be called a defeat by any stretch of imagination. Mamata Banerjee is scared of holding an assembly session because she knows our legislators will raise uncomfortable questions and pin her down,” said Paul.“We are in no mood to celebrate because more than 45 of our workers have been killed in post-poll violence. Women have been raped. Also, thousands are suffering in the districts because of the floods for which Banerjee is falsely blaming the Centre. We see no joy in this festival,” Paul, who is also a noted fashion designer, added.BJP leaders said the possibility of Modi addressing the commencement of the event next week is thin.Sabyasachi Dutta, the former mayor of Salt Lake who switched over to the BJP after the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, actively participated in the puja last year.“The BJP state office sought permission from the EZCC for holding the puja in 2020. The permission was later routed through the police and fire services department. This year, however, I don’t see any serious effort being made. If the puja is downsized, critics will say last year’s grandeur and the Prime Minister’s speech were only aimed at the elections,” Dutta told the media on Wednesday.After the 2019 polls, the BJP tried to associate itself with community Durga Pujas in Kolkata and the districts to reach out to people but the assembly elections have altered the equations, a section of party leaders feels.The BJP’s tally in the legislative assembly came down from 77 to 75 immediately after the polls as two MLAs from north Bengal did not take oath and preferred to retain their Lok Sabha seats. By-polls in these constituencies, Dinhata and Santipur, will be held on October 30. Furthermore, the BJP’s tally has come down to 71 since June as four of its legislators have joined the Trinamool Congress (TMC).The ruling party, on the other hand, has increased its numbers from 213 to 215 by winning two seats in Murshidabad, where elections could not be held in April-May because of the death of two candidates. These results were announced on Sunday along with that of the Bhawanipore by-poll which Mamata Banerjee, a self-declared patron of community pujas, won.Bollywood singer-turned politician Babul Supriyo, who joined the TMC after being dropped from the Union cabinet, played a key role in the cultural events held at EZCC last year. He enthralled the audience with his popular numbers.On Wednesday evening, Supriyo was found accompanying Mamata Banerjee at the launch of the festival number of the TMC’s mouthpiece and an album of songs composed by the chief minister.While the event was in progress, Supriyo presented the chief minister a melodica, a wind instrument that works on the principles of the harmonica but comes with a keyboard into which wind has to be blown through a long pipe.“I have never used this. I cannot blow into the pipe. Let Babul do it and I will play the keys,” said the chief minister.As the former BJP Lok Sabha member from Asansol blew into the melodica, the TMC president played a few lines from a Tagore song. “Babul you must sing,” insisted the chief minister, making it apparent that changes in the political scenario will reflect on Bengal’s biggest festival in less than a week||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-year-on-assembly-poll-defeat-to-steal-sheen-from-bengal-bjp-s-durga-puja-101633581301972.html
07-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: UP govt appoints retired Allahabad HC judge to probe violence||The Uttar Pradesh government has appointed a single-person commission to investigate the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case. Retired Allahabad high court judge Padeep Kumar Shrivastava will probe the incident and submit the report in two months.A notification signed by Additional chief secretary Awanish Kumar Awasthi said that the one-man commission has been constituted on the opinion of governor Anandiben Patel, who said that a probe is needed for the public importance.Eight people were killed in the violence in Tikunia in Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday. Four of them were farmers.The Supreme Court, meanwhile, registered a public interest litigation on its own on the violence on Wednesday. A bench headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana and also comprising justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli will hear the case today.The suo motu (on its own motion) case has been registered as “In Re Violence in Lakhimpur Kheri (UP) leading to loss of life”.Local farmers blame junior home minister Ajay Mishra 'Teni' and his son Ashish Mishra for the violence that left four cultivators dead. Farm groups say a Mahindra Thar owned by Mishra mowed down protesters from behind while they were returning from a demonstration on Sunday afternoon.The minister and his son deny the charge and say farmers pelted the car with stones that led the driver losing control of the vehicle. They also accuse the protesters of lynching two Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers and the car's driver.Ashish Mishra and 20 others have been booked for murder but farmers continue to press for his arrest.The opposition parties started attacking the BJP-led Uttar Pradesh government after the incident. A number of leaders from Congress, Samajwadi Party and other outfits tried to visit Tikunia, but were stopped the by Uttar Pradesh Police citing prohibitory orders in the area under Section 144 of the CrPC. Finally, the state government lifted the curbs on Wednesday and allowed all the politicians to visit the village.After the relaxations, Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, along with Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, his Punjab counterpart Charanjit Singh Channi, AICC general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal, party MP Deepender Hooda and Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) president Ajay Kumar Lallu, reached the remote village - roughly 10km from the India-Nepal border.“Shared grief with the family of Lovepreet. But until justice is not done, this satyagraha will continue. Won’t forget your sacrifice, Lovepreet,” tweeted Rahul Gandhi. Lovepreet Singh was one of the four farmers who died in Sunday’s violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-up-govt-appoints-retired-allahabad-hc-judge-to-probe-violence-101633580339992.html
07-10-2021||India||Barabanki: At least 9 dead in road accident, UP govt announces ex-gratia||At least nine people were killed and 27 others were said to be seriously injured after a truck and a passenger bus collided in Uttar Pradesh's Barabanki district. “Nine people were killed and 27 injured in a collision between a truck and a passenger bus in Barabanki,” said district magistrate Adarsh Singh. “The injured have been shifted to a local hospital.” The rescue teams have rushed the injured people to a local hospital; those gravely wounded have been shifted to the KGMU trauma centre in the state capital, Lucknow, while others are undergoing treatment at a Barabanki district hospital.According to people familiar with the development, the bus was en route from Delhi to UP's Bahraich via Lucknow when it collided head-on against the truck, leading to the death of the passengers. The tourist bus reached Baburi village on Kisan Path in the Deva Kotwali area around 5.30am on Thursday when a truck heading towards it from the opposite end “suddenly went berserk” and collided against it head-on. Splinters came off from the heavyweight vehicles, according to eyewitness reports, owing to the fact that both the bus and the truck were travelling at very high speeds.Police personnel and officials from the district administration rushed to the spot on receiving news of the accident. As per a report by HT's sister publication Live Hindustan, emergency responders managed to cut off portions from the bus and retrieve the injured from the accident spot. When the injured people were dispatched to the district hospital, the doctors declared nine of them dead on arrival, as per the report. However, there are other passengers yet to be identified.Meanwhile, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath expressed his grief over the incident and announced ₹2 lakh ex gratia to the kin of each of the deceased and ₹50,000 to each of those injured in the incident.Condoling the loss of lives in the road accident, the UP chief minister said his thoughts are with the family of the deceased and also directed the state administration officials to provide proper treatment and all possible help and relief to the injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/9-dead-27-injured-after-truck-collides-with-passenger-bus-in-up-s-barabanki-101633577172126.html
07-10-2021||India||At least 100 cities in India to have their own Metro networks by 2047, says top official||With Metro train projects already functional or in the pipeline in several cities across the country, at least 100 cities will have their own such networks by 2047 -- the 100th year of independence -- Durga Shanker Mishra, secretary, Union housing and urban affairs ministry, has said. Mishra made this observation while delivering his remarks on the second day of the New India Urban Expo in Lucknow, on Wednesday.“In 2047, when the country marks the 100th year of its independence, we will have Metro trains running in at least 100 cities. The total length of the Metro network in the country currently stands at 500 kilometers. By 2047, its length will have increased 10 folds to 5000 kilometers,” Mishra said, according to Hindustan Times’ sister publication Live Hindustan. The official also projected that once the Covid-19 pandemic is over, the daily ridership of this mode of transit, across all networks, will rise to 10 million. “Before the pandemic, up to 8.5 million people were travelling on Metro trains each day. At present, their number is at around 3-3.5 million,” he further said. Mishra also heaped praise upon other related modes of transit such as Metrolite, Metro Neo and Water Metro, saying that these cost less than a Metro project.At present, India’s Metro network is the fifth-largest globally, with trains operating in cities such as Delhi, Kolkata, Mumbai, Chennai, Hyderabad, Kochi, Jaipur, Gurugram, Noida, Lucknow etc. Projects are lined up in various other cities as well. Kolkata Metro, launched in 1984, is the oldest while Delhi Metro, which commenced operations in 2002, is the second-oldest, as well as the largest and busiest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-least-100-cities-in-india-to-have-their-own-metro-networks-by-2047-says-top-official-101633578454285.html
07-10-2021||India||Maharashtra’s ruling alliance partners improve tally in local bodies by-polls||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has won 22 out of the 85 zilla parishad (ZP) seats for which by-polls were held in Maharashtra on Tuesday. The Congress won 19, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) 15, Shiv Sena 12, and Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi eight. The BJP’s tally has gone down by nine seats. The Congress, NCP, and Shiv Sena, which are part of the state’s ruling coalition, together won 46 of the 85 district council seats. They gained 10 seats.The Congress won the highest--36--of the 144 panchayat samiti seats for which by-polls were held. The BJP won 33, Shiv Sena 23, and NCP 18. Smaller parties and independent candidates won the remaining 34 seats.The by-elections were held after the Other Backward Classes (OBC) members were forced to vacate their local bodies seats won in January 2020 in Dhule, Nandurbar, Akola, Washim, Nagpur, and Palghar as the Supreme Court quashed the quota for them. The court said the 27% quota in seats for OBC in the local bodies can be continued only if it is backed by empirical data. It reiterated the quota introduced in 1994 taken together with the reservation for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes cannot exceed the 50% cap.The by-polls were held months before local bodies’ elections including in Mumbai are due in February. Experts say the results show the OBC community has not voted decisively for or against any party. The BJP has blamed the Uddhav Thackeray-led government for the Supreme Court order against OBC reservation saying it failed to convince the court on why the community needed it.Also Read: Experts say Covid-19 spike can’t be ruled out in Maharashtra, advise cautionSoon after the court’s order in March, the government promulgated an ordinance granting up to 27% reservation to OBC candidates in rural local bodies. It is expected to promulgate another ordinance to ensure political reservation in urban local bodies.“It is clear that the (ruling) MVA (Maha Vikas Aghadi) parties will have to come together if they want to keep BJP out of power in the next assembly elections. It would also make sense for them to contest next year’s local bodies’ polls together. Not only do they have a chance to win more seats, but it would also provide stability to the Thackeray-led government,” said political analyst Surendra Jondhale. “...the results show (the BJP is) still in a better position that other parties...” He added there could be disappointment among the OBCs that the BJP-led central government is not helping them. “In Vidarbha, the OBCs have probably voted for the Congress. This could be an opportunity for the MVA to win over a large chunk of OBCs provided it takes concrete steps to restore the community’s political reservation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtras-ruling-alliance-partners-improve-tally-in-local-bodies-bypolls-101633578841100.html
07-10-2021||India||PM Modi mementos e-auction to end today; highest bid for Neeraj Chopra's javelin||The e-auction of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's gifts will end on Thursday evening, the government has said. In the ongoing auction, historical items and religious artefacts seem to have drawn more interest, while sports gears of Olympians have received the highest bids.The online auction had started on September 17 and will end at 5pm today.The javelin used by Neeraj Chopra, which brought him the gold medal, has received the highest bid, according to PM Mementos website. It had a base price of ₹1,00,00,000 (1 crore or 10 million), and currently stands at ₹1,00,50,000, according to the website. The javelin has received two bids so far.The website says that it is an autographed javelin presented by Neeraj Chopra to PM Modi. The javelin received the highest bid of ₹10 crore on the opening day (October 4), but it was later cancelled on the suspicion that it could be a fake bid.Another javelin used by Paralympic gold medallist Sumit Antil, with a base price of ₹1 crore, has received a bid of ₹1,00,20,000 from one bidder, while a wooden model of the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya saw 24 bids coming in. The temple's base value was ₹2,50,000.A metal mace whose base price was ₹2,500 has received 54 bids, with the highest at ₹5 lakh.A badminton racquet autographed by Tokyo 2020 Paralympic Games gold medallist Krishna Nagar received a highest bid of ₹80.15 lakh but there were only three bidders who showed interest in it.Similarly, a small metallic figurine showing Lord Rama, Hanuman, Laxman and Goddess Sita, titled Bhagwan Ram Parivar, received 44 bids, with the highest being ₹1.35 lakh. Its base price was only ₹10,000.Apart from religious items, a large-scale three-dimensional replica model of a DRDO tank placed inside a glass box has received 23 bids, with the highest being ₹5 lakh. Its base price was ₹75,000.So far, of the 1,348 mementos around 1,083 items have received bids.After the auction ends on October 7, the government will notify the highest bidders through email.At the last such auction in September 2019, as many as 2,770 objects went under the hammer. These included paintings, sculptures, shawls, jackets and traditional musical instruments. The proceeds were donated to the Namami Gange Mission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-mementos-e-auction-to-end-today-highest-bid-for-neeraj-chopra-s-javelin-101633576536258.html
07-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: Mamata Banerjee, 2 other TMC MLAs to take oath today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Mamata Banerjee, 2 other Trinamool Congress MLAs to take oath todayTrinamool Congress (TMC) chief Mamata Banerjee will take oath as a member of West Bengal Assembly on Thursday. Along with her, two other newly-elected TMC legislators will also take oath at 2pm. Read morePM Modi to dedicate 35 oxygen plants funded by PM CARES to nationPrime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate 35 new Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants funded by the PM CARES initiative in a function at AIIMS Rishikesh in Uttarakhand on Thursday. Read more'Would be lying if I say I didn't have nerves bowling last over to AB de Villiers': Bhuvneshwar Kumar after SRH winWhen AB de Villiers denied the single off the third ball of the last over, it was pretty much clear that it would be the South African legend vs Bhuvneshwar Kumar. Read moreStep inside Freida Pinto’s LA bungalow, a unique blend of her Indian heritage and fiance Cory Tran's love for natureFrieda Pinto, who is expecting her first baby with Cory Tran, turned towards the couple's friend, interior designer and Queer Eye star Bobby Berk to help design the house. Read morePriyanka Chopra flaunts steamy ‘water baby’ looks in yellow monokini, red bikiniCurrently in Spain to shoot her upcoming Hollywood film Citadel, global icon Priyanka Chopra Jonas enjoyed a day off with mother Madhu Chopra, her pet dog Diana, British actor Osy Ikhile and costume designer Sara Sensoy in Valencia. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-mamata-banerjee-2-other-tmc-mlas-to-take-oath-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101633573933927.html
07-10-2021||India||ECI seeks to ensure transparency in counting of postal ballots for Oct 30 by-polls||The Election Commission of India (ECI) has said political parties will be informed about the number of counting tables being set up for postal ballots to maintain transparency during the counting of votes after the October 30 by-polls. Two Bihar assembly seats are among those to which by-polls are being held. Chief electoral officer (Bihar) H R Srinivasa said the electoral agents will be given in writing the results of counted postal ballots after every round. He added political parties have to ensure that their agents reach the counting halls on time to remain present during the counting of the postal ballots as well as votes recorded in the electronic voting machines (EVMs). “The counting of postal ballots, exercised by voters above 80, physically disabled and service voters will begin at 8 am while the counting of EVMs would start from 8.30 am.”Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal had alleged discrepancies in the counting of postal ballots after the 2020 assembly election in Bihar.Also Read: Nitish Kumar confident NDA will win both bypoll seats in Bihar; voting on Oct 30Srinivasa said a maximum of 1,200 voters will be allowed to vote at each booth in view of the pandemic. He added at places where the number exceeds 1,200, auxiliary booths would be set up. “ We have also requested political parties to deploy women polling agents in auxiliary booths for women voters.”The ECI has banned processions and roadshows during the campaigning and after the declaration of results in view of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eciseeks-to-ensure-transparency-in-counting-of-postal-ballots-for-oct-30-bypolls-101633576080770.html
07-10-2021||India||ED attaches ₹26.98 cr assets in Rose Valley money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) in a statement on Wednesday said it has provisionally attached assets worth ₹26.98 crore of the West Bengal based Rose Valley Group under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 in the multi-crore money laundering scam. These assets include land, hotels, bank balance, and demand drafts attributed to the Rose Valley Group.The agency initiated a money-laundering investigation after FIRs were registered by West Bengal Police against the group and its chairman Gautam Kundu and others. Subsequently, ED arrested Kundu in 2015 in Kolkata. Gautam Kundu’s wife, Subhra Kundu was also arrested earlier in January this year by the Central Bureau of Investigation. Trinamool Congress parliamentarians Sudip Bandopadhyay and Tapas Pal were also arrested by CBI in 2017 in connection with the case.As reported earlier by Hindustan Times, the ₹17,000 crore Rose Valley scam is the biggest in Bengal in terms of money involved. The Supreme Court had asked the CBI to investigate the scam and the role of influential people earlier in 2014.“The group had collected huge amounts of money from the common gullible public by floating fake and fictitious schemes and defaulted on repayments,” the ED said in the statement released on Wednesday. Also Read | Rose Valley scam: Tripura BJP welcomes CBI chargesheet, alleges Left leaders’ involvementThe group had cheated millions of investors, most of them from low-income groups, in West Bengal, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, and other states promising exponential returns.The group had floated 27 companies for running the alleged chit fund operations, out of which only half a dozen were active. The company allegedly promised astronomical returns to investors on bookings done in the real estate sector. The company had also made several investments in sister firms to suppress its liabilities towards its investors.Federal agencies are currently investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-attaches-26-98-cr-assets-in-rose-valley-money-laundering-case-101633575480543.html
07-10-2021||India||Trade unions to protest against National Monetisation Pipeline today||A joint platform of trade unions is scheduled to hold protests on Thursday against the National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP), a scheme introduced by the central government to raise as much as $81 billion by leasing out state-owned infrastructure assets over the next four years. According to the Union ministry of finance, the NMP will help fund new capital expenditure without putting pressure on government finances. However, the trade unions call the plan a “destructive” and “nefarious design” to hand over public infrastructural assets to private hands at little to no cost.The joint platform of trade unions consists of the All-India Trade Union Congress, the Indian National Trade Union Congress, the United Trade Union Congress, the Labour Progressive Federation, the Self Employed Women's Association, as well as the Hind Mazdoor Sabha, the Trade Union Coordination Committee, and the All-India United Trade Union Centre.Also Read | National Monetisation Pipeline: What is it and how will it benefit the country?In a statement issued last month, the trade unions alleged that the National Monetisation Pipeline announced by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman is merely a scheme to hand government assets to private hands “virtually free”. They said that the NMP enables the private players to generate revenue without any obligation of capital cost; only a small part of that “huge revenue” will be shared with the government, they claimed.In accordance with this discontent, the trade unions plan to carry out an awareness campaign today to voice their protests against the NMP scheme. The unions have also dubbed October 7 as “national protest day”, having planned agitations at the district level.Meanwhile, according to the government vision, NMP is envisaged to serve as a medium-term roadmap for identifying potential monetisation-ready projects, across various infrastructure sectors. The NMP has been prepared after insights, feedback, and experiences consolidated through multi-stakeholder consultations undertaken by Niti Aayog, the finance ministry, and the infrastructure line ministries.For now, the government has only included the assets of infrastructure line ministries and CPSEs working in the infrastructure sectors. Monetisation through disinvestment and monetisation of non-core assets have not been included in the NMP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trade-unions-to-protest-against-national-monetisation-pipeline-today-101633572824139.html
07-10-2021||India||PM Modi to dedicate 35 oxygen plants funded by PM CARES to nation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate 35 new Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants funded by the Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situation or PM CARES initiative in a function at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Rishikesh in Uttarakhand on Thursday. These 35 PSA oxygen plants are being set up across the 35 states and Union Territories.The Prime Minister’s Office said that 1224 such oxygen plants have been financed by PM CARES all throughout the country and 1,100 of these plants have already been commissioned, providing an output of over 1,750 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen per day. PM Modi tweeted to say that oxygen plants were ‘vital healthcare infrastructure’ and added, “I would be in Devbhoomi Uttarakhand tomorrow, 7th October. 35 PSA Oxygen Plants across various States and UTs would be dedicated to the nation. This is vital healthcare infrastructure for larger public benefit.” During the second wave of Covid-19, India faced a debilitating shortage of medical oxygen with more than 10,000 metric tonnes (MT) required daily due to the exponential surge in infections and deaths. Since these demands could not be met, the government banned the industrial usage of oxygen, airlifted oxygen from those industrial plants and ran oxygen supply trains.Also Read: Modi completes 2 decades in public office, BJP to hold day-long eventsHowever, a political blame game ensued over government’s claim that no state had reported even a single death caused by the shortage of oxygen during the ongoing second wave. on Monday, the Supreme Court refused to order a nationwide investigation into the shortage of medical oxygen and said that while it may be convenient for some to criticise the government, the top court will not conduct a “legal post mortem” of past events to “demoralise authorities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pmmodi-to-dedicate-35-oxygen-plants-funded-by-pm-cares-to-nation-101633574400656.html
07-10-2021||India||Navratri 2021: PM Modi, Union ministers extend greetings, pray for good health||Prime Minister Narendra Modi greeted the people of the country on Navratri, along with several Union minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Jagat Prakash Nadda. He posted his greeting on Twitter, hoping that Navratri brings good health and prosperity in people's lives."Navratri greetings to everyone. The coming days are about devoting ourselves to the worship of Jagat Janani Maa. May Navratri be the bringer of strength, good health and prosperity in everyone’s lives," PM Modi tweeted.Navratri greetings to everyone. The coming days are about devoting ourselves to the worship of Jagat Janani Maa. May Navratri be the bringer of strength, good health and prosperity in everyone’s lives. pic.twitter.com/f42HyGnUYMHe also posted a prayer in his subsequent tweet for Maa Shailputri, who is worshipped on the first day of Navratri. PM Modi will visit Uttarakhand today where he will dedicate 35 oxygen plants across various states and union territories.Union home minister Amit Shah also wished the country on Navratri, saying it's a grand festival where people can “realise their inner power and awaken their souls”.शक्ति संचय और आत्मचेतना की जागृति के महापर्व नवरात्रि की सभी को हार्दिक शुभकामनाएं।आदिशक्ति माँ दुर्गा सभी की मनोकामनाएं पूर्ण कर सबके जीवन में सुख, समृद्धि व उत्तम स्वास्थ्य का शुभाशीष दें।जय माता दी! pic.twitter.com/Ak8NN75Y9bHousing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri posted a mantra while wishing the people of the country on the beginning of nine-day festival Navratri.In his tweet, BJP chief JP Nadda prayed for good health, happiness and good health for the people. "Om Devi Shailputra Namah. Best wishes to all countrymen on Navratri, the holy festival of worship of Mother Durga, the symbol of shakti. I pray to Jagat Janani Maa Durga for happiness, peace, prosperity, glory and health in everyone's life. Jai Mata Di!!!" he said on Twitter.The celebrations of Navratri involve worshipping Goddess Durga and her nine forms. The festival is celebrated in different ways - including fasting - across the country. Over the next nine days, devotees offer their prayers to Goddess Durga and observe fasts.Navratri is celebrated to mark Goddess Durga's victory over demon Mahishasura, signifying the victory of good over evil.The 10th day of Navratri is celebrated as Dussehra or Vijaya Dashami.The festival of Navratri will be observed from October 7 till October 15. This year Ashtami falls on October 13 while Dashami is on October 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navratri-2021-pm-modi-union-ministers-extend-greetings-pray-for-good-health-101633572723580.html
07-10-2021||India||Experts say Covid-19 spike can’t be ruled out in Maharashtra, advise caution||Mumbai reported more than 624 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, crossing the 600-mark which was seen 84 days ago on July 14 when 619 infections were registered in the city . This comes a day after the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said a spike in cases could not be ruled out completely due to upcoming festivals and seasonal migration. Mumbai also reported seven deaths, taking the city’s Covid related death toll to 16,136 out of the total 746,703 infections it has registered so far. The city’s recovery rate is at a healthy 96% and the fatality rate is 2.16%. The city has 5,451 active cases and it reported 1.50% positivity rate on Wednesday.On Monday, BMC was reported to have told the Bombay high court that the vaccination drive was progressing smoothly with there being no shortage of vaccines now and the municipality didn’t see a third wave of the disease coming. However, it added that a spike in cases cannot be ruled out.”The situation in the city is very comfortable right now and it is maybe safe considering we are able to handle the caseload very well and there is adequate health infrastructure to handle cases. However, we cannot completely rule out any further spike. There are festivals including Navratri, Dussehra and Diwali coming, where there will be gatherings,” Suresh Kakani, BMC’s additional municipal commissioner told HT on Tuesday. “We cannot make any claim that a third wave will not come. In Ahmednagar district, several villages are facing a spike and we cannot claim anything on the above lines. We have to remain cautious and continue following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, and get vaccinated, considering it is definitely helping in controlling the spread,” Kakani added, clearly articulating that BMC was not in a position to rule out a third wave of Covid infections.Experts on the other hand had indicated that while there was likely to be a spike in cases due to extensive unlocking, a third wave in the metropolis was unlikely now.Also Read: Religious places in Maharashtra to reopen from todayMoreover, the number of cases in Maharashtra are on a declining trend currently with weekly positivity rate dropping to 2.07% from last week’s 2.11%. There is no district with positivity rate greater than 5%, indicating that the Covid-19 spread is under control.The positivity rate is a crucial metric that shows how widespread the virus is in the community. It is the proportion of the total tests that turn positive in that region. The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends that this should remain below 5% for an outbreak to be considered under control. Maharashtra currently has 11 districts, which have positivity rates above the state average of 2.07% but under the 5% threshold.Maharashtra on Wednesday recorded 2,876 Covid-19 new Covid cases and 90 deaths, taking the state tally to 6,567,791 infections so far. There were 150,584 tests done on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-spike-can-t-be-ruled-out-in-maharashtra-say-experts-advise-caution-101633572660612.html
07-10-2021||India||Narendra Modi completes 2 decades in public office, BJP to hold day-long events||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has planned a series of events on Thursday, October 7, to mark the completion of two decades of uninterrupted service in the public office by Narendra Modi. Now the Prime Minister, Modi took oath as the Gujarat chief minister back in 2001 and it has now been twenty years of his public service, of which seven are in the Prime Minister's Office. The BJP intends to celebrate the occasion with a string of activities which includes spreading awareness about Narendra Modi's works in public office and also undertaking cleanliness campaigns in accordance with the Swachh Bharat vision of the Prime Minister.Also Read | How 3 crore poor families became ‘lakhpati’ under BJP govt, PM Modi explains“Party workers will mark the day by cleaning the rivers, spreading awareness among the public about the work done by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on booth level and other such social programmes,” the ANI news agency reported earlier this week, citing BJP functionaries familiar with the matter. “Party workers will make people aware of the policies at every booth in the country.”The Swachh Bharat Mission, envisioned by Prime Minister Modi, considers the cleanliness of rivers an integral part of the drive to make India dirt-free. Launching the Swachh Bharat 2.0 mission earlier this month, Modi said that the plan is to make every city in India “water-secure” to ensure that the rivers are not polluted by sewage. In accordance with this vision, the BJP workers are planning to undertake a drive on Thursday to clean the rivers in the country, as a mark of respect to the policies introduced by Narendra Modi in his two decades of public service.Also Read | My detractors have more reasons to oppose me: PM Modi at Lucknow eventGurudwaras across the country will also perform ‘Ardas’, praying for the long life of Prime Minister Modi and a ‘langar’ will be organised as a part of the ‘Seva Samarpan’ campaign, which was launched earlier in September at the party headquarters in the national capital to mark the 71st birth anniversary of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narendra-modi-completes-2-decades-in-public-office-bjp-to-hold-day-long-events-101633565475119.html
07-10-2021||India||Mamata Banerjee, 2 other Trinamool Congress MLAs to take oath today||Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief Mamata Banerjee will take oath as a member of West Bengal Assembly on Thursday. Along with her, two other newly-elected TMC legislators will also take oath at 2pm, according to a Twitter post from Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on October 5.The governor said that the oath-taking ceremony was supposed to be held initially at 11.45 am, but the timing was changed following a request of state Parliamentary Affairs Minister Partha Chatterjee.Banerjee won the Bhabanipur by-poll with a record margin of 58,835 votes. She needed to win the election to retain the chief minister's chair.According to the Election Commission of India, Mamata Banerjee secured 85,263 votes which are around 71.90 per cent of the total votes polled in the by-election.Banerjee's rival from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Priyanka Tibrewal got 26,428 votes and Communist Party of India CPI candidate Srijib Biswas secured 4,226 votes.The other two TMC leaders also registered resounding win in the respective by-polls. Jakir Hossain was declared victorious by a huge margin of 92,480 votes from the Jangipur constituency, while Amirul Islam won from Samserganj by a margin of 26,379 votes.The results were declared on Sunday. The polling was held in all three constituencies on September 30.To continue as chief minister, Banerjee needs to be sworn in as a member of the assembly by November 4. TMC leaders said she wanted the formalities to be completed before the Durga Puja festival. Banerjee, who was defeated in the West Bengal assembly polls from Nandigram, was sworn in as chief minister on May 5, giving her six months to be elected to the legislature.According to convention, it is the assembly speaker who administers the oath to legislators while the governor administers oath of office to ministers. But, Dhankar withdrew speaker Biman Banerjee's power to administer the oath few days before the September 30 by-polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-2-other-trinamool-congress-mlas-to-take-oath-today-101633566642868.html
07-10-2021||NA||Breaking: UK scraps quarantine for fully-vaccinated Indians from Oct 11||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:UK scraps quarantine for fully-vaccinated Indians from Oct 11No quarantine for Indian 🇮🇳 travellers to UK 🇬🇧 fully vaccinated with Covishield or another UK-approved vaccine from 11 October. Thanks to Indian government for close cooperation over last month. pic.twitter.com/cbI8Gqp0QtBritish high commissioner to India Alex Ellis on Thursday announced that the UK has decided to exempt Indian travellers, who are fully-vaccinated with either Covishield or another UK-approved Covid-19 vaccine, from quarantine after entering the European nation from October 11 onwards. “Thanks to Indian government for close cooperation over last month,” he tweeted.Neeraj Chopra's javelin receives highest ₹1.5 crore bid in e-auction of gifts presented to PM ModiOlympic gold medalist Neeraj Chopra’s javelin has received the highest bid of ₹1.5 crore in the third round of e-auction of prestigious gifts and mementos presented to Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Kolkata puja pandal installs Durga idol resembling CM MamataA Durga Puja pandal in West Bengal's capital Kolkata has installed a Durga idol resembling chief minister Mamata Banerjee. “Each hand of the idol represents one of her government's initiatives such as Lakhi Bhandar and others,” says Indranath Bagui, president, Baguiati Nazrul Park Unnayan Samiti (the Durga Puja committee).Bihar temple priest places 21 water-filled pots on chest to pay obeisance to Goddess DurgaBihar: A temple priest in Patna pay obeisance to goddess Durga by placing 21 water-filled kalashas on his chest"I'll keep these kalashas on my chest for the next 9 days while observing a complete fast. I've been doing this for last 25 years on the occasion of Navaratri,"he says pic.twitter.com/c9Ajqirca5A priest at a temple in Bihar's capital Patna placed a 21 water-filled pots on his chest on Thursday in order to pay obeisance to Goddess Durga, ANI reported. “I'll keep these kalashas on my chest for the next nine days while observing a complete fast. I've been doing this for [the] last 25 years on the occasion of Navaratri,” he was quoted as saying by ANI.UPDATE: Aryan Khan's bail application to be decided tomorrowAccording to latest updates, Aryan Khan's bail application will be decided tomorrow. The Mumbai Magistrate Court has adjourned the matter for the day.Court to decide Aryan's bail application in cruise party case later todayThe Mumbai Magistrate Court will decide Aryan Khan's interim bail application in cruise ship rave party case later in the day. Aryan Khan, 7 others sent to judicial custody in cruise raid caseA Mumbai Metropolitan Magistrate Court on Thursday sent Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan, and seven others, held by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in the cruise ship raid case, to judicial custody.Pfizer submits US emergency nod request for Covid vaccines for children, reports AFPPfizer-BioNTech said that it has submitted US emergency authorisation request for Covid-19 vaccine for children aged five-11, AFP reported.Centre to start granting fresh tourist visas to foreigners coming to India via chartered flights from Oct 15The Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) will commence granting fresh Tourist Visas to foreigners coming to India through chartered flights starting October 15. Meanwhile, foreign tourists travelling to India by flights other than chartered aircraft would be able to do so with effect from November 15.‘Worried about cross-border terrorism’: MEA spokesperson Bagchi on terrorist attacks in J&KFollowing a spree of terrorist attacks, including the killing of two teachers in Srinagar on Thursday, MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said that the central government “strongly condemn such attacks.” “We are worried about the cross-border terrorism and are discussing the issue at various platforms,” he told ANI.‘No new Covid-19 variant of concern’: VK PaulDuring a press briefing on Covid-19 on Thursday, NITI Aayog member (Health), VK Paul said that there is “no new variant of concern as per the data available.” “[Data] is updated daily,” he added.2021 Nobel Prize in Literature: Tanzanian novelist Abdulrazak Gurnah declared winnerBREAKING NEWS: The 2021 #NobelPrize in Literature is awarded to the novelist Abdulrazak Gurnah “for his uncompromising and compassionate penetration of the effects of colonialism and the fate of the refugee in the gulf between cultures and continents.” pic.twitter.com/zw2LBQSJ4jRussia to invite Taliban to international talks in Moscow on Oct 20On Thursday, AFP reported citing agencies that Russia will be inviting Islamist militant group Taliban to international talks in Moscow on October 20. Notably, Taliban recaptured Afghanistan on August 15 after two decade during the US-led foreign forces withdrawal from the country.NCB says further raid needed in cruise ship party case, seeks custody of accused, including Aryan Khan, till Oct 11According to latest updates, the NCB has stated in its remand application that they have so far held 17 seventeen people in the cruise rave party raid case. The latest arrests are of one Achit Kumar as per the statement given by Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan - one of arrested persons, and another Bollywood actor Arbaaz Khan. The agency says they need to further carry a raid and confront all the accused, thus they plan to seek custody till October 11.Amit Shah chairs security meeting with NSA Ajit Doval, home secy Bhalla and IB chief Kumar in DelhiUnion Home Minister Amit Shah chairs a security meeting with NSA Ajit Doval, Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla, and the Intelligence Bureau chief Arvind Kumar in his North Block office in Delhi(In photo: NSA coming of the meeting) pic.twitter.com/xY37VP2vA4Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday chaired a security meeting with NSA Ajit Doval, Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla, and the Intelligence Bureau chief Arvind Kumar in Shah's North Block office in the national capital, news agency ANI tweeted.NCB team reaches Mumbai's Magistrate Court with cruise ship raid case accused, including Aryan KhanThe Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) team has reached the Metropolitan Magistrate Court in Mumbai with Aryan Khan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha and other five accused in the cruise ship raid case.Lakhimpur Kheri incident: 2 people arrestedTwo persons identified as Luvkush Rana and Ashish Pandey arrested in connection with the Sunday violence, said a Lakhimpur police official.BJP national executive to meet on November 7Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national executive will meet on November 7, news agency ANI reported citing people familiar with the development.Mamata Banerjee, 2 other TMC MLAs take oath of officeTMC supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, along with two of her party MLAs - Amirul Islam and Jakir Hossain, took oath of office on Thursday in Kolkata in presence of West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar.SC directs Centre to take steps to allow girls to take RIMC entrance examSupreme Court directs the Centre to take immediate steps to allow girls to take the entrance exam for admission in Rashtriya Indian Military College (RIMC) to be held in December.IT raids on firms related to Ajit PawarThe Income Tax department has conducted raids on firms linked to Maharashtra deputy CM Ajit Pawar, the minister confirms.Delivery boy held for alleged rape in Mumbai's CharkopPolice in Mumbai's Charkop arrest a delivery boy in connection with alleged rape of a six-year-old girl in the area. Case registered under section 376 of IPC and the POSCO act. Court sends the accused to police custody till October 9.2 more civilians shot dead in J&K's SrinagarUnidentified terrorists kill school principal and teacher in Srinagar's Eidgah. Fifth civilian killing in Kashmir in last three days, and fourth in Srinagar alone.PM Modi dedicates 35 PSA oxygen plants to nationUttarakhand: PM Narendra Modi dedicates 35 Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) Oxygen Plants established under PM CARES, across 35 States and Union Territories, at AIIMS Rishikesh pic.twitter.com/qMX6jX3kTZPrime Minister Narendra Modi dedicates to the nation 35 Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants established under PM CARES, across 35 states and Union territories, at AIIMS Rishikesh in Uttarakhand. “From just one testing lab, India became an exporter of Covid-19 vaccines,” the Prime Minister said.NGT has suo moto powers to function under Green Tribunal Act, says SCSupreme Court holds that National Green Tribunal has got suo moto powers in discharging functions under the National Green Tribunal Act.Tejasvi Surya writes to BBMP over Durga Puja guidelinesIn letter to the BBMP, BJP MP Tejasvi Surya calls rules issued by the civic body for upcoming Durga Puja celebrations in Bengaluru as “arbitrary and illogical.”Heartfelt congratulations to PM Modi, says JP NaddaI extend heartfelt congratulations to PM Modi on completing 20 years as the head of government today. As a ‘Pradhan Sevak’, he has made India a global power. He also gave the mantra of 'Sewa hi sangathan' for our party: JP Nadda, BJP president9 killed, 27 injured in UP's Barabanki, says DM9 people killed, 27 injured in collision between a truck and a passenger bus in Barabanki. The injured have been shifted to Trauma Centre: DM, Barabanki22,431 new Covid-19 cases and 318 deaths in IndiaIndia logs 22,431 new Covid-19 cases and 318 deaths as tally mounts to 33,894,312.BJP releases list of candidates for bypollsBJP releases list of candidates for bypolls to three Lok Sabha seats – one each in UT of Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Madhya Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh -- and 16 assembly seats of various states, scheduled to be held on October 30.18th arrest made in Mumbai cruise ship raid caseNCB says arrested a foreign national from Mumbai's Bandra last night in connection with cruise ship raid case. This is 18th arrest in the case.Casualties feared in road accident in UP's Barabanki5-6 people feared dead in collision between a truck and a passenger bus in Uttar Pradesh's Barabanki, injured shifted to local hospital, police say.At least 20 dead, 200 injured in Pakistan earthquakeAt least 20 dead and more than 200 injured in the earthquake that struck southern Pakistan this morning, Reuters reports citing Disaster Management Authority DG Naseer Nasir.Maharashtra deputy CM Ajit Pawar visits Siddhivinayak temple Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar offers prayers at Siddhi Vinayak Ganapati temple, Mumbai. Today also marks the first day of 'Navratri', which will continue till October 15. pic.twitter.com/mWmEM3NcZXMaharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar offers prayers at Siddhivinayak Ganapati temple, Mumbai, as religious places reopen in state.Mizoram's Covid-19 tally rises to 101,327938 recoveries from Covid-19 and 1 death in Mizoram on Wednesday. Tally rises to 101,327 including 85,925 recoveries, 15006 active cases and 336 deaths.8 women officers among first-timers posted as SHOs by Delhi PoliceEight women officers among 44 first-timers posted as SHOs. A total of 55 people have been named as SHOs in the latest transfer/posting order issued: Office of the Commissioner of Police, Delhi Police15 killed in earthquake in southern PakistanAt least 15 people killed in earthquake in southern Pakistan's Harnai, reports AFP quoting officials. The earthquake, measuring 6.0 on Richter scale, occurred at 3:30am today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-october-07-2021-101633566101114.html
07-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan's NCB custody ends today, will seek bail in drugs case||Aryan Khan will be produced before a court in Mumbai on Thursday for bail in a case related to seizure of drugs onboard a cruise ship. Khan and two others are in the custody of Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), which first detained and then arrested them after a raid on the ship off the coast of Mumbai.Khan's custody is ending today (October 7) and his counsel will again apply for bail.Watch: NCB says more arrests made in drugs caseAt the last hearing on October 4, the NCB told the Esplanade court that it found WhatsApp chats, which it claimed were discussions with peddlers and sought custody of Aryan Khan, Arbaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha to investigate the links. The court then extended the trio's custody till October 7.The lawyer of the 23-year-old, son of actor Shah Rukh Khan, told the court that Aryan Khan was invited to the ship as a guest and that he was not even allotted any seat or cabin. The lawyer Satish Maneshinde denied Aryan Khan's link with peddlers and accusing the NCB of basing its case solely on WhatApp chats without finding recovering from his client.Meanwhile, the NCB said that it has so far arrested 16 people in connection with the case. NCB Mumbai director Sameer Wankhede on Wednesday said that there are some links related to Bitcoin.The NCB raid was conducted on October 2.A political slugfest has started, with Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) - part of the three-party ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) alliance - terming the raids as "fake", alleging no drugs were found during it, even as it questioned the presence of two persons along with the NCB team during the raid, claiming one of them was a member of the Bharaitya Janata Party (BJP).Both the NCB and BJP denied the NCP charges as "baseless".“One of them is Manish Bhanushali, who claims to be a BJP office-bearer and the other is KP Gosawi, who claims to be a private detective," Maharashtra minorities affairs minister and NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik said at a press conference on Wednesday.“According to the Bhanushali’s Facebook profile, he is a BJP vice president and has photos with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah, BJP chief JP Nadda...,” Malik claimed.Bhanushali later told a TV channel that he was a BJP worker and that the NCB conducted the raid based on his tip.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aryan-khan-s-ncb-custody-ends-today-will-seek-bail-in-drugs-case-101633565056786.html
07-10-2021||NA||Lakhimpur Kheri Highlights: UP Police paste notice outside Union minister Ajay Mishra's residence||The political row triggered by the Lakhimpur Kheri violence is heating up Uttar Pradesh; a Congress delegation including heavyweight leaders Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi met the family of deceased farmers on Wednesday and demanded “justice, not compensation”. The BJP, wary months before the upcoming assembly elections in the state, has blamed Congress for seeking ‘mileage’ over the issue. Meanwhile, the Supreme Court has also stepped in, registering a suo motu case; the proceedings are expected to begin on Thursday.Follow all the updates here:BSP national general secretary SC Mishra meets family of farmer killed in Lakhimpur Kheri violence  On Thursday, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) general secretary SC Mishra met the family of Lovepreet Singh, who was killed in Lakhimpur Kheri violence on Sunday. UP Police paste notice outside Union minister Ajay Mishra's residence asking his son to appear before court on FridayUttar Pradesh Police pastes notice outside the residence of Union Minister Ajay Kumar Mishra in Lakhimpur Kheri, asking his son Ashish Mishra to appear before it on Oct 8 in connection with the violence pic.twitter.com/HR7sm1b2K7Harish Rawat led ‘Virod march’ to Lakhimpur Kheri stopped by police in BareillyUttarakhand Congress chief Harish Rawat-led march to Lakhimpur Kheri was stopped in Bareilly by UP Police on Thursday. Congress workers began a sit-in on the spot and tried to proceed ahead but Baheri’s sub-divisional magistrate Ashutosh Gupta and circle officer of police Ajay Gautam didn’t allow them on the pretext of law and order.Lakhimpur Kheri tragedy should not be linked with any other incident: Bhupesh BaghelChhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel said on Thursday that the Lakhimpur Kheri tragedy, where 8 individuals died, should not be linked to another incident. He made this remark after the opposition BJP accused him of “cheap politics” for approving an ex-gratia of ₹50 lakhs to the families of the deceased. Punjab Cong chief Sidhu, party MLAs taken to Sarsawa Air Force stationPunjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and the party MLAs, cabinet ministers,  and the state Youth Congress president accompanying him on the march to Lakhimpur Kheri were taken into custody at the UP-Haryana border and sent to Sarsawa Air Force station. Punjab Cong chief Sidhu, party MLAs taken into custody at Shahjahanpur borderPunjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and the party MLAs accompanying him on their march to Lakhimpur Kheri were taken into custody at Shahjahanpur border. Additional forces have also been deployed to tackle the  situation. 'Incidents of firearm injuries not', says Lucknow IGLucknow Range IG Lakshimi Singh told reporters that no firearm injury or incidents of firing has been confirmed in Sunday's Lakhimpur Kheri incident. Adding that police “will have to proceed with other evidence that have been given to us” while conducting their investigation, reported ANI.Haryana-UP border blocked in Kairana to prevent entry of farmers, Cong leadersHaryana-UP border in Kairana of Shamli district was blocked by administration on Thursday to prevent farmers and Congress leaders from entering. District Magistrate Jasjeet Kaur and SP of Shamli Sukirti Madhav are currently camping at the border.Punjab Cong chief Sidhu-led protest march stopped at Saharanpur borderThe Congress protest march led by state party chief Navjot Singh Sidhu was stopped at the Shahjahanpur on UP-Haryana border on Thursday. Tension ran high in the area as a tussle ensued between police forces and the crowd of hundreds of supporters who had gathered in Sidhu's support after the march was stopped. 2 arrested but Union minister Mishra's son still untraceableTwo persons identified as Luvkush Rana and Ashish Pandey have been arrested in connection with the Sunday violence, said a Lakhimpur police official. The official said both Rana and Pandey are close associates of the union home minister Ajai Mishra Teni's son Ashish Mishra. Further raids are on in search of other accused identified so far, the official added. However, the minister's son is still untraceable, the official said. Rahul Gandhi returns to Delhi after meeting families of deceased in Lakhimpur Kheri incidentCongress leader Rahul Gandhi returned to Delhi on Thursday afternoon after meeting the family members of those killed in the violent Lakhimpur Kheri incident. Meanwhile, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tried to meet the kin of the two deceased BJP workers in Bahraich but was refused permission by the police."I wanted to meet the two families of BJP workers ( who died in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident). I asked the inspector general that I would like to meet them if the families want to...but he straight away told me 'no they don't want to'. Then I said okay they convey my condolences to them," she told reporters. Punjab Congress chief Navjot Sidhu leads protest march to Lakhimpur, says ‘will sit on hunger strike if arrests not made’Punjab Congress President Navjot Singh Sidhu led Punjab Congress to march to Lakhimpur in Uttar Pradesh today. “If arrests are not made or he (MoS Teni's son) doesn't join the investigation by tomorrow, then I will sit on hunger strike,” he said.Supreme Court asks UP govt to file status report on arrests in Lakhimpur Kheri case by tomorrowSupreme Court has asked Uttar Pradesh government to file a status report on who are the accused, against whom FIR is registered and those arrested.Supreme Court explains how matter became suo motu instead of PILCJI Ramana says two advocates wrote a letter to the court on Tuesday, we directed our Registry to register the letter as PIL but due to miscommunication, they registered it as a suo motu matter.Matter to be heard later today.Supreme Court begins hearing in Lakhimpur Kheri violence caseSupreme Court begins hearing in the case registered by it on the violence that killed eight people in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri district on October 3.Supreme Court bench assembles for hearingThe Supreme Court bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana, Justice Surya Kant and Justice Hima Kohli will begin the hearing in Lakhimpur Kheri violence case shortly.‘Affected families will get justice,’ says Union minister Kaushal Kishore“The affected families will certainly get justice, the government had ordered an investigation into the case. The affected families have accepted the financial assistance provided to them by the government,” says Union minister Kaushal Kishore on Lakhimpur Kheri deaths.Union minister must resign to ensure unbiased probe: Priyanka Gandhi Vadra“Justice is a right in a democracy. I will continue my fight for justice. All the affected families I met yesterday only demanded justice. The Union minister needs to resign to ensure an unbiased investigation,” Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was quoted as saying by ANI after meeting families of the deceased.‘Protestors cannot be silenced through murder,’ says BJP MP Varun GandhiThe video is crystal clear. Protestors cannot be silenced through murder. There has to be accountability for the innocent blood of farmers that has been spilled and justice must be delivered before a message of arrogance and cruelty enters the minds of every farmer. 🙏🏻🙏🏻 pic.twitter.com/Z6NLCfuujKBharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Varun Gandhi took to Twitter on Thursday sharing the viral video of Lakhimpur Kheri incident and seeking justice for the farmers killed. "Protestors can't be silenced through murder. There has to be accountability for innocent blood of farmers that has been spilled and justice must be delivered before a message of arrogance and cruelty enters the minds of every farmer,” he said.UP govt appoints retired Allahabad HC judge to probe Lakhimpur Kheri violence, report to be submitted in 2 monthsUP government has appointed retired Allahabad high court judge Pradeep Kumar Srivastava as a single-person Commission of enquiry to probe the death of eight people on October 3 in Lakhimpur Kheri district. The Commission has been given a period of two months to submit a report on the same.BSP national general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra to visit Lakhimpur Kheri todayBahujan Samaj Party (BSP) national general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra will be visiting Lakhimpur Kheri today to meet the kin of the deceased farmers.SP chief Akhilesh Yadav to meet families of deceased farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri todayFormer Uttar Pradesh chief minister and Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav to visit violence-hit Lakhimpur Kheri today and meet the families of the deceased farmers as well as the family of a journalist who lost his life in the incident. Yadav had earlier slammed the Bharatiya Janata Party government of having “surpassed the atrocities committed by the British”. The SP chief has demanded ₹2 crore for the families of the four farmers who died in Lakhimpur Kheri violence and the arrest of the accused.Congress shares new video of Lakhimpur Kheri violenceThe Congress on Wednesday shared a video clip showing what happened in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3, as an SUV ran over protesters, killing eight people. The video is claimed to be a longer and clearer clip of Sunday's violence. Watch hereJharkhand Congress delegation stopped from going to Lakhimpur Kheri उत्तरप्रदेश पुलिस ने बॉर्डर सील कर, प्रदेशाध्यक्ष, मंत्री सहित सभी कांग्रेसजन को रोका। सभी सड़क के बीच में बैठ जता रहे विरोध।@RahulGandhi @priyankagandhi@SinghRPN @RajeshThakurINC @BannaGupta76 @Badal_Patralekh pic.twitter.com/oLepefCqrjA delegation of Congress leaders from Jharkhand, led by state Congress president Rajesh Thakur, was stopped by the Uttar Pradesh Police near Wyndhamganj in Sonbhadra district while going to Lakhimpur Kheri to meet the farmers, late last night. "We are here since 3 AM. We want to meet our leader Priyanka Gandhi and go to Lakhimpur Kheri. But excuses of section 144 are being made by police. This is totally unconstitutional. UP Government is behaving in a dictatorial manner, they are not even ready to arrest us. It is such a coward government and they have no right to stay in power," said Rajesh Thakur.The delegation also included state agriculture minister Badal Patralekh and health minister Banna Gupta.Thank CJI for deciding to take up Lakhimpur Kheri matter suo motu, says Kapil SibalLakhimpur Kheri IncidenceThank the Chief Justice of India for deciding to take up the matter suo motu This is the need of the hour This and courts in India are the temples of justice that can restore the faith of the voiceless who most often feel orphanedSenior Congress leader Kapil Sibal on Wednesday thanked the Chief Justice of India (CJI), NV Ramana, for deciding to take up the Lakhimpur Kheri matter suo motu.Earlier on October 4, reacting to the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, Sibal had said, “This is the symbol of the arrogance of political party that is power. The ruling party is giving a message that they can do whatever they want and even run a car over those who are protesting.”Supreme Court steps in, CJI to hear Lakhimpur caseThe Supreme Court on Wednesday registered a public interest litigation on its own on the violence that killed eight people in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri district three days ago amid simmering tensions in the region and a visit by opposition leaders to the victims’ kin. Read MoreLakhimpur violence: Congress delegation meets families after visit furoreCongress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday met the family members of farmers killed in the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri and promised them all assistance. They arrived in Lakhimpur after the Uttar Pradesh government allowed them to visit the violence-hit district.Talking to newspersons later in the night, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi said all the three families she met want justice. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-live-updates-uttar-pradesh-thursday-7th-october-2021-101633563459272.html
07-10-2021||India||India, US ready to compete with China: US diplomat||The US and India are like-minded partners, and the two are ready to compete vigorously with China, US deputy secretary of state Wendy Sherman said, cautioning “economic coercion” could hamper efforts to build a strong international economy -- a message seemingly aimed at Beijing.“We do ask that countries understand that economic coercion is not the way forward to build a strong international economy and a global prosperity and security,” she said on Wednesday while addressing a session at the US India Business Council along with India’s foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla.Sherman said she had “very extensive” discussions with foreign secretary Shringla, and she also met national security adviser Ajit Doval on various matters of mutual interest.“I had excellent meetings here, and I think we all are ready to do the work that’s necessary to ensure prosperity, peace and stability in the world,” she said while replying to a specific question related to China. Sherman and Shringla were delivering keynote armchair conversation on ‘Strategic Convergence – Aligning Our Economies and Our Indo-Pacific Ambitions’ at USIBC India Ideas Summit.She said that the two partners have shared democratic values, which are the “bedrock of US-India relationship” as the two are the oldest and largest democracies in the world. “And we reaffirmed our strategic partnership over several past administrations,” she said. “And we built a strong network of Indo-Pacific alliances and partnerships as well and they are all based on the international rules-based order,” she said.“We have a shared interest where major defence partners concluded four major defense-enabling agreements in recent years,” she added.Commenting on China, she said: “Regarding the PRC [People’s Republic of China], we’ve been clear. We’re ready to compete and compete vigorously, but we want a level playing field and you heard U.S. trade representative Tie [Katherine Tai] talked about this.Tai on October 4 said the US will take “all steps necessary” to protect it against the “waves of damage inflicted over the years through unfair competition”. The USTR remarked at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS), outlining the Biden-Harris Administration’s new approach to the US-China bilateral trade relationship.“China’s lack of adherence to global trading norms has undercut the prosperity of Americans and others around the world,” Tai said adding that the US will continue to “work with allies” to shape the rules for fair trade in the 21st century, and facilitate a race to the top for market economies and democracies.Sherman on Thursday spoke on similar line. “We’ll compete vigorously with China, where we should... I think, we and India are like minded in that regard. We don’t ask countries to choose between the United States and the PRC, but we do ask for a level playing field,” she said.Speaking at the event, secretary Shringla said, “India considers its relations with the United States to be of paramount importance” not only for the respective nations but to ensure a “free, open, inclusive, and prosperous” Indo-Pacific.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-us-ready-to-compete-with-china-us-diplomat-101633562951897.html
07-10-2021||India||Cops trace 4 Facebook accounts of woman handler in DRDO espionage case to Pak||BHUBANESWAR: Four of the seven Facebook accounts used by a suspected woman handler in the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) espionage case were being operated from Pakistan, a senior official of Odisha criminal investigation department (CID) said on Wednesday.The woman, who was in touch with the five men arrested last month through social media accounts such as Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp, had at least four Facebook accounts operating from Pakistan. Three accounts were being operated from Islamabad and one from Rawalpindi, said CID additional director general Sanjeeb Panda.The officer said investigators had been able to trace back the accounts to Pakistan, adding that she used proxy IPs (Internet Protocol) of the US, India and Germany. Some of the accounts are currently active and she is still chatting with some people, he added.The suspected Pakistani agent had 7 Facebook accounts under different names and was in contact with the five accused . She even had proposed to two accused. The woman had been using a UK phone number and chatted with the accused to get "valuable information" on missiles test-fired at DRDO’s testing range facility in Chandipur area of Balasore district.Last month, five people, Basanta Behera, Hemanta Kumar Mistry, Tapas Ranjan Nayak, SK Musafir and Sachin Kumar, were arrested by police in Balasore district. Panda said investigation is underway to get details of the UK phone number and the bank account in Dubai, from where one of the accused received a cash transfer of around ₹38,000. He said efforts are underway to know if the accused received more money from any other source.The CID has sought technical data from the Indian Computer Emergency Response Team under the Union ministry of electronics and information technology.The CID is yet to identify the woman but has found her videos and photographs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cops-trace-4-facebook-accounts-of-woman-handler-in-drdo-espionage-case-to-pak-101633551869026.html
07-10-2021||India||SC directs high courts to provide data on convicts eligible for early release||The Supreme Court on Wednesday directed all high courts in the country to segregate criminal appeals filed by life convicts and other convicts along with the period of their incarceration to enable a uniform approach on early release of prisoners found languishing in jail without bail or remission for a sustained period.The order came on a suggestion of three lawyers assisting the top court as amicus curiae who examined the position in high courts of Delhi and Chhattisgarh where such an exercise was successfully conducted by the respective legal service committees.The three lawyers, Gaurav Agrawal, Devansh Mohta and Liz Mathew, carried out the study on pending jail petitions, criminal appeals in high courts and remission pleas for premature release under consideration with state governments.In Delhi High Court, 232 appeals were pending where the prison sentence ranged from three to 20 years. Another 129 appeals from convicts serving life sentences were pending. In Chhattisgarh high court, the pendency was divided into two categories – 1,162 appeals where the sentence is up to 10 years and 2,878 appeals where the sentence is above 10 years.Impressed by the work done by the two high courts, the bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and MM Sundresh ordered a similar exercise to be undertaken by the legal service committees of all high courts. It further directed the National Legal Services Authority (NALSA) to circulate this order and monitor the exercise in each high court.As for Delhi and Chhattisgarh, the court asked the respective legal service committees to identify appeals where the prisoner has undergone more than half the period of actual punishment and above eight years in case of prisoners serving a life term.The court also directed the legal service committees to explore if convicts who have undergone a substantial amount of their sentence are agreeable to withdraw their appeal from the high court and get released. This, however, will be voluntary and will not affect the prisoner’s right to file an appeal, the bench clarified.A similar exercise could be undertaken for life convicts seeking premature release or remission after crossing the threshold sentence required for consideration under the respective state policies.Agrawal pointed out that a similar exercise had also been undertaken for 300 jail petitions pending in the Supreme Court. Since no cooperation was forthcoming from SC Legal Services Committee, the court directed the court registry to find out the status of convicts who filed jail petitions – whether they are still in custody or released on bail. The bench further directed NALSA to examine cases where convicts are eligible for premature release or bail in cases where a substantial period of the sentence was over.About remission cases, advocate Liz Mathew said the NALSA scheme for time-bound disposal of remission requests was rolled out in three states, Chhattisgarh, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, by July 7 order. While Chhattisgarh assured that the remission received till August 1 will be decided before February 2022, no information was forthcoming from UP. The Bihar government filed a late response that could not be considered by the court.The bench directed UP to provide details of pending remission pleas within a month or else said it will summon the state chief secretary in the matter. The court posted the matter for further hearing in February next year.The court orders came on a petition filed by one Sonadhar who had undergone 14 years imprisonment but had to wait for three years for his remission to get decided. The court directed NALSA to study the pendency position across the country in the context of remission applicants and discovered over 1,649 prisoners were languishing in prison awaiting an order on their remission petition for premature release.NALSA informed the court that the delay was due to the absence of a deadline to decide the remission pleas. The court directed NALSA to consider a timeframe and on July 7 implemented it initially in three states as a pilot project. This required states to identify and collect data about eligible prisoners within three months, recommendation by Sentence Review Board within next three months and two months for the state government to issue final orders.From November this year, the court directed NALSA to roll out the scheme in Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Karnataka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-directs-high-courts-to-provide-data-on-convicts-eligible-for-early-release-101633550415072.html
07-10-2021||India||Good Samaritans to be rewarded for taking road accident victims to hospital||The Union government has launched a scheme for ‘Good Samaritan’ under which anyone who saves the life of a road accident victim by rushing them to a hospital within the “golden hour” will get a cash reward of ₹5,000, the ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) said in a statement on Wednesday, adding the scheme will be implemented from October 15.According to the guidelines issued by the ministry, each Good Samaritan would also receive a certificate of appreciation besides ₹5,000 in cash for saving a road accident victim. An individual could be awarded a maximum of five times in a year, the guidelines added.The ministry also said there will be 10 national-level awards each year for the worthiest Good Samaritans, who would be selected from all those who have been awarded during the whole year and they would be given an award of ₹1 lakh each.The guidelines further stated that if more than one Good Samaritan saves the life of more than one victim, the amount of award would be ₹5,000 per victim saved, subject to maximum ₹5,000 per Good Samaritan.To start the scheme, the Centre would provide ₹5 lakh as an initial grant to the transport department of all states and Union territories for rewarding the Good Samaritans.The term ‘golden hour’ generally refers to the one-hour time period following a traumatic injury. It is during this time period that the likelihood of preventing death by providing prompt medical care to the victim is the highest.Piyush Tewari, founder and CEO, SaveLIFE foundation, said the scheme would help in creating role models and encourage more people to come forward and help road accident victims. “We appreciate the latest scheme launched by the Government of India to recognise and reward Good Samaritans. It will certainly create role models and encourage more people to come forward to help the injured.”“However, as the original petitioners in the Supreme Court judgment that initiated the Good Samaritan Law in India, we urge the government to also implement Section 134 of the Motor Vehicle Amendment Act 2019 to insulate Good Samaritans from police questioning, detention and mistreatment at hospitals and prolonged court procedures. While the government has released rules in this regard, the implementation at the state level has been found to be lacking,” Tewari added.The latest guidelines state that in case the Good Samaritan informs the police about the accident, the latter would provide an acknowledgement to the person after verifying details from a doctor on an official letter head. The copy of the acknowledgement would then be sent to the appraisal committee formed at the district level under the chairmanship of the district magistrate by the concerned police station. Besides, a copy would be marked to the Good Samaritan.If the Good Samaritan takes the road accident victim to the hospital directly, the hospital will provide all the details to the concerned police station. The police will then provide an acknowledgement to such Good Samaritan, the guidelines added.According to Union road transport minister Nitin Gadkari, a total of 366,138 road accidents occurred in India during the 2020 calendar year, causing 131,714 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/good-samaritans-to-be-rewarded-for-taking-road-accident-victims-to-hospital-within-golden-hour-101633550217942.html
07-10-2021||India||Police begins probe||LUCKNOW Lakhimpur Kheri police on Wednesday began its probe into Sunday’s incident in which four farmers were allegedly mowed down by a vehicle belonging to Union minister of state for home Ajay Kumar Mishra Teni while four others were killed in violent clashes, during a protest against the contentious agricultural laws, officials familiar with the developments said. The development came as a fresh video showing the vehicle ploughing into a group of protesters surfaced later in the day. The latest 46-second video, which provides a clearer picture of the incident than the previous one, shows a huge crowd yelling and shouting as the vehicle rams into them. The identities of those in the video could not be ascertained. HT could not independently verify the authenticity of the clip. A seven-member investigation team led by assistant superintendent of police (ASP) Arun Kumar Singh visited the spot at Banbirpur village under Tikonia police station limit and interrogated some villagers. No arrests were made so far, a senior police official said on condition of anonymity. The official added that the panel examined the spot and collected evidence related to the incident. The committee comprises two deputy superintendent of police, three inspectors and a sub-inspector. Eight people, including four farmers and a local journalist Raman Kashyap, died on Sunday in violence that broke out after at least one car from a convoy of three hit protesting farmers, prompting an angry crowd to burn two vehicles and widen their agitation. Farmers maintain Teni’s son, Ashish Mishra, was in the lead car that ran over people. On Monday, the Uttar Pradesh police booked Teni, his son and others on murder and other charges based on the complaint lodged by farmers. The video contests the minister’s claims that their vehicle was under attack as protesters pelted stones, due to which the driver lost balance and the vehicle turned turtle, leading to the accident. Additional director general of police, law and order, Prashant Kumar said: “All the videos and photographs of the Lakhimpur Kheri incident surfacing up will be authenticated and included in the investigation.” The district police also issued a helpline -- 9454403800 -- and urged villagers to share videos, photographs and information related to the incident. The identity of those sharing information will be kept secret, the official cited above said, adding that leads could also be shared via mail on spkhi-up@nic.in. The official further appealed to villagers to not exchange any unverified information. “In fact, they could share such videos with the police,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-begins-probe-101633548296929.html
07-10-2021||India||Ajay Mishra meets Amit Shah over Lakhimpur Kheri violence||New Delhi: Even as the opposition kept up their chorus seeking the resignation of the Union minister of state for home affairs, Ajay Kumar Mishra over Sunday’s violence at Lakhimpur Kheri that left eight dead, he met home minister Amit Shah at latter’s residence to brief him about the incident, people familiar with the development said. The meeting came shortly after a a Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPRD) event on Thursday where he was chief guest, was put on hold, without any reason being given. The minister also attended office at North Block for almost half an hour, the first time he has done so since the Sunday violence. Opposition parties including the Congress have demanded that Mishra be sacked as his son Ashish Mishra is among the people accused of running over farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday. The UP police has already registered a case of murder against the son. During his 30-minute long meeting with Shah, Mishra is learnt to have given his version of events. Over the last three days, Mishra has repeatedly defended himself and his son, saying they were not present at the spot and that it was his driver who was driving the SUV. Eight people, including four farmers and a local journalist Raman Kashyap, died on Sunday in violence that broke out after at least one car from a convoy of three hit protesting farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri, prompting an angry crowd to burn two vehicles and widen their agitation. Farmers maintain the minister’s son was in th lead car that ran over people. BPRD’s two-day program , “7th national conference of heads of prisons of all states/union territories”, was set to begin at the agency’s HQ in Mahipalpur. However, a BPRD spokesperson said that the October 7 program is ”on hold”, without giving any specific reasons.  BPRD didn’t respond to a query if the event has been cancelled. The other junior minister in MHA, Nityanand Rai was supposed to attend its valedictory session on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ajay-mishra-meets-amit-shah-over-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-101633548177477.html
07-10-2021||India||17-year-old killed by mother’s partner in Bengaluru; one arrested||Halasuru police on Wednesday arrested a man on charges of murdering a 17-year-old boy. The accused is said to be the lover of the victim’s mother and took the extreme step when the boy objected to his frequent visits at home, the police said. The victim has been identified as Nandhu , while the police said it arrested one Shakthivel , in connection with the case. According to the police, the incident took place on Monday night in Geetha’s (victim’s mother) house in Murphy Town. “Geetha had two children and earned a livelihood by doing household chores in the neighbourhood. She separated from her husband six years ago. During this time, she befriended Shakthivel, an autorickshaw driver, through Facebook,” said a senior police officer. Over some time, Shakthivel started visiting the house frequently and began a having physical relationship, to which Nadhu objected, the police said. “There have been fights between Nandhu and Shakthivel over his visits in the past, and the former expressed his displeasure to his mother as well,” said the police official. On Monday night, during one such altercation, Shakthivel took a kitchen knife to stab Nadhu. Although Geetha stopped Shakthivel and rushed Nadhu to the hospital, he was declared dead on arrival, the police revealed. Police said that while Shakthivel was arrested for murder, police are probing Geetha’s role in the murder. “She told us that she tried to stop the murder. However, we will be questioning her further,” said a Halasuru police official. A case has been registered under section 302 of the IPC. In another incident, Bengaluru police on Monday opened fire at the prime accused in the murder case of a 27-year-old Aravind alias Lee at a football stadium here on September 12. Ashoknagar police officials said that they fired at Stalin’s leg when he tried to escape. According to police, while transferring the suspects as part of the investigation on Monday, Stalin tried to escape, resulting in police opening fire at him. Apart from Stalin, Jack, Arun and Vijay, all residents of the New Bagalur layout near KG Halli.On September 12, Aravind, a rowdy-sheeter, was chased and killed inside a city football stadium before an A-division women’s league match. A gang of four people was waiting for Aravind at a smaller ground adjacent to the stadium. They had information about Aravind coming there to meet his friend, who was playing in the tournament. But Aravind managed to escape and ran into the stadium, where was later hacked to death, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/17yearold-killed-by-mother-s-partner-in-bengaluru-one-arrested-101633547997580.html
07-10-2021||India||Govt charts rehabilitation plan for residents in flood-hit areas||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday said that the government is working on a rehabilitation programme for those living in flood-affected areas in the city. Talking to reporters in Bengaluru, Bommai also said that a task force has been set up to fix the potholes in the city as well. “There are at least two to three issues when it rains in Bengaluru. Low-lying areas get flooded, areas around lakes get marooned and stormwater drains overflow. Instead of acting when flooding takes place, we have asked the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) commissioner to find a permanent solution and to carry out rehabilitation works in these areas,” he said. Elaborating on the rehabilitation plans, the chief minister said that a survey will be conducted to identify vulnerable areas and alternate land for those who will be rehabilitated. BBMP commissioner Gaurav Gupta on Wednesday said that the civic agencies had identified 539 sensitive areas in the city last year and the numbers have been reduced to 185. Stating that low-lying areas are a concern he said, “There are nearly 750 major stormwater drains in the city. We have built retaining walls in about half of these SWDs. The wall prevents overflow of water during heavy rains and is a permanent solution to control any damages,” he said. He further added that 63 control rooms at the sub-division level have been set up to address rain and flood-related damage and will be operational till October-end. Gupta also said that a disaster management plan has been prepared. A survey has also been taken up to access the extent of rain damage and what needs to be done, he added. Bengaluru city on Sunday recorded the highest rainfall in October since 1997, as the withdrawing monsoon triggered a heavy downpour and thunderstorms that flooded several neighbourhoods. BS Nagaraj Dhanya, former secretary of the Bangalore Hotel Association and Karnataka Hotel Association, was killed in the downpour in the wee hours of Monday. Power cuts and waterlogging at several low-lying areas of the city was also reported. According to BBMP, 31 water logging complaints and instances of trees falling were reported in the city. Bommai on Wednesday said that a task force has been created to fill the potholes on the roads. “They will look into the condition and repair history of all roads in Bengaluru and report. This will be the first part. The refilling of potholes and other repairs will take place at the same time. We have asked BBMP to finish these works in a scientific manner. We will finish the work of filling all potholes as soon as the rains are over,” the CM said. When questioned why the work won’t be finished before monsoons are over, Bommai said that the priority was to have a permanent solution to the pothole problem. “From our experience so far, we know areas where there are (pothole) problems. So, we want to fix them properly,” he said. Karnataka revenue minister on October 1 had said that that all roads in Bengaluru will be pothole-free in 30 days, setting another deadline, after many missed ones, to provide one of the most basic amenities to the residents. R Ashok, Karnataka’s minister for revenue and interim in-charge of Bengaluru city, said an additional ₹1,000 crore has been released for the purpose of fixing roads in the newly added localities of Bengaluru, where damaged roads have added to the nightmarish experience of residents, especially during monsoons. The chief minister had even revealed in the upper house of the state legislature in the recently concluded monsoon session that the state government had spent ₹20,060 crore on various road works in Bengaluru in the last five years. Bommai, who holds the Bengaluru portfolio, said that there were only 1,344 kms of roads out of the over 11,200 kms of roads that were motrable in the city, admitting to the one of the biggest infrastructural challenges gnawing at India’s IT capital for perpetuity. Successive governments have often fallen back on the same excuse of “developing city” as a way to circumvent taking responsibility for its apathy on providing motorable roads without potholes, slush, dust and no life-threatening stretches.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-charts-rehabilitation-plan-for-residents-in-flood-hit-areas-101633547937507.html
07-10-2021||India||Haridwar sees major influx of pilgrims on Pitra Amavasya||There was a major influx of devotees at the ghats of the Ganga on the occasion of Pitra Amawasya, the concluding day of the two-week Shraddh Paksha, dedicated to offering of special prayers to ancestors. At the sanctum sanctorum of Brahamkund, Har-Ki-Pauri, devotees were seen going towards the Ganga ghat for a sacred dip in the holy river from the wee hours of the morning. The pilgrims also performed a number of rituals and prayed to their forefathers.Heavy vehicular traffic has been prohibited from Tuesday midnight till Wednesday midnight in the wake of the expected turnout of devotees by the local police and district administration. According to Senior Superintendent of Police, Yogendra Singh Rawat, deployment of traffic and police personnel was done at the core Mela zone of Har-Ki-Pauri, National Highway 58, 72, Ganga ghats and vital intersections leading towards Har-Ki-Pauri. “Post Covid-19 induced lockdown in March 2020, barring Mahakumbh fair Shahi festive baths; a major turnout of devotees was witnessed.  Local priests performed the rites from morning till evening and the Char Dham pilgrims’ free entry directive has also led to a substantial increase in footfall,” said Ganga Sabha president Pradeep Jha. At revered Shri Narayani Shila, considered among only three places to offer rituals to deceased along with Brahamkapal in Badrinath and Gaya in Bihar, devotees from Kumaon, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and other states arrived in  large numbers. In the wake of Covid-19 guidelines, the annual fair held at Narayani Shila premises in Devpura was cancelled for the second successive year. Police also carried out drives to clear encroached spaces and unauthorised vehicular parking on stretches leading to Har-Ki-Pauri Ganga ghats. Tow-away vehicles were also pressed into service to clear parked vehicles obstructing vehicular and on-foot pilgrim movement. Haridwar Hotel Association president, Ashutosh Sharma said, that traders, hoteliers and travel-tour operators are quite pleased as Char Dham pilgrimage has been opened for all and the Pitra Amawasya turnout indicates a good Navratri, Durga Puja, Deepawali festive season in the pilgrim city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haridwar-sees-major-influx-of-pilgrims-on-pitra-amavasya-101633547513795.html
07-10-2021||India||Tejasvi asks civic body to reconsider Durja Puja Covid guidelines||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) member of Parliament Tejasvi Surya on Wednesday said that he has asked the city administration to reconsider their Covid guidelines on Durga Puja celebrations in Bengaluru after prominent right wing personalities questioned the restrictions on Hindu festivals. “I spoke to @BBMPCOMM & asked him to revisit the Durga Puja rules which are discriminatory, arbitrary & illogical. He assured me that these rules will be reviewed forthwith & sentiments of devotees will be given utmost importance. Let’s celebrate with all fervour!,” Surya said in a post on Twitter.The statements come after the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) issued guidelines to public on the celebrations. The BBMP and the Basavaraj Bommai-led state government have been trying to keep a lid on festivals as the threat of the third wave of Covid- 19 pandemic looms large over the state.“There is a general tendency in sections of the bureaucracy to think that it’s okay to put any and every kind of restrictions on Hindu festivals. This is a colonial relic. Post 2014, the awakened Hindu resists such attempts. This colonialism must end too,” Surya added.The BJP government has been under attack by it’s own legislators and partymen over what they call “targeting of Hindu festivals”.The BBMP, in its guidelines, has specified that the height of the idol cannot exceed 4 ft and a maximum of 50 people can participate during prayers.The civic body also said that the idol in public places must have the approval of the joint commissioners and that people should maintain Covid appropriate behaviour like wearing of masks and social distancing among other measures. The BBMP has also put a ban on orchestra, processions and the presence of any DJs. Several people even took to Twitter to criticize the BBMP on its guidelines.Bengaluru counts a large number of migrants from Bengal who celebrate the festival in a grand manner with pandals, food and music among other activities. The BBMP has said that the all organizers of pujas must mandatorily do sherman screening, keep sanitizer bottles and sanitize chairs, tables and floors at least four times a day. The BJP government had been at the receiving end of criticism over the Ganesha festival rules and even the demolition of the temple in Nanjangud of Mysuru district, attracting the ire of it’s own elected representatives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tejasvi-asks-civic-body-to-reconsider-durja-puja-covid-guidelines-101633547766077.html
07-10-2021||India||Protest will go on till accused held: Tikait||Lakhimpur KheriBharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Wednesday said his agitation against the killings of “five farmers” -- he included the deceased journalist among farmers-- in Lakhimpur Kheri has not ended, adding that the government has eight days to arrest the accused. “We will wait till the ‘ardas’ (prayers performed on the 10th day after the death of a person belonging to Sikh community) for the arrest of the accused and resignation of the minister (Union minister of state for home, Ajay Kumar Mishra),” Tikait said while addressing a press conference at a gurdwara in Lakhimpur Kheri on Wednesday. He warned that a nationwide agitation would be launched if the demands were not met by the deadline. The BKU spokesperson and the face of farmers’ protest against the three central farm laws, Tikait left Lakhimpur Kheri after an agreement was reached between the farmers and the Uttar Pradesh authorities on October 4. The farmers then allowed the postmortem of the four deceased farmers. However, he returned to Lakhimpur Kheri after relatives of one of the deceased farmers, 22-year-old Gurvinder Singh , refused to cremate him raising doubts over the postmortem report. On Tikait’s intervention, a second postmortem was conducted on Tuesday night by a team of experts from Lucknow. Singh was cremated on Wednesday in the presence of Tikait. Eight people, including four farmers, were killed in Lakhimpur Kheri district on Sunday, in the bloodiest clash since the farmers’ protest over the Centre’s three contentious agricultural laws started last year. The farmers were allegedly knocked down by a convoy of vehicles, one of which belonged to Mishra. Two BJP workers and a driver were allegedly pulled out of the vehicles and lynched by angry protesters. A journalist working for a private TV channel, Raman Kashyap, also died in the violence. The farmers allege that Mishra’s son was in the convoy. When asked if there were any differences over the agreement he mediated on October 4, Tikait said, “The agreement was reached after consultation with and consent from the aggrieved family members, local community members and the Samyukta Kisan Morcha officials.” Responding to a question regarding killings of two BJP workers and a driver, Tikait said they fell prey to mob fury. “When four-five persons were killed and 15 to 20 persons got injured (under the wheels), the furious mob expressed its anger,” he said. The farm leader also dismissed Union minister of state Ajay Kumar Mishra’s statement that he and his son were not present at the site of violence. “It is only the minister who is defending himself and no one else (is backing his claims). “ He also sought the minister’s resignation. Tikait also said that bullet shots were fired in Tikonia violence and that videos substantiating this are available. To be sure, no such video has as yet emerged. Commenting on the ongoing agitation against the three farm laws, the BKU leader said, “The agitation will continue till the repeal of three farm laws and enactment of law on minimum support price (MSP).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protest-will-go-on-till-accused-held-tikait-101633547764936.html
07-10-2021||India||Farm unions threaten to intensify protests in UP ahead of polls||Farm unions opposing the Union government’s three agricultural laws are set to launch a more forceful agitation against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Uttar Pradesh, where eight people , including four farmers, were killed on Sunday, in an incident they blame on a Union minister and his son. Protesters in large numbers are moving to Lakhimpur Kheri, the site where a convoy of vehicles crushed farmers to death on October 2. A widely circulated video captured the incident in which a jeep ran over a group of protesting farmers from behind on a dusty rural road. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), a platform of farm unions involved in yearlong demonstrations against the Modi government, has alleged the vehicles belonged to Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra and son Ashish Mishra. The minister and his son have denied involvement, but police have registered a case against Ashish Mishra. The farm unions held an emergency meeting soon after Sunday’s incident. Their agitation will target all BJP leaders in Uttar Pradesh, where polls are due next year, a farm leader said. “We will protest, gherao and show black flags to any BJP leader whenever and wherever they show up in public. But we will do it peacefully,” said Gurnam Singh Chaduni, a farm leader. The SKM has demanded the resignation of the Union minister and his son Ashish. “The Samyukt Kisan Morcha demands that Uttar Pradesh government should immediately impose cases with murder charges against all those involved from the side of Ajay Mishra Teni. The Union MoS should be dismissed immediately,” Chaduni said. Farmers insist that the son was present in the vehicle that ran over people. Several SKM leaders have left from different locations for Lakhimpur Kheri. The agitating farmers will target the BJP’s campaign for the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly elections. “We will expose their lies and resist them. Farmers will not allow them to put up their posters and campaign material. We will gherao them,” said Ajay Singh, a leader of the Tehri Kisan Andolan, part of the protests.  SKM has written to President Ram Nath Kovind, demanding the dismissal of the Union minister as well as Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar for inciting violence against farmers. Khattar was caught on video asking farmers in favour of the farm laws to take up “sticks” and take on those opposing the laws. “The whole country is outraged by the incident of the brutal killing of farmers in broad daylight by mowing them down with vehicles in Lakhimpur Kheri (Uttar Pradesh) yesterday on 3rd October 2021,” the letter states. “Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Kumar Mishra ‘Teni’s’ son and his goon accomplices carried out this murderous attack in a brazen manner which shows a deep conspiracy of Uttar Pradesh and Central Governments. Ajay Mishra had already built a context to this attack by giving inflammatory and derogatory speeches against the farmers. It is no coincidence that on the same day, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar is publicly inciting his party workers to take up lathis and indulge in violence against farmers,” the letter further states. SKM leader Tajinder Virk was grievously injured in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, Chaduni said. The injured leader was admitted to Medanta Hospital in Gurugram and is reported to be out of danger now. The SKM has said that the Supreme Court questioning the farmers’ protests when the court was hearing several matters related to the farm laws would not affect its agitation since it is not a party to the case. “The observation of the honourable Supreme court was regarding a matter related to Kisan Mahapanchayat, which has no connection with the SKM. So, the observations of the court don’t have any relations to SKM,” said Yogendra Yadav, a key leader of the SKM. “The court said ‘first farmers come to court and then they protest on streets’. I would like to clarify we have never approached the court. For us, this is a matter between farmers and the government,” Yadav added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-unions-threaten-to-intensify-protests-in-up-ahead-of-polls-101633547577333.html
07-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur violence: Farmer’s kin cremate body after 2nd autopsy||The body of Gurvinder Singh, one of the four farmers killed in Lakhimpur Kheri violence, was cremated on Wednesday morning in Bahraich district of Uttar Pradesh following the completion of a second post-mortem examination as per the demand of the family, officials said.With this, the bodies of all the four farmers who died in the incident have been cremated, officials said.Rakesh Tikait, who reached Bahriach late on Tuesday evening after the Gurvinder’s family refused to cremate the body unless a second post-mortem was done, spent the night with the family and demanded the arrest of Ashish Mishra, the son of Union minister of state for home Ajay Kumar Mishra.Farmers have alleged the vehicles of convoy that crushed four famers on October 2 belonged to Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra and son Ashish Mishra. The minister and his son have denied involvement. However, the police have registered a case against Ashish Mishra but no arrests have been made so far.Families of Daljeet (42) and Gurvinder (22), both Bahraich residents killed in Lakhimpur violence, had initially declined to cremate the bodies on Monday night but Daljeet’s family relented on Tuesday following the district administration’s effort to convince them. Upon Gurvinder’s family’s insistence on a second post-mortem, alleging the first one tried to hide a bullet injury that they claimed caused his death, the administration agreed.The second post-mortem was done early on Wednesday morning with a panel of doctors from Lucknow observing the process. Besides, the panel of doctors from Lucknow, two local doctors designated by family members were also present. This second post-mortem examination happened at 4 am on Wednesday at the Bhariach medical college and the cremation was done at the family’s agriculture field in the Mohraniya village.Sukhdev Singh, the elder brother of Sukhvinder said: “We were satisfied with the second post-mortem in Bahraich on our demand (the first one was done in Lakhimpur Kheri).But our biggest demand is not fulfilled yet. The demand is the justice for Gurvinder. The culprits should be arrested and punished”.Sukhvinder Singh, the father of Gurvinder Singh said: “My son is not deceased. He is a ‘Shaheed’ (martyr) who was killed in Lakhimpur violence while he was fighting for a cause. He was peacefully participating in the movement when he was crushed to death. So don’t call him a victim, call him a martyr.”Sukhvinder said the government had fulfilled its first promise by providing a cheque of ₹45 lakh as compensation. “However, no money can compensate the loss but we have no option. Everyone has to depart when the time comes but the untimely and unexpected demise of my son hurts. I hope the government would fulfil the other promise of providing a government job to a family member”.Family members of two other deceased farmers, Lovepreet Singh and Nachhatar Singh, who had initially refused to perform the last rites alleging that the administration may tamper with the post-mortem reports after the cremation, too had cremated the bodies on Tuesday in Lakhimpur Kheri.While the cremations of the four farmers happened on Tuesday and Wednesday, the other four Shyam Sundar (BJP worker), Shubham Mishra (BJP worker) and Hariom Mishra (driver) were performed in their respective villages on Monday morning. And local journalist Raman Kashyap’s body was cremated on Monday afternoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-violence-farmer-s-kin-cremate-body-after-2nd-autopsy-101633547527792.html
07-10-2021||India||Centre set to allow girls in RMC, RIMC: SC told||The Union government has told the Supreme Court that girls will get inducted not only in the National Defence Academy (NDA), but also in the Rashtriya Indian Military College (RIMC) and the five Rashtriya Military Schools (RMS) in the country. Like the NDA, RIMC and RMS have also been traditionally all-boys establishments that act as feeder institutions for the armed forces. Submitting its affidavit on Wednesday, the Centre conveyed its agreement to induct girls in RIMC and RMS with effect from academic session 2022-23 after bringing about necessary infrastructural and logistical changes. For RIMC in Dehradun, the affidavit pointed out that those in the age group 11.5 to 13 years join the institution after clearing an All-India competitive exam, which is held bi-annually for 25 seats each. The government said it will start inducting 5 girls every six months starting January 2023 for which the girls will be allowed to take the entrance exam in June 2022. “It will be at 20% increase in strength every year. This increase can be affected with some infrastructure modification and additional staff to support the girl cadets,” said the affidavit, calling it the first phase of their plan. In the second phase, the government said, the capacity of RIMC will be increased to a total of 350, which will include 100 girls. “For this, it is submitted that girls will be allowed to take entrance examination six scheduled in June 2027 for entry into RIMC for the term starting in January 2028... this increase will need major infrastructure expansion and additional staff to support the increased strength,” said the affidavit. Apart from appropriate medical standards and training curriculum for the girl cadets, the government said, several other modifications and restructuring will have to be done to accommodate and facilitate the living of girls with respect to privacy, safety and security. The affidavit added that a board of officers is examining all the pertinent issues to ensure that a girl-friendly infrastructure and support staff is approved by the government and the work commences so that the girl feels welcome into the portals of RIMC. RIMC was inaugurated in March 1922 by Prince Edward VIII, the Prince of Wales. On RMS, which are located at Chail (Himachal Pradesh), Ajmer (Rajasthan), Belgaum (Karnataka), Bengaluru (Karnataka) and Dholpur (Rajasthan), the government pointed out that these schools add as a feeder institution for NDA and to provide quality education and training from Class 6 to 12 for the wards of the Indian soldiers. The admission test is conducted in December every year for approximately 350 seats. The government proposed to start by reserving 10% of total vacancies in each school for girl candidates for entry into class 6, in accordance with various reservations applicable in RMS, with effect from the academic session 2022-23. In the second phase, the government said it will reserve 10% of total vacancies in each school for the girl candidates for entry into class 6 and class 9 with effect from administration 2023-24. RMSs have been operating since the 1950s. A bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M M Sundresh will examine the government’s affidavit on Thursday. On September 22, the bench had asked the government to come clear on the issue of induction of girls in RIMC and RMS as it heard a petition by advocate Kailash Udhavrao More, who raised the issue of gender discrimination and bias in not allowing girl cadets in these premier institutions. More’s petition was heard along with the plea on entry of women in NDA, in which the bench had directed that women shall be allowed to sit for the upcoming NDA entrance exam on November 14 after rejecting the government’s request to delay the first-ever examination for them. While seeking the exemption for this year’s admission, the government had earlier said that women can sit for the NDA entrance exam in April-May next year and join the academy in January 2023. But the court was emphatic that there cannot be a request from the authorities to make the aspiring women skip the upcoming exam in November. “We will not put this train in reverse gear... we will not set the clock back. A beginning has to be made now. Having given some hope to women that they can take exams in November, we don’t want to belie that hope by saying they will have to wait for one more year and then something may happen. The exam cannot be postponed,” the bench had said. Under the current eligibility criteria, only male candidates who have cleared Class 12 level or its equivalent, and are in the age group of 16-and-a-half and 19 are eligible to apply. Those who clear the NDA exam are called for interview by the Service Selection Board (SSB), and following a medical exam, candidates are recruited in the army, navy, and air force wings of NDA, and for the INA course for pre-commission training. NDA was commissioned in 1955.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-set-to-allow-girls-in-rmc-rimcsctold-101633547397245.html
07-10-2021||India||Do away with requirement of data for quota in promotion: Centre to Supreme Court||The Union government on Wednesday urged the Supreme Court to do away with the requirement of collecting quantifiable data by the Centre and states to determine the representation of people belonging to Scheduled Castes (SCs) and Scheduled Tribes (STs) while implementing reservation in promotion.According to Attorney General KK Venugopal, there is a roster system in place in every cadre of the government departments to ascertain the posts required to be filled up by SCs/STs, and therefore the prerequisite of quantifiable data, as was laid down by two Constitution bench judgments of the apex court, should not remain.“It is a fact of life. In 75 years, we have not been able to bring the SCs/STs to the same level of merit. The time has come to hold that so far quantifiable data is concerned, it is not concrete and not down to earth,” the AG told a bench led by justice L Nageswara Rao.In 2006, a Constitution bench’s ruling in the M Nagaraj case made it incumbent upon the state to collect quantifiable data showing inadequacy of representation of a section of people in public employment in addition to maintaining overall administrative efficiency. The aspect of quantifiable data was endorsed by another Constitution bench by its 2018 ruling in the Jarnail Singh case which also mandated the exclusion of the “creamy layer” before providing for reservation in promotions.The top court on Tuesday called it “disturbing” that the Union government did not discontinue reservation in promotion for people belonging to SC/STs even after their numbers exceeded the upper ceiling of 15% and 7.5% respectively, of positions in some classes of central government jobs.Presenting the Centre’s views on a clutch of petitions raising various legal issues on the subject, Venugopal sought to convince the court that the roster system, based on the proportionate population of SCs/STs, has been working quite well in all government departments and that the condition of collecting quantifiable data on inadequacy of representation of SCs/STs may not be required at all.“The time has come for this court to give a concrete basis for SCs/STs to fill up posts. There is no need to verify any further or collect quantifiable data after the roster system. In a roster system, automatically posts can get filled up. I sincerely say that Your Lordships may consider whether this is not an appropriate method,” Venugopal told the bench, which also comprised justices Sanjiv Khanna and BR Gavai.About the aspect of overall administrative efficiency, the AG said that government employees are promoted only on the basis of their ACRs (annual confidential reports) and that there is no need to lay down any additional criteria.When asked what should be a time period for the government to revisit the reservation policy after ascertaining the percentage of posts occupied by SCs/STs, the AG said that a periodic review should happen after every 10 years when a census is done.Additional solicitor general (ASG) Balbir Singh, who also appeared for the central government, tried to answer the court’s queries on posts occupied by SCs/STs in excess of the upper ceiling.“Adequacy test is to be applied at a larger level. As a society we have to meet the requirement of Article 16 (1) instead of going into granular levels. Equal opportunities are to be created and upliftment of society are ways to look at it. Equal opportunities are to be created and upliftment of society are the ways to look at the reservation policy,” Singh told the bench.The ASG added that there are more than 15% and 7.5% representation of people belonging to the SCs/STs in Group C and D only because the reservation in policy has continued. “The picture will change drastically from the next year if we stop it now,” said Singh. He also supported the AG in saying that 10 years could be a right period to look at changes in a society and chart out the way forward.The bench will continue hearing the case on Thursday.The top court was hearing the batch of petitions arising out of judgments from 11 different high courts, which had delivered rulings on various pertinent reservation policies in the last 10 years. Some of the states from where these judgments arose included Maharashtra, Bihar, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Tripura, Madhya Pradesh and Punjab.The Union government has been pressing for reservation in promotion proportionate to the population of SCs and STs as per a 1995 judgment by the top court in the RK Sabharwal case, and wants it to be left open to the Centre and states to decide on promotional avenues for SCs and STs. It claims that the condition regarding collection of quantifiable data to show inadequacy of representation of SCs/STs is “vague”.On the other hand, representing general category candidates, senior advocates Rajeev Dhavan, Meenakshi Arora, Gopal Sankaranarayan and lawyer Kumar Parimal have contended that the reservation cannot be for an indefinite period and that it must stop as soon as the upper ceiling has been reached.Further, they have emphasised that reservation in promotion should be cadre-based only after quantifiable data is collected and the creamy layer has been excluded. Additionally, the general category candidates have said that posts meant for SCs/STs cannot be kept vacant indefinitely and should be filled up by other candidates after three years, as laid down in the M Nagaraj judgment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/do-away-with-requirement-of-data-for-quota-in-promotion-centre-to-supreme-court-101633547277136.html
07-10-2021||India||Russia’s S-400 dangerous, hopeful of resolving issues with India: US||A top American diplomat on Wednesday described the Russian-made S-400 air defence system as “dangerous” but said the US is hopeful of resolving problems with India on the issue through discussions. US deputy secretary of state Wendy Sherman told a small group of reporters after her meetings with foreign secretary Harsh Shringla and National Security Adviser Ajit Doval that a final decision on possible sanctions on the S-400 deal will be made by President Joe Biden and secretary of state Antony Blinken.“We’ve been quite public about any country that decides to use the S-400. We think that is dangerous and not in anybody’s security interest,” she said.“That said, we have a strong partnership with India. We want to be very thoughtful about the ways ahead, and discussions between our countries try to solve problems and I hope we will be able to in this instance as well,” Sherman added.People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that the US side raised the S-400 deal during the discussions on Wednesday and there was a feeling on both sides that there was a need for further talks on the issue to reach some sort of common ground. Russian ambassador Nikolay Kudashev had said last month that his country is expected to deliver the first batch of S-400 air defence systems under a $5.4-billion deal by October. There were no issues with the timeline for delivery of the systems, he had said. The Indian Air Force chief, Air Chief Marshal VR Chaudhry, also told reporters on Tuesday that the first batch of S-400 systems is expected to arrive within this year.Sherman’s remarks about resolving differences over the S-400 deal reflected a softening of the US position.The previous Trump administration had threatened to slap sanctions on the deal under the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA).The US has already imposed secondary sanctions under CAATSA on China and Turkey for military deals with Russia.The Indian side has said it is determined to go ahead with the S-400 deal in view of its national security interests and plans to create an air defence shield for key cities such as New Delhi and Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/russias-s-400-dangerous-hopeful-of-resolving-issues-with-india-us-101633547217179.html
07-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur violence: Congress delegation meets families after visit furore||Lakhimpur Kheri When a Congress delegation led by Rahul Gandhi walked into Tikunia village on Wednesday evening, they found a region simmering with tension and anger over the deaths of eight people in violence three days ago.Throughout the day, farm groups protested against Union minister of state for home, Ajay Mishra Teni, who owned the car that allegedly mowed down four farmers on Sunday, and his son Ashish Mishra, who was booked for murder and criminal conspiracy. “It has been three days but the state government failed to arrest Ashish Mishra, who is the main accused in the killing of innocent farmers,” said Mandeep Singh, son of Nachhatar Singh, a 50-year-old farmer killed in Sunday’s violence.Minister Mishra and his son deny the charges and say they weren’t even at the spot on Sunday. They blame farmers for the violence and say protesters lynched two BJP workers and a driver. A local journalist also died in the violence.After heated altercations with Uttar Pradesh forces in the morning and afternoon, Rahul Gandhi and the Congress delegation reached the village.He was accompanied by Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who was in detention for trying to reach Lakhimpur Kheri, Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, his Chhattisgarh counterpart Bhupesh Baghel and party general secretaries KC Venugopal and Randeep Surjewala. Also in the delegation were senior leaders Deepender Hooda and Ajay Kumar ‘Lallu’.They met the families of the deceased farmers and the journalist, hugging the next of kin and expressing their support. “Shared grief with the family of Lovepreet. But until justice is not done, this satyagraha will continue,” tweeted Rahul Gandhi.Their first stop was home of deceased farmer Lovepreet Singh, 18, in Palia tehsil. From there, they left for the house of journalist Raman Kashyap, AGE, in Nighasan tehsil. Then, the delegation proceeded to the home of Nachatar Singh in Dhauraha tehsil. Palia is about 80 km from Lakhimpur town, and Nighasan is another 15-20 km and Dhauraha is a further 60-70 km from there. Lakhimpur Kheri is around 225 km from state capital Lucknow.Senior Congress leader Sachin Pilot was detained around Moradabad. “We have broken no law, we were merely going to meet the families of the farmer victims and the intention was to bring peace and calm in the area,” he said.The Bharatiya Janata Party condemned the Opposition. “Rahul Gandhi must have been very young when in independent India’s history mass killings of Sikhs took place with a Congress government at the helm. The same government sat through emergency. So, all this fake talk of showing solidarity with Sikh farmers won’t cut much ice,” BJP leader Sidharth Nath Singh said.The farmers had gathered on Sunday to protest UP deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya and laid siege to the helipad, leading to cancellation of the meeting. As farmers returned from the protest site, a speeding convoy of three ripped through the crowd around 2.30pm, protesters said. It had a Mahindra Thar in the lead, a Fortuner, and a smaller car, as mentioned in the case FIR registered by local police. In the village, internet services continued to be suspended after being briefly restored on Tuesday evening. “I still remember the loud noise of the engine of the SUV that hit me from behind,” said Shamsher Singh, 28, an injured farmer. He said he was injured by the car leading the convoy.“I jumped to one side, but my right leg came under the left front wheel of the vehicle. I lost consciousness after the incident,” he added.Dr CS Singh, chief medical superintendent of the hospital, said Shamsher Singh’s lower right leg was fractured at three places. “We have put a temporary plaster, but he may need surgery to correct the alignment of the broken bones,” said the doctor. The kin of some other injured people blamed the farmers for the violence. Shekhar Bharti was in one of the three cars but was attacked by the protesters, said his uncle Dinesh Bharti. “The miscreants among the farmers attacked Shekhar with sticks and swords, but he somehow managed to escape from the spot,” Dinesh Bharti said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-violence-congress-delegation-meets-families-after-visit-furore-101633547100929.html
07-10-2021||India||Andhra reports 800 new Covid cases, 9 deaths||Andhra Pradesh has logged 800 new Covid-19 infections, taking the tally to over 2.54 million while the death toll went up to 14,228 with nine fatalities.East Godavari district accounted for the highest number of cases with 126 followed by Chittoor (120), a bulletin said on Wednesday while giving figures of the last 24 hours ending at 9 am.The active cases stood at 8,754. The total number of cases in the State stood at 2,054,663. With 1,178 people being cured, the total recoveries are 2,031,681.Over 46,000 samples were tested on Wednesday, taking the total number of specimens examined so far to over 28.5 million.Two people each in East Godavari, Guntur and Krishna and one each in Chittoor, Nellore and West Godavari districts died.Meanwhile, as many as 20,964 oxygen concentrators and 27,311 D-type oxygen cylinders were made available in the State keeping in view the possible third wave, an official press release said.Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy held a review meeting with officials on Covid-19, vaccination and health hubs.The officials informed him that nearly 2,500 oxygen concentrators are yet to come.They said the state government is setting up oxygen generation plants in 140 hospitals and would be made available by this month-end.The officials told the chief minister that over 2.83 crore people were administered a vaccine of which over 1.44 crore were given the second dose too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-reports-800-new-covid-cases-9-deaths-101633547038371.html
07-10-2021||India||Guidelines to reopen schools from Nov 1 ready, says Kerala minister||Kerala health minister Veena George and Minister for Public Education V Sivankutty on Tuesday handed over the guidelines to the chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan regarding the reopening of school from November 1 in Kerala amid Covid-19. The freshly issued guidelines stated that the schools would be reopened in hybrid mode. The current online classes would continue for children who are unable to reach school directly.The guideline stated that in the first phase, the children in each class would be divided into batches to limit the number of children in classes. However, the guidelines stated that such batch adjustment is not mandatory in schools with less number of students. Specially-abled children should not come to schools in the first phase, according to the guidelines. All teaching and non-teaching staff should be vaccinated with two doses against the Covid-19, said the guidelines.A school-level helpline should be set up, as per the guidelines. A detailed guideline on academic activities will be issued later. School-level staff council meetings, PTA meetings and various meetings at different levels including the meeting headed by district Collectors to be held in this regard. All teachers are required to attend school on weekdays. Schools should keep a medical examination register and prepare sick rooms for children with symptoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/guidelines-to-reopen-schools-from-nov-1-ready-says-kerala-minister-101633547037235.html
07-10-2021||India||IS propaganda case: NIA files charge sheet against Madurai man||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday filed a charge sheet against Abdullah alias Saravana Kumar in the ISIS-Madurai Hizb-ut-Tahrir module case. The 31-year-old Madurai based man is accused of furthering ISIS ideology on social media, instigating people against India and establishing Khilafat. “He was also seeking cooperation from other countries to set up an army to establish an Islamic State in Tamil Nadu through Jihad,” the agency said in a statement. Originally, the local police of Madurai city’s Teppakulam police station had first booked Abdullah on April 10 this year for his controversial post in support of the war against India. The FIR had charged him under various sections including Section 121, 121 A (attempting to wage war against the Indian government), 153 A, B and 505 (1)(c) of the Indian Penal Code for trying to promote enmity between different religious groups, Sections 15 (Terrorist Act) and 16 (Punishment for Terrorist Act) of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967. The NIA took over the case in May and the agency’s officials conducted searches in the house of the accused. NIA interrogated the accused and found that he is a “highly radicalised” member of the Hizb-ut-Tahrir, a fundamentalist organisation banned in many countries. “He had knowingly and willingly associated himself with ISIS recruiters with an intention to further propagate and support the activities of the ISIS,” the agency said. “Investigation by the NIA revealed that accused Abdullah was uploading posts on his Facebook account to instigate people to establish Khilafat and threaten the unity, security and sovereignty of India.”The charge sheet was filed in the NIA special court in Chennai for his “incendiary” posts on Facebook in support of ISIS. The NIA has been after social media posts linked to terror in Tamil Nadu. In May, the NIA conducted searches at four places in Madurai in connection with its probe relating to incriminating Facebook posts by a suspect - Mohammad Iqbal alias Senthil Kumar. According to the agency, he is also believed to be an extremist advocating the ideology of ISIS and Hizb-Ut- Tahrir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/is-propaganda-case-nia-files-charge-sheet-against-madurai-man-101633546978441.html
07-10-2021||India||Hyderabad police nab six connected to Telugu Academy fraud case||Hyderabad police on Wednesday arrested six more persons, including kingpin Chanduri Venkata Koti Sai Kumar, in the ₹64.5 crores Telugu Academy fixed deposit fraud case.Apart from Sai Kumar, a city-based realtor, the others arrested in connection with the scam are administrative officer and in-charge accounts officer Segoori Ramesh, Canara Bank’s Chanda Nagar branch manager M Sadhana and realtors Nanduri Venkata Ramana from Tanuku in West Godavari, Venkateshwar Rao from Sathupallu in Khammam district and Somashekar alias Raj Kumar from Dharmavaram in Anantapur, the police said.Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar told reporters that the accused had swindled, in all, ₹64.50 crore belonging to Telugu Academy, deposited in the form of 43 fixed deposits in various banks, including Karwan and Santosh Nagar branches of Union Bank of India and Chanda Nagar branch of Canara Bank.“We could recover only a few lakhs from the arrested persons, as they had already spent most of the money by clearing their debts, investing in the real estate and on luxuries,” the police commissioner said. The police commissioner also said Sai Kumar, the mastermind in the racket, is a known offender, previously involved in similar financial scams in Andhra Pradesh and Chennai, and was facing cases from the Crime Investigation Department of Andhra Pradesh and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).Anjani Kumar said Sai Kumar got in touch with Telugu Academy’s accounts officer Ramesh. Whenever the Telugu Academy planned to do fixed deposits, Sai Kumar would send his agents – Venkat Ramana and Somasekhar to collect the cheques from Ramesh and deposited the amount in the UBI and Canara Bank in the form of FDs for different amounts and different time periods.Joint commissioner of police (detective department) Avinash Mohanty said the accused used to print duplicate FDs with the help of Shaik Mastanvali of UBI and Sadhana of Canara Bank, who would inform the accused about the FDR numbers.Subsequently, the accused withdrew the FDs from these banks prematurely and transferred them into the accounts of AP Mercantile Co-Operative Credit Society in Agrasen Co-Operative Urban Bank Limited, a private bank, using these fake FD receipts. “From there, they withdrew the money in cash and swindled the same,” the joint police commissioner said.The fake account of Telugu Academy in A P Merchantile Co-operative Society was created with the connivance of Satyanarayana using fake ID proofs. In the opening of the account, Somashekar posed himself as Director of Telugu Academy.He said that the credit society got a commission of nearly ₹6 crore for parking the Academy’s money, and a majority of the share was taken by Sai Kumar, Ramesh and others.“We are suspecting the role of nine others in the entire racket. Further investigation is on,” the police commissioner said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderabad-police-nab-six-connected-to-telugu-academy-fraud-case-101633546977037.html
07-10-2021||India||Tamil Nadu rural body polls record 74.37% voting in 1st phase||The first phase of the rural local body polls in Tamil Nadu’s nine newly carved districts progressed peacefully on Wednesday, barring a few stray incidents. The polls are being held to elect 78 district councillors, 755 union councillors, 1,577 village panchayat presidents, and 12,252 panchayat ward members. Voting began at 7 am, and as of 6 pm, when polling closed, the voting percentage was 74.37% at the end of the day on Wednesday. The last one hour of voting was specifically reserved for Covid-19 patients, as was the case during assembly elections across five states held in April. The polls were held in the districts of--Kancheepuram, Chengalpattu, Vellore, Tirupathur, Ranipet, Villupuram, Kallakurichi, Tirunelveli and Tenkasi.As per the state election commission, there are 200,551 voters eligible to vote in the first phase, which includes 407 transgender votes. As many as 76,59,720 voters are eligible to vote across the two phases for 27,003 posts. The ruling DMK and the principal opposition, the AIADMK, are facing off in most seats while the Left parties who are part of the DMK-led alliance are contesting alone in several districts. The cracks are wider in the AIADMK alliance as PMK is contesting on its own in all nine districts while the BJP is contesting alone in the Kallakurichi district. The PMK, a Vanniyar-caste-based party, which has a stronghold in seven of the nine districts is likely to affect the AIADMK’s performance. “If these elections are free, fair and democratic, the AIADMK would see a huge win,” said AIADMK’s spokesperson and former minister, D Jayakumar. Tamil nationalist S Seeman’s Naam Tamizhar Katchi (NTK), which came third in the assembly elections, fielded candidates in the maximum number of seats. “The reports that we are receiving from the locals and district party officer bearers is that people are happy with DMK’s performance, so they are likely to vote for the ruling party,” said DMK Rajya Sabha MP and spokesperson TKS Elangovan.In Ranipet district, local cadres of the DMK and AIADMK got into a scuffle with the latter accusing the ruling party of flouting norms by campaigning near the polling booth but were dispersed by the police. There was also heavy security in the southern districts, such as in Tirunelveli, which is known to be communally sensitive. “Polling went on peacefully. We didn’t get any reports of violence,” state election commissioner V Palanikumar told reporters in Chennai on Wednesday. “All the 3,000-sensitive polling stations are being watched via videos and CCTVs have been installed as per the order of the Madras high court,” he added. Police said that there were no untoward incidents. “Since there was a law-and-order issue last month in Tirunelveli, we had one of the highest securities here with more than 2,400 police officers on the ground,” said N Manivannan, superintendent of police, Tirunelveli.The AIADMK had filed a petition seeking free and fair polls following which a bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P D Audikesavalu had directed the state government last week to use technology for electronic surveillance. As many as 3,409 booths across the nine districts have been identified as sensitive by collectors, police and the election body. The polling process was video graphed and live-streamed from 1,132 booths and 12,318 have CCTVs. The second phase will be held on October 9 and results will be announced on October 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-rural-body-polls-record-74-37-voting-in-1st-phase-101633546922292.html
07-10-2021||India||DMK members meet Kerala CM over NEET||A delegate of DMK officer-bearers led by TKS Elangovan on Wednesday met Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan in Thiruvananthapuram to seek support in opposing the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) for medical college admissions. The meeting comes days after Tamil Nadu chief minister M K Stalin wrote a letter to his counterparts in 12 non-BJP states to press for the same. “His (Vijayan’s) idea is that Kerala is not affected by NEET, but I told him about how education must be the right of the state and that this is about the larger question of federalism,” Elangovan, DMK’s Rajya Sabha MP, said over the phone from Thiruvananthapuram. “The state builds the infrastructure. Tamil Nadu runs more than 25 medical colleges. The state trains its teachers and students, and the Union government is taking away the state’s power. That is dangerous,” he added. The DMK delegation handed over a copy of the letter written by Stalin on Monday and a copy of the report of the Justice A K Rajan Committee to Vijayan. The report states that NEET favours privileged students and discriminates against students from rural and poor backgrounds, and thereby it is against the principles of social justice. The report also listed several recommendations for the Tamil Nadu government, based on which the assembly passed a Bill to ban NEET in the state. This would require the President’s assent. “He (Vijayan) said that he would go through the report and come back to us,” said Elangovan. One of the DMK’s polls promises is to scrap NEET, and after forming the government in May, Stalin constituted the Rajan committee comprising nine members. The committee worked for a month to examine the impact of NEET, where it received more than 80,000 responses from stakeholders opposing the conduct of NEET. Three medical students in Tamil Nadu died by suicide just last month fearing NEET, held on September 12. The recent deaths took a toll since 2017 – when NEET was introduced in Tamil Nadu – to more than 14 students’ deaths. Tamil Nadu seeks to go back to the pre-2017 methods where only class 12-board exam marks were used as criteria for admission. On Monday, Stalin wrote to the chief ministers of Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Jharkhand, Kerala, Maharashtra, Odisha, Punjab, Rajasthan, Telangana, West Bengal, and Goa. “We need to put up a united effort to restore the primacy of state governments in administering the education sector, as envisaged in our Constitution. I look forward to your cooperation in this crucial issue,” Stalin said in the letter. In the coming days, more DMK leaders will be visiting various chief ministers addressed in the letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dmkmembers-meet-kerala-cm-over-neet-101633546920344.html
07-10-2021||India||Kavitha paves way for differently abled candidates in Tamil Nadu||A decade after her nomination was rejected due to a hearing impairment, 42-year-old A Kavitha on Wednesday contested as a candidate from the same ward number 4 in Navamal Kapperi village, Villupuram in the Tamil Nadu local body polls. Kavitha is now among 40-other candidates who are contesting for the ward councillor post, more than a dozen of whom are women with disabilities. After her nomination in 2011 was rejected by the state election commission citing her disability under Section 33 (3) of the Tamil Nadu Panchayat Act, 1994, Kavitha’s case paved the way for the law to be amended. After several protests and a case in the Madras high court, the legislation was amended in 2012 to allow people with disabilities to contest elections in the state. Kavitha’s father, V R Thangarasu is also a candidate with a disability contesting from the adjacent ward number 3 in the village. He recalled what has been chronicled from 2011. Their family, along with several disability rights activists laid siege, at the office of the state election commission in Chennai. “Kavitha asked at that time how is it fair that I’m eligible to vote but I’m not eligible to contest,” said Thangarasu. “Why can’t a disabled person contest? That’s our basic question. A year before her nomination was rejected (in 2011), the DMK regime under M Karunanidhi coined the term maatru thirunali (in Tamil meaning differently-abled). So we filed a case in the Madras high court, which came in our favour. The following year, after AIADMK came to power under J Jayalalithaa, they followed the orders and all disabilities, except those with mental illness were allowed to contest in Tamil Nadu.” Thangarasu is a leper, due to which he is paralysed in his right arm and his vision is affected in one eye. “When I was five years old, they made me sit alone in school. I felt ashamed and stopped going to school after that,” he said. The bitter experience made Thangarasu send his daughter to a government-run hostel for people with disabilities where she studied up to class 10 but in three places – Cuddalore, Tambaram and Kancheepuram. She now has a diploma in tailoring. With two tailoring machines, Kavitha stitches clothes exclusively for women. “So the people in the ward are extremely familiar with her. Even during campaigning, they are able to communicate with her using their actions,” he said. “I wanted her to be independent and self-made like me.” Kavitha’s husband, who is an electrician, didn’t have a job during the Covid-19 lockdown. “So she was the sole breadwinner and paid fees in a private school for their two sons.”As an independent candidate, Kavitha’s symbol for the polls is a ‘key’. Communicating over the phone on behalf of his daughter, Thangarasu said that she feels it’s symbolic of breaking open obstructions. “I will be representing people with disabilities. It’s a boost for us. And it will show that we can also work for our communities and we don’t have to be isolated,” she said using sign language.The 43 people with disabilities, who belong to an NGO, December 3 Movement, are contesting as independent candidates. Their decision to contest in the local body elections and not in assembly or parliamentary elections is deliberate. “This is where true democracy is,” said the founder of the December 3 Movement, TMN Deepak. “A disabled person, who is also poor, can truly understand the issues on the ground.”Thangarasu, who is 71-years-old now, has been a coolie taking up odd painting jobs. “I was ridiculed and discriminated against because of my condition,” he said. “Having faced all that, I’ve grown to contest in an election in Tamil Nadu. I think she has a better chance of winning. I’m happy that I was even able to contest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kavitha-paves-way-for-differently-abled-candidates-in-tamil-nadu-101633546918373.html
07-10-2021||India||In sync with India on Afghan terror concerns: Wendy Sherman||The US will have India’s security concerns “front and centre” in its approach towards Afghanistan and the Taliban setup in Kabul will have to do more if it wants to gain legitimacy, US deputy secretary of state Wendy Sherman said on Wednesday. Briefing reporters after wide-ranging talks with foreign secretary Harsh Shringla and national security adviser Ajit Doval, Sherman said the US has adopted a three-pronged approach of competing, challenging and cooperating to deal with China. Sherman’s remarks on the US approach to Afghanistan came against the backdrop of comments by external affairs minister S Jaishankar last week that the American side had not kept India fully in the loop regarding the peace deal concluded with the Taliban last year.“We understand India’s concern about terrorism spilling over not only into India, but to the entire region [from Afghanistan]...Our partnership on counterterrorism with India is part of that strong press to make sure that India’s security is first and foremost in our minds,” she said. “We will always have India’s security front and centre in our considerations of how the US proceeds,” she added. The US and India, Sherman said, are “absolutely of one mind and one approach when it comes to Afghanistan”. President Joe Biden, secretary of state Antony Blinken and all US departments and agencies have put together a “very robust programme” of over the horizon efforts to deal with the counterterrorism challenges emanating from Afghanistan, she said. Cooperation in this area will also be part of the meeting of the India-US joint working group on counter-terrorism during October 26-28 and a homeland security dialogue. Sherman said India is part of a group of like-minded countries that currently have a weekly video teleconference for sharing ideas and perspectives on approaching the Taliban. She also said the Taliban has to do much more if it wants legitimacy from the world community. “We have laid out together, and strongly supported by the international community, exactly the kind of parameters that India has laid out – which is that the Taliban must create an inclusive government, that they must ensure that Afghanistan not be a safe haven for terrorists, that the Taliban allow the safe and orderly travel of people who wish to relocate, that they subscribe to human rights, including the rights of women, girls and minorities, that indeed there not be reprisals or revenge, that this be a functioning government that lives by universal values in the universal declaration of human rights and in the international rules-based order,” Sherman said. “We believe that the Taliban must act, not just speak words. We have not seen them follow through on some of the things they have said verbally. It appears that their minds change on a daily basis, and indeed we have to see actions,” she added.“I believe...none of us are in a rush for recognition, let alone even legitimacy. We have to see actions, not just words.”People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity said the Indian side raised its concerns regarding Pakistan’s role in Afghanistan and terrorism and found a “lot of meeting of minds”. The feeling on the Indian side is that the US is “very far away” from granting any sort of recognition to the Taliban.The Indian side also conveyed its concerns about the movement of terror groups. The US side was clear that there is no fresh hyphenation of the relations with India and Pakistan, the people said. Responding to a question on how the US will respond to the challenges related to China, Sherman said her country has a “very complex relationship” with China that falls into three pathways.“One, we know that China will be a major competitor with the US in economics and in emerging tech and in the future going forward. We are happy to compete with China as long as there is a level playing field,” she said. The US trade representative’s planned talks with China are aimed at taking care of market access, ensuring a level playing field and working according to the rules.“The irony in all of this is that China has grown and developed because of that international rules-based order and now they want to change it,” Sherman said. “Secondly, we will challenge China where we must. We want to make sure there is a free, open and inter-connected Indo-Pacific, as does India. That means the PRC doesn’t get to decide who gets to use those waterways and who doesn’t, what belongs to the international community and what they claim belongs to them,” she said.Sherman referred to violations of Taiwan’s air defence identification zone by Chinese warplanes in the last few days as a “very dangerous action”. “Third, we will look for areas where we can cooperate and certainly we have worked together on the JCPOA on Iran, on counter-narcotics...on counterterrorism, and we certainly need to work together on global health,” Sherman said, adding a robust nationally determined contribution (NDC) was required from China to address the climate crisis.The people cited above said the issue of China came up and both sides shared their perspectives and current status of ties with China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-sync-with-india-on-afghan-terror-concerns-us-deputy-secy-of-state-wendy-sherman-101633546856543.html
07-10-2021||India||PM Modi issues e-property cards to 171k Svamitva scheme beneficiaries in MP||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday distributed e-property cards to 171,000 beneficiaries of 3000 villages of Madhya Pradesh under the Svamitva Scheme, a central scheme that aims to provide property rights to the residents of rural areas.Addressing the beneficiaries virtually during an event at Harda, the PM said, “Svamitva (Survey of Villages Abadi and Mapping with Improvised Technology in Village Areas) scheme will strengthen villages economically and also make the people self-reliant. As a pilot project, the Swamitva scheme was launched initially in Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Uttarakhand, Rajasthan, Haryana, Punjab and Karnataka. Now it will be introduced across the nation.”The scheme was introduced by the central government in April 2020 to provide property rights to the residents of rural inhabited areas through GIS mapping. The administrations are using drone technology for mapping during survey of the property and land. The scheme will allow the villagers to use it for taking loans from the bank.The PM praised the working of the state government under chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan. “MP is a wonder and the pride of the country. Madhya Pradesh has a speed and desire for development. Under the leadership of CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan, all the schemes are being implemented in a better way in the interest of the people of the state. Every time I see this I feel very happy. Madhya Pradesh has emerged as a leading state by doing commendable work in the field of land digitization,” the PM said.Prime Minister Modi said the soul of India resides in its villages. “The land rights will strengthen the villages. People have to face land dispute and many difficulties for land. People spend their savings to fight the case in the court case. Gandhiji had also expressed concern about this situation. It is our responsibility to make improvements in this area.”Thanking the prime minister for the scheme, Chouhan said, “ Before him (PM Modi), no one had noticed that the land in the village should be given ownership, there was no paper, so the land had no meaning. But today, when the ownership of that land is being received in the form of a letter of authority, we have now seen that land can be availed in many ways.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-issues-e-property-cards-to-171k-svamitva-scheme-beneficiaries-in-madhya-pradesh-101633546797093.html
07-10-2021||India||Supreme Court steps in, CJI to hear Lakhimpur case||The Supreme Court on Wednesday registered a public interest litigation on its own on the violence that killed eight people in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri district three days ago amid simmering tensions in the region and a visit by opposition leaders to the victims’ kin. A bench headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana and also comprising justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli will hear the case on Thursday. The suo motu (on its own motion) case has been registered as “In Re Violence in Lakhimpur Kheri (UP) leading to loss of life”. The matter has been registered as a criminal writ petition, pertaining to investigation and prosecution. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta is also expected to join the proceedings on Thursday. According to people familiar with the development, the suo motu cognisance has been taken on the basis of some letters written to the CJI and media reports. The developments came on a day Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, along with Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, his Punjab counterpart Charanjit Singh Channi, AICC general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal, party MP Deepender Hooda and Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) president Ajay Kumar Lallu, finally reached the remote village – roughly 10km from the India-Nepal border – after trying for three days.“Shared grief with the family of Lovepreet. But until justice is not done, this satyagraha will continue. Won’t forget your sacrifice, Lovepreet,” tweeted Rahul Gandhi. Lovepreet Singh was one of the farmers who died in Sunday’s violence.Local farmers blame junior home minister Ajay Mishra ‘Teni’ and his son Ashish Mishra for the violence that left four cultivators dead. Farm groups say a Mahindra Thar owned by Mishra mowed down protesters from behind while they were returning from a demonstration in Tikunia village on Sunday afternoon.The minister and his son deny the charge and say farmers pelted the car with stones that led the driver losing control of the vehicle. They also accuse the protesters of lynching two Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers and the car’s driver. A local journalist was also killed in the melee.Some unverified videos of the incident appear to back the farmers’ version of the incident and show the Thar knocking down protesters from behind. On Wednesday, a new, clearer 45-second video showed the Thar plough through the farmers at high speed, with two vehicles in tow. The identities of individuals wasn’t clear and HT couldn’t independently verify the clips.Ashish Mishra and 20 others have been booked for murder but farmers continue to press for his arrest. “We will wait till the ‘ardas’ (prayers performed on the 10th day after the death of a person belonging to Sikh community) for the arrest of the accused and resignation of the minister,” farm leader Rakesh Tikait said.The government gave ₹45 lakh as compensation for each family and announced a judicial probe. Channi and Baghel also announced ₹50 lakh compensation each to the victims’ families. Since violence rocked the region three days ago, tensions have run high as the government ringed the village with police, clamped prohibitory orders, snapped internet and denied landing permission to Baghel’s and Channi’s flights. It also detained Priyanka Gandhi in the early hours on Monday, sparking a political row.Wednesday began with high drama. The state government initially appeared reluctant to allow Congress leaders to visit Tikunia and denied permission to them to reach Lucknow. Finally, Gandhi and the others were given boarding passes in Delhi and touched down in Lucknow at 1.30pm – only to run into a wall of policemen“I want to move out of the airport. They are not allowing me to move out. What kind of permission is this?” said Rahul Gandhi, sitting on a dharna at the airport. On Tuesday, Baghel had also been denied permission to leave the terminal.Minutes later, a heated altercation broke out between Gandhis and the security personnel over the choice of vehicle. “We want to go in our car, but they (police) want to take us in their vehicle. I have asked them to go in my personal vehicle. They are planning something,” said Rahul Gandhi to reporters. Around 3pm, the Congress delegation left the airport towards Lakhimpur Kheri, roughly 150km away, driving past Congress workers who shouted anti-government slogans. At 6pm, the convoy reached the Sitapur guest house where Priyanka Gandhi had been detained for nearly 55 hours. She joined her brother before the convoy drove towards Tikunia, where they met the families of the deceased farmers. “Those who crushed farmers are roaming free. The BJP government is silencing the voices of justice for farmers. We will not allow the voice of justice to go suppressed,” said Priyanka Gandhi in a tweet on Wednesday. The BJP accused the Congress of opportunism. “Irresponsibility is another name of Rahul Gandhi, Congress and Rahul are trying to incite violence. He is trying to spread rumours,” BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra said. On Tuesday, advocates Shiv Kumar Tripathi and CS Panda wrote to the apex court, seeking punishment for politicians allegedly involved in the ghastly incident. “Having regard to the seriousness of the killing of the farmers at district Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh, it is incumbent upon this Hon’ble Court to intervene in the matter as flashed in the press,” it said.On Wednesday morning, senior Congress MP Kapil Sibal posted a tweet requesting the court to take suo motu cognisance of the events. After the Supreme Court website confirmed the development, Sibal posted another tweet thanking the CJI. “This is the need of the hour. This and courts in India are temples of justice that can restore the faith of the voiceless who most often feel orphaned,” he said.Two days ago, attorney general KK Venugopal cited the Lakhimpur Kheri violence while arguing that farmers should not be allowed to protest when the top court is already considering the three contentious farm laws and also stayed their operation. Contemplating restrictions on the right to protest, the court observed that “nobody takes responsibility” when damage to properties and physical injuries take place during protests in response to the A-G’s reference to Lakhimpur Kheri.In the village, local residents continued to protest against minister Mishra and his son. A first information report filed by a local farmer on Monday alleged that Ashish Mishra was in the car that mowed down protesters, and that he fired shots at the farmers, killing one. Ashish denied the charge.Post-mortem reports of the farmers killed showed that there were no bullet injuries on any of the bodies, and that all four died due to shock, excessive bleeding and haemorrhage. The findings, experts say, are consistent with deaths arising from injuries, such as those caused in an automobile accident. The post-mortem reports stoked a row in the village, but after a second autopsy was conducted on farmer Gurvinder Singh’s body, his family finally cremated him on Wednesday. With this, all eight victims of the violence were laid to rest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-steps-in-cji-to-hear-lakhimpur-case-101633546736427.html
07-10-2021||India||Pakistan court allows India more time to appoint lawyer to represent Kulbhushan Jadhav||Islamabad: A top court in Pakistan on Tuesday allowed India more time to appoint a lawyer to represent death-row prisoner Kulbhushan Jadhav in the court to hear a review of his conviction and sentencing by a military court.Jadhav, a 51-year-old retired Indian Navy officer, was sentenced to death by a Pakistani military court on charges of espionage and terrorism in April 2017. India approached the International Court of Justice (ICJ) against Pakistan for denial of consular access to Jadhav and challenging the death sentence.After hearing both sides, the Hague-based ICJ issued a verdict in July, 2019, asking Pakistan to give India consular access to Jadhav and also ensure review of his conviction.On Tuesday, a three-judge bench of the Islamabad High Court (IHC), comprising Chief Justice Athar Minallah, Justice Aamer Farooq and Justice Miangul Hassan Aurangzeb, heard the case by the law ministry regarding designating a lawyer for Jadhav.Attorney General for Pakistan Khalid Javed Khan reminded the court that it had passed an order on May 5 asking the authorities to make one more effort to contact India for the appointment of a counsel.He informed the court that the message was conveyed to India but there has been no response so far.Khan also told the court that India wanted consular access to Jadhav in a separate room, but the authorities cannot take the risk of leaving him alone with Indian representatives. “They can cause harm to him even by just shaking hands with him,” he said.He claimed Pakistan was making efforts for a complete implementation on the decision of review and reconsideration of the ICJ, but India was creating hurdles.Khan said due to Indian intransigence, the government had requested the court for the appointment of a counsel. “India wants to appoint a counsel from outside but our law disallows this, and so does India’s in its own territory,” he said.Chief Justice Minallah said that Pakistan wanted to implement the ICJ decision. “Would it not be better to give them another opportunity so they could put forth their reservations before the court,” he observed.The judge asked Khan to convey the message to the Indian government and Jadhav. “Send another reminder to Kulbhushan and the Indian government. If India has any reservations, it may convey them here, or someone from the Indian embassy in Pakistan may convey them. That might bring forth a solution,” the judge said.Later, the court adjourned the hearing of the case for an indefinite period.No progress was made on the review issue as India refused to appoint a local lawyer while demanding Pakistan to let an Indian lawyer represent Jadhav in the court.India has asked Pakistan to address the “shortcomings” in a bill brought out to facilitate reviewing the case of Jadhav, saying the proposed law does not create a mechanism to reconsider it as mandated by the ICJ.India has said the Review and Reconsideration Bill 2020 does not create a mechanism to facilitate effective review and reconsideration of Jadhav’s case as mandated by the judgement of the ICJ and the municipal courts cannot be the arbiter of whether a state has fulfilled its obligations in international law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-court-allows-india-more-time-to-appoint-lawyer-to-represent-kulbhushan-jadhav-101633546676991.html
07-10-2021||India||Fireworks, celebrations can’t be at the cost of life, says Supreme Court||No celebration can be allowed at the cost of life of others, said the Supreme Court on Wednesday as it justified the ban on the manufacturing and sale of traditional firecrackers, and implored people to shift to noiseless festivities ahead of Diwali. “We are not averse to celebrations, but we cannot celebrate at the cost of life of others. Where do we get that a celebration must happen by bursting crackers, making noise and pollution? We can have celebrations without noise too,” said a bench of justices MR Shah and AS Bopanna. The bench added that there are now green crackers that do not make noise. “Celebrations can also be from fuljhadi (sparkler), etc. It does not need to be noisy crackers only,” it remarked, when senior lawyers appearing for the firecracker manufacturers talked about striking a balance between celebrations and the right to life of people. The court was considering a clutch of applications for the implementation of its October 23, 2018, judgment that took note of the deteriorating air pollution in major cities and prohibited the production of all traditional firecrackers, including the joined crackers, also known as series crackers or laaris, using barium or its salts. Instead, only green crackers and improved crackers with reduced emissions were allowed to be manufactured and sold.Senior advocate Gopal Sankaranarayanan, appearing for his minor son Arjun Gopal, who is one of the petitioners in the case, also pressed for contempt action against some manufacturers, citing alleged violations of the 2018 order by them.On the other hand, certain firecracker manufacturers came before the bench seeking approval from the central government authorities on their improved crackers ahead of Diwali in November. Typically, levels of air pollutants shoot up on the evening of Diwali as people set off firecrackers that often have compounds such barium that create a toxic smoke when ignited. This lingers due to meteorological conditions typical for this time of the year: low winds. To add to it, for close to a decade now, the air in the National Capital Region is usually laden with PM2.5 pollutants from fire fires, resulting in conditions that expert say is hazardous to breathe in.A report submitted recently by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on the use of toxic chemicals in producing firecrackers informed the court that six manufactures had used banned chemical barium or its salt, following which the bench on September 28 issued show-cause notices to the manufacturers. Responding, most of these six manufacturers, including Hindustan Fireworks and Standard Fireworks, claimed that they had purchased barium and its salts but did not use it in manufacturing firecrackers. “What they say is very surprising. They say that they purchased such a huge quantity of barium only to keep it their godowns but not to manufacture. They would not purchase it only for a show...they cannot even keep it in godowns,” observed the bench. It reiterated that the court’s earlier orders on a crackdown on the use of barium and its salt in firecrackers must be complied with by every state, as it wondered how the authorities have not been able to stop the laaris that are still burst in almost all celebrations. Sankaranarayan submitted that the CBI report has put forth a very disturbing picture where manufacturers can be witnessed breaching the law with impunity. At this, the court said that it will hear the issue in detail on October 26 after all the parties go through what the manufacturers have said in their replies to the show-cause notices. States such as Delhi and Odisha have already announced a complete ban on the sale and use of firecrackers during the upcoming festive season. The Delhi government has also prohibited the storage of firecrackers. This pre-emptive ban was imposed given the city’s deteriorating air quality over the past three years, said chief minister Arvind Kejriwal in a series of tweets on September 15.While banning the use of firecrackers through its judgment in 2018, the top court had encouraged the community bursting of crackers within fixed timings: from 8pm to 10pm on Diwali and festival days, and for half-an-hour after midnight on Christmas and New Year’s Day. It had held that only green crackers and improved crackers with reduced emissions will be allowed to be manufactured and sold. Barium and its salts in the making of firecrackers were banned owing to poisonous gases causing respiratory problems. The Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organization was further directed to review the chemical composition of the firecrackers and submit its report to the court to guide on the chemicals that could be used to produce green crackers.During the last hearing on September 28, the court had observed that it cannot let people suffer because of air and sound pollution caused by firecrackers and that its ban must be implemented by all the authorities in letter and spirit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fireworks-celebrations-can-t-be-at-the-cost-of-life-says-supreme-court-101633546498174.html
07-10-2021||India||Assam: An 80-year-old woman till struggling to be ‘Indian’, 5 decades later||Bhandari Das is 80 years old. The most crucial piece of paper in her file of documents is a Relief Eligibility Certificate issued to her by the Union government in 1967. Three years later, in 1970, Das was enrolled as a voter in the Cachar district of Assam. Her name duly appeared in the 2019 National Register of Citizens (NRC). But on Monday, a foreigners’ tribunal in Assam -- hearing a case registered against her by the Superintendent of Police(Border), Cachar in 2008 alleging that she was an illegal immigrant -- deemed Das a “streamlined foreigner”. This means that she will lose her right to vote for the next decade.Despite this development, Das is not perturbed given the law states her name will be restored to the rolls after the expiration of a 10-year period. “In 10 years, me and my family members will be declared permanent Indian citizens,” she said.The case is symptomatic of the often fraught and complicated process of proving identity in Assam. Das has lived, and been a voter in India for over 50 years, entering the country to flee persecution. After battling a case for three years and having her documents scrutinised, she has lost her right to vote for a decade. And yet, she is pleased with the decision, happy with the bare minimum that she has not been declared an illegal immigrant.Das was 13 when she married Rajendra Das in Sylhet, Bangladesh in 1961, and crossed the border into India six years later. “We were being attacked from various sides because of our religious beliefs. Many of our neighbours had already left for India, and one day my husband decided to as well. It was the toughest time of our lives. When the notice came from the court three years ago, all I thought was that I would have to go back to Bangladesh, which I definitely did not want to do,” she said.They travelled for an entire day, with very little food or water, reaching a refugee camp near Siliguri by midnight. For three years, that’s where Das and her husband lived. “Finally we managed to get some work in Bholanathpur village near Silchar town, and shifted there. My two children were born in that village,” she said.Das’s husband Rajendra died in 2009 after years of being ill, and she now lives with her son Rajkamal and his family; her daughter is married to a farmer from a nearby village and has four children.Rajkamal Das said that his mother has developed a hearing problem over the past few years that causes her much pain, but the hurt is the strongest when she talks of the time she crossed over. “I was born in 1971 at Bholanathpur and my younger sister was also born here. Before that our parents went through a pathetic life and they only survived because they supported each other. We are a family of farmers and our father taught us to be ready to face anything in life. When the case was filed against my mother, our father’s words were what we remembered,” he said.The caseIn 2008, a case was registered against Das in 2008 by the Superintendent of Police (Border) Cachar, Silchar alleging that she was a foreigner who arrived in India after 25th March, 1971 from Udhopuz village under Ajmeri police station in Sylhet district of Bangladesh. While Das was unable to submit any document of her citizenship at the time, police officials said that, in 2018, the Foreigners Tribunal Court III in Cachar issued a notice asking her to prove her identity by producing adequate documentation.Das, who appeared before the tribunal several times over the past three years, relied on two key documents. First, a certified copy of the 1970 voters list where her name appeared, and second, the Relief Eligibility Certificate issued by the Government of India to her in 1967. In the final order issued on October 4, the FT-III member (judge) B K Talukder termed her as a “Foreigner Of The Stream 01-01-1966 to 25/03/1971” and asked her to enrol her name as an emigrated Bangladeshi in the Foreigners Regional Registration Office (FRRO). The order says the her husband, who is now dead, and her children will be required to do the same, within 30 days.In the order, Talukder wrote, “I have gone through the written statement, evidence and documents submitted by the lawyer of Bhandari Das carefully. My considered opinion is that the opposite party is a foreigner of the Stream 01-01-1966 to 25/03/1971. The OP (Bhandari Das) is directed to register her name along with her husband and children before the Foreigners Regional Registration Office, Cachar, Silchar.”Clause 5 of Assam Accord says that “All persons who come to Assam prior to January 1, 1966, including those amongst them whose names appeared on the electoral rolls used in 1967 elections, shall be regularised as citizens. Foreigners who came to Assam between January 1, 1966 and March 24, 1971 shall be detected in accordance with the provisions of the Foreigners Act, 1946. Names of those detected foreigners will be deleted from the electoral rolls in force. Such persons will be required to register themselves before the Registration Officers of the respective districts in accordance with the provisions of the Registration of Foreigners Act and the Registration of Foreigners Rules, 1939. For this purpose, Government of India will undertake suitable strengthening of the government machinery. On the expiry of a period of 10 years following the date of detection, the names of all such persons which have been deleted from the electoral role shall be restored.”SP Cachar, Ramandeep Kaur, who also holds the post of SP (Border) said, that names declared as “foreigner of the Stream 01-01-1966 to 25/03/1971” by Foreigner Tribunal Courts are entered into the FRRO. Kaur said that there are six Foreigners Tribunal Courts in Cachar. “It is difficult to find records and say how many such cases we have dealt with so far,” Kaur said.The DebateDas’s lawyer Tanmay Purkayastha said that the judgment was drawn as per the provisions of the Assam Accord. “Bhandari Das has proven that she has been staying in India since 1967 and the court has agreed that the documents she submitted are authentic. Now, after staying in India for more than five decades, she has to register her name as a migrant. We are part of this system and cannot criticise it but in my personal opinion, these people deserve better treatment,” Puryakastha said.Das though, was enthused with the order, and said that she did not want to leave a “bad legacy” for her children. Talking to HT, she said, “My only fear was to die without proving my Indian citizenship. I don’t want to leave a bad legacy for my children. Now the court has said that if I wait for 10 years, my family members and I will be declared as permanent Indian citizens. At the age of 80, I am not sure I will live for another 10 years or not. But even if I die before that, my children I will live a respectful life as genuine Indian citizens.”Senior advocate Soumen Choudhary however called this “extended harassment”. “It takes years for a person to prove his identity before the court because in many cases the document they submit needs verification. Various government departments delay these verifications which keeps the person waiting for a long time. But after facing all these processes, the Court calls the person streamlined foreigners, which in my opinion, is a half citizenship,” he said.Social activist Kamal Chakraborty said that there were other cases as well where people were declared “streamlined foreigners”, and that activists in the area were now trying to raise awareness on the documents that they need before a tribunal. “I know a family who have land purchasing documents from 1964 but they did not submit this before court so the court declared them streamlined foreigners. Now they have to appeal again and it may take another episode to solve the issue,” Chakraborty said.Last year, 104-year-old Chandradhar Das died in Cachar district without being able to prove his identity after fighting for more than four years. His only wish was to die as Indian and had submitted a citizenship card issued in his name in 1964 in Tripura. The Tribunal Court sent this card for verification which never came back.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-an-80-year-old-woman-till-struggling-to-be-indian-5-decades-later-101633546316467.html
07-10-2021||India||After National Defence Academy, Centre to allow girls to be inducted in RIMC, RMS||The Union government has told the Supreme Court that girls will get inducted not only in the National Defence Academy but also in the Rashtriya Indian Military College (RIMC) and the five Rashtriya Military Schools (RMS) in the country. Like the NDA, RIMC and RMS have also been traditionally all-boys establishments that act as feeder institutions for the armed forces. Submitting its affidavit on Wednesday, the Centre conveyed its agreement to induct girls in RIMC and RMS with effect from the academic session 2022-23 after bringing about necessary infrastructural and logistical changes. For RIMC in Dehradun, the affidavit pointed out that those in the age group 11.5 to 13 years join the institution after clearing an All-India competitive exam, which is held bi-annually for 25 seats each. The government said it will start inducting 5 girls every six months starting January 2023 for which the girls will be allowed to take the entrance exam in June 2022. “It will be a 20% increase in strength every year. This increase can be affected with some infrastructure modification and additional staff to support the girl cadets,” said the affidavit, calling it the first phase of their plan. In the second phase, the government said, the capacity of RIMC will be increased to a total of 350, which will include 100 girls. “For this, it is submitted that girls will be allowed to take the entrance examination scheduled in June 2027 for entry into RIMC for the term starting in January 2028... This increase will need major infrastructure expansion and additional staff to support the increased strength,” said the affidavit. Apart from appropriate medical standards and training curriculum for the girl cadets, the government said, several other modifications and restructuring will have to be done to accommodate and facilitate the living of girls with respect to privacy, safety and security. The affidavit added that a board of officers is examining all the pertinent issues to ensure that a girl-friendly infrastructure and support staff is approved by the government and the work commences so that girls feel welcome into the portals of RIMC. RIMC was inaugurated in March 1922 by Prince Edward VIII, the Prince of Wales. On RMS, which are located at Chail (Himachal Pradesh), Ajmer (Rajasthan), Belgaum (Karnataka), Bengaluru (Karnataka) and Dholpur (Rajasthan), the government pointed out that these schools act as a feeder institution for NDA and to provide quality education and training from Class 6 to 12 for the wards of Indian soldiers. The admission test is conducted in December every year for approximately 350 seats. The government proposed to start by reserving 10% of total vacancies in each school for girl candidates for entry into class 6, in accordance with various reservations applicable in RMS, with effect from academic session 2022-23. In the second phase, the government said it will reserve 10% of total vacancies in each school for the girl candidates for entry into class 6 and class 9 with effect from administration 2023-24. RMSs have been operating since 1950s. A bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M M Sundresh will examine the government’s affidavit on Thursday. On September 22, the bench had asked the government to come clear on the issue of induction of girls in RIMC and RMS as it heard a petition by advocate Kailsah Udhavrao More, who raised the issue of gender discrimination and bias in not allowing girl cadets in these premier institutions. More’s petition was heard along with the plea on entry of women in NDA, in which the bench had directed that women shall be allowed to sit for the upcoming NDA entrance exam on November 14 after rejecting the government’s request to delay the first-ever examination for them. While seeking the exemption for this year’s admission, the government had earlier said that women can sit for the NDA entrance exam in April-May next year and join the academy in January 2023. But the court was emphatic that there cannot be a request from the authorities to make the aspiring women skip the upcoming exam in November. “We will not put this train in reverse gear... we will not set the clock back. A beginning has to be made now. Having given some hope to women that they can take exams in November, we don’t want to belie that hope by saying they will have to wait for one more year and then something may happen. Exam cannot be postponed,” the bench had said. Under the current eligibility criteria, only male candidates who have cleared Class 12 level or its equivalent, and are in the age group of 16-and-a-half and 19 are eligible to apply. Those who clear the NDA exam are called for interview by the Service Selection Board (SSB), and following a medical exam, candidates are recruited in the army, navy, and air force wings of NDA, and for the INA course for pre-commission training. NDA was commissioned in 1955.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-national-defence-academy-centre-to-allow-girls-to-be-inducted-in-rimc-rms-101633546257100.html
07-10-2021||India||British diplomat sexually harassed in Chandigarh, case registered||A woman diplomat posted at the British Deputy High Commission in Chandigarh was allegedly sexually harassed on Wednesday morning while she was on her way to play tennis, police said. A case has been registered and efforts are on to trace the accused, they added. In her complaint with police, the 60-year-old diplomat, who assumed office in February this year, said the incident took place when she left her residence in Sector 9 around 6.30am to walk towards Chandigarh Lawn Tennis Association (CLTA), near DAV College in Sector 10. The envoy alleged that she had crossed Jan Marg and was at the roundabout near Hotel Mountview when the man arrived on his motorbike and harassed her. “I was walking past the residential houses when a motorcycle came up behind me. The rider hit me hard with his hand or something on my back. I shouted at him and ran after him but he sped away,” she told police. On reaching CLTA, she said she informed her coach about the incident. “We can confirm that an official complaint has been registered and a police investigation is underway. We are grateful for the assistance provided by Chandigarh Police,” a spokesperson at the commission said on condition of anonymity. On the basis of the diplomat’s complaint, a case under section 354 A (assault or use of criminal force on any woman or abet such act with the intention of disrobing) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Sector 3 police station. “A case has been registered. The teams are scanning CCTVs installed in the area. The accused would soon be arrested,” Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police, Chandigarh, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/british-diplomat-sexually-harassed-in-chandigarh-case-registered-101633546197439.html
07-10-2021||India||Facilitating oil, gas exploration, pvt plantations in govt plans||The Centre has released a consultation paper on amending the Forest Conservation Act, 1980, to bring significant changes to how forest land is managed in India, a move that will facilitate private plantations and the extraction of oil and natural gas from deep beneath forest land by drilling holes from outside the forest areas, although some experts are worried that the changes could actually accelerate trade in what is unquestionably India’s most precious commodity -- land. According to the ministry of environment, forest and climate change, the amendment recognises considerable changes in the ecological, social, and environmental regimes in the country in the last 40 years. State governments have been asked to send their comments within 15 days.Clarity on use of private forestsUntil December 1996, provisions of the Forest Conservation Act only applied to the forests notified under the Indian Forest Act, 1927, or any other local law, and to those managed by the forest department. But after the Supreme Court judgement dated December 12, 1996, in TN Godavarman Thirumulpad vs Union of India and Others case, all areas that conformed to the dictionary meaning of forest were ordered to be considered as forests too.“Identification of such land is subjective and arbitrary to some extent. This leads to ambiguity and has been observed to have resulted in a lot of resentment and resistance, particularly from private individuals and organisations. Considering any private area forest would restrict the right of an individuals to use their own land for any non-forestry activity,” the ministry has said in its consultation paper, which is available on its website. Even when diversion of such areas is allowed, the owner must provide an equivalent area of non-forest land and other compensatory levies . This ambiguity has led to the tendency to keep most of the private lands devoid of vegetation, the paper said, adding that it is extremely necessary to define the scope of application of the Forest Conservation Act objectively. Fulfilling India’s climate commitmentOne of India’s nationally determined contributions (NDC) under the Paris Agreement is to create a carbon sink of 2.5–3 billion tonnes through additional forest and tree cover by 2030. “We also want to reduce the flow from foreign exchange for import of wood and wood derivatives to the tune of approximately ₹45,000 crore. We had a thriving market for timber and wood products which has disappeared. It has to be revived now so that local people can benefit from their own plantations,” a senior environment ministry official said on condition of anonymity. The paper said that to achieve the NDC, extensive plantations in all possible available land outside government forests are necessary. “But to ensure this, there is a need to dispel the apprehension among tree growers that vegetation or tree plantation raised on their private/ non-forest lands will attract the provisions of the FC Act,” the paper states.Keeping some forests intactThe environment ministry is considering introducing a provision in the Act to keep certain pristine forests “showcasing rich ecological values” intact for a specific period.Go ahead for projectsThe paper asks whether the use of forest land for strategic and security projects of national importance should be exempt from the need to obtain prior approval from the central government. Doing this will allow states to permit diversion of forest land for strategic and security projects that are to be completed in a given time frame, but also lends itself to misuse. Oil and natural gas extractionThe paper proposes to facilitate new technologies such as extended reach drilling (ERD) for extraction of oil and natural gas found deep beneath the forest land by drilling holes from outside the forest areas. The paper suggests that this will not impact the soil or aquifer that supports the forest. “Ministry considers use of such technology is quite environment-friendly and as such should be kept outside the purview of FC Act,”the paper says.Building in private forestsTo ease the grievances of people whose lands fall in private forests or within the purview of the dictionary meaning of forest, the ministry has proposed allowing them the right to construct structures for bona fide purposes, including forest protection measures and residential units up to an area of 250 sq mtr (2,690 sq feet) as one-time relaxation.“With these amendments, the environment ministry looks to unlock land for infrastructure development and plantations, both of which are high on economic priorities,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher at Centre for Policy Research. She said that the 1996 Supreme Court order banned the use of domestic timber for wood-based industries, including sawmills, which hugely increased raw material imports as a trade-off to conserve plantations and important forest areas. “So, the underlying presumption is that private land, once released from the requirement of prior forest clearances, will incentivise plantation-based carbon sinks. In reality, these lands will become market commodities and tradable assets both for private parties to sell, and government to acquire on behalf of private parties,” Kohli said. The researcher added that on the infrastructure side, the environment ministry has prioritised the requirement of government agencies such as the National Highways Authority of India and the railways. “It assumes that land once acquired by these agencies should be allowed for unencumbered use. However, this does not explicitly consider that these acquisitions themselves may be based on unresolved land rights or may have created new livelihood bases for people brought in to raise, maintain and sell the plantations on government land.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amending-forest-conservation-act-facilitating-oil-gas-exploration-pvt-plantations-in-govt-plans-101633546136319.html
07-10-2021||India||29 million students don’t have access to devices: Govt report||A report released by Union education ministry on Wednesday said that 29 million school students do not have access to digital devices as per data collected from 24 states and Union Territories (UTs) until June -- data that highlights the extent to which these students have been disadvantaged over the past year-and-half when almost all education has been online in the shadow of the Covid pandemic. It is only now that some states have reopened schools, and that too only for some classes. The data from the ministry is the first official statistic on the digital divide. Anecdotal evidence suggests that many children from poor families have suffered as a result, with some dropping out. According to the data, which is a part of a report titled ”Iinitiatives by school education sector in 2020-21 for continuing teaching and learning”, released on Wednesday, as many as 29.6 million students from 19 states and five UTs were found to be without digital devices during the surveys conducted by these states and UTs. The numbers could be higher. Seven states and UTs, including densely populated Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra, have not submitted the data , the report stated.Of the 29 million, 14 million are from Bihar, with the number translating into 58% of total students in the state. This is followed by 3.2 million from Jharkhand, which is 43% of total student strength in the state; 3.1 million from Karnataka, 27% of the total strength of students in the state; 3.1 million from Assam, 44% ofstudents in the state; and 1.75 million from Tamil Nadu, which is 14.5% of total student strength in the state. In addition to the 24 states and UTs, fivestates and UTs have submitted their data in percentage terms. Among those are Delhi (4% of total student strength), Chhattisgarh (28.27% of total student strength), Madhya Pradesh (70% of total student strength), Jammu and Kashmir (70% of total student strength) and Punjab (42.85% of total student strength).The ministry has also collected data from Central government run Kendriya Vidyalayas (KVs) and Navodaya Vidyalayas on the number of students without access to digital devices during the year 2020-21. As per the data, 7.47% of total 2,58,254 students enrolled in 661 Navodaya schools do not have access to digital devices. The percentage is better in KVs where only 2% of students do not have access to digital devices. The report also highlighted the efforts taken by the Central government and the states/ UTs to reach out to students during the closure of schools, with messaging platform WhatsApp emerging the most used across states for sharing study material. For students without digital access, the states and UTs took several initiatives such as door to door visits by teachers to distribute study material, mohalla classes, and mobile schools. . As many as 4.62 million devices were distributed among students by several states and UTs, the report stated. The report also highlighted that after Centre’s intervention as many as 3,50,021 “out of school students” have been identified at elementary level and 1,04,650 at the secondary level across the states and UTs and will now be induced to the mainstream education.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/29-million-students-don-t-have-access-to-devices-govt-report-101633545716753.html
07-10-2021||India||Punjab, Chhattisgarh announce ₹50 lakh for farmers killed in Lakhimpur Kheri||New Delhi: Two Congress chief ministers, Punjab’s Charanjit Singh Channi and Chhattisgarh’s Bhupesh Baghel, on Wednesday, announced ₹50 lakh compensation each for the farmers who died after being allegedly hit by a car in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri.Channi and Baghel accompanied Congress leader Rahul Gandhi to Uttar Pradesh to meet the families of the victims. The family of a journalist, who was also killed in the incident, would also receive compensation from the two states.“My state is predominantly an agricultural state. We can’t stay silent if farmers are killed in a planned way. The Congress can’t stay quiet. Rahul Gandhi has come here today. I also understand my duty,” said Charanjit Singh Channi, announcing ₹50 lakh compensation for victims’ families. Next, Baghel made the announcement. “As Channi sahib just announced the compensation, Rahul Gandhi told us that the whole country is the country of farmers and Chhattisgarh is called the rice bowl. Chhattisgarh is also the state of farmers, so we all have to stand in this misery.”KC Venugopal, who had also accompanied Gandhi and the chief ministers to Lucknow, said, “This is a clear symbol of Indian National Congress’ support to the farmers of the country. I appreciate the stand taken by our two Chief Ministers of Punjab and Chhattisgarh. This will give a clear message to the country that Congress Party governments will stand for farmers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-chhattisgarh-announce-rs-50-lakh-for-farmers-killed-in-lakhimpur-kheri-101633545656986.html
07-10-2021||India||Uttarakhand’s Corbett tiger reserve likely to be renamed as Ramganga National Park, says park director||The name of Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR) in Uttarakhand is likely to be renamed as Ramganga National Park, reserve director Rahul said on Wednesday. The Ramaganga river flows through the tiger reserve and is the lifeline of the reserve. In 1954-55, the reserve was briefly named as Ramganga National Park.The decision to restore the name of the reserve was taken by Union minister of state for environment, forest and climate change (MOEFCC) Ashwini Kumar Choubey during his visit on October 3, the director said.“The minister, during his visit to the reserve, said that Ramganga National Park is a good name instead of Jim Corbett National Park... so he asked us to initiate the process to do the same. If the forest ministry instructs us to prepare a proposal of this sort, we will act accordingly,” the director said. “Earlier, the reserve’s name was Ramganga National Park… it was renamed as Corbett Tiger Reserve in 1955-56,” he added. Another official at the forest reserve also claimed that the minister had asked the director to begin work for renaming the park and mentioned the same in the visitor’s book kept in the museum in Dhangarhi. A senior official from the environment ministry, however, said that Choubey had made a mere suggestion and the idea was not a formal plan. “This is not a formal plan. It’s only something the minister had written as a visitor in the register,” the official who did not wish to be named said. Choubey visited the national park on Sunday to conclude the tiger safari organised as part of ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’ and Wildlife Week celebrations. The Corbett reserve was established in 1936 as Hailey National Park after Malcolm Hailey, former governor of the then Uttar Pradesh province. After Independence, it was renamed as Ramganga National Park in 1954-55. In the following year, it was renamed as Corbett Tiger Reserve after hunter and writer Edward Jim Corbett.The reserve is spread over 520 km and rich in flora and fauna; it is known for tigers, leopards, elephants, deer, bear and several species of other wild animals, reptiles and birds. Around three lakh tourists visit the reserve and the park earns around ₹10 crore from tourism every year, Rahul said.AG Ansari, a Kumaon-based wildlife activist, said, “It will be injustice with Jim Corbett if the CTR is renamed. Corbett was a member of the committee which had played a major role in setting up Hailey national park. He was one of the few at that time who taught the world how to conserve forests and protect wildlife.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhands-corbett-tiger-reserve-likely-to-be-renamed-as-ramganga-national-park-says-park-director-101633545236943.html
07-10-2021||India||NEET-SS to follow old pattern this year, Centre tells Supreme Court||The Centre on Wednesday informed the Supreme Court that in the “interest of students”, it has decided to implement the revised pattern for National Eligibility Entrance Test-Super Speciality (NEET-SS) examination from the next academic year. It also indicated that authorities may need a couple of months more to conduct the exam which was earlier scheduled for November 12 and 13 as the whole process needs to be changed. A bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, Vikram Nath and BV Nagarathna disposed off a batch of pleas of 41 post-graduate doctors after additional solicitor general (ASG) Aishwarya Bhati said that the revised pattern, which was announced on August 31, won’t be incorporated in the exams this year. “Having regard to the interest of the body of students who would have commenced preparations for the ensuing NEET-SS examination before the change in the pattern was notified, a decision has been taken by the Union government in consultation with the National Medical Commission (NMC) and the National Board of Examinations (NBE) to give effect to the modified pattern only from the academic year 2022-2023,” Bhati said.“The Centre will try to hold the examination within two months. But the whole process is expected to take some more time as the entire process under the new system needs to be changed,” she added. Earlier, the Centre had told the court that it had decided to defer the exam to January 10 and 11, to give ample time to students to prepare under the new pattern. However, following its submissions today, it is yet to confirm the exam dates. The Centre’s submission came a day after it was pulled up by the top court for bringing last-minute changes to the exam pattern. In their petitions, the doctors complained that the examination was notified on July 23, but on August 31, the NBE, which conducts NEET-SS, announced a change in the exam pattern for NEET-SS for admission to over 4,200 seats for DM (Doctorate of Medicine), M.Ch (Master of Surgery) and DrNB (Doctorate of National Board). The doctors said they had prepared for the exam based on the older pattern used since 2018.Recording the submissions of the ASG, the bench said: “Since the Union government and expert bodies have taken a decision to hold the ensuing NEET-SS examinations for 2021-2022 on the basis of the pattern which held the field until academic year 2020-2021, it is not necessary for this court to adjudicate upon the validity of the modified pattern proposed for 2022-2023… In the circumstances, the petitions under Article 32 of the Constitution are disposed of.” After advocate Prashant Bhushan, who appeared for one of the petitioners, said that issues pertaining to the revised pattern should be kept open as the same would be implemented next year, the bench said: “That issue (with regard to modified examination pattern for 2022-23) is kept open.”In their pleas, the doctors pointed out that the existing exam pattern tested the candidate on their knowledge of the super specialty stream that they wished to pursue. The examination asked 60% questions from the super specialty of the candidate’s choice while the remaining 40% tested the candidate on a mix of broad specialty courses of which one was general medicine.Under the new pattern, 100% questions were to come from the broad specialty course of general medicine. The petitioners submitted that clinical practice was an important component for admission into super specialty courses. Due to this, many doctors practised in the super specialty stream to get admission into the course of their choice. Some even left their jobs and prepared for the examination for over a year.The Centre, however, argued that the change in pattern was being considered with a view to reduce wastage of seats in private and government medical colleges. Last year, 805 out of 4,286 seats remained vacant while in 2019, the vacant seats totalled 545, Bhati said.As the bench sought a break-up of the vacancies, Bhati said that out of 805 vacant super specialty seats reported in 2020, 561 were in private colleges.A total of 414 colleges offer the super specialty course of which 296 are private-owned and 118 are run by the government, she said, adding that the Centre will require two months to conduct the examination as the whole process has to be reworked.“The doctors’ fraternity stands vindicated because of the Supreme Court’s sensitivity to our cause. It is unfortunate that despite the services rendered by doctors in the last two years during Covid-19, the government did not make things easier for us. Now, we only hope and expect that the exams, which are already much behind schedule, are held at the earliest, to ensure that an academic year does not go to waste,” advocate Javedur Rehman, who appeared for all 41 doctors, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/neetss-to-follow-old-pattern-this-year-centre-tells-supreme-court-101633544936982.html
07-10-2021||India||NCP leader Nawab Malik calls NCB cruise raid ‘fake’; agency, BJP hit back||The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Wednesday termed the Narcotics Control Bureau’s (NCB) raid on a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast on October 2 as “fake”, alleging no narcotic drugs were found during it, even as it questioned the presence of two persons along with the NCB team during the raid, claiming one of them was a member of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Both the NCB and BJP denied the NCP charges as “baseless”.Maharashtra minorities affairs minister and NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik on Wednesday claimed that the two men, who escorted Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan and another accused Arbaaz Merchant to the NCB’s Mumbai office were private individuals and not officers, adding that the arrest was a conspiracy involving the NCB and the BJP to defame Maharashtra, the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government and the film industry.“One of them is Manish Bhanushali, who claims to be a BJP office-bearer and the other is KP Gosawi, who claims to be a private detective,” said Malik at a press conference in Mumbai. Photographs of Gosawi, posing with Khan, went viral a few days ago.The NCP leader also released a few videos, purportedly of the raid.In one of the videos, KP Gosawi can be seen bringing Aryan Khan to NCB office and in the second, Manish Bhanushali can be seen bringing Arbaaz Merchant to the NCB office, Malik alleged.“According to the Bhanushali’s Facebook profile, he is a BJP vice president and has photos with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah, BJP chief JP Nadda and other senior leaders including those from Maharashtra such as Devendra Fadnavis and Ashish Shelar,” Malik told reporters at party headquarters at Ballard Pier in South Mumbai.“He (Manish Bhanushali) was in Delhi to meet some ministers at their official residences on September 21. Between September 22 and 28, he held many meetings at Mantralaya situated in Gandhinagar, Gujarat. The dates September 21 and 22 are very important as during the same period a massive drug haul was caught at Mundra port situated in Gujarat. He was meeting whom in Delhi? He met which (BJP) ministers in Gujarat? What was he doing in Mantralaya in Gujarat? All this needs to be answered,” Malik said.“BJP is using NCB to defame people who are against them and also using its leaders and workers in raids. What is Bhanushali’s connection with the massive drug haul caught in Gujarat...BJP in connivance with NCB is defaming Maharashtra, MVA government and the Film Industry,” he alleged.Meanwhile, Bhanushali told a TV channel that he was a BJP worker and that the NCB conducted the raid based on his tip. “I did not bring Arbaaz to the NCP office but was accompanying the NCB officers as I was asked by them to come and sign documents as a witness. The raid was conducted with the help of the information provided by me about the drug party,” Bhanushali told ABP Majha, a Marathi news channel.Rejecting the accusations, NCB deputy director general Gyaneshwar Singh said panchanamas (filings) during the raid and while arresting the accused were made as per legal provisions. He added there were nine independent witnesses and Manish Bhanushali and Kiran Gosawi were two of them.“The allegations made against the agency are baseless and if anyone has any reservation, he or she can approach the court and we will appropriately reply to them,” Singh said. Without mentioning that the NCB had recently arrested Nawab Malik’s son-in-law in a drug abuse case, Singh said allegations were perhaps levelled by persons affected by the action taken by the agency.Meanwhile, the BJP said the NCP should clarify whether they are opposing or supporting the action against the drug mafia.Devendra Fadnavis, leader of opposition in Maharashtra assembly, said, “Everybody knows about the reason for Nawab Malik’s anger against NCB and why he is targeting the agency. Instead of raising questions on the people present there, he should ask whether there were drugs in the party or not? Whether the party took place or not? I do not want to speak more on Malik as he is not that important.”Keshav Upadhye, Maharashtra BJP spokesperson, said, “First of all, the NCP should clarify whether they support or oppose action against the drug mafia. We suspect Nawab Malik has other intentions behind making the allegations rather than supporting actor Shah Rukh Khan.”“It is up to the NCB to decide if they want to take action over involving private people in the raid. We have no objection to it. By having pictures with senior BJP leaders, one cannot become a BJP leader,” Upadhye added.Congress’ Maharashtra general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant said the state government should probe the allegations levelled by Malik. “The truth behind the raids should come to the fore. Why were private persons there with the NCP officers? How can a BJP vice president accompany NCB officers during the raids? What are the links between BJP and NCB? How can a person who is facing criminal cases be part of the team raiding a party? All these questions need to be answered,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncp-leader-nawab-malik-calls-ncb-cruise-raid-fake-agency-bjp-hit-back-101633544878187.html
07-10-2021||India||Covid-19 global update: The good, the bad and the ugly||Earlier this week, the global toll from the coronavirus pandemic crossed 5 million, according to a Reuters tally, with unvaccinated people dying in large numbers as they remain exposed to the more virulent Delta variant. Despite a recent drop in cases and deaths the world over, the World Health Organization (WHO) stressed on Tuesday that “we’re not out of the woods yet”, even if many people think the battle is nearly over. “We’re not out of the woods. We’re very much in the middle of this pandemic,” said Maria Van Kerkhove, the technical lead for WHO’s Covid-19 task force.Despite a slowdown in recent weeks, Covid-19 infections are still rising in 42 countries and an average of around 7,000 people have lost their lives to the pandemic across the world over in the past week, data shows. A look at what has worked in the world’s fight against the disease, and what still remains to be done.The good: Cases at a 4-month low, but daily deaths lowest in 11 monthsContinuing a declining global trend that started around the final week of August, new reported cases of Covid-19 have been steadily dropping. There were 2.98 million new Covid-19 cases reported across the world in the past week, an 8% fall from a week-ago when there were 3.23 million new infections across the globe. The seven-day average of new cases, which denotes the global Covid-19 case curve, currently stands at 426,304 – the lowest it has been since July 7, or in nearly four months, according to data compiled by Worldometers.info. This drop clearly marks what appears to be the end of the global Delta (B.1.617, first reported in India) wave that has been ravaging the world since early June.But it is the drop in deaths that has been far more significant. The seven-day average of daily deaths in the world currently stands at 6,943 – the lowest it has been since November 1, 2020, or in more than 11 months.The world appears to be getting even better at saving lives, especially when seen in light of the fact that most people currently succumbing to the disease have not been (or have chosen not to be) vaccinated. At its peak during the Delta wave, the seven-day average of daily deaths touched 10,262, against the peak of daily cases at 659,615 (both in the last week of August). The drop in deaths (as well as cases) can be attributed to the spread of vaccines – resulting in each subsequent wave getting less fatal.The bad: More than half the world yet to receive even a single shot of the vaccineNearly 6.4 billion doses of various Covid-19 vaccines have been administered in more than 200 countries across the world till Tuesday night, according to a tally maintained by Our World In Data. At the global level, this translates into only 46% of the world’s population having received at least one dose of the vaccine – 33.4% have been fully vaccinated, while 11.6% have been partly vaccinated. This means that 54% of the world is yet to be administered even a single dose of the vaccine.The global number, however, glosses over massive national variations. Countries such as Singapore (80% population vaccinated), Spain (81%), Chile (81%), Portugal (88%) and UAE (94%) are among the nations with the best overall coverage of their populations. Meanwhile, at the other end of the spectrum lie at least 20 nations (most of which are in Africa) that have not even given a single shot to 1% of their populations, data shows.India lies slightly above the global average with 47.8% of its overall population (not just adult population) having been covered with at least one dose. But with 18.1% of its total population fully vaccinated against Covid-19, it lies much behind the global average of 34.4%.The ugly: Rich nations are covering their populations far fasterOne of the clearest takeaways to have emerged from the global roll-out of the vaccination drive has been that there remains a world of a difference in equitable distribution of coverage. As things stand, this distribution appears to be largely defined by wealth. More than 10 months since first the shot of the Covid-19 vaccine was administered across the world, access to vaccines (and their administration) remains out of reach for the poorest nations of the world.The chart here denotes the relationship between the per capita GDP of nations and their vaccination coverage. The x-axis depicts per capita GDP (in US$); the higher a country is located here, the richer it is. The y-axis is the proportion of the country’s population fully vaccinated – countries on the right have the best coverage, while those on the left fare the worst.While most of Africa lies clumped together on the bottom left (the poorest and worst covered by vaccines), as we move up the x-axis to the richer nations of the world, they start moving to the right. The trend line drawn on the chart shows that the rate at which a nation’s wealth increases the chances of it having better vaccination coverage. Of the 20 countries with the lowest coverage of vaccines, 18 are in the lowest quartile of per capita GDP. All 20 of these nations have overall coverage under 1% and 17 of these are from Africa – Haiti, Turkmenistan and Yemen are the only non-African countries in the bottom 20. Another 20 countries don’t even show up on this chart as they haven’t even administered a single dose of the vaccine.This chart is all the more important now as some western countries have already started administering booster doses despite repeated requests by WHO for them to pass on giving booster doses until at least the end of the year. The US, Britain, France, Germany and Israel are among the countries that have begun administering boosters or have announced plans to do so. On Monday, the European Medicines Agency gave its endorsement to EU countries offering a third dose to adults.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-global-update-the-good-the-bad-and-the-ugly-101633539775080.html
07-10-2021||India||Little-known terror groups claim responsibility for Kashmir civilian killings||Little-known groups have claimed responsibility for the killing of three civilians, in three separate incidents, in Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday, even as police are yet to ascertain the terror organisation behind the attacks. Three persons, including a Kashmiri Pandit and owner of a prominent pharmacy, were killed by terrorists within a span of two hours in the Union territory. The deceased were identified as Makhan Lal Bindroo (owner of the medical store), Virender Paswan (a street vendor) and Mohammad Shafi Lone (head of a local taxi stand). The Resistance Front, an outfit affiliated with Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), was the first to claim responsibility for the attacks. In a purported statement on Tuesday, TRF spokesperson Umar Wani said the trio were killed for working with Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, the ideological fountainhead of the Bharatiya Janata Party, and intelligence agencies. HT could not verify the authenticity of the statement.Another terror group, United Liberation Front, also came forward to claim responsibility. Another less-known outfit, Freedom Seekers of Kashmir, saidin a press release circulated on social media that itwas behind the attack on Lone as he allegedly worked for security agencies. A Jammu and Kashmir Police spokesperson said a probe into the attack is underway. “The respective areas have been cordoned and a search in these areas is going on,” the spokesperson said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/littleknown-groups-claim-responsibility-for-kashmir-civilian-killings-101633509158398.html
07-10-2021||India||Kejriwal to Modi: Why no arrests over Lakhimpur Kheri violence so far?||Demanding the removal of Union minister of state for home Ajay Kumar Mishra Teni from council of ministers, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi why no arrest had taken place yet in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri clashes which left eight people, including four farmers, dead earlier this week. Alleging that the “entire system” was trying to protect the accused, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convenor also sought to know “why is there so much hatred against the farmers” who have been protesting against the three contentious agricultural laws since November last year. “I am talking to you (Modi) on behalf of the people of India. Why have the accused, who ran over the farmers, still not arrested? Why are they being shielded from punishment? Everyone has watched on TV how the violence unfolded. It appears as if the entire system is engaged in saving those who are behind the incident despite them murdering people in broad daylight and in front of so many others. We have seen such things only in Hindi movies,” Kejriwal told reporters here. “For the last one year, farmers have been sitting on a dharna. More than 600 farmers have died so far. And then farmers are crushed and killed by mowing them down under wheels. Why is there so much hatred against the farmers?” he asked the Prime Minister.Eight people, including four farmers, were killed on Sunday, in the bloodiest clash since the farmers’ protest over the Centre’s agricultural laws started last year. The farmers were allegedly knocked down by a vehicle owned by Teni, prompting villagers to go on a rampage and set fire to vehicles, and allegedly kill four others. On Monday, the Uttar Pradesh Police booked Teni, his son Ashish Mishra and others on murder and other charges based on a complaint lodged by farmers in connection with the incident. No arrest has been made so far.The state government also moved to bar Opposition leaders from moving from Lucknow to Lakhimpur Kheri, by deploying police and issuing orders under section 144 of CrPC, which restricts the movement or assembly of four or more people.Taking a swipe at the Union MoS’s claims that his son was not present at the spot at the time of the incident, as alleged by the farmers, Kejriwal said: “Today, people of this system are saying the vehicle involved in the violence did not have the minister’s son in it. After a week, this system will say there was no car in the incident, and in another week after that, they will say there were no farmers at the spot. The truth is that we do not have justice here. Today, every citizen is demanding justice.”Attacking the state government for imposing curbs in the district, Kejriwal said: “Pradhan Mantri (Prime Minister) Ji, on the one hand, the government is celebrating ‘Azadi Ka Mahotsav (festival of freedom)’ and on the other hand, opposition leaders are being arrested on their way to Lakhimpur. What type of freedom is this? Britishers used to take such actions,” he said. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had attempted to visit the affected families but was detained on Monday and later arrested on Tuesday. Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel was also not allowed to leave Lucknow airport to visit the district on Monday.After initially denying permission to political parties to visit Lakhimpur Kheri, the state government has now allowed political leaders to visit the district, news agency PTI reported. Earlier on Wednesday, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi left for the district from Lucknow airport in his own vehicle after staging a brief ‘dharna’ on initially being asked to travel in a police vehicle. Urging Modi to visit the kin of the deceased, Kejriwal said: “Every citizen of this country is today demanding justice for the farmers. The decision is in your hands.”“The families of farmers, who died in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, are inconsolable. If they meet their Prime Minister, it will bring in some relief,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-questions-centre-s-indifference-towards-lakhimpur-violence-101633507898237.html
07-10-2021||India||India link in whistleblower’s complaint against Facebook||Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg hit back Tuesday at claims that the social media giant fuels division, harms children and needs to be regulated, saying the claim the company puts profits over safety is “just not true.”His remarks a came hours after a Facebook whistleblower told US lawmakers Tuesday that the social media giant fuels division, harms children and urgently needs to be regulated, drawing pledges Congress would take up long-delayed action.The testimony by ex-employee Frances Haugen has fuelled one of Facebook’s most serious crises yet. Haugen testified on Capitol Hill after she leaked reams of internal research to authorities and The Wall Street Journal.The documents submitted by Haugen reference research and findings by Facebook’s own researchers. Among those, some related to India, referencing what they said were fear-mongering and dehumanising content promoted by Facebook accounts purportedly believed to be either run by or associated with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), the ideological fountainhead of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).“RSS (Indian nationalist organization Rashtriya Swayamswvak Sangh) Users, Groups, and Pages promote fear-mongering, anti-Muslim narratives targeted pro-Hindu populations with V&I (violence and inciting) intent...,” says the complaint filed with the SEC. The BJP and the RSS did not respond to queries seeking comment. An “Adversarial Harmful Networks – India Case Study” cited in one of the documents quotes the author of the report as saying: “...and we have yet to put forth a nomination for designation of this group given political sensitivities”.The document also shows that the categorisation of India is in “Tier 0” alongside only the US and Brazil as what the company calls “Top 3 Political Priorities”. Only 0.2% of the reported hate speech is taken down by automated checks, according to the documents cited, which also flags a lack of language classifiers, which will be able to check for translations as well. The complaint says that Facebook’s internal records show how this problem of lack of Hindi and Bengali classifiers meant much of the reported content, particularly the anti-Muslim narrative, was never dealt with or flagged by the systems.Facebook has over 340 million users in India, which makes for a large demographic of its 2.89 billion monthly active users globally.Classifiers are automated systems and algorithms that are designed to detect hate speech in content on Facebook.Facebook has faced allegations of inaction against content posted by certain groups in India. The Wall Street Journal (WSJ) last year cited an internal report and said it termed Hindu nationalistic group Bajrang Dal a “dangerous” organisation. But the company did not act on the report because of financial and safety concerns, the report said. The controversy then grew to spotlight the role of the India policy team and its then head Ankhi Das. Facebook and Das maintained there was no wrongdoing at the time. Das subsequently left the company.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/facebook-whistle-blower-s-complaint-details-importance-of-indian-polls-duplicate-accounts-hate-speech-101633501776720.html
