08-10-2021||India||J&K L-G Manoj Sinha vows to avenge killing of civilians, likely to meet Amit Shah today||Amid a spate of targeted attacks, Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha has vowed to avenge the killings of civilians and “completely demolish” the terror ecosystem. Sinha is likely to meet Union home minister Amit Shah to discuss the security situation on Saturday, people familiar with the matter said.In a statement on Thursday night, the L-G said: “I am deeply pained and anguished and I promise the family members of the innocent victims that perpetrators of the barbaric acts will be punished soon,” Sinha said in a statement on Thursday night.“My tributes to the civilians martyred in the terrorist attacks. My heartfelt condolences to the families who have lost their loved ones. The UT administration and the whole country stand in solidarity with the families of the victims in this hour of grief,” he added.Sinha’s remarks came after a government school principal and teacher were shot dead by terrorists in the school premises earlier in the day. The Resistance Front (TRF), which police say is the front for terror group Lashkar-e-Taiba, claimed responsibility for the attack and said the teachers were killed for their role in getting students to participate in a “function at school on August 15”, India’s independence day. As many as seven civilians have been killed by militants in Kashmir Valley in the last five days.In a stern warning to those aiding and abetting terrorists, Sinha said: “Everyone wants justice. I assure you that we have given a free hand to the security agencies to eliminate the enemies of humanity, and soon the terrorists and those aiding and abetting them will pay for their heinous crimes.” “Every drop of innocent civilians’ blood will be avenged,” he added. Sinha said the peace and progress accomplished by J&K in the last two years has rattled the neighbouring country and some of its terror sympathizers in the UT. “I want to assure the people that we will completely demolish their terror ecosystem,” he added.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-l-g-vows-to-avenge-killings-of-civilians-likely-to-meet-amit-shah-today-101633717407368.html
08-10-2021||India||Goa governor reverses decade-old stand on RTI, says will honour info requests||PANAJI: Goa governor PS Sreedharan Pillai on Friday reversed a decade-old stand by Raj Bhavan that the gubernatorial office was not obliged to respond to information requests under the Right to Information (RTI) Act 2005.“I would like to publicly declare my policy that governors are bound to furnish information to the people and people are supreme,” Pillai said on Friday, deciding in favour of a legal case pursued by the Raj Bhavan for years after the Goa Information Commission and the Bombay high court at Goa held that the governor’s office was a public authority under the RTI Act.Rashtrapati Bhavan, and Raj Bhavans in the rest of the country have mostly responded to information requests filed under the transparency law. Goa’s Raj Bhavan, however, insisted that the governor was a sovereign, not a public authority under the RTI Act, and no direction could be issued to the governor for disclosure of any information under the RTI Act.Pillai, a practising criminal lawyer before he was appointed as Mizoram governor in 2019 and later transferred to Goa by President Ram Nath Kovind, clearly didn’t agree with his predecessors.“I do not want to blame anybody, but hereafter RTI with respect to Raj Bhavan will be available for all the citizens,” said Pillai, who once led the Bharatiya Janata Party in Kerala.“The basis of democracy is that people are supreme rather than the governor, chief minister, or opposition leader... all are expected to serve the people. They are not the boss of the people,” PS Sreedharan Pillai added.The matter was first argued before the Goa Information Commission with the transparency watchdog ruling that it was indeed within the ambit of the RTI Act and would have to furnish information. The Bombay High Court at Goa too upheld the view after the Raj Bhavan filed an appeal. An appeal was then preferred before the Supreme Court where the matter is currently pending. Adv Aires Rodrigues, who has pursued the matter for more than a decade said it was “great news.” “This will end the needless protracted litigation which is now pending before the Supreme Court after having commenced before our High Court. For over a decade the Goa Raj Bhavan has not been submitting itself to this Transparency law by strangely claiming that it is not a ‘Public Authority’ despite all other Raj Bhavans across the country and even the Rashtrapati Bhavan being under the purview of RTI Act which was enacted to ensure Transparency and Accountability in Governance,” Adv Rodrigues said.“The move now by governor Pillai is most appropriate while sending a powerful message on the need for a citizen-centric approach of transparency, openness and accountability in governance. This would be in the best interests of the democratic principles and the Constitutional mandate of the RTI Act,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-governor-reverses-decade-old-stand-on-rti-says-will-honour-info-requests-101633717405326.html
08-10-2021||India||Nearly 7,000 deaths added to Kerala’s Covid-19 toll amid charges of undercounting||The Covid-19 death toll in Kerala is set to shoot up as the state government on Friday decided to add 7,000 more deaths which were excluded due to various reasons to the Covid-19 fatality list. With the new addition, the death toll will go up from 26,072 to 33,072 in the state. State health minister Veena George said in the assembly that around 7,000 deaths which were not included in the list due to absence of various certificates and other technical issues will be added to the list of Covid-19 victims. The minister denied the opposition charge that there were deliberate attempts to underplay the death rate to keep the state’s low mortality rate intact. Earlier many medical experts and opposition leaders questioned the government’s rule to declare Covid-19 deaths and sought more transparency to rectify undercounting. But the government insisted that the guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) were being followed and refuted the charges. However, it was forced to dilute its adamant posture after the Supreme Court announced a relief of ₹50,000 to families of the victims and government offices were flooded with inquiries. After the verdict, the government modified the guidelines and launched an online service to obtain Covid-19 death certificates. “There was no deliberate attempt to exclude deaths of many from the list. We have been following the guidelines of the ICMR and due to a few technical glitches some deaths have been left out. We will revise the list again,” the minister said while replying to an adjournment motion moved by the opposition. She said some deaths were excluded during the period between March 2020 and June 2021 and later the health department introduced a better reporting system. But the angry opposition members insisted on an explanation and later walked out of the house. “The government did it deliberately to maintain its record of low mortality. The list is incomplete as many Covid-19 deaths have not figured in the list. Its public relations exercise fell flat. No government should have done such a disservice to its people,” said opposition leader VD Satheesan. He said the government was even denying the paltry relief to victims due to its indifferent attitude. Earlier Covid-19 deaths were ascertained in the state if they tested positive at the time of their death. But many patients developed pneumonia even after they tested negative and died after their condition aggravated. Also many other patients whose co-morbid conditions worsened after recovery were also not included in the list. There was a death audit committee in the state capital which used to declare Covid-19 deaths after analysing the reports given by the respective hospitals. This weird system drew enough flak but the government took refuge in the ICMR guidelines which was modified several times but it stuck to its initial position. “The government is slowly admitting its mistakes. It has done a grave injustice to victims. We need more transparency and these measures should not be politicised,” said public health expert Dr SS Lal, who was earlier with the World Health Organisation. Kerala reported 10,944 new virus cases on Friday after 95,510 samples were tested with a test positivity rate of 11.45 per cent. The active case load is 1,16,645, according to the data released by the state health ministry. For more than four months now, the state has been reporting the maximum number of Covid-19 cases in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-7-000-deaths-added-to-kerala-s-covid-19-toll-amid-charges-of-undercounting-101633716744845.html
08-10-2021||India||Cruise drug raid: NCB's Sameer Wankhede says would try to take case to logical end||The Mumbai zone chief of Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), Sameer Wankhede said on Friday his team would try to ensure the case related to the seizure of drugs following a raid at a party on a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast reached its logical end.Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan was sent to jail during the day in the case after the court rejected his bail plea stating that it was not maintainable.The bail pleas of two others -- Munmun Dhamecha and Arbaaz Merchant -- were also rejected by additional chief metropolitan magistrate RM Nerlikar.Also read | No prior cases; my family is here, won't abscond: Aryan Khan during bail hearingWankhede said his team’s case was a strong one and the same would be presented before the court.Maharashtra | We and the prosecution will make attempt that the case will go to a logical conclusion. Our case is strong and will present the same in the court: Sameer Wankhede, Director, NCB Mumbai on the cruise ship drug raid case pic.twitter.com/HlEwGvTLQY“We and the prosecution will make an attempt that the case will go to a logical conclusion. Our case is strong and will present the same in the court,” Wankhede was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.On Thursday, he said a total of 18 people, including a Nigerian national, had been arrested in the case.An NCB team had busted an alleged drugs party on the Cordelia Cruise ship which was on its way to Goa at mid-sea on October 2 night.Also read | 'Whether Rhea Chakraborty or Aryan Khan': Nawab Malik now accuses NCB of extortionMeanwhile, Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik has trained his guns on Wankhede and his team's conduct over the raids. According to Malik, after the raid, Wankhede had said eight to 10 people were held and the NCB had let off two persons later with one of them being the brother-in-law of a "high-profile" BJP leader."How can an official who conducts an entire operation give an indefinite answer? If 10 people were held then why were two people let off. And of the two, one was brother-in-law of a high-profile BJP leader," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cruise-drug-raid-sameer-wankhede-says-would-try-to-take-case-to-logical-end-101633713769314.html
08-10-2021||India||In run-up to Assam bypolls, 39 candidates filed papers for five assembly seats||A total of 39 candidates have put in papers for bye-election to five assembly seats in Assam till Friday, the last date for filing nominations. Gossaigaon had the highest number of 13 candidates while Mariani with 4 has the least. Nine candidates filed nomination papers in Tamulpur, 8 in Bhabanipur and 5 in Thowra seat. With the ruling United People’s Party Liberal and opposition Congress, All India United Democratic Front and Bodoland Peoples’ Front fielding candidates, Gossaigaon is set to be the most keenly contested of all five seats. In Tamulpur, it seems like a two-way contest between the UPPL and Congress candidates. Tamulpur and Gossaigaon seats had fallen vacant due to deaths of Bodoland Peoples’ Front (BPF) and UPPL legislators. But the focus would be on Thowra, Mariani and Bhabanipur seats which are going to polls again, months after this year’s assembly polls, due to sitting MLAs from opposition Congress and AIUDF switching sides to join the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Phanidhar Talukdar (Bhabanipur) who was with AIUDF and former Congress MLAs Rupjyoti Kurmi and Sushanta Borgohain, who had represented Mariani and Thowra seats respectively, have all got BJP tickets from the same seats for the bypolls.On Friday, Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma accompanied all three candidates-Borgohain, Kurmi and Talukdar-to file their nominations papers. “Our candidates will win easily in Thowra, Mariani and Tamulpur. But as per my political assessment, in Bhabanipur and Gossaigaon there will be exciting contests,” Sarma told journalists in Sivasagar on Friday. “The candidates who joined our party did so because they wanted to develop their constituencies. I was also called a traitor in 2015 when I quit Congress and joined BJP. I am the chief minister now,” he added. At present the ruling BJP has 59 MLAs, UPPL 5 and AGP 9 while opposition Congress has 27, AIUDF 15, BPF-3, CPM 1 and newly floated Raijor Dal has 1 seat in the 126-member house. Bye-election to the Majuli seat, which fell vacant after Union minister Sarbananda Sonowal resigned last week, will take place later. Voting for the five seats will take place on October 30 and counting will happen on November 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-run-up-to-assam-bypolls-39-candidates-filed-papers-for-five-assembly-seats-101633713804413.html
08-10-2021||India||MP woman stripped naked, beaten over 'black magic' suspicions, 3 held||A woman was allegedly stripped naked and assaulted by her relatives who were also her neig at a village in Madhya Pradesh over suspicions of the victim “casting an evil eye” on some of them.The incident was reported from Mandavi village in Dhar district and police said three of the four accused, who were also her neighbours, in the case had been arrested.The police action came on Friday after a video of the incident became viral during the day on social media.An officer said the accused allegedly blamed the 45-year-old victim of casting an evil eye on some of her relatives and making them fall ill.“We have arrested three of the four accused on the basis of a video that went viral during the day. The accused were charged with sections 307 (attempt to murder), 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty and other relevant provisions of the IPC," Dhar superintendent of police Aditya Pratap Singh said. A search is on to apprehend the fourth accused, the official added.According to a report in the Indian Express, Singh further said the woman was a widow who lived with her daughter. “The neighbours believed that she performed black magic and ended up beating her. We have registered a case under stringent sections of the IPC that will send a message across the district that such acts are barbaric and will attract punishment,” Singh was quoted as saying.In the video, the woman was reportedly seen sitting naked on the ground as a man grabbed her by the hair and slapped her in the presence of a few others.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-woman-stripped-naked-beaten-over-black-magic-suspicions-3-held-101633712081390.html
08-10-2021||India||Terrorist out for another targeted killing in Jammu and Kashmir neutralised; Pak connection surfaces||A terrorist was neutralised and another one escaped after an encounter with the Srinagar Police team on Friday evening. The terrorists were said to be out for one more targeted killing when they were intercepted by Srinagar police and opened fire. The encounter took place in Natipura, a locality in Srinagar.Jammu and Kashmir Police said the terrorist who was killed during the encounter has been identified as Aqib Bashir Kumar, a resident of Shopian, who was affiliated with The Resistance Force (TRF), an offshoot of Pakistan terror outfit Lashkar-e-Taiba. Another terrorist who managed to escape is said to have infiltrated from across the border.According to top Jammu and Kashmir police officials, three modules of six locals have been involved in the recent targeted killings of civilians, all of them led by terrorists from Pakistan.The militants of the TRF have regrouped after the Jammu and Kashmir Police in August killed Mohd Abbas Sheikh, the top commander of the outfit. Sheikh was responsible for numerous attacks on civilians, lawmakers and security personnel. Sheikh was killed after terrorists were challenged by the police dressed in civvies and opened fire.The Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has been witnessing protests and marches after at least five civilians, all of them religious minorities in the Valley, were killed by terrorists this week. Supinder Kour, a Sikh woman school principal, and a Hindu teacher were killed by terrorists on Thursday.TRF has claimed responsibility for the recent killings, including the murder of a prominent pharmacist Makhan Lal Bindroo, a Kashmiri Pandit.Union home minister Amit Shah is likely to visit Jammu and Kashmir later this month as part of the government’s mass outreach programme and review development schemes. In the last four weeks, several Union ministers visited Jammu and Kashmir as part of the outreach programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorist-out-for-another-targeted-killing-in-jammu-and-kashmir-neutralised-pak-connection-surfaces-101633710888605.html
08-10-2021||India||Resentment grows in Bengal BJP over promotion of former TMC minister Rajib Banerjee||The induction of former Trinamool Congress (TMC) minister Rajib Banerjee in the national executive committee of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Thursday has triggered strong resentment in the party’s Bengal unit. Several state office-bearers told HT on Friday that they were “shocked” and “surprised” by the national leadership’s decision because Banerjee not only criticised the BJP’s opposition to Mamata Banerjee but distanced himself from the party after his defeat at the Domjur assembly seat in Howrah in the March-April polls. Banerjee had won the seat twice since 2011 when the TMC came to power for the first time. On January 30, days after he resigned from the cabinet and the TMC, Banerjee drew attention when he and a team of turncoat legislators under his leadership were flown to Delhi in a chartered plane so that they could join the BJP at the residence of Union home minister Amit Shah. The special privilege, which no other TMC leader has enjoyed till now, made bigger news than the shift in allegiance which was anticipated. Similarly, Banerjee drew media attention when he carried home a large photograph of Mamata Banerjee while vacating his chamber at the state assembly. He even broke down after tendering his resignation as minister to Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar. “I cannot figure out what prompted our leaders to promote a man who wrote social media posts questioning our strong stand against the chief minister. Although the BJP made no demand for imposition of President’s Rule in Bengal, Rajib went out of his way and said in public that such a step would be suicidal. The media lapped it up,” said a senior BJP leader who did not want to be named. Another leader, a state general secretary, said, “After losing the Domjur seat by more than 40,000 votes, Rajib completely cut himself off. He has skipped meetings and avoided public events. We have been reliably informed by TMC insiders that he is trying to make a comeback. Our workers in Howrah are furious since yesterday. Similar feedback has come from other districts as well.” A newly-elected BJP legislator said, “Unlike TMC leaders and workers who were driven by conviction and switched sides before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in which the BJP set a record by winning 18 of the state’s 42 seats, Banerjee is perceived as one of those who looked for an opportunity, thinking the BJP might come to power.” Speculations over Banerjee’s return to the ruling party started in June when he paid a surprise visit to the residence of TMC state general secretary Kunal Ghosh. Both described it as a courtesy call. “Whether it is Rajib Banerjee or any other former TMC leader, the decision to welcome someone back is taken only by our topmost leaders. We have no separate policy for anyone,” Ghosh told HT on Friday, hinting that it is Mamata Banerjee who takes the call. Rajib Banerjee could not be contacted despite several efforts but his associates said even if he tries hard, returning to the ruling party will not be easy. “Banerjee’s strained relationship with minister Arup Roy, the TMC’s most heavyweight leader from Howrah, is widely known. In July last year, their tussle caused an embarrassment for the party when the chief minister was leading a rectification drive,” said a TMC leader from Howrah who is known to be close to Rajib Banerjee. “Rajib alleged before the media that corrupt mid-level leaders were being shielded by the district leadership. His target was Roy who was then the district unit president. Roy, who shares a good rapport with the chief minister, will vehemently oppose Banerjee’s comeback,” the leader said. During the March-April poll campaign the former forest minister also raised allegations of nepotism against TMC leaders involved in distribution of compensation for people whose homes were damaged by Cyclone Amphan in May 2020. This, TMC leaders said, did not go down well with the party’s rank and file. Among the 11 Bengal BJP leaders inducted in the national executive committee are actor Mithun Chakraborty, Rajya Sabha members Swapan Dasgupta and Rupa Ganguly, former Rajya Sabha member Dinesh Trivedi, national vice-president Dilip Ghosh, former Union minister of state Debasree Chaudhuri and minority front leader Mafuja Khatun. Mukul Roy, who was made a national vice-president of the BJP before he returned to the TMC in June, was taken into the national executive committee after he joined the saffron camp in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/resentment-grows-in-bengal-bjp-over-promotion-of-former-tmc-minister-rajib-banerjee-101633710804138.html
08-10-2021||India||Will gherao PM’s residence if accused are not arrested: Chandrashekhar Azad||Dalit leader Chandrashekhar Azad on Friday threatened to gherao the Prime Minister’s residence if all the accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident are not arrested within a week.“The prime minister tweets on every issue but he is yet to react on the killing of the farmers. The culprits are roaming free. We will gherao the PM's residence if the culprits are not arrested within seven days,” Azad was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.He alleged that PM Modi was celebrating ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ in Lucknow while miles away families were mourning the death of their loved ones. Azad said that those who are silent about the deceased farmers are not ‘loyal’ to the country. He demanded that the Prime Minister meet the family members of the deceased in Lakhimpur Kheri.Azad demanded the resignation of chief minister Yogi Adityanath claiming that the law and order situation in Uttar Pradesh has deteriorated.Eight people were killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence last week. Four among the dead were protesting farmers. The other four included two BJP workers, a driver of Union minister Ajay Kumar Mishra and Raman Kashyap, a journalist working for a private television channel. An FIR has been filed against the Union minister’s son Ashish Mishra, and others under section 302 of IPC (murder) but no arrests have been made yet.Delhi municipal pollsAzad said his party will field candidates on all 272 seats in the civic body polls in Delhi. Naren Bhiku Ram Jain will lead Azad’s party Azad Samaj Party into the elections. “We will also expose the Delhi chief minister's politics of lies. You all have seen the CM's discriminatory attitude on the deaths of sanitation workers due to Covid,” Azad said, targeting Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal.While speaking to reporters Azad reiterated the demand for a caste census. He said the census will help in understanding the percentage of neglected sections of society.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-gherao-pm-s-residence-if-accused-are-not-arrested-chandrashekhar-azad-101633710383212.html
08-10-2021||India||SC devising mechanism for grievance redressal of overcharging by hospitals||The Supreme Court on Friday said that it will devise a mechanism for redressal of grievances concerning overcharging of expenses by hospitals and doctors from COVID-19 patients during the second wave of the pandemic.A bench of Justices DY Chandrachud and BV Nagarathna while issuing notice to the Centre said, “We will devise a mechanism to deal with such grievances”.Advocate Krishna Ballabh Thakur, appearing for petitioner Abhinav Thapar, said that a lot of difficulties were faced by the patients during the pandemic as many hospitals and doctors overcharged them.The bench said, “We understand the problem. Don’t worry, we will do something.”Thapar in his plea has said that direction be issued to the Centre to form a committee at the state and district level to scrutinise and audit the medical bills and the expenses over-charged from COVID-19 patients and their families.He also sought direction to the Centre and state governments to direct the hospitals and doctors under their jurisdiction to refund the over-charged amount of such patients or if they have died then it should be paid to their nearest family member.“There is no uniform policy and guidelines till date regarding the refund of exorbitant amount overcharged from patients either at the state level or Central level and COVID-19 patients and their families are left at the mercy of private hospitals, which have been exploiting the global pandemic…”, the plea said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-devising-mechanism-for-grievance-redressal-of-overcharging-by-hospitals-101633709963436.html
08-10-2021||India||Grant permanent commission to women army officers with vigilance nod: Supreme Court||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday told the Centre and the Indian Army to come back with orders granting permanent commission to those among the 72 women short service commission officers (WSSCO) who do not have any disciplinary or vigilance cases pending against them.Dealing with contempt petitions filed by 72 officers who were declared unfit for permanent commission (PC), the bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and BV Nagarathna told the army, “You have to set your house in order,” and directed them to segregate names of officers who are of doubtful integrity or face serious disciplinary issues.Directing this exercise to be done by the next day of hearing on October 22, the court reminded the army that no additional factors can be introduced to deny permanent commission under the top court’s March 25 order which prescribed 60% as the cut-off marks, medical fitness, and vigilance or disciplinary clearances.Appearing for the Centre, additional solicitor general (ASG) Sanjay Jain said the 72 officers have been declared unfit as their service records show serious charges such as “disobedience of orders, lapses in government procurement, forging medical documents, poor work ethics, lack of professionalism, un-officer like conduct, poor performance in courses” that renders them unfit under the Army Policies of 1983 and 2012. In June, the army filed a clarification application in the top court to know whether the judgment of the court requiring the women officers to clear the 60% benchmark and medical fitness will automatically mean they are fit for a permanent commission or the army can declare them unfit on issues of integrity and discipline. This application was dismissed on August 2 as “not maintainable”; the court told the army to comply with the March 25 order.On Friday, the court explicitly gave the army a free hand to decide cases where there was a vigilance or disciplinary issue.“We are conscious of the fact that this is the army. If there is a problem on vigilance or disciplinary grounds, you can remove them. But for the rest, come with orders granting permanent commission on the next date. If an officer has issues relating to vigilance/discipline, we make it clear we will not interfere.”It was only on September 28 that the army released the results of the 72 officers when it became clear that they did clear the 60% threshold fixed by the court verdict.Senior advocate Huzefa Ahmadi, appearing for some of the women officers, in the contempt petition said, “The fact that these officers have been issued release orders shows that they do not face any discipline or vigilance issues. Now, there are new grounds being brought in to deny us PC (permanent commission).”The court responded: “All women officers who have attained 60% marks shall be entitled to PC, subject to medical fitness, disciplinary and vigilance clearance. The question is, can there be supervening or additional factors to be considered beyond what the court has stated. You wanted this but did not get this in your clarification application.”ASG Jain explained that the Special No 5 Selection board held in September 2020 that considered the grant of permanent commission for these officers considered even their vigilance and disciplinary clearance. “We are willing to share the confidential records of each of the 72 officers to the court to satisfy the grounds on which they were denied PC. These pertain to serious questions of integrity as per army policies,” Jain said.It was the army’s claim that out of 529 WSSCOs who opted for permanent commission, 514 fulfilled the 60% marks criteria but 72 among them were held ineligible on other grounds. It filed an affidavit explaining that all orders passed in the March 25 judgment were complied with.“We are not faulting you but we do not want to get behind our judgment and scrutinise each file. We have already undertaken a long exercise,” the bench said. The court directed Jain and senior advocate R Balasubramanian, who represented the army, to scrutinise each case and examine where there are serious vigilance or disciplinary grounds to reject permanent commission. “We would trust you as officers of the court to carry out this exercise,” the bench added.Senior advocate Meenakshi Arora, also appearing for a woman officer, told the court that the army has asked the 72 women officers to put in their papers or else their pension benefits will be withdrawn. The court said, “Tell your clients not to be anxious about these issues, We understand the feeling of humiliation they have suffered. Till the next date, hold your horses.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/grant-permanent-commission-to-women-army-officers-with-vigilance-nod-supreme-court-101633709003933.html
08-10-2021||India||Gadkari wants to increase speed limits on expressways to 140 kmph, Bill soon||Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Friday said that he is in favour of increasing the maximum speed limit on expressways to 140 km per hour, and added that a Bill will soon be introduced in Parliament to revise the speed limits for vehicles for different categories of roads. The present maximum speed limit for cars on expressways is 120 kmph. On national highways, the maximum speed limit is 100 kmph.The road transport and highways minister added that there is a mentality regarding speed that if the speed of the car increases then there will be an accident."My personal view is that the speed limit for vehicles on expressways should be increased to 140 km per hour," he said while addressing the 'India Today Conclave 2021'.Gadkari added that while the speed limits on national highways should be at least 100 km per hour on four-lane roads, the respective speed limit for two-lane roads and city roads should be 80 km per hour and 75 km per hour.He said the parameter of the speed limit for vehicles in India is one of the big challenges."There are some decisions by the Supreme Court and high courts regarding car speed, due to which we are not able to do anything," he said.Gadkari added that today, such expressway has been built in the country that not even a dog can come on those roads because barricading has been done on both sides of the road.He said he has prepared a "file to revise the maximum speed limits for vehicles for different categories of roads"."In a democracy, we have the right to make laws and judges have the right to interpret the law...a Bill will soon be introduced in Parliament to revise the speed limit for vehicles on Indian roads," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gadkari-wants-to-increase-speed-limits-on-expressways-to-140-kmph-bill-soon-101633708101209.html
08-10-2021||India||Sero-prevalance survey in Tamil Nadu shows 70% people have antibodies against Covid-19||Tamil Nadu’s third survey shows a sero-prevalence of 70% across the state with the districts of Virudhunagar, Tenkasi and Chennai being the highest at 88%, 83% and 82% respectively. In the surveys done earlier, the state showed a sero-prevalence of 32% in October-November last year and 29% this April.The third survey was conducted in July and August just after the second wave of infections began to decline and shows that 70% of the population have IgG antibodies against the Covid-19 infection. According to the survey conducted by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, blood samples were drawn from 24,586 people from 827 clusters to be tested using Chemiluminescence based Immuno Assay (CLIA). Each cluster consisted of 30 participants drawn randomly from a village in a rural area or a street in the case of urban regions. Nearly 17,090 people were found to have the presence of IgG antibodies against the SARS CoV-2 virus. Coimbatore, Erode and Salem, in the western region of Tamil Nadu which had fewer infections during the first wave but were severely affected during the second wave showed a sero-positivity of 71%, 70% and 60% respectively. The lowest sero-prevalence was found in Karur district with 51%. The health department says that this is a re-survey as the findings were first released on July 31 which showed a sero prevalence of 66.2%. “We conducted the third survey in July from which we took two extremes--the highest positivity in five districts and the lowest positivity in five districts-- and we re-did the survey in these 10 districts to check if there are any variations but it’s almost the same,” said director of DPH, Dr V S Selvavinayagam.“However, the re-survey confirms our findings and the ground situation so we have now released the combined results of July to August,” he said. This comes at a time when Covid-19 infections have declined and there is an increase in vaccinations. “It’s a reflection of the vaccination status. 70% positivity is good but we need to go beyond this,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/seroprevalance-survey-in-tamil-nadu-shows-70-people-have-antibodies-against-covid19-101633707803985.html
08-10-2021||India||What's next for Aryan Khan in the cruise rave party case?||Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan and the seven others arrested in the cruise rave party were not granted bail on Friday as the metropolitan magistrate court termed the bail pleas as 'not maintainable'. However, the reason for the rejection of the bail plea on Friday was technical as additional solicitor general Anil Singh, the NCB counsel, said a magistrate has no jurisdiction to hear these applications. The ASG also said he is not opposing the bail, though it may seem so.So what next for Aryan Khan and others?Aryan Khan will have to spend the weekend in jail and Friday will be the first night he will be spending at Arthur Road jail as the arrested spent Thursday night at NCB custody for Covid tests.Aryan Khan's lawyer will have to file an interim bail plea in a special court.For the next few days, Aryan Khan along with the others arrested in the case will be kept in the quarantine cell according to Covid protocol.Reports said there has been no special request from Aryan Khan's family regarding his stay in the jail. Aryan Khan will be lodged in barrack number 1, which is the quarantine cell of the jail.Why Aryan Khan and others have been denied bail so farThis is the third time that Aryan Khan's bail plea was rejected. After he was arrested on Sunday after the NCB raided the cruise rave party, his lawyer agreed to one-day NCB custody for the sake of investigation. A day after, the NCB custody got extended till October 7.The NCB sought an extension of the custody till October 11 for further investigation. The court sent all of them to 14 days' judicial custody.On Thursday, the NCB opposed their bail plea saying the agency needs their custody as they will be confronted with the new arrests that the agency has made. On Friday, the NCB said Aryan Khan might be a regular consumer of drugs as his WhatsApp chats revealed some 'bulk quantities'. If he is released on bail, he may tamper with evidence as he is from an influential family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/whats-next-for-aryan-khan-in-the-cruise-rave-party-case-101633707315367.html
08-10-2021||India||Gujarat govt extends night curfew in eight cities for a month||The Gujarat government on Friday decided to extend the night curfew for a month in eight cities across the state. The night curbs in place to keep the spread of the coronavirus disease under control have been extended in Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat, Rajkot, Gandhinagar, Junagadh and Bhavnagar between 12pm and 6am till November 10, according to news agency ANI.Gujarat: Night curfew has been extended by a month in eight cities - Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat, Rajkot, Gandhinagar, Junagadh & Bhavnagar - between 12 pm and 6 am, till 10th NovemberThe government’s fresh restrictions came amid fears of a nationwide spike in cases due to the ongoing festive season. Gujarat celebrates the nine-day Navratri festival in a grand way and the authorities have been calling for muted festivities to ensure the pandemic does not rear its ugly head again.The second wave of the Covid-19 disease had wreaked havoc across the country and Gujarat was one of the severely hit states.The state reported 20 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday and one related death. This pushed the active caseload to 179, while the cumulative tally touched 8,26,080. With 22 patients recovering from the viral disease during the day, the recovery overall tally touched 8,15,816. The death toll has increased to 10,085.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-govt-extends-night-curfew-in-eight-cities-for-a-month-101633707012563.html
08-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: India, US to hold slew of meetings on counter-terrorism, defence and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India,US to hold slew of meetings; counter-terrorism, Afghan situation on agendaThe India-US joint working group on counter-terrorism is set to meet during October 26-28, and the two sides will also hold the bilateral homeland security dialogue and talks on designation of terrorist individuals and entities in the coming weeks. Read more here. House of Secrets The Burari Deaths review: Netflix show goes beyond gory details, re-examines case that gripped nationHouse of Secrets The Burari Deaths review: Netflix India's new true crime documentary goes beyond the gory details and asks the questions that really matter. Read more here. 'No chance but to bat. The numbers are pretty scary': Rohit reacts to herculean task as Chawla debuts for Mumbai IndiansMumbai Indians captain Rohit Sharma opted to bat and acknowledged the heavy odds stacking against the two-time defending champions and five-time IPL title winners. Read more here. World Mental Health Day: How new moms can deal with depression during pandemicWhile the birth of a baby is a special moment for a mother, postpartum depression can make things difficult for women. In pandemic times, the situation has turned even graver. Read more here. Why Ratan Tata said 'welcome back' to Air India after ₹18,000 cr winning bid||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-india-us-to-hold-slew-of-meetings-on-counterterrorism-101633706397153.html
08-10-2021||India||Full circle, after 7 decades: Tatas win back Air India||The divestment of Air India to the Tata Group is the culmination of a story that has come full circle after nearly seven decades. Tata Airlines was formed in April 1932 under the leadership of Jehangir Ratanji Dadabhoy (fondly called JRD) Tata, India’s first civil aviation pilot, Tata Group Chairman from 1938 to 1991, and the only industrialist to receive the Bharat Ratna. The story of Indian commercial civil aviation began on October 15, 1932, when JRD took off on his first official Tata Airlines flight from Karachi’s Drigh Road aerodrome and landed ahead of schedule at what was then Bombay’s Juhu airstrip (actually the wetlands of Juhu beach) . Over the next five years, Tata Airlines’ profits rose from ₹66,000 to ₹600,000, with 99.4% punctuality. The Indian princes loved the idea of airplanes linking their states with the outside world and Tatas’ business did very well ferrying the maharajas in special chartered planes. In 1938, Bobby Kooka, among the first employees at the company, designed the iconic Maharaja as the brand identity of Tata Airlines and a symbol of hospitality. It continues to remain the carrier’s identity 83 years later. During the tumultuous post-Partition period, Tata Airlines had flown refugees from Pakistan to India and vice versa, a gesture acknowledged by Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru. In October 1947, Tata Sons proposed the establishment of a new company for international air service – Air India International. The proposal was accepted within three weeks by the newly-formed Government of India. Air India International’s first overseas flight from Bombay to London landed on-time (after stops at Cairo and Geneva) in June 1948. JRD was welcomed at the London Airport to a battery of floodlights and cameras, which had gathered to welcome the first Asian airline connecting the East to the West. Over the years, Air India International developed an admirable reputation for its high-class on-board service. It had made an icon of its airhostesses in their exotic silk saris. However, clouds of nationalization were hovering over the civil aviation sector since independence. JRD opposed it on several platforms, and at a luncheon meeting with Nehru in November 1952, he even expressed his anguish at what he thought was a planned conspiracy to suppress private civil aviation, particularly Tatas’ air services. Nehru reassured him that there were no such intentions. All along, JRD’s contention was that the new government had no experience in running an airline company, and nationalization would mean bureaucracy and lethargy, decline in employee morale, and fall in passenger services. The government didn’t yield to JRD’s pleas and in 1953, Tata Airlines along with seven other domestic airlines were nationalized and rebranded as Indian Airlines while Air India International (the only international carrier in India) was nationalized and rebranded as Air India. The government invited JRD to lead both corporations. He accepted and became chairman of Air India and a director on the board of Indian Airlines.Over the next 25 years he helped maintain high standards of service and micro-managed the carrier’s operational aspects. He wandered about on flights making notes of tiny details that needed to be fixed. If he saw a dirty airline counter, he would shame everyone by requesting a duster and wiping it himself. On one occasion, he rolled up his sleeves and helped the crew clean a dirty aircraft toilet. In later years, JRD even admitted that during the vital years of his chairmanship at Tata Sons, he was effectually dedicating nearly 50% of his time to Air India, an entity that provided no financial rewards to him or the Tata Group. Yet, through his personal example, he wanted to communicate that Public Sector Undertakings (PSUs) could be profitable by maintaining world-class standards. In 1970s, when Singapore Airlines (SIA) began attracting global tourists, it chose to collaborate with Air India to learn its world-class service standards.In February 1978, the Morarji Desai-led government dropped JRD from the chairmanship of Air India and the directorship of Indian Airlines. The decision deeply impacted the man who had served the company for 45 years without a penny in remuneration. In 1980, when Indira Gandhi came back to power, she re-appointed JRD on the board of both airlines, though not as chairman. JRD continued to serve on the boards till 1986, the year in which Ratan Tata was appointed as the chairman of Air India. Post-liberalisation storyIn 1990, Prime Minister VP Singh’s government asked the Tatas if they would be interested in starting a new domestic airline. An opportunity of this kind had come their way after nearly four decades and the Tatas started putting together a proposal. But before things could take shape, the government fell. In 1994, under Prime Minister Narasimha Rao’s Open Skies Policy, the Air Corporation Act — the 1953 law under which air transport services were nationalized— was abolished. The sector was now open to private players and the Tatas decided to enter the fray. While JRD had passed away the previous year, Ratan Tata, the new group chairman and an avid aviator too, led the charge. However, the following few years saw multiple coalition governments. Diverse political and vested interests prevented the Tatas from entering the civil aviation sector. In contrast, most of the newer breed of airlines were founded by small-time entrepreneurs – Jet and East West by travel agency owners, Damania by a poultry farmer, NEPC by a maker of windmills, and Sahara by a chit-fund owner. Lack of management expertise in a specialized industry and mandatory flights to non-economical social routes severely affected their financials. Consequently, most of them were grounded or acquired. It was only in 2014, after revised foreign investment norms permitted foreign carriers to invest up to 49% in air transport services that Tata Sons started Air Asia India, a low-cost airline, in partnership with Malaysia-based Air Asia Berhad. Six months later, they started Vistara, a full-service airline, in partnership with SIA.In the 1990s, Air India’s market share steadily declined, and losses mounted. Passenger complaints, political interventions in day-to-day operations, impracticable policies, and bureaucratic delays had a deleterious impact on the national carrier. Between 1995 and 1997, it reported consolidated losses of ₹671 crores. In 2001, under the Atal Bihari Vajpayee-led government a decision on divesting 40% stake in Air India was taken. The national carrier was an attractive investment proposition because of its lucrative slots at key airports, flying rights to global destinations, its fleet size and market share. A feasibility study conducted by Tatas and SIA revealed that robust-middle level managers at Air India would be an asset in turning around the enterprise. SIA and Tata Sons offered to take 20% stake each in Air India. When their joint proposal emerged as sole bidders, it was almost a done deal. Yet, attacks by rival airline lobbyists and opposition from unions marred the atmosphere. Discomforted by these developments, SIA withdrew its participation, and Tatas’ entry into the airline sector was stonewalled yet again. In the last year of the Vajpayee-led government, Air Deccan, India’s first low-cost carrier (LCC) was launched. The idea became tremendously popular in India. For a 100-crore population, India was operating just 500 commercial flights every day; with a third of that population, the United States operated 40,000 commercial flights daily. The next few years saw several new LCCs enter the market including Indigo, SpiceJet, and GoAir. Between 2003 and 2010, the market share of LCCs increased from 1 to 70%, and Indian Airlines slipped from the first to the fourth position. A steady declineTo arrest this decline, the Union Cabinet under Prime Minister Manmohan Singh decided to merge Air India and Indian Airlines. A government report highlighted two reasons for the national carriers’ sub-optimal performance. One was the ageing fleet of aircrafts and the other was the stand-alone operation of the domestic and international services. Despite opposition from both state-run airlines, a new company (Air India Ltd.) was formed in 2007 to manage the combined entity. The merger process took four years for completion and had disastrous effects on the profitability of the new entity. Between 2007 and 2009, combined losses increased from ₹770 crores to ₹7,200 crores and borrowings rose from ₹6,550 crores to ₹15,241 crores. The merged company had over 30,000 employees i.e., 256 per plane, twice the global standard. Air India ended up spending almost one-fifth of its revenue on employee pay and benefits while other private airlines spent about one-tenth. Attempts to streamline employee base and cost-cutting led to repeated stirs and hunger strikes by its unions. Even before the merger, the Civil Aviation Ministry had decided to purchase 111 new narrow and wide-body aircrafts for a whopping ₹67,000 crores through debt. As a result, between October 2012 and March 2013, the merged entity suffered an average loss of ₹400 crores every single month.Since 1996, India was consistently adjudged the world’s fastest growing domestic travel market with a year-on-year growth of 26.6%. By 2019, the Indian aviation sector had grown to become the fourth largest in the world with over 13-crore passengers flying every year with 13 Indian carriers and 500 aircrafts. It replaced Japan to become the largest domestic aviation market globally and was poised to reach the third spot in world aviation by 2026. Steady rise in income levels, stability in global oil prices, development of new greenfield airports, entry of new full-service carriers and LCCs, capacity addition by airline operators, reduction of taxes on Aviation Turbine Fuel prices (ATF), and new policies such as the UDAN scheme were key drivers of this phenomenal growth.By the time Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led Government first put-up Air India for sale in 2018, the airline had succeeded in accumulating losses of ₹50,000 crores and a debt of ₹55,000 crores. Besides the huge debt, some of the key problems plaguing the airline included routing and network issues, lack of decisive leadership, managerial complications, and internal incompatibility between the merged airlines. However, there were no takers for the once iconic brand. In the pandemic years, the civil aviation sector was the worst hit, and the government prioritized the privatization of the ‘Maharaja’ with more attractive conditions in 2020-21. Today, when India’s national carrier returns to its founding institution, one wonders, how different the face of Indian civil aviation would have been if JRD Tata’s plea 68 years ago, to not nationalize the sector, had been heeded.Shashank Shah is the author of the national bestselling book, The Tata Group: From Torchbearers to Trailblazers. Note for social media: His twitter handle is @DrShashankjshah||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/full-circle-after-7-decades-tatas-win-back-air-india-101633706904055.html
08-10-2021||India||Virtual court can’t be the norm, says Supreme Court; explains its reservations||NEW DELHI: Virtual courts cannot become the norm as this would envisage that the building in which we sit should be closed, the Supreme Court observed on Friday, expressing its strong reservations on a petition that asked for continuation of virtual court hearings as a matter of fundamental right.“It is one thing to demand live telecast of court proceedings, and quite another to say that when Covid is receding, people need not come to courts and instead continue with virtual hearing,” the bench of justices L Nageswara Rao and BR Gavai said.The bench, however, went ahead to issue notice to the Union government, pointing out that the court will take up the petition after four weeks along with a similar plea filed earlier by a group of lawyers.The court on Friday was hearing a petition by National Federation of Societies for Fast Justice, an advocacy NGO that campaigns for judicial reforms, along with former Central Information Commissioner (CIC) Shailesh Gandhi and former Mumbai Police Commissioner Julio Ribeiro.The petition, drafted by lawyer Siddharth R Gupta, also wants the top court to bar high courts from discontinuing virtual court hearings without the Supreme Court’s approval, pointing out that high courts of Uttarakhand and Gujarat have already issued orders to this effect on August 10 and 16, respectively.“For more than 70 years, we all understood courts to function physically. It was in view of Covid-19 pandemic that we thought that courts should continue to function and developed this new system of virtual hearing of cases. But virtual courts cannot become a norm as courts have to function physically when normalcy gets restored. The result of seeking virtual hearing as a norm is to envisage that the building where we sit should be closed down.”Senior lawyer Manoj Swarup, appearing for the petitioners, said virtual courts allowed litigants to address the courts and get justice at a very cheap cost. “They also have the advantage of engaging a lawyer of their choice and all this promotes access to justice which no system of governance can ignore,” Swarup said, urging the bench to allow the option of virtual courts to continue.The bench wondered what would happen to the provisions in Indian Penal Code and Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) which talk about open courts and open justice, referring to the 18th century English philosopher Jeremy Bentham who advocated for courts to be open for the public to enhance public confidence in the justice delivery system.In contrast to in-person hearings, virtual hearings can be accessed by a limited number of people and often, due to technical glitches and connectivity issues, the hearings get interrupted, sometimes making it difficult for judges to appreciate arguments advanced by the litigants or lawyers.“When you make submissions looking into our eyes, it is more effective than we are looking into the screen while you are addressing,” the bench said.The top court also countered a suggestion that physical court hearings put people living in remote areas at a disadvantage since they have to travel all the way to Delhi for hearings.“Nobody in remote areas is being denied access to justice. There is only a small percentage of cases that reach the Supreme Court from trial courts. Litigants already have the facility to approach those courts. If we allow virtual courts that will be sounding the death knell for physical functioning of courts,” the bench remarked, and asked Swarup if there was any study to back up its argument.The petition referred to findings of the Supreme Court E-Committee which propagated virtual courts as the most accessible, affordable, transparent, and cheap mode of justice available to litigants of the country, especially those coming from the marginalized sections.The bench referred to the standard operating procedure (SOP) released by the Supreme Court on Thursday, by which virtual hearing of cases would be discontinued on two days in a week beginning October 20. “So, you want us to set aside that SOP also,” the bench told Swarup, stating that it is a huge challenge the top court is facing to resume physical functioning.“You ponder over how physical courts have to resume after normalcy returns. We started a hybrid hearing in the Supreme Court, but lawyers are not coming to court. What norms can be laid down; we can think over it at the next date of hearing.”At one point, the bench questioned whether this petition was driven by the interest of lawyers. “You want this happy option to remain so that lawyers can argue from Mussoorie, Shimla or London,” the bench remarked, to which Swarup responded saying this petition is by citizens who genuinely feel that keeping the option of videoconferencing open is in the interest of access to justice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/virtual-court-can-t-be-the-norm-says-supreme-court-explains-its-reservations-101633705643551.html
08-10-2021||India||Arunachal Pradesh formally devolves power to panchayat bodies||The Arunachal Pradesh government on Friday announced formal devolution of powers to Panchayati Raj institutions (PRIs) in the state. The development comes 52 years after the first panchayat elections were held in 1969 in the North East Frontier Province (NEFA) (the name of the region till Arunachal Pradesh became a Union Territory in 1972). Making the announcement in Itanagar, Chief Minister Pema Khandu called the development a significant step in the history of grassroots democracy in the north-eastern state. On September 30, the state cabinet had decided to devolve powers to PRIs as per the 73rd amendment to the Constitution and 11th schedule of the Constitution in 29 subjects. Khandu informed that the devolution of powers was based on SPICE (sustainable, participatory, inclusive, comprehensive and empowerment) formula devised by the panchayat department. “It was my commitment to empower grassroot functionaries, which dates back to the first election in 1969 in the state of Arunachal Pradesh, but do not enjoy the absolute power they are entitled to,” Khandu said in his address. The CM informed that 10% of the state’s own resources would be devolved to PRIs from the next financial year. This will be in addition to finance commission grants which will be based on the criteria of population and area based on the ratio of 50:50. While 70% will be basic grants, 30% will be performance-based. This will be in addition to the 14th finance commission grants, stated a release issued by Khandu’s office. The CM urged PRIs to plan projects and measures based on 15 of the 17 sustainable development goals recommended by United Nations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arunachal-pradesh-formally-devolves-power-to-panchayat-bodies-101633704923743.html
08-10-2021||India||India, US to hold slew of meetings; counter-terrorism, Afghan situation on agenda||India and the United States are set to hold a series of meetings in the coming weeks that will take forward cooperation in key areas such as counter-terrorism, defence and the Indo-Pacific and help shape the response to the situation in Afghanistan.These meetings, including the 2+2 ministerial dialogue, are being scheduled against the backdrop of US deputy secretary of state Wendy Sherman’s remarks that the US does not see itself “building a broad relationship” with Pakistan.Defence secretary Ajay Kumar is expected to travel to the US this week for a meeting of the bilateral Defence Policy Group (DPG), people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. The DPG is the highest body that oversees cooperation in areas such as exercises, defence technology, joint research and development and production, and military exchanges.The India-US joint working group on counter-terrorism is set to meet during October 26-28, and the two sides will also hold the bilateral homeland security dialogue and talks on designation of terrorist individuals and entities in the coming weeks, the people said.Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman is also expected to visit the US, and a meeting of the Trade Policy Forum, which is co-chaired by the US trade representative and India’s commerce minister, is on the cards, the people said.The 2+2 defence and foreign ministers’ dialogue is expected to be held in November though the dates are yet to be locked in, the people added.India will also participate in the Summit for Democracies to be hosted by the US during December 9-10.Speaking at a virtual event organised by the Ananta Centre on Thursday, Sherman highlighted the importance of the relationship with India for the US.“With so much that unites us, I truly believe that there is no challenge so great that the US and India cannot overcome it by working together,” she said.At the same time, she said she was travelling from India to Pakistan on the last leg of a four-nation for a “very specific and narrow purpose”.Sherman said: “We don’t see ourselves building a broad relationship with Pakistan and we have no interest in returning to the days of a hyphenated India-Pakistan. That’s not where we are, that’s not where we are going to be.”She indicated her visit to Pakistan was largely focused on the situation in Afghanistan, and the need to get the Taliban to deliver on their commitments.“But we all need to know what’s going on in Afghanistan; we all need to be of one mind in the approach to the Taliban. We all need to make sure that we have the capabilities that we need to ensure everybody’s security, including India’s of course,” she said.The frostiness in US-Pakistan relations was on display when Sherman was received by a mid-ranking official on her arrival at the Foreign Office in Islamabad. In marked contrast, Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi had personally received Taliban leaders during recent visits.US state department spokesperson Ned Price said Sherman and Qureshi had “discussed areas of bilateral cooperation, the importance of the US-Pakistan relationship and the way forward in Afghanistan” during their meeting. Sherman also “emphasised the importance of a coordinated approach to Afghanistan and other issues vital to regional stability”, Price said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indiaus-to-hold-slew-of-meetings-counter-terrorism-afghan-situation-on-agenda-101633703663685.html
08-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri incident: SC slams UP government over delay in arrest of Ashish Mishra||The Supreme Court on Friday pulled up the Uttar Pradesh government for not immediately arresting Ashish Mishra, son of Union minister of state for home affairs Ajay Mishra ‘Teni’, in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, commenting that the state police do not appear to be “really serious” even as the “brutal” episode left eight people dead five days ago. Mishra has been named as an accused in a murder FIR lodged Monday. The court was exceptionally harsh while commenting on the police’s lenient handling of Mishra, although it didn’t name him. “This is an offence registered under Section 302 (murder charge under the Indian Penal Code). Do you treat everyone in the same manner? Issue notice and then wait for them to appear? Will an accused in every part of the country be treated in the same way like the present case? Giving them an invitation that you please come? We want to question you so you kindly come?” the bench asked lawyer Harish Salve who was representing the UP government in the case registered by the top court on its own (suo motu) as a public interest litigation. Mishra dodged a summons to appear before the police (as a witness, not an accused) on Friday. Although he made an appearance on some TV channels to proclaim his innocence, he has not been seen since Thursday. The bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana held that the apex court is “not satisfied” with the investigation conducted so far in the case. It added that the special investigation team (SIT) constituted by the state government does not inspire any confidence, and asked the state to have an “alternative agency” with independent investigators take over the probe. “What is the message you are sending? If a case is lodged under Section 302 (murder charge under the Indian Penal Code), the police will normally go and arrest the accused. After all, this is a case involving the brutal death of eight people. The law should have taken its course and all accused should have been arrested in a case like this,” the bench, which also comprised Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli told Salve. The bench expressed its anguish that instead of arresting him, the UP police issued a notice as a witness to Ashish Mishra despite his name being in the murder FIR lodged on Monday. The UP police on Thursday arrested two men, both believed to be associates of Mishra. The arrests happened hours after the Supreme Court hearing on Thursday when the bench termed the Lakhimpur Kheri incident “very unfortunate”. Mishra, however, was sent a notice under Section 160 of the Criminal Procedure Code as a witness of the October 3 incident, for presenting himself before the investigators on Friday. Salve said that the police have issued a notice to Mishra and he has sought time till 11 am on Saturday. “If he does not come, the rigours of law will follow. I was told that the post mortem did not show any bullet wounds that is why a notice has been sent. But there is strong evidence to show prima facie that this is a murder case...the case is extremely serious,” added Salve. Unmoved by his submissions, the court retorted: “This is the opinion of the bench. We expect you to act as a responsible government and as a responsible police force. When there is a serious allegation of death or gun-shot injury, will you treat the accused like this? You say this is an extremely serious case but the way you are proceeding, you are not really serious. It is only in your words and not in action.” The court also expressed its amusement at the composition of the SIT set up by the state government to carry out the probe after noticing that the team comprised a deputy inspector general, superintendent of police and all other police officials from the UP police only. “Look at the composition of the SIT. It has all your officers. This is what happens when you have all local people in the SIT...We don’t know if a good probe is conducted in this case because of the officers involved. Please, ask the DGP (director general of police) to ensure that all evidence is protected and not destroyed in the interim by the time another agency takes over,” said the bench, asking Salve to inform the court on October 20 about some other suitable agency that can take over the probe. It also inquired from Salve if the state has made any request to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to step in. While Salve said the court could pass such orders on the next date after giving the state an opportunity to show the progress in the investigation, the bench itself remarked that the CBI may not be a solution here “because of the persons involved”. “We hope that the state will take necessary steps. Because of the sensitivity of the issue, the state should understand that we are not saying anything more... We will take it up after the Dussehra break but that should not mean that the state holds its hands. Take immediate steps. You have to act to inspire confidence,” it told Salve. Salve, on his part, conceded that what needed to be done has not been done and that he is giving his personal assurance that the state would be in a position to satisfy the court by the next date of hearing. The court then recorded in its order that it is not satisfied with the steps taken so far by the state government and that Salve has assured it that an alternative agency would be explored for further probe in the matter. The bench has also noted that the evidence collected so far shall be preserved properly. On Wednesday, the court registered the suo motu case as “In Re Violence in Lakhimpur Kheri (UP) leading to loss of life” after receiving a letter from advocates Shiv Kumar Tripathi and CS Panda. The matter was registered as a criminal writ petition, pertaining to investigation and prosecution. The development came on a day Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, along with Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, his Punjab counterpart Charanjit Singh Channi, and other senior leaders reached the village, roughly 10km from the India-Nepal border. Since news of the violence broke on Sunday, opposition leaders have made a beeline for the village amid rising political tensions over the incident.Farm groups say a Mahindra Thar owned by Ajay Mishra mowed down protesters from behind while they were returning from a demonstration in Tikunia village on Sunday afternoon. A video clip that is yet to be authenticated forensically shows the same. The minister and his son deny the charge and say farmers pelted the car with stones that led to the driver losing control of the vehicle. They also accuse the protesters of lynching two BJP workers and the car’s driver. A local journalist was also killed. The Mishras claim Ashish Mishra was not at the site.  On Wednesday, a new, clearer 45-second video of the incident showed the Thar ploughing through the farmers at high speed, with two vehicles in tow. The identities of individuals in the vehicles were not clear and HT could not independently verify the authenticity of the clips.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-incident-sc-slams-up-government-over-delay-in-arrest-of-ashish-mishra-101633701867459.html
08-10-2021||India||PM Modi dials Japan’s Fumio Kishida, promises to work for free and open Indo-Pacific||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Japanese counterpart Fumio Kishida agreed on Friday to boost cooperation in a range of areas, including political and security issues, and to work for a free and open Indo-Pacific.The matters figured when Modi telephoned Kishida to congratulate him on assuming charge as the prime minister of Japan. Kishida was elected to the post after his predecessor Yoshihide Suga quit last month following criticism of his handling of the Covid-19 crisis.Modi and Kishida expressed satisfaction at progress in the bilateral special strategic and global partnership and agreed to enhance cooperation in areas such as high-technology and futuristic sectors. Modi invited Japanese companies to benefit from India’s economic reforms through greater investment, the external affairs ministry said.The leaders discussed the “increasing alignment of perspectives and robust cooperation between India and Japan in the Indo-Pacific region”, and reviewed cooperation under the Quad framework, the ministry said.A readout from the Japanese side said the two leaders, while looking ahead to the 70th anniversary of diplomatic relations next year, decided to elevate the bilateral partnership to greater heights by promoting cooperation in political and security issues, economic cooperation and people-to-people exchanges.Both leaders confirmed that the two sides will coordinate to hold the next round of 2+2 foreign and defence ministers’ meeting at an early date, and promote cooperation in green technology, digital, healthcare, connectivity and personnel exchanges under the “Specified Skilled Worker” programme, the readout said.Modi and Kishida also agreed to advance the construction of the Mumbai-Ahmedabad high speed Rail, a Japan-India flagship project, the readout added.The two leaders said they will work for a free and open Indo-Pacific through bilateral and quadrilateral cooperation involving Australia and the US.“In this connection, both leaders shared their strong opposition to any unilateral attempt to change the status quo by force and to economic coercion, while confirming that the two countries would deepen cooperation on economic security such as through resilience of supply chains,” the Japanese readout said.North Korea’s nuclear and ballistic missile issues also figured in the 25-minute phone conversation and Kishida requested “understanding and support towards the early resolution of the abductions” of Japanese citizens by North Korea.Modi invited Kishida to visit India at his earliest convenience for a bilateral summit.The two sides have not been able to hold their annual summit since 2019 because of scheduling issues and the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-dials-japan-s-fumio-kishida-promises-to-work-for-free-and-open-indopacific-101633701683167.html
08-10-2021||India||Leopard, which escaped from its cage in a zoo in Bengal, tranquilised after 18 hours||The leopard, which managed to escape from the Junglemahal Zoological Park at Jhargram in south Bengal on Thursday evening, was spotted and tranquilised after a search operation that stretched for almost 18 hours on Friday. “The female leopard, which managed to escape from its enclosure, was found inside the zoo premises. It was tranquilised. It is doing fine. But, as we had to tranquilise it, two veterinarians are monitoring it. It will be returned to its cage soon,” said Debal Ray, chief wildlife warden of West Bengal. There are two adult leopards and two cubs in the Junglemahal Zoological Park, located around 180 km west of Kolkata. There was panic in Jhargram town after officials of the mini zoo found on Thursday evening that the female leopard had managed to escape. The zoo is located around two kilometres away from the town. Featuring forests and hilly terrains, Jhargram district is part of the Junglemahal area covering the western parts of Bengal and the state of Jharkhand. These terrains were a haven for Maoist guerrillas operating in Bengal till 2011. After a night long search operation, forest officials spotted pugmarks of the leopard close to the zoo. Cages to trap the animal were also set up in the area. Four teams were deployed and senior officials rushed to the spot. By late morning on Friday, the officials became certain that the leopard was hiding in the wooded area inside the zoo premises. The area was cordoned off and by around 1:30 pm the animal was tranquilised. The zoo remains closed on Thursdays. Zoo employees found the cage empty at about 6 pm. The district forest officials started alerting the local people while making announcements on loudspeakers. Civic volunteers in the area were alerted on Whatsapp messages, who in turn helped to alert the locals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/leopard-which-escaped-from-its-cage-in-a-zoo-in-bengal-tranquilised-after-18-hours-101633699703010.html
08-10-2021||India||Chief economic advisor steps down, writes what he learnt from PM Modi, Sitharaman, Dhoni, Sourav, Dravid||Chief economic advisor KV Subramanian has decided to return to academia as he completes his three years' tenure as the economic advisor next month. In a heartfelt note he posted on Twitter, Subramanian said it was an absolute privilege to serve the nation every day. He said he had the privilege to witness PM Modi's intuitive understanding of economic policy coupled with an unmistakable determination. In his note, he remembered finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman as a "scholar at heart". The social media note bears the style of his Economic Survey as he manages to bring in Sourav Ganguly, Dhoni and Rahul Dravid in his farewell message. Subramanian has worked with several financial institutions and is currently a professor at the Indian School of Business. He is also associated with Emory University in the United States. I have decided to return back to academia following the completion of my 3-year fulfilling tenure. Serving The Nation has been an absolute privilege 🙏and I have wonderful support and encouragement🙏. My statement: @PMOIndia @narendramodi @FinMinIndia @nsitharamanoffc @PIB_India pic.twitter.com/NW5Y64kxJ6"In close to three decades of my professional life, I am yet to encounter a more inspiring leader than the honourable Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modiji. His intuitive understanding of economic policy combined with an unmistakable determination to use to same to elevate the lives of common citizens. In my close interactions, I had the privilege t witness the combination in action -- be it in taking the tough decisions that do not fall prey to optimal populism but tangibly improve citizen's lives, or in the courage of conviction to think out of the box and enact path-breaking reforms amid a once-in-a-century crisis when the rest of the world was merely content on tiding through the pandemic," the CEA said heaping praises on PM Modi.Later, PM Modi acknowledged Subramanian's tweet and said the Subramanian is a man of academic brilliance, unique perspective and reformist zeal. Its been a delight to work with @SubramanianKri. His academic brilliance, unique perspectives on key economic as well as policy matters and reformist zeal are noteworthy. Wishing him the very best for his coming endeavours. https://t.co/jZjrqWaJU7"Nirmala Sitharaman who is a scholar at heart has been instrumental in the Economic Surveys carrying their free spirit.. Madam's sense of humour and easy manner play a critical role in enabling a healthy debate that is so essential amidst epochal change," Subramanian wrote adding that the finance minister once took the draft chapters of Economic Surveys to read on a flight."This process (of Economic Survey) has taught me to carefully pick a team of talented and motivated professionals in a way that Sourav Ganguly exemplified, remaining calm while continually paddling underneath as Dhoni epitomised, and always putting the nation first in a way that Rahul Gandhi demonstrated," he wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/absolute-privilege-chief-economic-advisor-to-return-to-academia-as-term-ends-101633699266188.html
08-10-2021||India||Nawab Malik says BJP leader's relative was let off by NCB in Aryan Khan case, threatens to release name||Nationalist Congress Party leader Nawab Malik was supposed to expose something major against the Narcotics Control Bureau in connection with the Aryan Khan drugs case at a press conference on Friday. However, the minister postponed the date of the revelation and claimed that during the same raid, the NCB let off two people from the cruise. One is the brother-in-law of a BJP leader. The Maharashtra minister said in a press conference on Saturday, he will reveal the name of the BJP leader, who he claimed is a high-profile leader."After the raid, NCB officer Sameer Wankhede said 8-10 people were held. How can an official who conducts an entire operation give an indefinite answer? If 10 people were held then why were two people let off? And of the two, one was the brother-in-law of a high-profile BJP leader," Nawab Malik said.The Aryan Khan case has brought the Maharashtra government and the NCB to loggerheads. Though Shiv Sena has not commented on Aryan Khan's arrest, in particular, the NCP and the Congress in Maharashtra have termed the arrest as a forgery. Nawab Malik has released videos of KV Gosavi and Manish Bhanushali -- two outsiders-- visiting the NCB office in connection with the case. KV Gosavi is the person with whom Aryan Khan's photo went viral and the NCB claimed that the person in the photo has no link with the agency.While the NCP is upping the ante against the NCB, the I-T department is conducting raids on the premises of commercial entities linked to NCP leader and Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar.Linking Aryan Khan's arrest with that of Rhea Chakraborty, Nawab Malik said both were for publicity. Nawab Malik's son-in-law Sameer Khan was also arrested by the NCB in January this year in connection with a drugs case. On the allegation of NCB letting off two people during the cruise raid and one of them being related to a BJP leader, Maharashtra BJP leader Pravin Darekar said, “Malik is making only political statements. The claims made by Malik are baseless. If he has any proof then he should give inputs to the investigating agency. I don't want to talk about his son-in-law. Whenever he (Malik) gets a chance, he tries to vent out his anger against the NCB. The NCB has very clearly clarified its stand.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nawab-malik-says-bjp-leader-s-relative-was-let-off-by-ncb-in-aryan-khan-case-threatens-to-release-name-101633698156073.html
08-10-2021||India||Sidhu begins ‘maun vrat’ demanding arrest of accused in Lakhimpur Kheri case||Congress leader Navjot Singh Sindhu on Friday sat on a ‘maun vrat’ (fasting for silence) at the residence of journalist Raman Kashyap who was killed in the violence that broke out in Lakhimpur Kheri district last Sunday.Sidhu, who paid a visit to the late journalist’s house at Nighasan in the district, said the silent agitation would continue till the accused in the case were arrested.Also read | 'My son is innocent', reiterates Union minister Ajay Mishra amid row over Lakhimpur violenceBesides Kashyap, at least seven persons, including protesting farmers were killed during the clashes that took place following an agitation over the three centrally passed agri laws.The former president of the Punjab unit of the Congress was detained for a few hours on Thursday at a police station in Saharanpur a day ago along with other state ministers and MLAs before being allowed to go ahead with their visit to the violence-hit district.Also read | Fresh notice outside MoS Mishra's Lakhimpur house for son's no-show before copsMeanwhile, the chorus for the arrest of Union minister Ajay Kumar Mishra’s son Ashish Mishra has been growing with the latter failing to appear before the police on Friday despite being issued a summons. The farmers have alleged their compatriots were mowed down in a car in which Ashish was sitting. Demands for the junior home minister's resignation have also been growing as the Opposition has alleged that a fair probe was not possible until Mishra was holding on to his post. Amid a nationwide uproar, the Supreme Court also slammed the Uttar Pradesh government for its handling of the case and asked to apprise the top court of an alternative agency that can conduct the probe.A bench, headed by Chief Justice NV Ramana, also asked the Yogi Adityanath-led BJP government to direct its state police chief to ensure that the evidence in the case is protected till the time another agency takes over.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sidhu-begins-maun-vrat-demanding-arrest-of-accused-in-lakhimpur-kheri-case-101633698262304.html
08-10-2021||India||Uttarakhand police arrest nine people for betting on IPL matches in Nainital||The Nainital police arrested nine people for alleged online betting on IPL matches in Haldwani on Thursday night. The police have recovered 8 mobiles and ₹31,000 cash from their possession. “On Thursday evening, we received a tip-off that online betting was being carried out on IPL matches in Banbhulpura area. Based on this information, a team was formed under the leadership of Banbhulpura police station in-charge Pramod Pathak to catch the bookies,” Shantanu Parashar, circle officer Haldwani said. He said the police team raided the place in Banbhulpura area of Haldwani on Thursday night and arrested nine people for alleged online betting in IPL matches from SK Mobile Street. “The police team recovered 8 android mobile phones and cash worth ₹31,000 from them,” he said. He said the accused have been identified as Javed, 28, Wasid, 23, Ravish, 25, Javed, 26, Faeem, 43, Kaleem, 32, Suleman, 28, Murtivoor Rahman, 30 and Imtiaz, 30, all residents of Banbhulpura area. “The police have booked the accused under relevant sections of the Gambling Act. All of them have been arrested and presented in court,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-police-arrest-nine-people-for-betting-on-ipl-matches-in-nainital-101633696522802.html
08-10-2021||India||Mehbooba Mufti slams govt's 'normalcy acrobatics' after targeted killings in Kashmir||People's Democratic Party chief Mehboba Mufti on Friday intensified her criticism of the Central government over the targeted killings of civilians in Jammu and Kashmir. Mehboob Mufti met the family members of Supinder Kour, a Sikh woman school principal who was killed along with a Hindu teacher by terrorists on Thursday.After meeting Kour’s family members, Mufti said the police stopped PDP from taking out a unity march in view of the targeted killings. In a series of tweets, the PDP leader said the police stopping the attempts to take out the unity march was ironic since the Central government “spreads canards that Kashmiri Muslims don’t stand up for minorities” in the Union territory.“Truth is that this vicious hateful propaganda suits BJPs electoral narrative & prospects,” she tweeted.The Resistance Force (TRF), an offshoot of Pakistan terror outfit Lashkar-e-Taiba, have claimed responsibility for the recent killings in the Valley, including the murder of a prominent pharmacist Makhan Lal Bindroo, a Kashmiri Pandit. Bindroo was among the few Kashmiri Pandit who didn’t migrate out during the peak of militancy in 1990.Mufti said that the security agencies had prior information about the terror attacks and yet they failed to protect innocent lives. She accused the security grid of being busy organising “normalcy picnic tours” and horse riding for visiting ministers. “Perhaps these attacks could have been averted if their sole focus wasn’t these ministerial visits & normalcy acrobatics,” she wrote.Demanding accountability for the repeated security lapses, the PDP leader said that “heads must roll” as everyone in Kashmir is living in an atmosphere of suppression and fear.“Its been established that security agencies had prior information about such attacks. Yet they failed to protect these innocent lives. Is it because they are too busy devoting all their energies to firing government employees & impounding passports of common Kashmiris?” Mehbooba Mufti tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/could-have-been-averted-if-mehbooba-mufti-slams-centre-over-targeted-killings-101633692902634.html
08-10-2021||India||Drugs case: Aryan Khan's bail plea rejected, Mumbai court says not maintainable||A court in Mumbai rejected the bail application of Aryan Khan, Arbaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha in connection with a drugs case. They were arrested after the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) raided a cruise ship and seized drugs last week.Metropolitan Magistrate RM Nerlikar rejected the application saying it is not maintainable, which means the forum chosen to seek bail was incorrect.While pleading his Khan's bail, his lawyer Satish Maneshinde told the court that his client is from a respectable family, has roots in the society and won't run away. Maneshinde also presented a number of past judgements while making a case for Aryan Khan's bail.He also contended the NCB's suspicion that Aryan can tamper the evidence if released on bail. "Just because a person belongs to an affluent family, you can't say he is likely to tamper evidence. There are people roaming streets with much more serious offences," said Maneshinde. "I have never used my influence," he added on behalf of Aryan Khan.He also said that no drug was found from Aryan and that he was arrested just on the basis of WhatsApp chats.Khan and others were sent to 14-day judicial custody by a Mumbai court on Thursday despite a plea from the NCB for a remand, which it said was needed to confront him with those being arrested in the case. They have been lodged in Mumbai Arthur Road Jail.Also Read: Why NCB was denied custody?The 23-year-old was arrested along with Merchant, Dhamecha and others after an NCB raid on a cruise ship on October 2 from where the agency recovered drugs. They were detained after the raid last Saturday, and then arrested the next day.Khan and others had filed bail applications immediately after a court verdict on Thursday, but on the request of additional solicitor general Anil Singh, to grant the agency time to react to the bail applications, the court posted the pleas for hearing on Friday.All of them have been booked under section 8C, 20B, 27 read with 35 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985, after officers seized 13 gm of cocaine, 21 gm of charas (hasish), 22 pills of MDMA (ecstasy), 5 gm MD and cash worth ₹1.33 lakh from the cruise ship.8C of NDPS Act refers to prohibition to produce, manufacture, possess, sell, purchase, transport, warehouse, use, consume, import inter-State, export inter-State, import into India, export from India or tranship any narcotic drug or psychotropic substance while Section 20B deals with punishment for producing, manufacturing, possessing, selling, purchasing, transportation, imports inter-State, exports inter-State or use of cannabis.Meanwhile, NCB Mumbai Director Sameer Wankhede on Thursday said that a total of 18 people, including a Nigerian national, have been arrested in the case. The Nigerian national has been arrested with 40 tablets of Ecstasy, he further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drugs-case-aryan-khan-s-bail-plea-rejected-mumbai-court-says-not-maintainable-101633693102459.html
08-10-2021||India||Plan to induct strategist Prashant Kishor into Congress hits roadblock||Has the proposal to induct election strategist Prashant Kishor into the Congress hit a major roadblock? After a series of meetings that started in the spring of 2020 when Kishor first met party president Sonia Gandhi, and meetings with regional leaders across the country, the plan has now been “put off”, two leaders familiar with the details said. Why? “A trust deficit,” they added on condition of anonymity.This came to the fore in late September, when Congress’ Luizinho Falerio, a former chief minister of Goa, left the party for the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and said he met and discussed his options with Kishor, although he added that the political strategist did not ask him to join the TMC.After Kishor’s last meeting with the Congress top brass at least a month ago, the party thought he had “too many demands”, one of the two leaders said.Then, on Friday, Kishor put out a cryptic statement about the party’s recent response to the Lakhimpur Kheri incident in Uttar Pradesh where violence erupted after a convoy, including a car belonging to the junior Union minister for home, rammed into a group of farmers, following which irate farmers lynched some of the occupants. Eight people, including four farmers, died in the violence.In an apparent takedown of sections of the party celebrating what they thought was a political win in Lakhimpur Kheri, Kishor said: “People looking for a quick, spontaneous revival of GOP- led opposition based on #LakhimpurKheri incident are setting themselves up for a big disappointment. Unfortunately, there are no quick fix solutions to the deep-rooted problems and structural weakness of GOP,’’ tweeted Kishor.GOP stands for grand old party, a term sometimes used for the Congress.Kishor is credited with helping the TMC win the West Bengal and the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagham Tamil Nadu elections this year, as well as the Aam Aadmi Party the Delhi polls last year.Also read: Bhupesh Baghel replies to Prashant Kishor, explains what doesn’t have ‘quick-fix’ solutionPeople close to Kishor denied his comments had any bearing on his prospects of joining the Congress, but some in the party reacted sharply. Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera responded soon after Kishor tweeted, saying: “There is a difference between tacticians and strategists.’’ Officially, Congress general secretary Randeep Surjewala said that he “didn’t want to comment on the comments of a consultant’’. However, Khera and other Congress leaders were in no mood to entertain Kishor’s explanation that his tweet was a word of caution for those that sought to pitch the Lakhimpur Kheri episode, where Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was detained for two days before achieving her goal of meeting with victims’ families, as a kind of win. According to Team Kishor, he would continue to do this kind of plain-speak even as a Congressman.Still, the tweet comes against the backdrop of Kishor’s meetings with the Congress that do not seem to have made much headway.HT learns that in internal meetings, some Congress leaders have articulated fears about Kishor being a Trojan Horse who would join them, but maybe help his older clients such as the TMC and even the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). Others have pointed out that it was strange that while Kishor was meeting the Congress leadership, he was also having extended meetings with NCP founder Sharad Pawar. Kishor was also believed to be involved in talks with Congress leaders in Meghalaya who were considering leaving the party before the high command stepped in to stop them.A Congress leader said that Kishor’s entry looked tough even by the end of August. In the last meeting that took place between him and the leadership, he asked for organisational changes to be made before he joined the party, the first leader familiar with the matter said.“He also asked who he will report to?” added this person. All of this led to many concluding that Kishor was “too difficult’’ and was “imposing too many conditions.’’Kishor did not respond to HT’s queries seeking comment. HT had earlier reported a key meeting on July 22 chaired by Rahul Gandhi, where the consensus was to induct Kishor in a senior role in the Congress. Since then, the tide seems to have turned against Kishor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plan-to-induct-strategist-prashant-kishor-into-congress-hits-roadblock-101633693040007.html
08-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: BJP MP, former CM's son booked for rioting in Kawardha violence case and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Kawardha violence: BJP MP, former CM's son booked for riotingBharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Member of Parliament Santosh Pandey and former lawmaker Abhishek Singh were on Friday booked for rioting and damage to property in connection with the communal violence in Chhattisgarh’s Kawardha town on Tuesday, a police officer said. Read MorePM Modi speaks to Japan PM, discusses enhancing cooperation in Indo-PacificPrime Minister Narendra Modi had telephone conversation with his Japanese counterpart Fumio Kishida after which he tweeted to say that he hopes to further strengthen India-Japan Special Strategic and Global Partnership. Read MoreTata Sons to take over Air India, wins bid at ₹18,000 croreTata Sons has emerged as the winner in the Air India bidding at ₹18,000 crore and will be taking over the debt-laden airline. Read More'India don't even need to peak. They can just play normally and beat Pakistan': Aaqib Javed ahead of T20 World Cup tieFormer fast bowler Aaqib Javed believes that Pakistan would have to dish out a performance that is even better than their best if they are to beat India at the T20 World Cup. Read MoreTVS Apache RTR 160 4V arrives with SmartXonnect, new DRL, multi-ride modesTVS Motor Company on Friday has announced the launch of its new Apache RTR 160 4V series of motorcycles. Read MoreSamantha Ruth Prabhu slams rumours of affairs, abortions: 'A divorce in itself is extremely painful'Samantha Ruth Prabhu has issued a statement addressing rumours claiming that she has had affairs, never wanted children and has had abortions. Read MoreWorld Mental Health Day 2021: 5 health problems that depression can causeWorld Mental Health Day 2021: Depression, one of the most common illnesses, affects about 15-20 percent of the population. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-bjp-mp-former-cm-s-son-booked-for-rioting-in-kawardha-violence-case-101633692550390.html
08-10-2021||India||'My son is innocent', reiterates Union minister Ajay Mishra amid row over Lakhimpur violence||Ashish Mishra, an accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case, failed to appear before the police on Friday. His father and Union minister Ajay Mishra 'Teni' said that happened due to the health reasons, according to news agency ANI. "He got a notice on Thursday but he said he was not well. He will appear before the police tomorrow," the Union minister of state for home affairs further added.This comes as the Crime Branch of Uttar Pradesh Police pasted fresh notice at the house of the minister, asking his son to appear for questioning at 11am tomorrow. Ashish has been summoned for his alleged involvement in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in which eight people were killed after an SUV ran over farmers on October 3. He was supposed to record his statement on Friday morning, but missed the deadline.According to the latest notice by police, legal action will be initiated against Ashish Mishra if he fails to appear before the investigators on Saturday.According to the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of various farmers unions, Ashish Mishra was sitting in the car that drove over farmers, while they were coming out of a protest. They were protesting against the Centre's three agricultural laws that were enacted in September last year.However, the Union minister has refuted allegations and said he was not present at the spot at the time of the incident. Earlier in the day as well, Ajay Mishra reiterated that his son is "innocent.""There is no video. We have issued numbers, and if anyone has evidence, they can upload it. All will be crystal clear," the minister also said, adding, "there will be no injustice with anyone. No one will be allowed to take the law in their hand."Responding to the Opposition's relentless attack on him and demand for his resignation, the minister said, "they can demand anything." "This is a BJP government that works in an unbiased manner. Action will be taken against those found guilty," he said at the Lucknow airport, according to news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/my-son-is-innocent-reiterates-union-minister-ajay-mishra-amid-row-over-lakhimpur-violence-101633691041421.html
08-10-2021||India||Uphaar fire tragedy: Delhi court convicts Ansal brothers for tampering evidence||A Delhi court on Friday convicted real estate barons Sushil Ansal and Gopal Ansal along with two of their employees among others in a case related to tampering with the crucial evidence in the 1997 Uphaar fire tragedy case. A former court staff, Dinesh Chand Sharma, was also convicted in the case.Chief metropolitan magistrate Pankaj Sharma had reserved the order on Thursday after the conclusion of final arguments in the matter.The case is related to tampering with the evidence of the fire tragedy in which 59 lives were lost. The Ansals were convicted and sentenced to two years in jail by the Supreme Court.The apex court had, however, released them on the period already undergone in the jail on the condition that they paid ₹30 crore fine each to be used for building a trauma centre in the national capital.The Ansal brothers along with Sharma, and other individuals -- PP Batra, Har Swaroop Panwar, Anoop Singh, and Dharamvir Malhotra -- were booked in the present case.Panwar and Malhotra died during the course of the trial.Senior advocate Vikas Pahwa, appearing for the complainant Association of Victims of Uphaar Tragedy (AVUT), told the court on Thursday that Ansals and HS Panwar had hatched a criminal conspiracy of the destruction of the most vital piece of evidence collected by the CBI against them in the main Uphaar case.“The documents were handpicked and were tampered with, mutilated, torn and some also went missing,” he told the court.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uphaar-fire-tragedy-delhi-court-convicts-ansal-brothers-for-tampering-evidence-101633690979713.html
08-10-2021||India||Delhi airport to resume flight operations at T1 terminal from Oct 31||The Delhi airport will be fully functional from October 31 with the resumption of flight operations from its Terminal 1 (T1) 18 months after the Covid-19 pandemic forced its closure. Flight operations at the airport’s two other terminals--T3 and T 2--resumed in May 2020 and July this year. Two IndiGo and Spice Jet flights are scheduled to be operated from T1 on October 31.“Delhi Airport is all set to reopen for domestic flight operations at T1 after nearly 18 months of shutdown. With the resumption of the third terminal, Delhi Airport will be functional completely,” said Videh Kumar Jaipuriar, the CEO of Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL), which owns and operates the airport. He assured the passengers that they would be in a safe and healthy environment at Delhi airport. “We have implemented several measures at the airport to ensure passenger safety without compromising their comfort and experience.” He added the DIAL teams have worked round-the-clock to sanitise the terminal. “DIAL will continue its awareness drive by educating and encouraging passengers to maintain social distance while at the airport.”The aviation industry has been among the hardest hit by the pandemic that grounded aircraft and led to the suspension of commercial flights in March 2020.An official said six common-use self-service (CUSS) kiosks will be available for passengers for web check-in before entering T1. Arrangements have been made for thermal scanning of passengers as per government guidelines. Officials said passengers will be encouraged to use the e-boarding scanners for entry into security and frisking entry points to avoid close contact and crowding at the counters.Alignment of queues will ensure social distancing among security personnel and passengers at the security check area. Queue managers and floor markings will be deployed while alternate seats will be allocated for passengers waiting to take their flights. Automatic hand sanitisers are also being installed.At the boarding gates, seats will be cross-marked to ensure social distancing and passengers will be encouraged to wear masks. “Deep cleaning of the vast Terminal 1 is being carried out round the clock. A team of housekeeping personnel has been deployed to ensure a clean and sanitised terminal for passengers. The staff will be thermally screened and checked for symptoms... Regular sanitisation of high contact surfaces, such as desks, chairs, elevators, railings, CUSS, trolleys, handles, trays, baggage belts, etc. inside the terminals would be carried out. Apart from these, washrooms will be closed after every hour to sanitise all its surfaces,” said a second official.There will also be facilities to isolate suspected Covid-19 passengers at the airport as per government directions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-airport-to-be-fully-functional-from-oct-31-with-resumption-of-flight-operations-from-t1-101633691050231.html
08-10-2021||India||Bhupesh Baghel replies to Prashant Kishor, explains what doesn't have 'quick-fix' solution||Political strategist Prashant Kishor on Friday criticised the Congress's attempt for revival centring the Lakhimpur Kheri incident and said there is, unfortunately, no quick-fix solutions to the deep-rooted problems and structural weakness of the Grand Old Party. Congress leader and Chhattishgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel replied to that advice and said the thing which actually does not have a quick-fix solution is the attempt to "become a national alternative". His tweet was aimed at Prashant Kishor and also Trinamool Congress and its chief Mamata Banerjee."People looking for a 'national' alternative based on poaching INC functionaries who can’t win even their own seats is in for a big disappointment. Unfortunately, to become a national alternative deep-rooted and concerted efforts are needed and there are no quick-fix solutions," the Chhattisgarh chief minister said. People looking for a “national” alternative based on poaching INC functionaries who can’t win even their own seats is in for a big disappointment.Unfortunately, to become a national alternative deep-rooted and concerted efforts are needed and there are no quick- fix solutions.Prashant Kishor was speculated to join the Congress after he met Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi in July. Then there were rumours that a section of Congress leaders was not in agreement with Prashant Kishor's induction in the party. Then reports said Prashant Kishor got himself enrolled as a voter from Bhabanipur ahead of the bypoll of the seat which finally helped Mamata Banerjee retain her CM seat.
08-10-2021||India||PM Modi speaks to Japan PM, discusses enhancing cooperation in Indo-Pacific||Prime Minister Narendra Modi had telephone conversation with his Japanese counterpart Fumio Kishida after which he tweeted to say that he hopes to further strengthen India-Japan Special Strategic and Global Partnership."Spoke with H.E. Fumio Kishida to congratulate him for assuming charge as the Prime Minister of Japan. I look forward to working with him to further strengthen India-Japan Special Strategic and Global Partnership and to enhance cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region," PM Modi said on Twitter.Spoke with H.E. Fumio Kishida to congratulate him for assuming charge as the Prime Minister of Japan. I look forward to working with him to further strengthen India-Japan Special Strategic and Global Partnership and to enhance cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region. @kishida230This was the first time Kishida talked to PM Modi since taking over as prime minister, Kyodo News said.Kishida took the top job in the world's third-largest economy on Monday, replacing Yoshihide Suga, who had seen his support undermined by surging Covid-19 infections. Daily cases have recently fallen and a long state of emergency was lifted this month.India has stepped up its engagements with various initiatives in the Indo-Pacific. It has also been engaging with leaders of Quad countries on the issue.On September 24, US President Joe Biden hosted the first-ever in-person summit of Quad leaders that vowed to strive for an Indo-Pacific region that is free, open, inclusive, anchored by democratic values and unconstrained by coercion, sending an apparent message to China. Japan is one of the four members of the Quad, the other three being India, the United States and Australia.During his recent visit to the United States, PM Modi took part in a Quad summit along with Biden, Australian PM Scott Morrison and Suga during which the leaders announced a slew of new initiatives to take on common challenges, amidst muscle flexing by an assertive China in the strategic region.In November 2017, India, Japan, the US and Australia gave shape to the long-pending proposal of setting up the Quad to develop a new strategy to keep the critical sea routes in the resource-rich Indo-Pacific free of any influence, amidst China’s growing military presence in the strategic region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-speaks-to-japan-pm-discusses-enhancing-cooperation-in-indopacific-101633688047612.html
08-10-2021||India||PM Modi lauds IAF’s humanitarian spirit as it celebrates foundation day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi felicitated the country’s air warriors on the 89th foundation day of the Indian Air Force (IAF) on Thursday. In a tweet, Modi said, “Greetings to our air warriors and their families on Air Force Day. The Indian Air Force is synonymous with courage, diligence and professionalism. They have distinguished themselves in defending the country through their humanitarian spirit in times of challenges.” He also posted photos of the IAF in action.Defence minister Rajnath Singh said India is proud of its air warriors. “Greetings and warm wishes to all #IndianAirForce personnel & their families on the 89th anniversary of this indomitable force. We are proud of our air warriors for responding to varied challenges with alacrity and resilience & being steadfast in the service to the Nation,” he tweeted.The IAF celebrates its foundation day on October 8. The celebrations are held at the Hindon Air Force Station in Ghaziabad. The 2021 IAF parade will pay tributes to the heroes of the 1971 war, which led to Bangladesh’s creation. “We will depict the famous Tangail (Bangladesh) airdrop operation with three paratroopers, including one from the Army, making a jump from a vintage Dakota transport aircraft,” said an IAF officer.Three units of the IAF will receive the prestigious Chief of Air Staff Unit Citations in recognition of their air duel with Pakistani jets in February 2019 and operations in Ladakh following China’s aggression.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-lauds-iaf-s-humanitarian-spirit-as-it-celebrates-foundation-day-101633687750083.html
08-10-2021||India||Don't sell China-made EVs in India, Nitin Gadkari tells Elon Musk's Tesla||Union minister Nitin Gadkari said on Friday that electric vehicle (EV) manufacturer Tesla had been asked to not sell China-manufactured cars in India and instead produce the same in our country. He also urged the Elon Musk-headed company to export its cars manufactured in India."I have told Tesla that don't sell electric cars in India which your company has manufactured in China. You should manufacture electric cars in India, and also export cars from India," he said, adding Tesla had been assured of all necessary support from the Indian government.Tesla has been asking for a reduction in import duties in India. Musk, its CEO, had earlier taken to Twitter to state that Tesla’s plans to bring EVs to India were hampered by high import duties charged in the country."We want to do so, but import duties are the highest in the world by far of any large country!" Musk had written.The Indian government levies a 100 per cent import duty on cars as completely built units (CBUs) attract customs duty ranging from 60-100 per cent, depending on engine size and cost, insurance and freight (CIF) value less or above $40,000. The duties are aimed at protecting domestic manufacturers, and so far, the government’s stance has remained unchanged despite Musk’s open appeal. "I'm told import duties are extremely high (up to 100 per cent), even for electric cars. This would make our cars unaffordable," he had earlier tweeted in 2019.The pioneer carmaker had also written to the Union road ministry that the effective import tariff of 110 percent on vehicles with customs value above $40,000 was "prohibitive" to zero-emission vehicles. Musk had also said India treated clean energy vehicles the same way as it did with diesel or petrol cars, “which does not seem entirely consistent with the climate goals of India.”The company had asked the government to standardise tariffs on EVs and withdraw the social welfare surcharge levied on them, insisting that it would benefit the EV ecosystem in the country without damaging domestic interest.Gadkari said he was holding dialogues with Tesla officials regarding the company's demand related to tax concessions. Last month, the Union minister had asked Tesla to start manufacturing in India before any tax concessions can be considered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-sell-china-made-evs-in-india-nitin-gadkari-tells-elon-musk-s-tesla-101633686831688.html
08-10-2021||India||Directorate of Revenue Intelligence seizes heroin worth ₹125 cr at Navi Mumbai||Mumbai zonal unit of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI), which seized about 25 kilograms of heroin worth ₹125 crore at the Nhava Sheva port in Navi Mumbai, suspects the consignment was part of a larger international narcotics trafficking, officials said.The drug consignment was concealed in the boxes of groundnut oil and was being smuggled from Iran to India in a container, people familiar with the matter in the agency said.The agency officials found out that the shipment was imported by a small-time businessman named Sandeep Thakkar from Masjid Bunder area. When interrogated, Thakkar told DRI sleuths that he has given his firm’s Import Export Code to another businessman, Jayesh Sanghvi, from Navi Mumbai who offered to give him 10,000 Rials on every import order from Iran.Thakkar claimed that he has been doing business with Sanghvi for over a decade, hence he trusted him and claimed that he did not have any idea that the container had a narcotics consignment.On the basis of information provided by Thakkar, DRI officials arrested Sanghvi from Navi Mumbai on Wednesday. He has been booked under relevant sections of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, and was remanded to DRI custody till October 11 by a local court.People at the DRI said that Sanghvi could be part of a larger syndicate and was entrusted with the responsibility of smuggling the drugs in India via sea route. After reaching Navi Mumbai port, the next chain of the racket was supposed to take the consignment to its destination via road.DRI Mumbai officers refused to share details of the operations as the agency is likely to make more arrests in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/directorate-of-revenue-intelligence-seizes-heroin-worth-rs-125-cr-at-navi-mumbai-101633686609702.html
08-10-2021||India||Fresh summons outside MoS Mishra's Lakhimpur house as son fails to appear before cops||The Uttar Pradesh Police on Friday pasted a second notice outside the residence of Union minister Ajay Kumar Mishra in Lakhimpur Kheri as his son, Ashish Mishra, failed to appear before the crime branch of Lakhimpur Kheri police earlier in the day. The new notice ordered Ashish, an accused in the violence that rocked the district a week ago leading to the death of at least eight persons, to present himself before the police at 11 am on Saturday.Also read | UP cops can’t find minister’s son, paste notice at his Lakhimpur Kheri houseAmong the eight victims of the violence that took place on Sunday were farmers protesting against the three centrally passed farm laws and a local journalist.The second notice from the state police came hours after the Supreme Court expressed its dissatisfaction with the investigation being conducted by the Yogi Adityanath government in the case. It then ordered the administration to apprise the top court of an alternative agency that can conduct the probe.Also read | What message is PM Modi conveying by not sacking Union minister, asks Priyanka GandhiAmid nationwide uproar over the deaths of farmers, who were allegedly knocked down by a convoy of vehicles one of which belonged to Mishra, the call for the junior home minister’s resignation has been growing with the opposition claiming a biased probe if Mishra continued to hold on to his post.Also read | My son ready to face probe: Union minister Teni on Lakhimpur Kheri violenceReacting to the opposition’s demands, deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya said the guilty would not be spared. “Deaths at the Lakhimpur Kheri incident are unfortunate and investigation is underway on it. Guilty will not be spared. We want to assure people of the state that at no cost culprits will be spared and no post or pressure will be of use for accused,” Maurya was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.(With inputs from bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fresh-summons-outside-mos-mishra-s-lakhimpur-house-as-son-s-no-show-before-cops-101633684568087.html
08-10-2021||India||IMD's low-pressure area forecast concerns Odisha in 'cyclone month' October||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said in its forecast that a low-pressure area is likely to form in the Andaman Sea, which could result in heavy to very heavy falls over Andaman & Nicobar Islands during the next two days.It also said in its forecast that isolated thundersquall (with wind speed reaching upto 50-60 kmph) and thunderstorm are likely to accompany the rain.The low-pressure area is likely to become more marked and move west-northwestwards towards south Odisha and north Coastal Andhra Pradesh coast in the next 4-5 days, the IMD said. Heavy rain is expected over coastal Karnataka, coastal Andhra Pradesh and Yanam and Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal from Sunday to Tuesday, it added.The Rayalaseema region is expected to receive rain till Saturday.The IMD further said that fairly widespread to widespread light to moderate rain is likely over southern peninsular India and Maharashtra during the next five days.The latest IMD forecast has made the people of the state concerned about another cyclone. Different weather models have created fear among the people as October is considered the 'cyclone month' for the state.Most of the major cyclones have hit Odisha in October. The super cyclone, the most powerful by far to hit the country, made its landfall near Paradip and killed about 10,000 people on October 29, 1999. Cyclones Phailin, Hudhud and Titli all took place in the same month in 2013, 2014 and 2018 respectively, an official of the Special Relief Commissioner’s office said.However, Cyclone Gulab made landfall in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh and affected several districts of southern Odisha in September this year. The coastal state also witnessed summer cyclones in the month of May twice - Amphan in May, 2020 and Yaas in May, 2021.Sarat Sahu, a former director of the Met office, said that a conclusion can be drawn only on October 13. The present director of the Meteorological Center, H R Biswas too said that nothing can be said about the possible cyclone now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imds-low-pressure-area-forecast-concerns-odisha-in-cyclone-month-october-101633684431928.html
08-10-2021||India||India likely to relax quarantine rules for UK travellers after Covishield move: Report||The Union ministry of health will issue fresh guidelines for travellers coming to India from the United Kingdom as the UK government on Thursday amended travel rules for Indians and said people vaccinated with two doses of Covishield will not be required for quarantining. Citing sources, news agency ANI said the order will be issued soon.The UK government took time to consider Indians double-vaccinated with Covishield as fully vaccinated people. In its new travel rules that came into effect from October 4 onwards, it said it recognises Covishield but not the vaccine certificate given in India. Hence, people vaccinated with Covishield arriving in the UK after October 4 had to undergo 10-day mandatory quarantine.Will accept India’s vaccine certificate, says UK days after Delhi’s tit-for-tatIndia took a likewise measure and made quarantine mandatory for passengers coming to India from the UK, while both countries remained engaged in talks over easing the travel restrictions. On Thursday, British high commissioner in India Alex Ellis said the UK government has revised the travel rules and from October 11, Indians vaccinated with two doses of Covishield will no longer be required to quarantine. India is likely to announce similar measures before October 11.The UK-India travel tussle has been going on for the past few weeks after the UK government's new travel rules, which drew flak from India. India termed the rules as discriminatory as Covishield, manufactured by Pune's Serum Institute of India, is just a formulation of the Oxford-Astrazeneca vaccine. India had also exported Covishield to the UK, the government said. When the UK side said that it does not have any problem with the vaccine, but with the vaccine certificates, India said its vaccine certificates generated by Co-WIN maintains international standards.India's restriction on UK travellers was a retaliatory move as the government had earlier warned foreign nations. India has so far not imposed any restriction on vaccinated people coming from any other country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-likely-to-relax-quarantine-rules-for-uk-travellers-after-covishield-move-report-101633684256309.html
08-10-2021||India||HC quashes charges slapped on Kerala’s gold smuggling accused||The Kerala high court on Friday quashed the charges slapped on Swapna Suresh, the main accused in the gold smuggling case that came to light in July last year, under the Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act. Suresh’s mother moved the court in July arguing such charges can only be invoked against habitual offenders and not someone facing the first such case.A division bench of Justices A K Jayashankaran Nambiar and C P Mohammad Nias quashed the charges, but Suresh will remain in judicial custody as other cases are pending against her.The petition filed through counsel Sooraj T E challenged Suresh’s custody and said it was “illegal, arbitrary and vitiated by improper application of mind”. It added usually habitual offenders will come under its ambit and Suresh was wrongly included on the list. The court overruled the customs department’s objections while quashing the charges. The charges have also been invoked against Sandeep Nair, the other accused in the case.Suresh and Nair were booked when 30 kg gold hidden in bathroom fittings was seized from a consignment camouflaged as diplomatic baggage for the United Arab Emirates Consulate in Thiruvananthapuram. The case was later handed over to the National Investigation Agency, which arrested Suresh and Nair.A multi-agency team is now probing the case and 34 people have been arrested so far. One of the alleged accused, Rabins Hameed, was extradited from the UAE. Another suspect Faizal Fareed is still at large.Kerala chief minister’s principal secretary M Sivasankar was arrested in the case. Sivasankar, who was later suspended, has since been granted bail.Four central agencies have failed to make much headway in the case other than initial arrests. The main beneficiaries and dispatchers are at large. The union and state governments were involved in a tussle over the matter. The state government even constituted a judicial commission against the Enforcement Directorate (ED), a first of its sort, saying there was an alleged attempt to implicate chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. The high court quashed the commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-quashes-charges-slapped-on-kerala-s-gold-smuggling-accused-101633683669580.html
08-10-2021||India||No prior cases; my family is here, won't abscond: Aryan Khan during bail hearing||Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan was produced in the court for the hearing of the interim bail plea, a day after a metropolitan magistrate court sent all eight arrested in the cruise rave party case to 14-day judicial custody. Aryan through his lawyer Satish Maneshinde told the court that he is a 23-year-old with no prior antecedents. The chats that the Narcotics Control Bureau has been referring to took place when Aryan Khan was abroad."I am a 23-year-old with no prior antecedents. I happen to be from Bollywood. I went on an invitation, refused when asked if I have drugs. They were honest not to accuse me of anything else. Data from my mobile has been retrieved and sent for forensics," he said through his lawyer Satish Maneshinde, as reported by Livelaw.'Whether Rhea Chakraborty or Aryan Khan': Nawab Malik now accuses NCB of extortion"I have parents and a family here. I have an Indian passport and I am not going to abscond. There is no question of tampering," lawyer Satish Maneshinde said."Search and seizure can not be cited just to lock me up in the jail. The normal tendency of the court is to grant bail. There is an accusation, there is no material. I was abroad when those chats happen," Aryan Khan's lawyer said.Aryan Khan along with seven others was arrested on Sunday after the NCB raided a cruise rave party. His bail pleas have been rejected so far and on Thursday, he along with the other arrested have been sent to judicial custody.The agency sought the custody of the eight claiming that the custody was needed to confront them with the new arrests that the agency has made in connection with the case. The court on Thursday denied NCB custody and said the agency has already got adequate time to further its investigation. No further custodial interrogation was needed. The eight spent Thursday evening at the NCB office they are required to be tested for Covid before their judicial custody begins.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-prior-cases-my-family-is-here-won-t-abscond-aryan-khan-during-bail-hearing-101633682909575.html
08-10-2021||India||Man suspected of affair with married woman beaten to death in UP’s Mirzapur||Three people allegedly thrashed a 23-year-old man to death at Kirtartara village in Uttar Pradesh’s Mirzapur district over his suspected relationship with a married woman, a senior police officer. The man has been identified as Kripashankar Bind, who worked at a medical store in Mirzapur. The officer said Bind was on a morning walk on Thursday when the three attacked him up with canes and tried to strangle him with a rope. The assailants left Bind badly injured and fled the scene. Bind was referred to the district hospital, where he was declared dead.The officer said Bind’s family staged a demonstration at the hospital, demanding the arrest of the accused. A case has been registered against the three accused and one of them has been arrested. A team has been deployed to arrest the remaining two accused.Police superintendent (city) Sanjay Kumar Verma said further investigation was on in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-suspected-of-affair-with-married-woman-beaten-to-death-101633682349306.html
08-10-2021||India||Govt develops application ecosystem to expedite procurement of farmers’ produce||The Department of Food and Public Distribution’s recently developed application ecosystem will allow the integration of all state governments procurement portals having Minimum Threshold Parameters (MTPs) for monitoring and strategic decision making, the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution said in a statement on Thursday. The ministry said, “This process began with the onset of KMS 2021-22 in October 2021. The introduction of Minimum Threshold Parameters (MTPs) in procurement operations are necessitated to avoid middlemen in procurement and ensure that farmers get the best value for their produce.”The move is expected to expedite the reconciliation of procurement figures with states and the release of funds by the central government to the states.The application ecosystem will particularly benefit the farmers and procuring agencies, the ministry said. Farmers will be able to sell their produce at suitable prices and avoid “distress sale”. With better management of procurement operations, the state agencies and FCI will be able to procure efficiently despite limited resources. In addition, the automation and standardization of procurement operations will provide “an integrated view of procurement of foodgrains and its storage in godowns.”There are several Minimum Threshold Parameters that must be captured in all the procurement portals to ensure uniformity. These include online registration of farmers and sharecroppers with all relevant details, integration of registered farmers’ data with states’ land record portal, and online payment through Expenditure Advance Transfer (EAT) module of PFMS which will ensure direct and speedy transfer of MSP to farmers. Due to context-specific variations in the procurement systems across different states, there were systemic and implementation challenges for enforcing the schemes of the Central Government. The ministry said that reconciliation of the procurement operations with various states is sometimes a long-drawn exercise, causing avoidable delays in the release of funds to the states. Non-standard procurement operations add to the avoidable inefficiencies, which the ministry noted, “manifest in the form of middlemen in the procurement operations.”“Standardization of the operations are essential in helping the country achieve greater levels of transparency and efficiency in procurement operations, which ultimately lead to ensuring food security for the people of the country,” the ministry said.The ministry also highlighted that the government has sensitized state governments and other public procuring agencies over multiple forums on the need for MTP compliance for procurement operations The ministry also highlighted that the government has sensitized state governments and other public procuring agencies over multiple forums on the need for MTP compliance for procurement operations and its integration with the central portal, namely Central Food Grains Procurement Portal (CFPP).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-develops-application-ecosystem-to-expedite-procurement-of-farmers-produce-101633681630147.html
08-10-2021||India||'Not satisfied with UP govt probe in Lakhimpur Kheri case': Supreme Court||Ashish, the son of Union minister Ajay Mishra 'Teni', who has been booked in connection with violence in Lakhimpur Kheri violence, will appear before the Uttar Pradesh Police on October 9, the state government informed the Supreme Court during a suo-moto hearing on the case. "A young man (Ashish Mishra) who is being targeted has been given notice and he will appear tomorrow at 11am," Advocate Harish Salve, who was arguing from the state government's side, told the top court.A countrywide outrage erupted after eight people were killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri district, while farmers were staging a protest against the Centre's three laws. The deceased in the case include four farmers and a journalist. The incident led to massive backlash for the UP government which is led by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Yogi Adityanath.During the hearing, the court also expressed its dissatisfaction over the investigation conducted by the state government in the case, so far. It then ordered the UP government to apprise the top court of an alternative agency that can conduct the probe.A bench headed by Chief Justice NV Ramana also asked the UP government to direct its state police chief to ensure that the evidence in the case is protected till the time another agency takes over.The top court also questioned the state government over not arresting the accused against whom FIR has been lodged. It then asked whether it treats "accused the same way in other murder cases in the country." "What is the message you are sending," asked the bench, which also comprises Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli.The Supreme court has posted the matter for hearing on October 20.On October 3, a group of farmers was coming back after holding a protest against the Centre's three farm laws when a SUV ran over them. Farmers allege that the Union minister's son Ashish was sitting in the car when it ran over protesters. But, Ajay Mishra has denied the allegations, claiming that his son was not present at the spot when the incident took place. Some miscreants mingled with protesting farmers and pelted the stones at the car which led to the 'unfortunate incident,' Ajay Mishra has claimed.Police are investigating the case and a First Information Report (FIR) under section 302 of the IPC has been registered against Ashish Mishra and others in Tikonia police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-satisfied-with-up-govt-probe-in-lakhimpur-kheri-case-supreme-court-101633680591946.html
08-10-2021||India||Coimbatore police challenge IAF custody of officer accused of rape||The Coimbatore Police have filed a petition in the district court seeking the custody of the Indian Air Force (IAF) flight lieutenant accused of raping his colleague. They have challenged a lower court’s order handing over Amitesh Harmukh, 29, to the IAF.Harmukh was arrested after his 28-year-old colleague filed a First Information Report (FIR) on September 20 saying she was unhappy with the manner in which her case was handled. A women police station carried out preliminary inquiries and arrested Harmukh on September 25. Harmukh challenged his arrest and the IAF too argued the local police have no jurisdiction in the case. The IAF maintained the complainant and the accused belong to the armed forces and therefore were subject to the Air Force Act. The lower court on September 30 allowed the IAF to take Harmukh’s custody for a court-martial.“The investigation on the woman’s complaint is still with us. The case was not handed over,” said a police officer. The investigation officer in the case on Thursday filed a revision petition in the Court of Principal District and Sessions Judge against the order of a magistrate handing over Harmukh to the IAF. “The revision application is to set aside the order of the magistrate and to keep the accused in judicial custody. And subsequently to direct the judicial magistrate to pass orders on the police custody application,” the officer said.The 28-year-old has accused the IAF doctors of subjecting her to the banned two-finger test. Indian Air Force chief Air Chief Marshal Vivek Ram Chaudhari on October 5 denied the test was conducted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coimbatore-police-challenge-iaf-custody-of-officer-accused-of-rape-101633679530061.html
08-10-2021||India||Air Force Day: From Rafale to Chinook, how India displayed its arsenal today||Flag bearing skydivers of the famous Akash Ganga Team dropping out of AN-32 aircraft in their colourful canopies commemorated the grand parade on the 89th anniversary of Indian Air Force (IAF) at Hindon Air Base in Uttar Pradesh's Ghaziabad on Friday. IAF chief Air Chief Marshal VR Chaudhari, Chief of Naval Staff Admiral Karambir Singh, Army Chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane and CDS General Bipin Rawat were present on the occasion.History, significanceThe IAF was established on October 8, 1932, in undivided India which was under colonial rule. It was given the prefix "Royal" by King George VI for its contribution during the Second World War. The prefix was later dropped in 1950 when India became a republic.As a result, every year, October 8 is observed as the Indian Air Force Day to celebrate the proud day of the foundation of IAF, also known as Bharatiya Vayu Sena.For Indian Air Force Day parade 2021, India is paying tribute to the unsung heroes of the 1971 war that led to the creation of Bangladesh.‘To air warriors, veterans and families’Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended his greetings to the brave “air warriors and their families”. “The Indian Air Force is synonymous with courage, diligence and professionalism. They have distinguished themselves in defending the country and through their humanitarian spirit in times of challenges,” he said in a tweet.Meanwhile, President Ram Nath Kovind congratulated the Air Force and expressed confidence that the IAF “will continue to maintain its cherished standards of excellence”.Greetings to air warriors, veterans & their families on Air Force Day. The nation is proud of the Indian Air Force which has proved its competency and capability time and again during peace and war. I am sure the IAF will continue to maintain its cherished standards of excellenceVice-President M Venkaiah Naidu also extended his greetings towards the IAF. “My heartiest greetings on Air Force Day! Be it war or peace, our Air Warriors have always made the nation proud through their courage, professionalism and excellence. May these winged warriors keep soaring bringing glory to the nation” he said.Today’s eventThe Indian Air Force started the ceremony with flypast showcasing heritage aircraft, modern transport aircraft, and frontline fighter aircraft. Indian Air Force personnel marched past as IAF helicopters performed a marvellous air display. The IAF displayed its fighter jets Sukhoi Su-30 and Rafale at the Hindon airbase and put up a brilliant air display this morning. Later, IAF chief Chaudhari presented the Vayu Sena Medal - Gallantry to officers.Speaking at the event, the Air Chief Marshal said that these are crucial times with regards to security scenario and external forces will not be allowed to violate our territory.“The prompt actions in response to developments in eastern Ladakh was a testament to Indian Air Force's combat readiness... The security environment in our region and beyond has been impacted by the complex interplay of geopolitical forces,” he said.The ceremony will conclude with a spellbinding aerobatic display.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-force-day-from-rafale-to-chinook-how-india-displayed-its-arsenal-today-101633677883436.html
08-10-2021||India||Ram Van Gaman tourism circuit inaugurated in Chhattisgarh||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Thursday inaugurated the first phase of the Ram Van Gaman tourism circuit project at Chandkhuri city. Inaugurating the three-day grand event organised on this occasion, Baghel said that Lord Ram has a “deep connection” with Chhattisgarh. “Lord Ram is in the heart and soul of every resident of Chhattisgarh. We Chhattisgarhia people, know and believe Lord Ram as Mata Kaushalya's Ram, Bhancha Ram, Vanvasi Ram, Shabri's affectionate and kind Ram,” said the chief minister of Chhattisgarh at the event, pointing out that the divine influence can be seen and heard in the lifestyle, folk culture and folk songs of Chhattisgarh.Referring to the colorful cultural and religious programs that are to be organised for three days during the Navratri festival at Chandkhuri, Baghel said that the artists of national and international repute along with the local artists of Chhattisgarh would perform during this event. He also gave detailed information about the Ram Van Gaman tourism circuit, which is being developed from Harchouka in Sitamarhi in the Koriya district to Ramaram in Sukma. Chhattisgarh chief minister Baghel informed that efforts are being made for the development of Ghotul and Devgudis to preserve the tribal culture and traditions in the Bastar region from the archaeological Buddhist site in Sirpur. He added that the government is making consistent efforts to promote the culture of Chhattisgarh, its religious, archaeological sites, tourist places, and the 5000-year old ancient theater in Ramgarh of Sarguja at a global level. Referring to Dongargarh, the city of Goddess Bamleshwari, the chief minister said that the government is working to beautify all the places of religious and archaeological importance. He said, “Some people are trying to disturb the age-old tradition of peace and harmony in Chhattisgarh, but they will never succeed. Chhattisgarh has deep roots in tolerance, love, and harmony.”51 feet high statue of Lord Shri Ram unveiledAfter arriving at the ancient Mata Kaushalya temple of Chandkhuri, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel prayed for the prosperity of the people of the state and performed the customary rituals. On the occasion, the chief minister unveiled a 51-feet-tall statue of Lord Ram in the backdrop of a light and fire show. It is worth mentioning that the renovation and beautification work of the Kaushalya Temple has been done at the cost of ₹15.45 crore. The 51-feet-tall statue has been established in the temple premise; along with the grand gate in the premises, beautification of the pond around the temple, construction of attractive pathways, and plantations. The temple is surrounded by beautiful gardens, in the middle of the pond there is an attractive statue of Goddess Lakshmi pressing the feet of Lord Vishnu on the Sheshnag bed, and the sculpture depicting ‘Samudra Manthan’ are the main centers of attraction for the devotees.Devotees would get 'darshan' of Lord Ram at every step of the Ram Van Gaman tourism circuitThrough this tourism circuit, devotees would be able to experience the spiritual mementos related to Lord Ram from Koriya district to Sukma. Sitamarhi Harchauka (Koriya), Ramgarh (Sarguja), Shivrinarayan (Janjgir-Champa), Turturiya (Balodabazar), Chandkhuri (Raipur), Rajim (Gariyaband), Sihawa Saptarishi Ashram (Dhamtari), Jagdalpur (Bastar), and Ramaram (Sukma) are being developed at a cost of ₹133.55 crore under the Ram Van Gaman Tourism Circuit project. This is expected to not only boost rural tourism in the state but also unleash the path to new global tourism opportunities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ram-van-gaman-tourism-circuit-inaugurated-in-chhattisgarh-101633676200970.html
08-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: Priyanka Gandhi urges Centre to ‘ensure safety of Kashmiris’ and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'Ensure safety of Kashmiris': Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to Centre on recent terror attacksCongress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday condemned the series of terror attacks on Kashmiri people calling them “painful” and urged the Centre to ensure the safety of all citizens. Read MoreLakhimpur violence: Union minister’s son yet to show up for questioningUnion minister Ajay Mishra Teni’s son, Ashish Mishra, who was asked to appear on Friday for questioning in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri violence last Sunday. Read MoreThree IAF units get Air chief’s citation for Ladakh roleThree units of the Indian Air Force were on Friday awarded the Chief of Air Staff’s ‘unit citation’ for their role in strengthening India’s military posture in eastern Ladakh after a border row erupted with China last year, officials familiar with the development said on Friday. Read MoreHow can defending champions Mumbai Indians still qualify for IPL 2021 PlayoffsFor the most part of IPL 2021, Chennai Super Kings, Delhi Capitals and Royal Challengers Bangalore seemed favourites to make it to the Playoffs, and that's exactly how things have panned out to be. Read MoreA Quiet Place Part II movie review: Make some noise for John Krasinski’s unmissable sequel to a horror masterpieceNo sequel announcement had ever disappointed me more than the one for John Krasinski’s A Quiet Place. Read MoreSara Ali Khan makes us fall in love with her Udaipur ethnic fashion on NavratriAnother day, another fashion goal set by Bollywood actor Sara Ali Khan who is simply killing the millennial fashion game when it comes to ethnic wear during her ongoing Udaipur trip this Navratri. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-priyanka-gandhi-urges-centre-to-ensure-safety-of-kashmiris-and-all-the-latest-news-101633676409513.html
08-10-2021||India||Passengers miss flights due to overcrowding at Mumbai airport’s terminal 2||Many passengers missed their flights due to overcrowding at terminal 2 (T2) of Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport on Friday. There has been an increased footfall at the terminal as the Covid cases have begun decreasing. The airport management said the number of passengers at the airport increased by over 269% in August compared to May.An airport official said it has become difficult to manage the passenger load from 6 am to 11 am daily. “This only gets worse over weekends and today’s situation is just one of the examples,” said the official.Spandan Sharma, a Mumbai resident who was to depart for Hyderabad at 7.20 am said, “I checked in at 6 am for my departure but missed my flight as I took over 50 minutes to clear the security. The airline refused to take me on board as I reached the gate 10 minutes before the departure.” Sharma, who had a connecting flight, said he had to undergo the same process again to take another flight for urgent work.“I was not alone. Another group of people also missed the same flight. There were passengers for other flights too, who missed them due to poor management and then lack of coordination between the airlines and the airport.”A CSMIA spokesperson said, “With the onset of the festive season, there has been a surge in passenger traffic and a sudden spike witnessed at CSMIA this morning. Similar experiences have also been witnessed in other city airports of the country. Further owing to recent intelligence reports received by stakeholders and threat at another airport in the state, security measures have been further enhanced at CSMIA. The security and safety of our passengers are of utmost priority and our endeavour is to continue to not compromise on these critical aspects.” “CSMIA airport has deployed additional staff for a quicker turnaround at all the security checkpoints for a smoother passenger experience. Additionally, CSMIA is following all the COVID protocols laid down by the government to ensure a smoother transition. CSMIA regrets the inconvenience caused to any passengers and is offering them all the support required. In addition, in keeping with the growing increase of passenger traffic and to ensure a seamless service experience, CSMIA has planned to open Terminal 1 operations from 20th October, 2021,” the spokesperson added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rush-at-mumbai-airport-passengers-miss-flights-101633677489790.html
08-10-2021||India||‘Cannot be a reason...’: Omar Abdullah condemns killing of youth by CRPF||Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Omar Abdullah condemned the killing of youth by the CRPF on Thursday night at Anantnag and said that a heightened state of alert cannot be a reason to open fire like this.Yasin Ali, a resident of Jammu, was killed by CRPF jawans after he failed to stop his vehicle near the checking point at Anantnag on Thursday night. Ali died on the spot.“Yasir Ali killed by security forces at a check point in South Kashmir last night. A heightened state of alert cannot be a reason to open fire like this. Senior officers of the security forces need to ensure calmer heads prevail & nothing happens to worsen the situation,” said Omar Abdullah. Police said that the CRPF fired in self-defence. The civilian killed hasn’t been identified yet. The incident took place at Monghal Bridge in Anantnag when troopers of 40 battalion CRPF fired on a Scorpio vehicle that didn’t stop at a checking point.“A Naka (check point) was established by 40Bn CRPF at Monghal Bridge. A suspected vehicle without a number was signalled to stop by the Naka party, however, it rushed towards the Naka party. It was then challenged by the on-duty troops,” Police spokesman said in a statement. “Troops fired upon in self-defence in which one person died. But the driver of the vehicle managed to escape from the spot. Identification and credentials of the deceased person are being verified. An investigation is going on,” the spokesman added.“This appears to be the start of a knee jerk reaction to what has transpired during last two days. Disproportionate force has been used by CRPF which has resulted in this innocent civilian’s death. Will there be any action against the trigger happy personnel?” Mufti tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cannot-be-a-reason-omar-abdullah-condemns-killing-of-youth-by-crpf-101633676949003.html
08-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur violence: Union minister’s son yet to show up for questioning||Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni’s son, Ashish Mishra, who was asked to appear on Friday for questioning in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri violence last Sunday, has not so far turned up for it. A police officer said Mishra is still untraceable.The Lakhimpur Kheri police on Thursday pasted a notice at the minister’s residence asking his son to appear at the crime branch office, Lakhimpur Kheri, at 10 am on Friday. The notice said Mishra must appear in person.A second police officer said so far there has been no communication from Mishra in connection with the summon issued to him for cooperation in the investigation. “The seven-member investigation committee, headed by deputy inspector general...Upendra Agarwal, is discussing the further course of action,” he said.Also read: On Lakhimpur Kheri incident, ex-ally Harsimrat Badal’s warning to BJPTwo people, identified as Luv Kush and Ashish Pandey, were arrested in connection with the violence on Thursday. Additional director general (law and order) Prashant Kumar said names of six accused surfaced during the investigation.The Supreme Court on Thursday asked the Uttar Pradesh government to submit a report within a day on how many arrests have been made so far in connection with the case.Eight people, including four farmers, were killed in the violence on Sunday, in the bloodiest clash since the farmers’ protest over the Centre’s three contentious agricultural laws started last year.The violence, which was triggered after a car mowed down protesting farmers, has led to a political storm with the opposition leaders demanding Teni’s removal. He has been claiming his son was not in the car that ploughed through the protesters. He claimed the driver lost balance after being attacked by stone-pelters and then some protesters came under the car.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-violence-minister-s-son-yet-to-show-up-for-questioning-101633676169709.html
08-10-2021||India||Reserve Bank of India keeps interest rates unchanged at record low—4%||Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Shaktikanta Das on Friday announced the October bi-monthly monetary policy of the central bank, keeping the repo rate unchanged at 4% for the eighth straight meeting.The six-member monetary policy committee of the bank voted 5-1 to maintain an accommodative stance to push and sustain nascent growth recovery in Asia’s third-largest economy.The benchmark repo rate was unchanged at 4%, while the reverse repo rate too stood unchanged at 3.35%. The central bank governor said the panel expected inflation to remain within the target of 6% as the upper limit.“The MPC also decided to continue with the accommodative stance as long as necessary to revive and sustain growth on a durable basis and continue to mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on the economy, while ensuring that inflation remains within the target going forward,” the bank latest monetary policy resolution said.The repo rate refers to the rate at which commercial banks borrow money by selling their securities to Reserve Bank, while the reverse repo rate is the rate at which the central bank borrows money.These lending rates are key to boosting credit and investments by businesses in the economy as India pushes its nascent economic recovery following the pandemic.“We don’t want to rock the boat when the shore is near as there is a journey beyond the shores,” Das said. “To lose patience is to lose the battle.”Food inflation is expected to remain muted in the coming month on the back of record production of foodgrains, the RBI Governor said.The RBI has cut the repo rate by 115 basis points (bps) since March 2020 to cushion the blow of the pandemic. This followed a 135-bps worth of rate cuts since the beginning of 2019.A widely watched forecast by 30 economists for Bloomberg on Wednesday expected the six-member monetary policy committee to leave the repurchase rate at 4%.The RBI has maintained its FY2021-22 GDP growth forecast at 9.5%, including 7.9% in the second quarter, 6.8% in the third quarter, and 6.1% in quarter four. For the first quarter of 2021-22, GDP growth has been pegged at 17.2%.Price rise is a key determinant of monetary policies. Moderate inflation helps the Reserve Bank to keep interest rates low to spur economic activity, which has been hit by the pandemic.Retail prices have been trending lower in the past two months. The central bank also projected a consumer price inflation of 5.3% for the current fiscal year. In Q2, it is seen at 5.1%, 4.5% in Q3, and 5.8% in Q4.The accommodative stance is jargon that refers to the central bank’s decision to either not increasing lending rates or keeping them low. Moderate inflation is necessary to keeping lending rates cheap, which helps boost a pandemic-ravaged economy.On inflation, the governor said inflation had been below the RBI’s projections. He said core inflation (which excludes the volatile components of food and fuel) however “remains sticky”, meaning they aren’t budging much from their usual levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reserve-bank-keeps-key-rates-unchanged-at-4-101633675809679.html
08-10-2021||India||'Ensure safety of Kashmiris': Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to Centre on recent terror attacks||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday condemned the series of terror attacks on Kashmiri people calling them “painful” and urged the Centre to ensure the safety of all citizens.In a tweet in Hindi, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said, "The increasing attacks on our Kashmiri sisters and brothers by terrorists are painful and condemnable. During this difficult time, we are all with our Kashmiri sisters and brothers. The Central Government should take immediate steps to ensure the safety of all citizens.”आतंकियों द्वारा हमारे कश्मीरी बहनों-भाइयों पर बढ़ते हमले दर्दनाक और निंदनीय हैं। इस मुश्किल घड़ी में हम सब अपने कश्मीरी बहनों-भाइयों के साथ हैं।केंद्र सरकार को तुरंत कदम उठाकर सभी नागरिकों की सुरक्षा सुनिश्चित करनी चाहिए।Twenty-eight civilians have been killed in Kashmir this year, according to a statement from the Jammu and Kashmir Police. The latest attack was conducted by The Resistance Force (TRF) who gunned down a Kashmiri Pandit pharmacist, a school principal, a teacher and two others in the Eidgah area of Srinagar on Thursday. This was the fifth civilian killing in Kashmir in the last three days.On Wednesday, a street hawker was shot dead by terrorists in Srinagar. The incident took place near Madina Chowk, Lalbazar where terrorists fired upon the victim Virender Paswan.Paswan was a resident of Bihar's Bhagalpur district. He was residing at Alamgari Bazar, Zadibal. Police said a search operation was underway to nab the terrorists.The attacks have sparked outrage in the country. Meanwhile, the government warned against such ‘targeted killings’ saying that “some people are trying to disturb the peace in the Valley".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ensure-safety-of-kashmiris-priyanka-gandhi-vadra-to-centre-on-recent-terror-attacks-101633674211310.html
08-10-2021||India||Three IAF units get Air chief’s citation for Ladakh role||Three units of the Indian Air Force were on Friday awarded the Chief of Air Staff’s ‘unit citation’ for their role in strengthening India’s military posture in eastern Ladakh after a border row erupted with China last year, officials familiar with the development said on Friday. These units are No. 47 Squadron equipped with upgraded MiG-29 fighters, the 116 Helicopter Unit consisting of advanced light helicopter Mark IV (ALH Mk IV) Rudra and 2255 Squadron Det which operates the OSA-AK-M surface-to-air weapon, the officials said. It is customary for the IAF to announce ‘unit citations’ on IAF Day (October 8). India and China have been locked in a border standoff for 17 months and both sides are carrying out negotiations to reduce tensions. “In May 2020, the No. 47 Squadron was deployed for air defence as well as air-to-ground operations in the northern sector, and carried out extensive operations at high altitude,” said one of the citations. After the February 2019 Balakot airstrikes by the IAF, the MiG-29 squadron was deployed in an air defence role and flew extensively to ensure that there was no misadventure by Pakistan. After the Galwan Valley skirmish in June 2020, the 116 Helicopter Unit was deployed for offensive operations at a high-altitude airfield in the Ladakh area. “The unit quickly established the first-ever high-altitude attack helicopter detachment in the region and executed day and night operations, including air-to-ground weapons delivery at high altitude,” said another citation. Also read: No Chinese soldier detained, no structural damage - Govt on Tawang standoffA trust deficit persists between the Indian and Chinese armies after their soldiers were involved in the brutal clash along the contested LAC. The Galwan Valley clash of June 15, 2020, was the first deadly skirmish between Indian and Chinese troops along LAC in more than five decades, and it pushed the bilateral relationship to a breaking point - it left 20 Indian soldiers and an undisclosed number of Chinese troops dead. The 2255 Squadron Det was mobilised for air defence activation in Ladakh following the Galwan Valley skirmish. “Since then, the squadron has undertaken various innovations to sustain serviceability and reliability of its equipment. This has enabled it to maintain its operational readiness in harsh climatic conditions,” said a third citation. The IAF played a critical role when border tensions with China peaked last year. It projected its capability to carry out day-and-night, all-weather combat missions in the sensitive sector, with front-line fighter jets, attack helicopters and multi-mission choppers. IAF also deployed its new Rafale fighter jets in the Ladakh sector as part of India’s overarching plan to strengthen its military posture in the region. The air force’s MiG-29 fighter jets, Sukhoi-30s, Apache AH-64E attack helicopters and CH-47F (I) Chinook multi-mission helicopters are among the platforms that have operated in the Ladakh sector. IAF’s C-17 Globemaster III transport aircraft were used to move soldiers, tanks and infantry combat vehicles to the sector, while C-130J Super Hercules aircraft have undertaken sorties to the advanced landing ground in the strategic Daulat Beg Oldie (DBO) sector to support the military’s forward deployments. The IAF also flew the army’s K9 Vajra-T self-propelled artillery guns to Ladakh earlier this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-iaf-units-get-air-chief-s-citation-for-ladakh-role-101633674487857.html
08-10-2021||India||CBI court holds Dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim guilty in Ranjit Singh murder case||Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim, already serving sentence for rape, was on Friday convicted of the murder of his disciple, Ranjit Singh. The special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court in Haryana's Panchkula also convicted four others in the case and said that the quantum of sentence will be pronounced on October 12, i.e. next Tuesday.Ranjit Singh, a former follower of Ram Rahim, was shot dead by four assailants on July 10, 2002, at his native Khanpur Kolian village in Kurukshetra. As per the CBI, he was murdered as Ram Rahim suspected that he was behind the circulation of an anonymous letter highlighting the sexual exploitation of female disciples on the Dera premises.Also Read | Ranjit Singh murder case: HC dismisses plea for transfer of trial; says allegations imaginaryRam Rahim was sentenced in August 2017 to 20 years of imprisonment in connection with raping two of his women followers and the murder of a journalist. He is currently lodged in Rohtak’s Sunaria jail serving a life term.There are mainly three cases of the period 2002-03 registered against the Sirsa-based Dera chief. In two cases, one related to sexual exploitation of female disciples and the second of the murder of a journalist Ram Chander Chhatrapati, Ram Rahim has been convicted. The third case is of Ranjit Singh’s murder. Earlier this month, the Punjab and Haryana high court dismissed a plea seeking transfer of trial in the Ranjit Singh murder case terming the allegations imaginary and based on surmises and conjectures.The high court bench observed that on mere apprehension trial cannot be transferred and that apprehension must be reasonable and not imaginary. The power of transfer is to be sparingly exercised. Thus, the trial court was granted the power to pronounce judgment, which it exercised on Friday convicting Ram Rahim and four others in the Rajit Singh murder case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-court-holds-dera-chief-gurmeet-ram-rahim-guilty-in-ranjit-singh-murder-case-101633666996770.html
08-10-2021||India||Air Force Day: Year gone by challenging yet rewarding, says IAF chief||Indian Air Force (IAF) chief Air Chief Marshal VR Chaudhari asserted that “the security scenario we face today”, makes it necessary for the air force to show that external forces will not be able to harm the country. “We must demonstrate to the nation that external forces will not be allowed to violate our territory,” Chaudhari said on the occasion of 89th Air Force Day foundation day on Friday.Chaudhari, who took over as the chief of IAF on September 30, also said that he’s “acutely conscious that I've assumed command at a crucial time”, and pledged “to do all I can to provide you with clear directions, good leadership and the best of resources that I can muster.”He spoke of all the former chiefs who held the position before him, saluting them “for their visionary leadership as challenges continue to rise so does our strength and resolve to ensure the best possible application of air power.”.Air Chief Marshal Chaudhary said the year gone by was "quite challenging yet extremely rewarding"."The prompt actions in response to developments in eastern Ladakh was a testament to the Indian Air Force's combat readiness. Our efforts in completing all Covid-related tasks was also a major achievement in support of the national efforts," he said.The air force chief spoke at length about the men and women who serve the nation today, "they are proud custodians of a legacy of valour, sacrifice and pioneering spirit.”“It is a great honour for me to stand before you as successor to a great lineage of commanders who charted a course for service and brought us to where we stand today,” he added.Chaudhuri was addressing the ceremony at Hindon Air Base in Uttar Pradesh's Ghaziabad. Chief of Naval Staff Admiral Karambir Singh, Army Chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane and CDS General Bipin Rawat were also present at the event.Air force foundation day is celebrated every year on October 8 every year to commemorate the foundation of the air wing of the Indian Armed Forces. This year’s celebrations will pay homage to heroes of the 1971 war by depicting the Tangail airdrop operation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-force-day-year-gone-by-challenging-yet-rewarding-says-iaf-chief-101633672141989.html
08-10-2021||India||‘Administration didn’t take measures to ensure safety’: Kashmiri Pandit groups||In the wake of targeted killings of minorities in Kashmir, several Kashmiri Pandit organisations have alleged the administration did not take adequate measures to ensure their safety despite intelligence inputs indicating their vulnerability to terror attacks.Sanjay Tickoo of the Kashmiri Pandit Sangharsh Samiti said the union territory administration had not responded to his requests for reviewing the security situation. “We had been seeking an appointment with the government to raise issues pertaining to our safety,” he said.In a letter to Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha dated October 5, Tickoo wrote, “…for more than 10 days there is an input that businessman and prominent faces from (among) non-migrant Kashmiri Pandit/Hindus living in Kashmir Valley will be eliminated from Kashmir Valley.” He complained that the security agencies had not addressed their concerns.A government employee living in Anantnag said after terrorists killed two teachers in the Valley on Thursday, no effort was made to ensure the safety of the minority community employees. “There are between three to four teachers in several government-run schools in Anantnag. They had to write to the authorities to provide them security. But they were told to stay put in the Kheer Bhawani (Temple) complex,” the employee said.Panun Kashmir, an organisation of the displaced people that seeks a separate homeland for them in Kashmir, held a protest in Jammu on Thursday demanding action against the targeted killings.Ajay Chrungoo, Chairman of Panun Kashmir, blamed the killings on the government’s “failure to recognise these attacks as genocide”.“The government of India has failed to admit that there is a genocide in Kashmir. They have normalised the killings. They need to take immediate steps to bring a law against genocide and pave the way for its reversal,” he said.Over the last year, terrorists have also gunned down Ajay Bharti Pandita, a sarpanch, Akash Mehra, whose family ran Krishna Dhabha in Srinagar, Satpal Nischal, a jeweller, Shanker Chowdhary, a labourer, Rakesh Pandita, the chairman of the Tral Municipal Council.“There has also been desecration of temples and places of worship. Recently, there were pictures of how the Barghshikha Temple at Mattan (in Anantnag) was desecrated; all this was done to create fear,” said the Anantnag resident quoted above.A resident of Srinagar said the government failed to take note of the vituperative posts on social media that explicitly called for not allowing non-locals to work and reside in the Valley. “These posts are all over social media platforms. They contribute to the atmosphere of fear. I know families that have been staying outside Srinagar for decades but are now packing their bags to leave,” the resident said.A government official, not wishing to be named, said the security agencies had been on the watch and will take all precautions to address the concerns of the minority communities.Following reports that Hindu and Sikh families in the Valley have begun migrating, the administration said it has taken steps to reach out to the families, assuring them of protection.“Directions have been given to all the district commissioners to ensure that security is provided to all those who are asking for it. Some people in places such as Vessu in Anantnag district and in Kulgam district asked to be moved to safer locations such as government guest houses. We are making arrangements for moving them too,” said a second official on condition of anonymity.The official added contrary to reports not many families are moving out. “In Mattan, there are about 180 families, and the deputy commissioner has been in touch with them,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/administration-didn-t-take-measures-to-ensure-their-safety-kashmiri-pandit-organisations-101633672088658.html
08-10-2021||India||'You will not get away with this': Former ally Harsimrat Badal's warning to BJP on Lakhimpur Kheri incident||Former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Friday warned the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) that it will not be able to get away with “blatant misuse of power” in the Lakhimpuri Kheri incident as she arrived in Lucknow with a delegation of her Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) to meet families of farmers who were killed in the October 3 incident.Also Read | 2 arrested in Lakhimpur violence case, summons sent to Mishra’s son: UP Police“Have reached Lucknow to meet families of farmers mowed down by (Union minister Ajay) Mishra's goons. No arrest even after five days! Is the law different for people in power? BJP is mistaken if they think they will get away with blatant misuse of power. We demand justice, and immediate arrest of Ajay Mishra,” Badal tweeted on arrival at the Lucknow airport. Have reached Lucknow to meet families of farmers mowed down by Mishra's goons. No arrest even after 5 days! Is the law different for people in power? BJP mistaken if they think they will get away with blatant misuse of power! We demand justice & immediate arrest of Ajay Mishra. pic.twitter.com/xRa8Vyp5WiThe SAD MP attached with her tweet her byte to the media at the airport. “Without discussing with farmer organisations, the three farm laws were imposed upon farmers. Because of this, they are afraid they will lose everything to corporates. However, it is unfortunate that for the last one year, the government is not listening to farmers. However, now, the government is resorting to mowing them down,” Badal said.Also Read | Lakhimpur violence: Opposition leaders attack govt, meet families of victimsReferring to a viral video clip showing a car ramming into protesting farmers at Kheri, she further said, “It's condemnable that despite the video, eyewitnesses, and the fact that the Supreme Court has taken up the case, neither the minister has been sacked nor has his son been arrested.”Also Read | Supreme Court steps in, CJI to hear Lakhimpur caseAshish Mishra, the son of Union minister of state for home and local Lok Sabha MP, Ajay Mishra “Teni," is the prime accused in the case. Though the father and son have both denied that the latter was present at the spot, eyewitnesses have alleged that Ashish Mishra was driving one of the cars which rammed into farmers. Total eight lives were lost in the incident: four farmers, a journalist, two BJP workers and the Union minister's driver.The SAD delegation's visit to Lakhimpur comes two days after Uttar Pradesh's BJP government, under CM Yogi Adityanath, allowed opposition leaders to enter the district, after blocking them for three days.SAD, the oldest ally of the BJP, left the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) last September, days after the passage of the agricultural laws. Badal, who was her party's only representative in the Union government, resigned as the Union minister for food processing in protest against the laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/you-will-not-get-away-on-lakhimpur-kheri-incident-ex-ally-harsimrat-badal-s-warning-to-bjp-101633668764469.html
08-10-2021||India||Bharat Biotech to produce world’s first malaria vaccine||India’s Bharat Biotech will be producing part of the world’s only malaria vaccine that has been developed by Pharma major GSK, and was recently approved by WHO (World Health Organisation). However, it may take a couple of years before the vaccine is launched in the market for use.In January, this year, Hyderabad-based vaccine major announced that it entered a product transfer partnership with the pharma major GSK for its malaria vaccine, RTS, S/AS01E1. As part of this partnership, GSK would transfer RTS manufacturing technology to Bharat Biotech to produce the S antigen component of the malaria vaccine, and the license on all rights pertaining to it.GSK will retain the production of the adjuvant of the vaccine (AS01E) and will supply it to Bharat Biotech.“The agreement recognises the track record and expertise of BBIL in developing and supplying vaccines against infectious diseases, including as an established supplier of global health vaccines to Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, and to UNICEF. BBIL was selected through a comprehensive, competitive process undertaken by GSK and PATH, working in consultation with the World Health Organization (WHO),” read a joint statement issued by both the partners in January.The RTS, S/AS01E malaria vaccine, developed by GSK for more than 30 years, and in partnership with PATH since 2001, has been piloted in regions of Ghana, Kenya, and Malawi under the Malaria Vaccine Implementation Programme (MVIP).“This agreement with BBIL is the result of efforts by GSK, PATH, and WHO to help ensure long-term sustainable vaccine supply, in the event of a WHO policy recommendation for broader use and a commitment of sustained funding,” the statement further read.On Wednesday, WHO recommended widespread use of the malaria vaccine among children in sub-Saharan Africa and in other regions with moderate to high P. falciparum malaria transmission. The recommendation is based on results from the ongoing pilot programme in Ghana, Kenya and Malawi that has reached more than 800 000 children since 2019.According to the joint statement issued earlier, GSK committed to donate up to 10 million RTS, S/AS01E doses for use in the pilot, and to supply up to 15 million doses annually until 2028 if the product was recommended for wider use by WHO. It is expected that by 2029, at the latest, Bharat Biotech will be the sole supplier of the vaccine, with GSK supplying the adjuvant AS01E to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-to-produce-world-s-first-malaria-vaccine-101633670588611.html
08-10-2021||India||No Chinese soldier detained, no structural damage: Govt on Tawang standoff||The central government has clarified that no Chinese soldiers were detained nor any structure detained in the standoff with the People's Liberation Army (PLA) in Arunachal Pradesh's Tawang last week.According to officials aware of the developments, the standoff took place due to differences in perception of the Line of Actual Control (LAC)."The India-China border has not been formally demarcated and hence there is a difference in perception of LAC between the countries. Peace and tranquillity in these areas of differing perceptions has been possible by adherence to existing agreements and protocols between the two countries," one of the officials cited above said on condition of anonymity.Another official further said that both the sides have been undertaking patrolling activities upto their line of perception, adding that whenever patrols of both sides physically meet, the situation is managed according to established protocols and mechanisms agreed by both sides.Physical engagement can last for a few hours prior to disengaging as per mutual understanding, said the officials, asking not to be named.The latest incident comes days ahead of the next round of military talks with the PLA, which is scheduled to take place on October 12. These talks are being held to reduce tensions along LAC, where both the countries have been engaged in the stand-off for the last 17 months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-chinese-soldier-detained-no-structural-damage-govt-on-tawang-standoff-101633669894869.html
08-10-2021||India||Ahead of LAC talks, Indian and Chinese soldiers face-off in Arunachal Pradesh||Scores of Indian and Chinese soldiers were involved in a tense face-off along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Arunachal Pradesh’s sensitive Tawang sector last week, officials familiar with the development said on Friday. The latest confrontation comes at a time when both sides are planning to hold the next round of military talks to cool tensions in the Ladakh sector. The face-off took place when rival patrols came face-to-face in a contested area near Yangtse, with the soldiers asking each other to retreat to their respective sides, said one of the officials cited above, asking not to be named. “The face-off lasted a few hours before the matter was resolved at the level of local commanders,” said a second official. “Both sides undertake patrolling activities up to their perception of the border. Whenever patrols of both sides physically meet, the situation is managed according to established protocols and mechanisms. Physical engagement can last for a few hours prior to disengaging as per mutual understanding. This is routine business,” he said. The latest incident came weeks after Chinese patrols consisting of around 100 soldiers crossed LAC in the central sector in Uttarakhand on August 30 and damaged a footbridge before they went back to the other side. The area in which the intrusion took place is manned by the Indo-Tibetan Border Police. “PLA plans to keep the entire border active so that they can keep reinforcing their claims. It can also be an act of creeping assertiveness to subsequently lay a claim to these areas,” said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General BS Jaswal (retd). Last week, Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said that the next round of military talks with the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) to reduce tensions along LAC in eastern Ladakh could take place in the second week of October. He said the situation on the LAC was under control and outstanding problems with PLA could be resolved through talks. The two armies have been locked in a border standoff for almost 17 months and both sides are carrying out negotiations to reduce tensions. Outstanding problems at Hot Springs, or Patrolling Point-15, which is one of the friction points on the LAC, could be taken up during the 13th round of talks, as previously reported by HT. The rival armies carried out the second round of disengagement in early August when both sides pulled back their forward-deployed troops from Gogra, or Patrolling Point-17A, with the breakthrough coming after the 12th round of military talks. Earlier, India and China wrapped up the disengagement process in Pangong Tso area in mid-February, with their armies pulling back forward-deployed troops, tanks, infantry combat vehicles and artillery guns from strategic heights where rival soldiers last year fired shots for the first time at the LAC after 45 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-chinese-soldiers-face-off-in-arunachal-pradesh-ahead-of-lac-talks-101633669508576.html
08-10-2021||India||Air India pilots seek full layover allowance and on time||Indian Pilots Guild (IPG), the Boeing pilots’ union of Air India, on Thursday wrote to the airline’s operations head seeking reinstatement of the layover allowance cut by around 70% at the start of the Covid-19 pandemic. The allowance is over and above the salary that pilots get during a layover to cover the expenses. The pilots have not even been paid the deducted amount from five months even as they have also faced pay cuts. They added the last layover sustenance allowance was paid in May 2021.“As we commence the month of October and as pilots proceed on assigned international layovers, our members who man the widebody fleet are most affected and are now forced to fend for themselves abroad with no financial support whatsoever from the company. We are over four months delayed on the layover sustenance allowance (LSA) and for some time now, we have been forced to spend from our savings to sustain our stay abroad,” the IPG said in its letter.It added they will continue to cooperate with the company in its difficult phase and hence request that the matter be urgently taken up at the earliest. Air India pilots have earlier raised the issue of pay cuts and highlighted the mental stress it was causing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-pilots-seek-full-layover-allowance-101633668488127.html
08-10-2021||India||Prepared to handle surge of 5 lakh Covid-19 cases a day: Govt||The central government has said that it is prepared to handle a surge of up to 5 lakh coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases a day. It, however, stressed that this does not imply that such a high number of infections will be reported in the future."The dynamics of the virus after vaccination and infection which can lead to herd immunity...we do not have a straight formula for that. As one can see, despite the administration of vaccines, cases are being reported and we are still learning. The preparation will be of the level to make us safe. We move with preparation of 4.5 to 5 lakh cases per day surge but it does not mean that it will happen, should happen or may happen," Niti Aayog member (health) VK Paul said at a press conference on Thursday.Paul further said there is no issue of Covid-19 vaccine availability in the country now and urged people to come forward to take the second dose to be fully vaccinated.Speaking about the different strains of Covid-19, Paul said that there is no new variant of concern as per the data available at present.Union health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said the government is leaving no stone unturned to ensure full preparedness to tackle any surge, adding that three months are very crucial in the country's fight against Covid-19."Please watch your October, November, December," Agarwal said, warning people about the threat of Covid-19 resurgence during the coming festivals such as Dussehra, Diwali, Durga Puja, Milan-un-Id and Christmas and wedding season.He asserted repeatedly that the second wave of the pandemic is not over, highlighting that the country is still reporting as high as 20,000-odd new infections every day.While overall Covid-19 positivity across the country gives comfort, Agarwal pointed out that there are still a large number of districts reporting high case positivity.He said five states - Mizoram, Kerala, Sikkim, Manipur and Meghalaya - are reporting a weekly positivity rate of more than five per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prepared-to-handle-surge-of-5-lakh-covid-19-cases-a-day-govt-101633667748149.html
08-10-2021||India||India sees 21,257 fresh Covid-19 infections; active caseload lowest in 205 days||India's daily count of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) witnessed a slight fall, as 21,257 people tested positive for the viral illness in the last 24 hours, the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) said on Friday, adding that with this, the cumulative infection tally in the country has risen to 33,915,569.In the 24-hour period before that, a total of 22,431 samples returned positive result for Covid-19.The active caseload in the country slumped further to 240,221, the Union health ministry said, also noting that this is the lowest that it has been in 205 days. The contribution of active cases in the cumulative tally, at 0.71%, is the lowest since March last year, the ministry further stated.As per latest data, a further 24,963 patients recovered from the infection, taking the total number of such cases to 33,225,221 or a recovery rate of 97.96%, the highest since March 2020. Daily toll, meanwhile, stood at 271, with the total number of coronavirus-related fatalities rising to 450,127 or 1.33% of the overall caseload.Meanwhile, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) noted that 1,385,706 more samples were tested for the coronavirus disease on October 7, which means that the latest positivity rate stood at 1.53%, staying below the 3% mark for the last 39 days. Weekly positivity rate, which was recorded at 1.64%, too, remained below the said mark for a 39th straight day.More than 580 million samples have been tested in the country thus far, ICMR's data showed. COVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes @PIB_India @mygovindia @COVIDNewsByMIB #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/oMc4IHbYpaOn the vaccination front, 5,017,753 more doses of a Covid-19 jab were administered. With this, the total number of doses administered since January 16, when the nationwide vaccination drive commenced, has reached 931,717,191.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sees-21-257-fresh-covid-19-infections-active-caseload-lowest-in-205-days-101633665314089.html
08-10-2021||India||Air Force Day: Paratroopers re-enact 1971 Tangail airdrop as celebrations begin||The Indian Air Force (IAF) began the celebrations to mark its 89th raising day - when the force was established. The celebrations are taking place at Hindon Air Force Station in Uttar Pradesh's Ghaziabad.Three paratroopers were seen flying down from the sky carrying the Indian Tricolour together with the IAF flag. This was a depiction of the Tangail airdrop operation, mounted during the 1971 war. In the re-enactment of the famous operation, three paratroopers, including one from the Army, jumped from a vinatge Dakota transport aircraft.Air Force chief Air Chief Marshal VR Chaudhari inspected the parade at the 89th foundation day at the airbase. He also presented Vayu Sena Medal (Gallantry) to officers on the occasion.Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh and Chief of Army Staff General MM Naravane also attended the 89th Air Force Day parade at Hindon airbase.The IAF was established on October 8, 1932, as a supporting force of the United Kingdom's Royal Air Force. Initially known as the Royal Indian Air Force, the prefix Royal was dropped in 1950 when India transitioned into a Republic. The IAF is the air wing of the Indian Armed Forces and the fourth largest air force in the world. It is headed by an Air Chief Marshal (ACM), while the President of India is the Commander-in-Chief of the armed forces.President Ram Nath Kovind wished the IAF warriors and other officials on the force's raising day. "Greetings to air warriors, veterans & their families on Air Force Day. Nation is proud of Indian Air Force which has proved its competency & capability time & again during peace & war. I'm sure IAF will continue to maintain its cherished standards of excellence," he said on Twitter.The 2021 IAF Day parade is being held as a tribute to the heroes of the 1971 war, which saw India defeat Pakistan, and led to the birth of Bangladesh.Rafale, Tejas, Jaguar, MiG-29 and Mirage 2000 have also been included in the celebration; they will fly over the marchpast together.Additionally, Mi-17 and Chinook helicopters will perform the Meghna formation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-force-day-paratroopers-re-enact-1971-tangail-airdrop-as-celebrations-begin-101633665974088.html
08-10-2021||India||Ceiling on prices of refreshment for parliamentary panel meets capped at ₹45||The Lok Sabha secretariat has issued a circular announcing a revision of the ceiling on light refreshment served at the sittings of the parliamentary committees to ₹45, inclusive of taxes, per head per meeting.The limit comes after the Centre’s tourism arm India Tourism Development Corporation (ITDC) replaced the northern railways for running parliament canteens. ITDC’s entry also coincided with the scrapping of all subsidies on food items and their sale at market prices.“Keeping in view the revision of rates of eatables sold by the ITDC in Parliament House complex, the ceiling on light refreshment being served at the sittings of the parliamentary committees has been revised to ₹45 (inclusive of taxes) per head per meeting,” said the circular. The cap came into effect on October 3.Nearly all non-vegetarian snacks are priced above ₹50 on the ITDC menu. Vada is available for ₹30, aloo bonda ₹10, bread pakora ₹10, dosa ₹30, and idly ₹20.Panel meetings are on hold as a reshuffle of all the committees is awaited. Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla is in Rome on an official tour and Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu is visiting the northeast. The rejigged panels will be announced after their return.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ceiling-on-prices-of-refreshment-for-parliamentary-panel-meets-capped-at-rs-45-101633666207960.html
08-10-2021||NA||Kashmir Highlights: Terrorist affiliated with LeT neutralized in Srinagar||News updates from Kashmir: Several civilians have been killed in a fresh wave of terror attacks in Srinagar this week. Pakistani Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) backed The Resistance Force (TRF) gunned down a Kashmiri Pandit pharmacist, a school principal, a teacher and two others in attacks, dubbed as ‘targetted killings.’The attacks have sparked a sharp condemnation in the country. The government also warned against the targeted killings and said “some people are trying to disturb the peace" in the valley. The Ministry of External Affairs has also raised concerns regarding the cross-border terrorism and it is discussing the issue with its partners.  Follow all the updates here:Terrorist neutralized in J-K#UPDATE | As per the I/Card recovered from the killed terrorist, he has been identified as Aqib Bashir Kumar of Trenz Shopian affiliated with proscribed terror outfit LeT: Jammu and Kashmir PoliceTerrorist neutralized in J-K was part of LeT. Read more here. Several organisations stage protests in Jammu, demand action against terroristsSeveral organisations staged protests in Jammu demanding action against terrorists over the recent targeted killing of civilians, reported news agency PTI.Mehbooba Mufti says ‘heads must roll’ for repeated security lapsesPDP chief Mehbooba Mufti slammed the J&K administration over the targeted killings of civilians. In a series of tweets, Mufti said attacks could have been averted if the sole focus of the security grid wasn’t “these ministerial visits & normalcy acrobatics.”Mehbooba Mufti meets family members of Supinder KourPeople's Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti visited the house of Supinder Kour to meet her family members.Omar Abdullah criticises J&K govt after last rites of Bihar resident, killed by terrorists, held in Srinagar What a shame that no one in the J&K government saw fit to help the family of Virendra Paswan get back to Bihar with his body. J&K must have spent lakhs of rupees on hospitality for MPs & Ministers but couldn’t find any money for this. https://t.co/QWVfF8xRgkNational Conference leader Omar Abdullah criticised the Jammu and Kashmir administration after the family of Virendra Paswan, a street vendor from Bihar who was shot dead by terrorists, had to perform the last rites in Srinagar.‘End the bloodshed': PDP workers stage protest against terrorist attacksPDP workers stage protest in Srinagar over civilian killings. They also chanted slogans such as "end the bloodshed".Lt Governor Manoj Sinha should step down: PDPPDP demands resignation of Lt Governor Manoj Sinha over the situation in Kashmir. Party chief spokesman Suhail Bukhari in a press conference said Lt Governor should leave his chair over the situation in Kashmir and for failing to give security to the common people.Family members of Supinder Kour stage a sit-in outside civil SecretariatFamily members of Supinder Kour stage a sit-in outside civil Secretariat, against the targeted killings in Srinagar. ‘Administration didn’t take measures to ensure safety’: Kashmiri Pandit groupsIn the wake of targeted killings of minorities in Kashmir, several Kashmiri Pandit organisations have alleged the administration did not take adequate measures to ensure their safety despite intelligence inputs indicating their vulnerability to terror attacks. Read MoreProtest against Pakistan staged in Jammu against ‘targeted killings'Peoples Forum stages a protest in Jammu against Pakistan over the killings of two teachers by terrorists in Srinagar. Mourners raise ‘we want justice' slogans at funeralSlogans of "We want justice" raised during the funeral procession of Supinder Kaur, a teacher who was shot dead by terrorists inside a Srinagar school on Tuesday. Funeral procession of Supinder Kaur underway in SrinagarFuneral procession of School principal is underway in Srinagar. Large number of people are participating in the funeral of Supinder Kaur, who was killed in Thursday's attack. Senior official Tapan Deka to visit valley todayIntelligence Bureau’s head of CT operations Tapan Deka is going to the Valley today to personally supervise the fight against terrorists while CT teams of other national security agencies have already reached Kashmir to act as force multipliers to Jammu and Kashmir police. Read MorePDP to address press conference at 11amMehbooba Mufti's PDP will hold a press conference at 11 am. It will likely to address the current situation in the conference. Perpetrators of civilian killings will be punished: J-K Lieutenant GovernorJammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha has said the perpetrators of civilian killings in Kashmir will be punished and every drop of innocent blood will be avenged. In a statement on Thursday, he added the administration and the whole country stand in solidarity with the families of the victims. Read MoreAmit Shah firm on Valley violence, sends experts to neutralise terroristsWith Union home minister Amit Shah giving firm and unequivocal directions to counter the killings of innocents and minorities in Kashmir, Centre has sent its top counter-terror experts to the Valley to aid the local police neutralise the Pakistan backed local module involved in terror attacks in Srinagar. Read More28 civilians killed in Kashmir this year: J&K PoliceTwenty-eight civilians have been killed in Kashmir this year, the Jammu and Kashmir Police have said amid a series of targeted attacks this week. Seven civilians have been killed in Kashmir since Tuesday and triggered panic in the region. “Out of 28, five persons belong to local Hindu/Sikh community and 2 non-local Hindu labourers,” said inspector general (Kashmir) Vijay Kumar in a statement. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmir-live-updates-latest-news-friday-8th-october-2021-101633663140126.html
08-10-2021||India||Perpetrators of civilian killings will be punished: J-K Lieutenant Governor||Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha has said the perpetrators of civilian killings in Kashmir will be punished and every drop of innocent blood will be avenged. In a statement on Thursday, he added the administration and the whole country stand in solidarity with the families of the victims.“I am deeply pained and anguished, and I promise the family members of the innocent victims that perpetrators of the barbaric acts will be punished soon,” Sinha said. He said the people of Jammu and Kashmir and the country are angry and want justice. “I assure you that we have given free hand to the security agencies to eliminate the enemies of humanity, and soon the terrorists and those aiding and abetting them will pay for their heinous crimes.” He assured the people the nefarious plan of terrorists to destabilise the process of peace, development, and prosperity will never succeed.Sinha said peace and progress accomplished in Jammu and Kashmir over the last two years has rattled the neighbouring country and some of its terror sympathisers. “I want to assure the people that we will completely demolish their terror ecosystem.” Sinha added the youths of Jammu & Kashmir want development. “After decades, they have new role models and new aspirations. In July, 10.5 lakh tourists came to Jammu and Kashmir. The figure was 11.28 lakhs in August, and in September, the numbers crossed 12 lakhs. Certain elements across the border and their associates in UT (Union Territory) have a problem with this kind of growth and prosperity.”He said the safety and security of citizens of Jammu and Kashmir is their primary responsibility and they will ensure it. “I assure the people of India and the residents of Jammu and Kashmir that the terrorists and those who harbour such enemies of humanity will not be spared.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/perpetrators-of-civilian-killings-will-be-punished-j-k-lieutenant-governor-101633664708749.html
08-10-2021||India||Indian Railways: Ticket rates go up at select stations in Mumbai; check new fare||The Indian Railways announced that it has increased the fare price of platform tickets at select major railway stations in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). The decision, taken by the Central Railways (CR) zone of Indian Railways, was made in order to avoid overcrowding with the onset of the festive season amid the ongoing coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.A platform ticket that used to cost ₹10 will now be sold at ₹50 at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus, Dadar and Lokmanya Tilak Terminus in Mumbai, as well as at railway stations in neighbouring Thane, Kalyan, and Panvel of the Mumbai division, an official said on Thursday.The new ticket fare came into effect this morning at the aforementioned railway stations. Meanwhile, the Western Railway is yet to take a decision on the same for stations under its jurisdiction.“This has been done to curb the excessive rush at platforms and railway stations and also concourses and terminus during the festive season," an official statement of the Central Railway zone read.The railways, however, clarified that this is a “temporary” measure towards a "short-term crowd control" for stations that usually witness heavy rush to prevent a surge in coronavirus cases in the region. The statement added that this has been in practice for years and that “there is nothing new about it”.Mumbai city reported 453 fresh Covid-19 cases and five deaths in the last 24 hours. In total, 7,47,156 cases and 16,141 deaths have been recorded in the metropolis. At the same time, the MMR division, which comprises Mumbai and its satellite townships, logged 995 cases and seven deaths in the past one day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-railways-ticket-rates-go-up-at-select-stations-in-mumbai-check-new-fare-101633661911202.html
08-10-2021||India||Amit Shah firm on Valley violence, sends experts to neutralise terrorists||With Union Home Minister Amit Shah giving firm and unequivocal directions to counter the killings of innocents and minorities in Kashmir, Centre has sent its top counter-terror experts to the Valley to aid the local police neutralise the Pakistan backed local module involved in terror attacks in Srinagar.Home minister Shah took a marathon five-hour meeting on Kashmir on Thursday after terrorists from Pakistani Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) backed so-called The Resistance Force (TRF) gunned down a Kashmiri Pandit pharmacist, a school principal, a teacher and two others in a fresh wave of terror attacks in Srinagar. While asking the security agencies to dispatch their CT experts to Kashmir, Shah gave firm instructions to bring the perpetrators to book.Intelligence Bureau’s head of CT operations Tapan Deka is going to the Valley today to personally supervise the fight against terrorists while CT teams of other national security agencies have already reached Kashmir to act as force multipliers to Jammu and Kashmir police.The attacks come at a time when tourists from Indian hinterland are thronging the Valley with all the hotels showing 100 per cent occupancy and Srinagar humming with economic activity.According to security agencies, the recent spurt of violence is a manifestation of confidence of Pakistan based groups following the capture of Kabul by ultra conservative Taliban and the appointment of new ISI chief in Lt Gen Nadeem Anjum. With Afghanistan under Rawalpindi’s thumb, the new focus is Kashmir with the mission not to allow minorities to return to the Valley by targeting those who have the audacity to return to Kashmir.Top security officials say that the weapons used in recent killings are pistols, which may have been dropped in the upper reaches of the Valley through drones from across the border. “The bigger worry is when US sniper rifles and area weapons will be brought into the Valley by the Pakistani jihadists in the coming days from Afghanistan,” said a senior police official.While the present terror module may be neutralised in the coming days, it is quite evident that Pakistan will ratchet up pressure on Kashmir with the intention of pushing the Modi government towards the restoration of articles 370 and 35A and roll-back the August 5, 2019 creation of Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir. The latter is also the demand of Valley based political parties, who are also advocates of India talking to Pakistan for peace in Kashmir.However, the Modi government is in no mood to bow down before the Pakistan based terror groups with home minister Shah asking the security agencies and para-military forces to take on the attackers without any delay and bring normalcy to the Valley.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-firm-on-valley-violence-sends-experts-to-neutralise-terrorists-101633663652735.html
08-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: On Air Force Day, PM Modi salutes spirit of ‘air warriors’||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Air Force Day: PM Modi salutes the humanitarian spirit of ‘air warriors’Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday extended his greetings to the brave “air warriors” of the Indian Air Force (IAF) on its 89th foundation day, which is being observed this year as Air Force Day 2021. Read moreIRCTC to launch ‘Bharat Darshan’ train from Madhya Pradesh today, details hereThe Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) will be launching another Bharat Darshan tourist train from Madhya Pradesh today (i.e. Friday, October 8) in a bid to promote religious tourism in the country. Read moreUS submarine hits unknown ‘object’ in South China Sea, here's what the Navy saidA nuclear-powered submarine of the United States Navy hit an unidentified “object” while submerged in international waters in the South China Sea, news agencies reported on Friday morning citing officials who are familiar with the development. Read moreGauri Khan gets a warm wish from daughter Suhana Khan on birthday, see pic with Shah Rukh KhanOn Gauri Khan's birthday, her daughter Suhana Khan has wished her with a throwback picture. Suhana took to Instagram to share a vintage photo of Gauri and her husband, actor Shah Rukh Khan, from an old photoshoot in the 90s. Know more'That answer from MS is very different to the one he gave last year': Watson feels Dhoni won't return as player next IPLBarely two days after MS Dhoni fans rejoiced knowing that the Chennai Super Kings would possibly be playing his final IPL game in Chennai, meaning IPL 2021 would not be his last season as players, the former India captain sort of made a U-turn on the decision, hinting that next year, Dhoni may not be seen as a player. Read moreShweta Tiwari redefines Indo-western fashion in ₹16k green strappy jumpsuitRecently hospitalised due to weakness and low blood pressure, television hottie Shweta Tiwari is back to work, travel and slaying photoshoots and her recent set of pictures are enough to back our claim. Read moreAfter Modi govt's tit-for-tat, UK accepts India's vaccine certificateDays after India announced 10-day mandatory quarantine, the UK said it will accept India’s vaccine certification from Oct 11. The UK High Commissioner to India announced relaxation of rules for Indians. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-on-air-force-day-pm-modi-salutes-spirit-of-air-warriors-101633662271400.html
08-10-2021||India||Air Force Day: PM Modi salutes the humanitarian spirit of ‘air warriors’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday extended his greetings to the brave “air warriors” of the Indian Air Force (IAF) on its 89th foundation day, which is being observed this year as Air Force Day 2021. Saluting the bravehearts, the Prime Minister said that the air arm of the Indian Armed Forces is synonymous with courage, diligence, and professionalism. Acknowledging the fact that the IAF has distinguished itself by defending the country and offering its services in times of grave challenges, Prime Minister Modi highlighted the ‘humanitarian spirit’ displayed by the air warriors of India.Also Read | IAF's 89th foundation day today; ceremony to commemorate victory in 1971 warTaking to his official handle on Twitter on Friday, the Prime Minister wrote: “Greetings to our air warriors and their families on Air Force Day. The Indian Air Force is synonymous with courage, diligence, and professionalism. They have distinguished themselves in defending the country and through their humanitarian spirit in times of challenges.”To express his gratitude to the air warriors, Modi also attached a series of pictures recognising the various feats performed by the Indian Air Force over the years.Greetings to our air warriors and their families on Air Force Day. The Indian Air Force is synonymous with courage, diligence and professionalism. They have distinguished themselves in defending the country and through their humanitarian spirit in times of challenges. pic.twitter.com/UbMSOK3agPThe Indian Air Force marks its 89th foundation day on Friday; October 8 is annually marked as IAF Day or Air Force Day to celebrate the foundation of the air wing of the Indian Armed Forces. As is the custom every year, celebrations will take place this year, too, at the Hindon Air Force station in Uttar Pradesh's Ghaziabad in the presence of the Chief of Air Staff and senior officials of the three armed forces.Also Read | Indian Air Force Day 2021: These units will receive Chief of Air Staff Unit citationThe 2021 IAF Day parade will pay tribute to the heroes of the 1971 war, which saw India defeat Pakistan, and led to the birth of Bangladesh. “We will depict the famous Tangail airdrop operation with three paratroopers, including one from the Army, making a jump from a vintage Dakota transport aircraft,” said a senior official of the force.This year on Air Force Day, three units of the IAF will also receive the prestigious Chief of Air Staff Unit citation. This will be done in recognition of their participation in the air duel with Pakistan in February 2019 and operations in Ladakh in response to China's aggression in that sector.The IAF will also honour its only Param Vir Chakra awardee, Nirmaljit Singh Sekhon, with a Sekhon formation. This would see one aircraft each--Rafale, Tejas, Jaguar, MiG-29, and Mirage 2000--flying over the marchpast together.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-force-day-pm-modi-salutes-the-humanitarian-spirit-of-air-warriors-101633659761277.html
08-10-2021||India||Air Force Day 2021: IAF to honour these units with Chief of Air Staff Unit citation||Three units of the Indian Air Force (IAF) will receive the prestigious Chief of Air Staff Unit citation on the 89th foundation day of the force, the IAF announced, as it geared up for the IAF Day celebrations, held annually on October 8. The citation will be for their participation in the air duel with Pakistan in February 2019 and operations in Ladakh in response to China's aggression in that sector, the air arm of the Indian Armed Forces said.Also Read | IAF's 89th foundation day today; ceremony to commemorate victory in 1971 warThe 47 Squadron will receive the citation for its participation in operations along the Pakistan border post February 26, 2019, the Balakot air strikes, and for those at high altitude in the Ladakh sector opposite China, since April-May last year, news agency ANI reported citing the IAF.The 47 Squadron is housed at the Adampur Air Force Station in Jalandhar in Punjab.“The 116 Helicopter Unit equipped with ALH Rudra-armed choppers has been awarded the citation for operations at the Pakistan border against slow-moving aircraft in the wake of Balakot, as well as for deployment at forward airbase along northern borders post the Galwan Valley clash,” the force further said, lauding the unit based at the Jodhpur Air Force Station in Rajasthan.The Srinagar-based 2255 Squadron, meanwhile, will be awarded for air defence activation in Ladakh following the incident in Galwan, the IAF said. “This Kashmir-based unit, equipped with the surface-to-air OSA-AK-M missile system, looks after air defence in the Kashmir and Ladakh sectors,” it noted.It is to be noted that the IAF conducted the Balakot air strikes inside Pakistan on February 26, 2019, in response to a suicide attack on troopers of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) in Pulwama on the 14th of that month. The Pakistan Air Force (PAF) responded on February 27, engaging in a duel with its Indian counterpart.India and China, meanwhile, have been engaged in a border standoff in eastern Ladakh since May last year. The Galwan Valley clashes took place on June 15, resulting in casualties on both the sides.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-air-force-day-2021-these-3-units-will-receive-chief-of-air-staff-citation-101633657432530.html
08-10-2021||India||Congress announces candidate for upcoming by-poll in West Bengal||Ahead of Assembly By-Elections 2021 in West Bengal, Congress on Thursday announced Raju Pal as a candidate from the Santipur constituency, said All India Congress Committee.The by-polls in four Assembly constituencies are to be held on October 30 in West Bengal."Congress President Sonia Gandhi has approved the candidature of Raju Pal as Congress candidate for the ensuing by-election to the Legislative Assembly of West Bengal from 86 - Santipur Assembly Constituency," said AICC press statement.The Election Commission of India, earlier on September 28, announced by-polls for three parliamentary and 30 assembly seats across 15 states and Union territories (UTs) in the country.The ECI announced by-elections on assembly constituencies including --Badvel (SC) in Andhra Pradesh; Gossaigaon, Bhabanipur, Tamulpur and Mariani, Thowra in Assam; Kusheshwar Asthan (SC) and Tarapur in Bihar; Ellenabad in Haryana; Fatehpur, Arki, and Jubbal- Kotkhai in Himachal Pradesh; Sindgi and Hangal in Karnataka; Prithvipur, Raigaon (SC) and Jobat (ST) in Madhya Pradesh; Deglur (SC) in Maharashtra; Mawryngkneng (ST), Mawphlang (ST), and Rajabala in Meghalaya; Tuirial (ST) in Mizoram; Shamtorr-Chessore (ST) in Nagaland; Vallabhnagar and Dhariawad (ST) in Rajasthan; Huzurabad in Telangana; and Dinhata, Santipur, Khardaha and Gosaba(SC) in West Bengal.The last date for filing nominations is October 8.The ECI has scheduled the examination of nominations on October 11, while the last date for withdrawal of nominations is set as October 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-announces-candidate-for-upcoming-by-poll-in-west-bengal-101633657938976.html
08-10-2021||India||IAF's 89th foundation day today; ceremony to commemorate victory in 1971 war||The Indian Air Force (IAF) will on Friday mark its raising day, which is observed annually on October 8 as IAF Day. The year 2021 marks 89 years since the IAF's foundation, and, as always, celebrations will take place at the Hindon Air Force Station in Uttar Pradesh's Ghaziabad in the presence of the Chief of Air Staff and senior officials of the three armed forces.The IAF was established on October 8, 1932, as a supporting force of the United Kingdom's Royal Air Force. Initially known as the Royal Indian Air Force, the prefix Royal was dropped in 1950 when India transitioned into a Republic. The IAF is the air wing of the Indian Armed Forces and the fourth largest air force in the world. It is headed by an Air Chief Marshal (ACM), while the President of India is the Commander-in-Chief of the armed forces. The 2021 IAF Day parade will pay tribute to the heroes of the 1971 war, which saw India defeat Pakistan, and led to the birth of Bangladesh. “We will depict the famous Tangail airdrop operation with three paratroopers, including one from the Army, making a jump from a vinatge Dakota transport aircraft,” a senior official of the force said.There will also be a Vinaash formation, which will showcase the victory in the Battle of Longewala. Six Hunter aircraft will carry out this formation. The IAF will also honour its only Param Vir Chakra awardee, Nirmaljit Singh Sekhon, with a Sekhon formation. This would see one aircraft each--Rafale, Tejas, Jaguar, MiG-29 and Mirage 2000--flying over the marchpast together. Additionally, Mi-17 and Chinook helicopters will perform the Meghna formation.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-day-today-parade-to-commemorate-victory-in-1971-war-101633650292316.html
08-10-2021||India||IRCTC to launch ‘Bharat Darshan’ tourist train from Madhya Pradesh today, details here||The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) will be launching another Bharat Darshan tourist train from Madhya Pradesh today (i.e. Friday, October 8) in a bid to promote religious tourism in the country. The launch comes days after the IRCTC started a similar ‘tourist train’, which is meant to explore the five northeastern states under the ‘Dekho Apna Desh’ (“Explore your country”) initiative. These tour packages are meant to be all-encompassing, with the IRCTC team taking care of all the travel needs of the passengers.Also Read | Indian Railways extends Covid SOP for 6 months, announces fine for not wearing masksBharat Darshan is a joint project of the Indian Railways and the Union ministry of tourism and culture, which organises “the world's cheapest and most comfortable” tour packages from time to time. Its purpose is to introduce the culture of different parts of the country to people who are deprived of tourism due to any reason.Which religious sites will the special tourist train cover?The Bharat Darshan train which is being launched from Madhya Pradesh will start from the Rewa station and eventually travel through railway stations that will let passengers explore Agra, Mathura, Haridwar, Rishikesh, Amritsar, and even the Vaishno Devi shrine (Katra).The main aim to run this train is to give an “enhanced experience to explore beautiful historical and devotional places of North India.”What are the notable features of this journey?In this tour package, passengers will be provided breakfast, lunch, and dinner with accommodation in budget hotels or dharmshalas as well as tourist buses. Also, accident insurance up to ₹4 lakhs will also be given to the passengers.During the entire duration of the journey, the IRCTC team will take care of all protocols, related to hygiene and health, and ensure a safe and worry-free experience by maintaining social distancing at all times.“The eight nights and nine days tour has been designed keeping in mind the interest of every kind of traveller, who loves fun with devotion and visit old traditional cities of India,” said IRCTC public relations officer (PRO) Anand Kumar Jha.Also Read | Good news for railway employees! Govt approves 78 days' wage as bonusWhere can one board this special tourist train?According to IRCTC, the Bharat Darshan train will start from the Rewa station in Madhya Pradesh; however, special boarding facilities will also be available from other railway stations such as – Satna, Katni, Jabalpur, Narsinghpur, Itarsi, Hoshangabad, Habibganj, Vidisha, Ganj Basoda, Bina, and Jhansi.What is the cost of this tour package?The Bharat Darshan tour package for the special train which is starting from Madhya Pradesh today will cost ₹8,505 per person for the sleeper class, and ₹10,395 per person for AC 3-tier.To book this journey, it will be mandatory for every passenger to have taken both doses of their respective coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccines, and the age limit for the tickets is 18 years and above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/irctc-to-launch-bharat-darshan-tourist-train-from-madhya-pradesh-today-details-here-101633650313019.html
08-10-2021||India||‘IIT-K student stalked minors, teachers in north Delhi school’||A two-month-long police pursuit of a cyber-stalker harassing teachers and minor girls of a prominent school in north Delhi ended earlier this week with the arrest of a 19-year old second year student from the Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur.The man attended online classes, joined the school’s WhatsApp groups, and shared morphed photographs of the minor girls on social media . He even spoofed (falsified his caller ID) calls he made to the teachers, pretending to be different students, using voice changing apps. Police say he also created fake profiles of the minors on Instagram, and that the number of minors and teachers harassed by him number around 50.Sagar Singh Kalsi, DCP (north) said that the man, identified as Mahavir Kumar, has been cyber-stalking women and girls in the school since 2019 , although his activities intensified after classes went online.Kalsi added that on August 6, police received a complaint from the principal of a prominent private school in north Delhi over the cyber-stalking of students.It emerged during the investigation that Kumar befriended one student of the school in 2019 and then, over time, several more. When classes went online, some of the girls themselves sent him links. Meanwhile, he also started harassing and threatening the girls. The girls then complained to the school.A police officer said that when the school authorities confronted the man, he showed them screen grabs of his chat with the girls, wherein the girls themselves had given him the links to their classes. The girls were then suspended but the young man kept hacking into the online classes, which is when finally the school authorities reached out to police.“The man was stalking minor girls and also called teachers from different international numbers. The stalker was also spoofing numbers and calling teachers from the number of the students. The stalker entered WhatsApp groups without permission of the admin and changed icons. He also posted morphed photographs of many students on different social media platforms,” said DCP Kalsi.Delhi Police registered a case on Wednesday. During their investigation they found that stalker used at least 33 different virtual WhatsApp numbers to harass the students and teachers.“We analysed the details of the IP logs of WhatsApp, Instagram and the email ids used to create the accounts. Through technical surveillance, we traced the suspect and arrested him from his house in Patna, Bihar,” added DCP Kalsi.Police said they have started questioning Kumar, who has been brought to Delhi.Kumar comes from a middle-class family of four, and his parents and elder sister had no clue he was up to something like this, police said. “He used to stay at home as his on-campus classes had not started yet. He was a second year B.Tech student,” said one police officer.Spokespersons from IIT-Kharagpur did not respond to requests for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iitk-student-stalked-minors-teachers-in-north-delhi-school-101633641164483.html
08-10-2021||India||House shouldn’t discuss other country’s issues: Om Birla in Rome||Months after British MPs debated the farmers’ protest in India, Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla on Thursday said no country should raise in its House issues related to the internal affairs of other countries.Birla, who is leading an Indian parliamentary delegation to G20 Parliamentary Speakers’ Summit in Rome, made the remarks at a bilateral meeting with Lindsay Hoyle, the speaker of the UK’s House of Commons.According to a Lok Sabha Secretariat statement, Birla said that every country has its own sovereignty which other countries should respect. “Birla said that every country has its own sovereignty which other countries should respect. No country should raise the internal affairs of other countries in its Parliament unless those matters affect the interests of that country,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/house-shouldn-t-discuss-other-country-s-issues-om-birla-in-rome-101633645237664.html
08-10-2021||India||Discussing S-400 deal with US, says India||India said on Thursday it is in talks with the US regarding its deal with Russia for the S-400 air defence system, which faces the threat of possible sanctions under an American law.“This has been [part of] the discussion between our two countries for some time. It was raised and we have discussed it and explained our perspective. And discussions on this are ongoing,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told a regular news briefing.He was replying to a question on US secretary of state Wendy Sherman’s criticism of India’s deal with Russia on Wednesday.Sherman, who is on a three-day visit to India, told journalists that any decision on possible sanctions on the S-400 deal will be made by President Joe Biden and Secretary of State Antony Blinken. The S-400 deal figured in Sherman’s talks with foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla.“We’ve been quite public about any country that decides to use the S-400. We think that is dangerous and not in anybody’s security interest,” Sherman had said. “That said, we have a strong partnership with India. We want to be very thoughtful about the ways ahead, and discussions between our countries try to solve problems and I hope we will be able to in this instance as well,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/discussing-s-400-deal-with-us-says-india-101633644058701.html
08-10-2021||India||HNLC cadre arrested for planting IED outside NPP office in Meghalaya||SHILLONG: The Meghalaya Police on Thursday arrested a cadre of proscribed outfit Hynñiewtrep National Liberation Council (HNLC) on charges of planting an improvised explosive device (IED) near the office of ruling National People’s Party (NPP) in Shillong on October 4. Ksankupar Kharkongor, a resident of Umphyrnai village on the outskirts of the capital city, was picked up by police from Shillong civil hospital at about 3.30pm where he was reportedly attending to an ailing relative.A police statement from PHQ communique stated, “In the course of investigation, the suspect admitted to his role and stated that he is a member of the proscribed militant outfit HNLC.”. The statement claimed that investigators had seized what it described as “incriminating evidence”.Meghalaya home minister Lahkmen Rymbui said, “The police have been diligent in their duty, and I am confident they will nab all the persons involved in planting the bomb near the NPP office.” He said that police will ascertain beyond doubt his association with the rebel outfit during the ongoing investigation.The minister said in a separate incident, a cadre of the HNLC Emmanuel Suchen surrendered at Khliehriat in East Jaiñtia Hills district. Rymbui said Emmanuel Suchen joined the outfit in 2002 and was arrested in 2008 following which, he spent three years in jail under the Meghalaya Preventive Detention Act (MPDA). However, after his release, he continued to clandestinely maintain his relationship with the outfit .“I think better sense prevailed which made him to come forward and surrender before the police,” Rymbui said adding, “It has come to our notice that he (Emmanuel Suchen) has been involved in the bombing of Star Cement and Police Reserve in East Jaiñtia Hills early this year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hnlc-cadre-arrested-for-planting-ied-outside-npp-office-in-meghalaya-101633638124699.html
08-10-2021||India||Sabyasachi Dutta back in TMC: Party MP says workers aggrieved by return of those who insulted Mamata||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Thursday saw rumblings after Sabyasachi Dutta, former legislator from Rajarhat-New Town constituency, returned to the party fold after spending over two years in the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).“Our workers feel aggrieved when people who insulted Mamata Banerjee in the recent assembly polls make a comeback. Isn’t it natural that sincere party workers will feel disappointed to see people returning to become leaders again after opposing us till the other day,” TMC’s senior Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy said without naming anyone.Dutta, who was one of the state secretaries of the BJP, rejoined the TMC at parliamentary affairs minister Partha Chatterjee’s chamber in the state assembly, shortly after West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar administered the oath of office to party chief Mamata Banerjee and two others -- Jakir Hossain and Amirul Islam -- as legislators. They won the polls held on September 30.“I took an emotional decision and joined the BJP after some misunderstanding with my colleagues. I will earnestly serve the TMC in whatever role it gives me,” Dutta said after joining the TMC. Transport minister Firhad Hakim was also present on the occasion.“This is homecoming for Sabyasachi,” said Chatterjee.Meanwhile, without taking Dutta’s name, TMC state general secretary Kunal Ghosh took a dig at the BJP. “Let the BJP realise the effect of welcoming someone amid great hype and making him a state committee secretary. Did BJP think that it could win polls in Salt Lake? People who have realised that they have no existence outside the TMC and cannot survive without Mamata Banerjee’s shelter are coming back. This will make everyone understand that TMC is the only force to reckon with. It has no alternative,” said Ghosh.Dutta, who joined the BJP soon after the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, had been maintaining distance from the party since the March-April assembly elections, in which the TMC won 213 seats while the BJP had to settle for only 77 seats.On Wednesday, Dutta stoked speculations of switching sides when he criticised BJP’s former state president Dilip Ghosh for his comment on the Lakhimpur Kheri killings. Later, BJP state vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar described Dutta as an opportunist.“Probably he came to the BJP looking for lucrative opportunities and found that our party does not allow its members to make fortunes,” said Majumdar.Dutta is the sixth leader to return to the TMC since June.On September 4, Soumen Roy, BJP legislator from Kaliaganj in north Bengal, joined the TMC. Others to return to the party fold include Tanmay Ghosh, who won the Bishnupur seat in Bankura district, Biswajit Das, MLA from Bagdah in North 24 Parganas district, and Mukul Roy, former BJP national vice-president and MLA from Krishnanagar North seat in Nadia district.Krishna Kalyani, BJP legislator from Raiganj in the North Dinajpur district of north Bengal, on October 1 announced that he was quitting the party, triggering speculations of him joining the state’s ruling party.Kalyani, an industrialist, who stepped into politics by joining the BJP in January this year, has been speaking against the leadership for quite some time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sabyasachi-dutta-back-in-tmc-party-mp-says-workers-aggrieved-by-return-of-those-who-insulted-mamata-101633636984706.html
08-10-2021||India||Man shot dead at CRPF post in south Kashmir during checking||CRPF personnel shot dead a man in south Kashmir on Thursday night after the latter did not stop his car at a checking point, police said.Officials said the incident took place at 9.35pm at Monghal Bridge in Anantnag when troopers of 40 battalion CRPF tried to intercept a suspicious vehicle without a number plate but it rushed towards them. Kashmir inspector general of police Vijay Kumar said that the troops fired upon the car in self-defence and one person was killed. The man was not identified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-shot-dead-at-crpf-post-in-south-kashmir-during-checking-101633635065242.html
08-10-2021||India||Congress chalked out legal plan to corner BJP on Lakhimpur Kheri violence||New Delhi: The Congress had prepared an elaborate legal plan in response to the killing of farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri, but ultimately decided to not to take up a legal battle at this point and continue to mount political attack against the Bharatiya Janata Party, according to two senior Congress functionaries. The two, who asked not to be named, said one part of the plan was to appeal to National Human Rights Commission. The second was to knock on the doors of the Supreme Court seeking a court-monitored probe into the incident. So far, no major political party has demanded intervention by the National Human Rights Commission into the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. The third was to challenge the imposition of section 144 in UP that empowered the UP police to detain Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi at Sitapur on Sunday evening and prevented party leaders from reaching Lakhimpur Kheri. “We even prepared the legal note,” said one of the two, but the party’s leadership, including both Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi decided against seeking legal recourse, and to fight it out politically. With election in Uttar Pradesh due in less than six months, the Congress is expected to up the ante politically, although the leader said the legal options haven’t been completely ruled out, especially in terms of seeking a court-monitored probe or one by NHRC. “So far, no mainstream Opposition party has gone to NHRC to seek its intervention in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. But we had a plan. However, even within our own organization, a section was skeptical as one of the body’s recent order sparked a political debate,” said the second leader. His reference is to NHRC’s recommendations after it looked into instances of violence after the elections in West Bengal, with the state’s ruling Trinamool Congress government claiming these favour the Bharatiya Janata Party, which ended up on the losing side in the polls. The plan to go to court to seek a probe was also kept in abeyance as the party felt it was important for Congress leaders to first reach there to step up the political heat against the Yogi Adityanath government. “The state government has already ordered a probe by a retired judge. Thus, at this stage a fresh demand for a court-monitored probe was found unnecessary. But we can make a demand for a court-monitored probe at an appropriate time if we see the investigation is not progressing in right direction.,” the second leader said. In fact, when asked about the probe ordered by the government, Rahul Gandhi, in his press conference on Wednesday morning, said: “First of all I want to go there and understand the matter and what is the ground reality. The ground reality is really ground reality, no one knows yet, first of all we want to go and understand that, so we are going to Lucknow and Lakhimpur Kheri.”  A former union minister, who was in touch with Priyanka Gandhi, communicated to the leaders involved that she too, wants to continue the political fight. “Anyways, a sub judice matter can take way the political sheen,” said the second leader. The Congress leaders had also planned to challenge the administrative order of imposition of section 144 of the CrPC. “In 2020, a Supreme Court order stated that section 144 can’t be applied to restrict citizens to assemble peacefully and it can’t be a tool to prevent legitimate expression of grievance or exercise of any democratic rights,” said the first leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-chalked-out-legal-plan-to-corner-bjp-on-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-101633634946276.html
08-10-2021||India||The biggest perpetrator and supporter of terrorism masquerading as its victim: India slams Pakistan at UN||United Nations: Pakistan is the biggest perpetrator and supporter of terrorism and masquerades as its victim and should stop cleansing its own minorities including Hindus, Christians, Sikhs, and Buddhists, India has said in a strong response slamming Islamabad for again raking up the Kashmir issue at the UN.Emphasising that the fight against terrorism has to be unrelenting and across all fronts, Counsellor/Legal Adviser at India’s Permanent Mission to the UN Dr Kajal Bhat said that all member states must fulfil their obligations enshrined in international counter-terrorism instruments and conventions.“…let me express my dismay that Pakistan has once again misused this august forum to repeat at adnauseam their litany of lies,” Bhat said at the General Assembly 6th committee (Legal) meeting on ‘Measures to eliminate international terrorism’.“Here is the biggest perpetrator and supporter of terrorism masquerading as its victim. We condemn their Pavlovian response wherever the name of India is mentioned and reject all their allegations and insinuations,” she said on Wednesday.India’s strong response came after Pakistan’s UN envoy Munir Akram again raked up the issue of Kashmir at the Sixth Committee meeting and made baseless allegations against India in his remarks.“Jammu and Kashmir is, and will always be a part of India,” she said.“We call on Pakistan to stop cleansing their own minorities including Hindus, Christians, Sikhs, Buddhists and others,” Bhat said.While some states lack the legal-operational frameworks and necessary Combating of Financing of Terrorism (CFT) capacities, others are “clearly guilty of aiding and supporting terrorism by providing financial assistance and safe havens to terrorists,” Bhat said, in a veiled reference to Pakistan.“We must enhance capacities of the former, but must collectively call out the latter and hold them accountable,” she said.Bhat said terrorism continues to persist globally, spreading into new areas, with terrorists having significantly enhanced their capabilities by gaining access to new and emerging technologies like drones, virtual currencies and encrypted communications for furthering their objectives and accomplishing their evil acts.“COVID-19 pandemic has further aggravated the situation. Isolation due to lockdown, distress and economic uncertainty has made the world more susceptible to radicalizing narratives and violent extremist propaganda,” she said.Asserting that terrorists at one place are a “threat” to the whole world, Bhat said fighting terrorism collectively requires “action from all of us, without any exception.” She underscored India’s condemnation of terrorism in all its forms and manifestations and firm belief that there cannot be any exception or justification for any act of terrorism, regardless of motivations behind such acts, and wherever, whenever and by whomsoever, they are committed.“There cannot be bad terrorists or good terrorists based on their intensions or objectives.” A member of the Financial Action Task Force (FATF), India is already in the process of upgrading its Financial Intelligence Network to ensure quicker referral of terror-financing cases to law enforcement agencies, she said.India reiterated the need for early finalisation of the Draft Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism, saying the UN needs to do more in this direction.“We believe that when right action is not taken at the right time, then it is time itself that causes the action to fail,” Bhat said, strongly calling on states to unite in efforts and end the stalemate preventing the adoption of the Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism (CCIT).“We all need CCIT as a law enforcement instrument that should strengthen the existing framework of global anti-terrorism conventions,” she said.India expressed hope that the UNGA Resolution of December 2020 that recommends to Sixth Committee to establish the “Working Group” with a view to finalising the process on the draft comprehensive convention on international terrorism will “bring finality to the most important task in hand before the international community.” Welcoming the adoption of the 7th review resolution of the Global Counter Terrorism Strategy (GCTS) by the General Assembly by consensus in June 2021, Bhat expressed hope that the member states will “walk the talk” and implement the strategy by taking effective measures.India had contributed constructively to the GCTS negotiations, especially to strengthen the language on countering the financing of terrorism, prevention of misuse of emerging technologies, strengthen the rights of victims of terrorism, providing greater financial resources to the UN counter-terrorism architecture and obligations of member states to take effective measures to prevent terrorist activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-biggest-perpetrator-and-supporter-of-terrorism-masquerading-as-its-victim-india-slams-pakistan-at-un-101633633516795.html
08-10-2021||India||School principal, teacher killed in Jammu and Kashmir: Anger, grief shroud kin||The killing of a government school teacher and its principal by terrorists in Eidgah area of Srinagar on Thursday left families and school staff in shock, as they raised security concerns for members of minority communities amid a spate of attacks in and around Jammu and Kashmir’s capital. At 11.15 am, Satinder Kour (50), principal of Government Boys Higher Secondary school in Eidgah, and a teacher at the school, Deepak Chand, were shot dead inside the school premises by terrorists. The Resistance Front (TRF), which police say is the front for terror group Lashkar-e-Taiba, claimed responsibility for the attack and said the teachers were killed for their role in getting students to participate in a “function at school on August 15”, India’s independence day. As news of the killings spread, several relatives and neighbours reached Kour’s residence in Tulsibagh, in uptown Srinagar, to console her family. “She left for school feeling very happy this morning. Hours later, her lifeless body has reached home. Why didn’t the gunmen kill me? I am an old woman. Why did they cut her life short?” Kour’s 75-year-old mother said. A 52-year-old teacher of a government high school in Chanpora said: “This lady would help several orphan Muslim students. She was very humble and ready to help everyone.” Kour is survived by her husband and two children. A pall of gloom also descended on Pandoka Colony in Paloura area where Deepak Chandlived with his parents, wife and a three-year-old daughter.“What can I say… whatever has happened is due to system failure. The system is in deep slumber, they cannot do anything. Tomorrow again someone will be killed and there shall be mourning in that house. The entire family tends to die with that person,” Chand’s cousin Vicky Mehra said. “See his (Chand’s) wife and mother. How will they live now? He had a three-year-old daughter. Can’t they (government) stop all this... We have been targeted for the last 30 years and are still receiving threat calls,” he added. Another cousin of the deceased teacher, Ajay Kumar, said: “I spoke to him on Wednesday evening. The news of his killing this morning shook me from inside. I saw his photos on the internet and called his number but the line was busy.” “When another family member called on his number, the receiver said we may meet the same fate if we dared to visit Kashmir,” he added.Even the faculty and employees in school, which comprises around 120 students, expressed shock over the incident. “I was having tea when the attack took place. I did not witness the attack. I am a heart patient and I found the incident to be very scary,” school employee Farooq Ahmad said. A teacher claimed she heard sounds of gunshots and the attackers say “now raise flags”. “It was the most painful moment of our lives,”the teacher added.Eyewitnesses claimed that at least two to three terrorists entered the school premises and fired at the principal and teacher from point blank range before fleeing from the spot. The incident was also condemned by JK Employees joint Action Committee chairman Mohd Rafique Rather who himself is a lecturer. “These innocent killings remind us of the tragic reality of the vicious cycle of violence which is pushing our society to darkness,” he said.Chamber of Commerce and Industries Jammu president Arun Gupta said attempts are being made by terrorists to create a sense of fear among members of the minority community, including the Kashmiri Pandits and Sikhs. Asserting that members of these communities are soft targets for the terrorists, he urged the Centre to take serious note of such unabated killings and called for stringent action against the culprits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/school-principal-teacher-killed-in-jammu-and-kashmir-anger-grief-shroud-kin-101633632785670.html
08-10-2021||India||MEA condemns ‘targeted killing’ of civilians in Jammu and Kashmir||India on Thursday strongly condemned the “targeted killing” of civilians in Jammu and Kashmir, saying the attacks reflected its concerns about cross-border terrorism emanating from Pakistan.“We strongly condemn the targeted killing of civilians. We are concerned about cross-border terrorism from Pakistan,” said external affairs ministry (MEA) spokesperson Arindam Bagchi at a regular media briefing.He added, “We discuss cross-border terrorism at meetings with our partners and what steps the international community should take.”The principal and a teacher of a government school in Eidgah area of Srinagar were gunned down by unidentified armed men on Thursday, taking the toll from targeted attacks on civilians in Kashmir since Tuesday to five. On Tuesday, Makhan Lal Bindroo, a well-known pharmacy owner, was killed in Srinagar by terrorists.India has for long blamed Pakistan for supporting, training and arming terrorists operating in Jammu and Kashmir, a charge denied by Islamabad. Relations between the two countries continue to be strained despite their fresh commitment to a ceasefire on the Line of Control (LoC) in Kashmir in February following several months of back-channelacontacts between senior intelligence officials.‘Kabul gurdwara vandalism concern for India & world’Meanwhile, the MEA spokesperson on Thursday said that vandalism at a gurdwara in Kabul by armed men was a matter of concern and the world community must insist on the protection of the human rights of all segments of Afghan society.Suspected Taliban fighters entered the Gurdwara Karte Parwan on October 5, tied up guards and destroyed CCTV cameras. The men also briefly occupied the building, smashed several locks and conducted a search, triggering concerns within the Sikh minority.“The reports of vandalism and intolerance raise concerns not just for us, but across the world,” said Bagchi.“It is important that the international community continues to insist on the fulfilment of goals outlined in the UN Security Council resolution 2593,” he added.Bagchi was referring to a Security Council resolution adopted on August 30, when India held the rotational presidency of the UN body.He said the resolution guides the world community’s collective approach towards Afghanistan, and states that all countries should ensure that Afghan territory isn’t used for terrorism and that the rights of all Afghans, including women and minorities, are protected.The resolution also encourages all parties to seek an inclusive and negotiated settlement in Afghanistan, he said.Bagchi added that the regional security situation, including Afghanistan, had figured in US deputy secretary of state Wendy Sherman’s talks with her Indian interlocutors on Wednesday.“We highlighted our perspective on the role of Pakistan and what our concerns are regarding that,” he said.In response to several questions, Bagchi said the issue of resumption of commercial flights to Afghanistan for the evacuation of Indian nationals and return of Afghan citizens was a sensitive issue. The visas of Afghan citizens who are stuck in India and facing problems for their return are being automatically extended, he said.The MEA spokesperson further said India is yet to decide on the level of its participation in a meeting on Afghanistan convened by the G20 on October 12. He added that there was no information about India being extended any invitation for a meeting on Afghanistan being organised by Russia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mea-condemns-targeted-killing-of-civilians-in-jammu-and-kashmir-101633632124395.html
08-10-2021||India||Govt plans quarterly data on jobs from next financial year||Starting from the April-June quarter of 2022, the first of financial year 2022-23, the labour ministry will release official quarterly estimates of the number of jobs created in the country, a government official familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity.India lacks an official periodic, high-frequency jobs survey and two quarterly employment surveys are meant to fill this critical gap.Economists and policymakers usually depend on the longer-term Periodic Labour Force Survey of the Union ministry of statistics and programme implementation or the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE), a private data firm, for trends in the labour market and employment/unemployment data.The quarterly estimates will be available via the All-India Quarterly Establishment-based Employment Survey or AQEES, currently under way. AQEES has two components. One is the quarterly employment survey (QES), which deals with the formal sector. Results of the first round of this survey were released last week, showing a 29% increase in employment in nine sectors during the peak Covid-19 months of April-June 2021 over a base of 2013-14.This means employment grew an average annual 3.42% since 2014, led by jobs in the technology sector, aside from those in nine key sectors including manufacturing and financial services.The second component, launched this past Sunday, will capture job-creation estimates in the unorganized sector through a sample survey. It is being called the Area Frame Establishment Survey (AFES) and will cover businesses employing less than 10 workers.The two components will eventually be merged to provide official quarterly employment estimates in the country for the first time from the first quarter of FY2022-23, the official said. “By FY2022-23, the government plans to combine these and put outcomprehensive quarterly job creation estimates.”“The government’s move to survey the labour market quarterly and release more employment data should be wholeheartedly welcomed. It will help bridge the data gap and without data, we are blind,” Mahesh Vyas of CMIE said. The second wave of Covid-19 is estimated to have wiped out at least 23 million jobs, according to CMIE.A nascent recovery has however started, adding jobs and the country’s unemployment rate dropped sharply to 6.26% in September , compared to 8.32% in August, according to CMIE, which tracks the labour market with proprietary tools.In any jobs survey, people with jobs are categorised as employed. People without jobs, but actively looking for one, are considered unemployed. The labour force participation rate is equal to people who are employed plus those who are not. The unemployment rate therefore is the number of unemployed divided by the labour force times 100.In all, the quarterly surveys will capture data from the job markets in nine sectors, including manufacturing, hospitality, trade, transport and education in both formal and informal sectors of Asia’s third largest economy.Releasing the first-round results of the job survey in the formal sector last week, the labour bureau’s report said: “It is obvious that employment figures from establishment-based surveys like the present QES (as the initial first component of the All-India Quarterly Establishment-based Employment Survey AQEES) can provide an idea -- though incomplete -- about ‘gainful’ employment in different sectors of the economy.”“The growth rate (in jobs of 29% in the formal sector) reported by the government constitutes simple growth between two data points and hence we get fantastic growth rates like 29%. However, for assessing employment scenario, the reliable growth rate statistic would be the compounded average growth rate,” said KR Shyam Sundar of the Xaviers Labour Relations Institute, Jamshedpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-plans-quarterly-data-on-jobs-from-next-financial-year-101633631944308.html
08-10-2021||India||Unpacking the diverse, emotive world of emojis||There is an emoji that has baffled me for a while. Guides online said that it was a “person raising both hands in celebration.” That didn’t seem quite right. It looked like a cross between a peace sign and a clapping sound. I discovered the truth while walking around my building. “Arya, what does an emoji like this mean?” I asked earnestly, raising both my hands to imitate the emoji.“Oh, aunty, that’s a high-ten. Or a high-five,” the ten-year-old said immediately.Wow, I thought, staring at the curly-locked kid with a cricket bat. “Arya, will you be my emoji guru?” I asked.Flabbergasted about the prospect of him being the guru to anyone,, let alone an adult, the kid’s jaw dropped. I rushed on. “There are so many hand gestures. I want to be appropriate, you know. Be cool….” There is one thing more pathetic than an auntie who is not cool, and that is an auntie who ‘wants’ to be cool. So I cleared my throat, opened my phone, and pointed to a raised fist emoji in my phone. “Like what does this mean?” I asked.“What do you think it means?” Arya asked in reply, looking like Miss Pushpa, my high school teacher. “Well,” I said. “I think it means, ‘I am going to punch you,’ or something like that.”Arya laughed. He called out to the other Lilliputs with their balls, bats and stumps. “Hey, look, da. Aunty thinks the raised fist means punching,” he said.Suddenly, a crowd of kids were gazing at me, like I was a Harappan civilization relic. One kindly kid with glasses and a football glove said, “The closed fist means, ‘I am with you.’ Like you know. ‘We are in this fight together.’ It is the opposite of punching.”Solidarity. That’s what it meant. I sighed. Clearly, I had a long way to go. “What about smiley faces? There are so many versions,” I said. “I don’t know when to use the one with tears, one with the tongue sticking out, one with the wink….”“When all else fails, just put the vomiting one,” said little Naomi. “That’s the one I use the most.”“And I use the namaste one all the time,” I said.I was immediately pronounced ‘lame,’ even though there is no ‘lame’ emoji.Emojis were invented for the smartphone. They are a way to express emotions without having to use your face. A lazy way to reply in my view, like you cannot even be bothered to type in the words, “Thank you,” or say “That’s wonderful,” when a friend says she got promoted. Instead you send a thumbs up emoji. That said, emojis are versatile and this is the reason I use the ‘namaste’ emoji. In a school class WhatsApp group, what do you do when a school mom sends information about some charity that she supports? You cannot call her a show-off, or tell her not to hijack the group with her posts, or that you don’t care about her constant charity efforts. So you send a namaste. Katham: finished. Emojis alleviate what can come across as rude. When you want to be curt or assertive, a smiley face at the end helps. “This strategy is totally wrong for the market,” you can text your boss and then put a smiling face. Or a rueful face. Just like that, you have just sent a mixed message, much like we spouses do in our marriages. “Babe, I love your friends but they are such bores (smiling face).”Like many things in today’s India, we can claim that we invented the emoji thousands of years ago. How, you ask. Think about our Indian mudras in dance.“Aren’t dance mudras like emojis?” I asked my dancer friend, Madhu Natraj. “After all, they convey emotions through gestures, right?”“Well, dance does that and more,” she replied. “But yes, mudras or hasthas depict objects, express emotions, create situations and limitless other possibilities.”And in front of my delighted eyes, I witnessed a dancer’s mobile face convey the nava-rasas-- the nine emotions. The emoji inventors no doubt did a freeze-frame of such dancers and came up with illustrations that convey emotions. Indian dance emotes and so there are emojis, right? Or too much?The place where I use emojis a lot is Facebook. There is a wonderful line in Jane Austen’s, Pride and Prejudice where Mr. Bennett, the father, says, “For what do we live, but to make sport for our neighbours, and laugh at them in our turn?”Facebook for many of us is exactly that. Admit it, how many of you spend time scrolling through Facebook so you can scoff at your “friends,” laugh at the self-consciously stylish photos they post, the model-like poses they strike? Like the father said, we live to make fun of our friends.What do you do when an acquaintance who is a friend on Facebook posts a photo of her in some random cocktail party? You think she looks horrific in that ill-fitting dress? But tell her that would be honest and social media is all about hypocrisy. So what do you do? Simple: send a kiss-kiss emoji.What about that male colleague of yours who posts a photo of him wearing sunglasses on a beach? You burst out laughing at his pretensions. Guy thinks he is James Bond, you mutter. Look at him trying desperately to tuck in his beer-belly. But you cannot say that. So you send a biceps emoji. Or maybe it is the raised-fist, “I am with you in solidarity” one. Let me check with my cricket-playing gurus in the playground.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unpacking-the-diverse-emotive-world-of-emojis-101633631824398.html
08-10-2021||India||Leopard escapes from zoo near Bengal’s Jhargram town||There was panic in Jhargram town of Bengal’s Jhargram district on Thursday evening when a leopard escaped from its cage at the mini zoo located around two kilometres away, police said. Zoo employees found the cage empty at about 6 pm. The forest department was immediately informed and mobile teams of the district police started alerting people using public address systems, said an officer from Jhargram police station. The leopard, which was brought to the zoo in 2018, could not be spotted till 10 pm. Featuring forests and hilly terrains, Jhargram district is part of the Jangalmahal area covering the western parts of Bengal and the state of Jharkhand. These terrains were a haven for Maoist guerillas operating in Bengal till 2011. The zoological park was set up by the state forest department in 1980. It houses various types of deer, snakes, wolves, bears, monkeys and birds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/leopard-escapes-from-zoo-near-bengal-s-jhargram-town-101633631764443.html
08-10-2021||India||Terror attacks revive memories of 1990s exodus; Shah reviews security in J&K||Terror attacks targeting minorities and non-locals in the Kashmir Valley have revived memories of the mass exodus of minority communities that took place in the early 1990s when targeted killings of civilians were carried out with the onset of terrorism in the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir -- prompting security agencies and the Union home ministry to take note.On Thursday after terrorists shot dead two school teachers Satinder Kour and Deepak Chand in the Valley, at least two zonal education offices put out notices asking Kashmiri Pandit teachers who were offered jobs under a Union government scheme to stay in the transit camp in Kheer Bhawani Temple in Ganderbal district. HT has reviewed the notice issued by the Ganderbal district office; it specifies that these teachers, who sought security following Thursday’s killings, should stay in the temple complex till further orders.“We are scared; government or security authorities have not reached out to us. Most of the people who live in transit camps or rented accommodation have no security and therefore, we have decided to leave for Jammu,” said a Kashmiri Pandit government employee in Anantnag. There are approximately 1,500 employees from Sikh and Pandit communities who were given jobs under the package in Anantnag alone.A second Pandit family also confirmed that they had sought leave of absence from work and were planning to leave the Valley. “For the past 12 years the government has not even made arrangements for proper housing for the employees who were given jobs under the package; we live in rented accommodation and are sitting ducks,” one member of this family said.Tuesday’s killing of ML Bindroo, a prominent member of the KP community who ran a pharmacy in the valley has exacerbated fear among the minority community. A street vendor from Bihar, Virendra Paswan and a local resident of Bandipora, Mohammad Shafi Lone, who was the president of the Taxi Association were also killed on Tuesday.“The pattern is the same, just as minority community leaders were accused of being informers in the 1990s, they are again being accused of working for the agencies. Since, no security arrangements have been made, I believe about 100 odd families will move out of the Valley by tomorrow,” said Sanjay Tickoo of the Kashmiri Pandit Sangarsh Samiti.Following the killings, security agencies have gone into a huddle and a series of meetings have taken place in Delhi and the newly created Union territory.Union home minister Amit Shah is learnt to have deliberated upon the issue on Thursday at North Block during a regular security review meeting with National Security Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval, union home secretary Ajay Bhalla, Intelligence Bureau chief Aravind Kumar, and Kuldiep Singh and Pankaj Kumar Singh , director generals of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and Border Security Force (BSF) respectively.A senior government officer said on condition of anonymity that intelligence and security agencies responsible for Jammu and Kashmir have been asked to ensure that civilians are not targeted and persons responsible for these attacks are traced and punished.Later, the IB chief had separate meetings with senior officials in Kashmir, a second officer told HT.The Resistance Front (TRF), an offshoot of Lashkar-e-Taiba, has taken responsibility of the attacks and intelligence agencies believe there could be more such attacks with Pakistan-backed groups wanting to create disturbance in the valley.J&K director general of police Dilbag Singh said that “the recent incidents of targeting civilians are to create an atmosphere of fear and communal disharmony here. There is a conspiracy to target the local ethos and values and defame local Kashmiri Muslims. This is being done on the instructions from agencies in Pakistan. I am sure we will find those behind these incidents very soon”.Security agencies say there have been close over 20 civilian killings in the Valley this year and about 37 the previous year.Security agencies also claim that there has been a massive crackdown on terror groups. According to them, there were 52 terrorists of local origin active in J&K from January 2021 of which 20 were killed and 13 were arrested within a month of their joining. “Thirteen were killed within two months of joining and 9 got arrested. In the third month of their joining, three were killed in an encounter and 1 was arrested…Their count is decreasing day by day; the life span of those joining terror groups is just about a month or two,” said an officer at a security agency who asked not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terror-attacks-again-revive-memories-of-1990s-exodus-amit-shah-reviews-security-in-jammu-and-kashmir-101633631706395.html
08-10-2021||India||NGT can take up environment issues on its own: Supreme Court||In a landmark judgement that comes as a shot in the arm for legitimate environmental causes, the Supreme Court said the National Green Tribunal does have suo moto powers and can take up environmental issues on its own. The order came even as the Union government said NGT does not have such powers. “The National Green Tribunal cannot afford to remain a mute spectator when no one knocks on its door,” the court said on Thursday while passing an order that vests suo moto powers to the body created under the National Green Tribunal Act 2010 for protection of environment.Holding that any other interpretation would go against public good and render the environmental watchdog “toothless” and “ineffective”, a three-judge bench of Justices AM Khanwilkar, Hrishikesh Roy and CT Ravikumar said, “It is vital for the well being of the nation and its people, to have a flexible mechanism to address all issues pertaining to environmental damage and resultant climate change so that we can leave behind a better environmental legacy for our children, and the generations thereafter.”The court was considering a batch of appeals on the question whether NGT has the power to take notice of press reports or even seek response from the government (or government bodies) on preventing and protecting damage to the environment without any application being filed before it. The issue was raised by the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai (MCGM) which was slapped with a fine of ₹5 crore by NGT for not setting up sewage treatment plants. The NGT order of October 2018 came on the basis of a news report. Subsequently, similar exercise of suo moto power by NGT was challenged by the Kerala government in a case relating to shifting of stone quarries from residential areas.The bench declared, “It is accordingly declared that the NGT is vested with suo motu power in discharge of its functions under the NGT Act.” Adding a rider, the bench added, “The exercise of suo motu jurisdiction does not mean eschewing principles of natural justice and fair play. In other words, the party likely to be affected should be afforded due opportunity to present their side, before suffering adverse orders.”In its 77-page judgment, the Court said that given the fallout of the climate crisis, “where adverse environmental impact may be egregious, but the community affected is unable to effectively get the machinery into action, a forum created specifically to address such concerns should surely be expected to move with expediency, and of its own accord.”The NGT Act provided a specialized role to the tribunal to act on issues where a dispute arose under seven specified laws: The Water Act, The Water Cess Act, The Forest Conservation Act, Air Act, Environment Protection Act, Public Liability Insurance Act and the Biological Diversity Act.  The issue before the court was whether an application by a person, as stated in Section 18 of the Act, alone can trigger action by the Tribunal. The Centre represented by Additional Solicitor General (ASG) took the view that NGT can act on a letter or representation but cannot assume suo moto powers to act independently on any issue. This view was also supported by the court-appointed amicus curiae senior advocate Anand Grover.Justice Hrishikesh Roy, writing the judgment for the bench, said, “The functional capacity of the NGT was intended to leverage wide powers to do full justice in its environmental mandate.” There were also concerns expressed by lawyers that suo moto powers could be abused. To counter this, the bench said, “As long as the sphere of action is not breached, the NGT’s powers must be understood to be of the widest amplitude.”The court said it is was conscious of the fact that often citizens may not approach the tribunal. This could be on account of illiteracy, lack of mobility, technical knowledge, or when powerful entities with adequate wherewithal skirt regulations. The bench said, “The duty to safeguard Article 21 rights cannot stand on a narrow compass of interpretation….It may not always be feasible for individuals to knock on the doors of the Tribunal, and NGT in such exigencies must not be made dysfunctional. Procedural provisions must be allowed to fall in step with the substantive rights that are invoked in the environmental domain, in larger public interest.” Article 21 of the constitution protects the right to life and personal liberty. Further, the bench noted that addressing evolving environmental concerns will require a flexible institutional mechanism. “An affirmative role, beyond mere adjudication at the instance of applicant, is certainly required for serving the ends of environmental justice, as the statute itself requires of the NGT.”“The hands-off mode for the NGT, when faced with exigencies requiring immediate and effective response, would debilitate the forum from discharging its responsibility and this must be ruled out in the interest of justice… We cannot validate an argument which furthers uncertainty to justify the role of a spectator, if not inaction, and would most assuredly result in injustice,” the court said.Senior advocate Raj Panjwani, a leading lawyer on environmental issues said, “The judgment by the top court will strengthen the functioning of the NGT as there was always a lurking doubt over its power to take up suo moto cases. Since this tribunal was created under a statute, every attempt was made to restrict the Tribunal’s suo moto powers. This decision clears those doubts and paves way for NGT to be assertive on serious environmental issues that may necessarily not be agitated by any private individual.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ngt-can-take-up-environment-issues-on-its-own-supreme-court-101633631587237.html
08-10-2021||India||Gauhati HC seeks affidavit from govt on Assam eviction drive violence||“Khoon zameen pe gir gaya (blood has been spilt),” rued the Gauhati high court on Thursday as it directed the Assam government to file a detailed affidavit on last month’s clashes during an eviction drive at Sipajhar in Darrang district which claimed two lives and injured nearly 20 others, including 11 policemen.A bench of Chief Justice Sudhanshu Dhulia and Justice Soumitra Saikia asked the state government to file a detailed affidavit in three weeks, explaining the circumstances leading up to the incident.“It was an unfortunate incident...a big tragedy. We will ask for a detailed affidavit from the state. The issue is (that) three lives (were) lost. Khoon zameen pe gir gaya,” observed the bench, as it admitted a petition filed by Congress legislature party leader Debabrata Saikia and another suo motu (registered on its own) petition.“This is a big tragedy...very unfortunate. Those who are guilty, if at all, must be punished...no doubt about that. Not just in this but in one or two other incidents as well,” added the bench, asking the Assam government to make its stand clear on the 2007 National Relief and Rehabilitation Policy.The Assam government ordered a judicial inquiry on the violent eviction drive at Dholpur 3 village on September 23 where clashes erupted while police were trying to forcibly remove settlers from government land. The deceased included a 12-year-old boy and a 33-year-old man.A photographer, who was engaged by the district administration and was seen stomping on an injured villager in a viral video, has been arrested. Three residents of the area have also been arrested for instigating violence during the drive.During the court hearing on Thursday, state’s advocate general Debojit Saikia claimed that there was an “unprovoked attack on the police” resulting in clashes between the security forces and occupants during an eviction drive in villages at Sipajhar on September 23. He said that the plan was to evict 125 families, but nearly 20,000 people, including outsiders with doubtful credentials, gathered at the site and attacked the policemen, which in turn led to retaliatory action.The advocate general also said that the petitioner in the case, being the leader of opposition in the state assembly, has a different agenda and should rather fight political fights at political fora, outside the courts.The court, however, told the law officer that it cannot stop an individual from approaching the court just because he or she happens to be a political person. It added that Debabrata Saikia has also disclosed his identity in his petition and did not conceal anything.Appearing for the Congress leader, senior advocate Chander Uday Singh submitted that the state is liable to pay compensation for the “ex facie illegal actions of the police” and requested the bench to direct the criminal investigation department to conduct an independent investigation into the matter as well.Assisted by advocate Talha Abdul Rehman, Singh also adduced several policies of the Centre and state government to ensure resettlement and rehabilitation of those affected by floods in the state, contending that the cabinet decision regarding the eviction drive must also be put in the public domain.The next date of hearing on the petitions is November 3.“The court took the matter seriously and directed the state government to respond on its policy regarding evictions and rehabilitation. The court rejected the advocate general’s contention that the petition was politically motivated since I am the leader of opposition in assembly,” petitioner Saikia said later.In his PIL, Saikia had sought court’s intervention on conducting mandatory social impact assessment and ensure that the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013, is followed in the state.The petition mentioned that those who were being evicted at Dholpur were from marginalised and socio-economically disadvantaged sections who were forced to migrate due to floods and erosions.The eviction drive at Dholpur was carried out following a state government plan to start an ambitious agricultural project on nearly 77,000 ‘bighas’ of government land.The petition, however, challenged the eviction stating that it was “arbitrary, violative of Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution, violative of parts IX and IXA of the Constitution which requires democratization of economic and social planning, in contravention of Panchayat Act, 1994”.It added that on September 23 there was use of “excessive, illegal and disproportionate force and firearms by police officials, allegedly in response to the protests against the eviction drive”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gauhati-hc-seeks-affidavit-from-govt-on-assam-eviction-drive-violence-101633631585172.html
08-10-2021||India||LUH military variant to make maiden test flight next August||After wrapping up a rigorous flight testing of prototype helicopters in challenging conditions, state-run plane makers Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) set August 2022 as the deadline for carrying out the maiden test flight of the first chopper in the indigenous light utility helicopter (LUH) limited series production, senior officials familiar with the development said on Thursday. LUH’s first test flight will be carried out from the new Tumakuru facility in Karnataka, another official said.LUH will replace the army and the Indian Air Force’s ageing fleets of Cheetah and Chetak helicopters, whose safety record has been blemished by a string of crashes --- two army pilots were killed last month in the latest Cheetah crash near Patnitop in Jammu and Kashmir. Around 15 Cheetah and Chetak helicopters have crashed during the last 10 years, killing several pilots. Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat (then a lieutenant general) survived a Cheetah crash in Dimapur on February 3, 2015. “The first test flight of the LUH in the limited series production (LSP) will be carried out next August. HAL is on the verge of getting an order for 12 LUHs – six each for the army and IAF,” said one of the officials cited above. At his annual press conference on October 5, IAF chief Air Chief Marshal Vivek Ram Chaudhari said the air force would soon place an order for six LUHs. The design of the Cheetah and Chetak helicopters is more than 50 years old, and their airworthiness was questioned once again after the Patnitop crash. HAL expects the army and IAF to place combined orders for at least 187 light helicopters in the coming years (126 for the army and 61 for IAF). “All trials on the four LUH prototypes are over. The last set of trials to establish LUH’s extra manoeuvrability concluded in Ladakh this week. The army and IAF wanted some changes and LUH performed better than expected,” said a second official. HAL is expected to deliver the first set of LUHs to the services in two to three years of the signing of the contract. Subsequent orders will be executed at a faster pace as LUH production will also begin at HAL’s new helicopter factory in Tumakuru, Karnataka. The Bengaluru and Tumakuru facilities will be capable of rolling out 100 light helicopters every year, the second official added. “The Cheetah and Chetak replacement has been long overdue. They were designed in the 1960s. LUH has proved its capabilities in multiple rounds of trials in extreme conditions in the northern sector. It’s quite an achievement in indigenous helicopter manufacturing,” said Air Marshal Anil Chopra (retd), director-general, Centre for Air Power Studies. Currently, the Cheetah and Chetak helicopters are a critical lifeline for troops in high-altitude areas, including the Siachen glacier. HAL has licence-produced 625 Cheetah and Chetak helicopters. It no longer builds them but is responsible for their maintenance and repair. The Army Aviation director-general Lieutenant General AK Suri on Thursday visited aviation squadrons in forwarding areas, including Leh, and flew a test sortie in LUH whose trials have been completed, the Udhampur-based Northern Command said. India is also looking at jointly building with Russia the Kamov-226T light helicopters in the country. The Kamovs are also expected to replace the Cheetah and Chetak helicopters. However, the $1-billion programme, under which Russia will supply 60 helicopters in flyaway condition and the remaining 140 will be manufactured in India, is yet to kick off. The army, IAF and navy together need around 500 light helicopters. HAL is also awaiting a contract from the defence ministry for 15 light combat helicopters (LCHs) and expects follow-on orders as the army and IAF have a combined projected requirement of 160 LCHs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/luh-military-variant-to-make-maiden-test-flight-next-august-101633631284774.html
08-10-2021||India||MoS Ajay Mishra attends BPRD event amid row||Union minister of state for home affairs, Ajay Kumar Mishra, on Thursday attended a scheduled Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPRD) event at Mahipalpur. The development comes despite pressure by the opposition parties demanding that the central government sack the minister.Mishra’s son Ashish Mishra has been booked along with others by the Uttar Pradesh police for allegedly running over farmers in Lakhmipur Kheri on Sunday.The minister addressed the police and prison officers from across the country as part of BPRD’s 7th conference of heads of prisons of all states and Union territories, with a theme of “preparing a decadal road map for the prisons and correctional services”.However, the media was blocked from covering the event.According to a statement issued by the BPRD, Mishra emphasised during his inaugural address that the gathering in the conference i.e. 75 senior prison officers from 25 States and four Union territories, is the right platform to deliberate on the issues and frame a policy which will have a wider perspective and wider acceptability.Mishra said the “main challenge for reintegrating inmates into the mainstream of society is providing a safe environment to them. Jail systems must have provisions for providing training and skill development for people living inside prisons and aftercare programmes.”He further added that the “concept of e-prisons saves time and makes the process easier for further associating with the courts. Another important aspect of e-prisons is e-mulakaat, which has made the process easy for inmates to contact their families.”Earlier, on Wednesday, the BPRD hinted that the event was put on hold.Eight people, including four farmers and a local journalist Raman Kashyap, died on Sunday in violence that broke out when at least one car, allegedly driven by the minister’s son, hit protesting farmers, prompting an angry crowd to burn two vehicles and lynch the occupants of one of the vehicles. Farmers have sought the arrest of the minister and his son. The minister has denied the charges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mos-ajay-mishra-attends-bprd-event-amid-row-101633631225418.html
08-10-2021||India||US expects defined climate ambition from India at COP26: John Kerry||US special presidential envoy for climate John F Kerry on Thursday said he expects “defined climate ambitions” from India at the Glasgow Climate Change Conference (COP 26) scheduled for later this month.“I look forward to joining our Indian friends at COP 26 at Glasgow where India can join all of us in demonstrating on a global stage the seriousness of its defined climate ambitions,” he said while addressing the US-India Business Council’s India Ideas Summit.“We have to do more to address the climate crisis. To keep 1.5 degree C within reach, we need to take dramatic actions now on global emission reductions and to achieve net zero emissions by mid century or before,” he said, adding that “India is a critical partner in this effort”. “India has already made a bold statement by setting out a target of 450 GW of installed renewable energy capacity by 2030. We are committed to helping India to be able to achieve that goal every and in any way that we can,” he said. Kerry also said that India and the US will work together on increasing technical exchanges to expand trade and foreign direct investment.“The partnership underscores our joint commitment to taking decisive climate action during this critical decade. That’s what scientists tell us we must do,” he said.Last month, Kerry and Environment Minister Yadav launched the Climate Action and Finance Mobilisation Dialogue that aims to attract investment and technology in clean energy projects.The dialogue is one of the tracks to finance projects for climate change mitigation under the India-US climate and Clean Energy Agenda 2030.The International Energy Agency forecasts nearly half of the emissions reductions needed will have to come from emerging technologies not yet ready for commercial markets. “India and US clean hydrogen partnership will advance this. That’s why we are excited to have launched the US India hydrogen task force,” he added.Meanwhile, Union environment minister Bhupender Yadav, who was also a part of the summit, said the need of the hour is global public partnership to harness technology, innovation and finance to help developing countries scale up their efforts to protect nature.“Our climate actions and obligations are guided by the principles of common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities and equity (CBDR-RC),” he said.“In addressing the contemporary challenges, it is important to focus on solutions that can help us reach our goals with justice. The need of the hour is a global public partnership to harness technology, innovation and finance to help developing countries in scaling up their efforts to protect nature,” he added. A senior environment ministry official, on the condition of anonymity, said: “India may announce an enhanced nationally determined contribution (NDC) but the decision is taken at the highest level. We do not have enough information immediately. They are still being discussed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-expects-defined-climate-ambition-from-india-at-cop26kerry-101633630866341.html
08-10-2021||India||Centre begins training for use of Zydus vaccine||The government has begun training vaccinators around the country on how to deliver the coronavirus vaccine developed by Zydus Cadila, an exercise that officials said is crucial since the dose is not given through conventional syringes.Zydus Cadila’s ZyCoV-D has been granted emergency use authorisation by India’s drugs regulators, and it could become the first vaccine to be approved in children since its phase 3 trials included volunteers of ages 12 and above.“Preparation for the roll-out of Zydus vaccine is currently on; training is being imparted to those involved in giving the shot at various levels. This vaccine is not administered conventionally using a syringe and a needle but through an applicator that is being used in the country for the first time. Staff is being trained at the ground level, which is a task in itself. People were divided in various groups—master trainers, state trainers etc., to provide the requisite training,” said VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog. The vaccine was approved on August 20 but it is yet to be included in the Covid-19 vaccination drive.“Apart from this all other logistical issues are also being solved, and very soon this vaccine will also be a part and parcel of our Covid-19 vaccination programme. In coming days we have to complete the task of vaccinating all adults, as vaccine availability is no longer an issue,” added Paul during the weekly media briefing on Covid-19 on Thursday. As per government data, 71% of India’s adult population has received at least one dose of a Covid-19 vaccine, while 27% has been fully vaccinated. The government is also making preparations to deal with any surge in cases that may occur due to the upcoming festive season, the officials said. Paul said that 836,000 hospital beds are currently available in the country for Covid-19 patients, in addition to nearly one million isolation beds in dedicated care centres. Nearly 486,000 oxygen-supported beds and 135,000 intensive care unit beds are also available. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday dedicated 35 Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants established under PM Cares across 35 states and Union Territories at AIIMS Rishikesh. A total of 1,224 PSA oxygen plants have been funded under PM Cares so far in the country, of which at least 1,100 plants have been commissioned, providing a daily output of at least 1,750 metric tonnes oxygen. “It is good to remain prepared; as we have seen an upswing in cases in the past around festivities. People tend to drop their guard, which is not advisable at this stage of pandemic,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head, pulmonology and sleep medicine department, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi. But officials stressed on the need for people to be careful. “We cannot afford to take the current stable situation for granted. We have to be mindful of the fact that the pandemic is still going on and can take an untoward turn if we are not careful. People need to avoid crowded places and unnecessary travel; stay home as far as possible and celebrate festivals virtually with shopping online,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, Union ministry of health and family welfare, during the press briefing on Thursday.At present, Kerala is one of the worst-affected states, recording at least 50% of the total Covid-19 cases in the country past week, and the south Indian state is currently having at least 100,000 active cases. Four other states have reported between 10,000 and 50,000 new cases, as per the government data. Thirty-four districts across nine States and Union Territories are also reporting a weekly positivity rate of at least 10%, and 28 districts across 12 states and UTs are reporting a weekly positivity rate between 5 and 10%. Five states— Mizoram, Kerala, Sikkim, Manipur and Meghalaya— are reporting a weekly positivity rate of at least 5%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-begins-training-for-use-of-zydus-vaccine-101633630685533.html
08-10-2021||India||Meet Aleesha, the 6-yr-old Indian-origin climate activist, who won UK PM award||An Indian-origin girl named Aleesha Gadhia, aged six, has won British Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s Points of Light award for her campaigns to raise awareness over deforestation and climate change. Gadhia has so far raised more than £3,000 for the UK-based non-profit ‘Cool Earth’, which works with rainforest communities to cease deforestation and lobbies businesses to generate more sustainable practices.“I feel really excited and happy to have won the award. I am really grateful and honoured to have Prime Minister Boris Johnson to award and write a letter to me. I never thought I would receive such an award,” Gadhia said, according to an official release from the Prime Minister Johnson's Office.The young girl, who hails from West Bridgford in Nottinghamshire, central England, has also established a climate change club at her school.Ruth Edwards, Conservative MP for Rushcliffe, said that she is “absolutely delighted” to hear that Gadhia has been “recognised” for her “amazing work” to safeguard rainforests and raise climate change awareness.“I think she is setting a great example of what we can all do to help our environment. This award is truly well-deserved, and I can’t wait to see what’s next for Aleesha and her campaign,” Edwards was quoted as saying by the release.The minor awardee was also recognised for sending out hundreds of letters and emails to top firms in Great Britain and other influential people in the business, encouraging them to take climate action as well.On winning the award, Gadhia thanked her teachers and also Cool Earth for making her their first youth ambassador.The child climate activist’s parents Kiran and Pooja said they are “so proud” of their daughter for what she has done over the previous year for “someone so young.”This is nolt the first time that Gadhia has been in the spotlight. Earlier this year, the six-year-old took up a challenge and rode 80km on her scooter to raise money for ‘Cool Earth’ for which she received the backing of Queen Elizabeth II and environmentalist Sir David Attenborough.“All the money raised will go towards making this a greener planet,” she had said following the scooter challenge.Gadhia has become the 1,755th person to receive the Prime Minister’s Points of Light award after it was launched in 2014 to honour people making a difference in their communities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meet-aleesha-the-6-yr-old-indian-origin-climate-activist-who-won-uk-pm-award-101633629834171.html
08-10-2021||India||Karo Sambhav founder conferred Social Entrepreneur of the Year Award||Pranshu Singhal was on Thursday announced as the winner of the 12th Social Entrepreneur of the Year Award for having founded Karo Sambhav, an organisation that works on improving recycling and waste management by helping a mostly informal workforce engaged in it have access to more formal mechanisms. Awarded by the Schwab Foundation for Social Entrepreneurship, the sister organisation of the World Economic Forum, and the Jubilant Bhartia Foundation, a nonprofit of the Jubilant Bhartia Group, the Social Entrepreneur of the Year Award recognises promising and successful entrepreneurs who can drive inclusive growth and excel in large-scale, high-impact models.The principal scientific advisor to the Union government, professor K VijayRaghavan, was the chief guest at the event and spoke on the challenges and opportunities in light of the Covid-19 pandemic. “At the beginning of the pandemic, India was known as a vaccine producer but not a developer. But our academia and industry developed vaccines for Covid-19. The second wave of the pandemic was unprecedented, which required our facilities to be ramped up several folds. This was a big challenge but the government, NGOs, and research institutes all came together and worked towards all that was needed,” he said.Social entrepreneurs, he added, “play an important role in connecting the grass root level to their needs”. The view was echoed by Shyam S Bhartia, director of Jubilant Bhartia Foundation and chairman and founder of Jubilant Bhartia Group, who said the pandemic brought to the fore the role of social entrepreneurs as frontline workers. “They acted as implementation partners during this time,” he said. Singhal said the recognition will help raise awareness and the organisation’s work on waste management. “We have solutions to create products, but no systems to take it back to their elemental form. Very little money is going into these systems. This award will really help us be a catalyst in this space. We are reaching the point of no return, we are today in the decade of action and change is unlikely if we act without collective push. We need a movement where organisations, enterprises, governments collaborate and co-create solutions,” he said after receiving the award in a virtual ceremony. Singhal said that one of the other four finalists, Dr Shuchin Bajaj -- who took affordable and quality health care to tier 2 and tier 3 cities in North India -- was his inspiration to quit his job and become a social entrepreneur. Among the finalists was Dr Aparna Hegde, a urogynecologist by training and the founder of Armman, which uses technology to help government health workers and NGOs provide pregnant women and mothers with critical information for their health. Another finalist was Seema Prem, CEO and co-founder of fintech company FIA Global, which serves 45 million customers through 30,000 outlets in inaccessible parts of the country.Dr Shuchin Bajaj, the fourth finalist and founder of Ujala Cygnus Healthcare, has helped address the tertiary healthcare needs of the poorest families in India’s tier-2 and-3 cities. Hilde Shwab, co-founder and chairperson of Schwab foundation of social entrepreneurship, said that even though all participants could not win, they could tap into the networks of the World Economic Forum. While concluding the session, Hari S Bhartia, the founder and co-chairman of Jubilant Bhartia Group, recounted how the Jubilant Group was able to start marketing Remdesivir in just three months after a conversation with the principal scientific adviser on how India needed to manufacture the anti-viral drug then thought to reduce hospitalisation in Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karo-sambhav-founder-pranshu-singhal-conferred-social-entrepreneur-of-the-year-award-101633630504744.html
08-10-2021||India||11-yr-old brutally killed in Bihar, rape suspected: Police||An 11-year-old schoolgirl was allegedly gang raped, brutalised and killed at a village in Bihar’s Kaimur district, police said on Thursday. According to the police, the semi-naked body of the minor girl was found lying on the campus of a residential school for Scheduled Tribes community under Adhaura police station limits of the Maoist-affected Kaimur hills, about 300 km from Patna. Police said there were signs of brutality on the body, suspecting that the assailants inserted hot iron rods in the mouth of the minor. Superintendent of police, Kaimur , Rakesh Kumar, confirmed the murder and use of iron rods in killing. He said two suspects have been taken into custody and their interrogations were on. “The body has been sent for post-mortem examination to ascertain whether she was raped or not. Sub-divisional police officer, Bhabua, Sunita Kumari is investigating the case,” Kumar said. Police said the deceased was a class 5 student at a primary school and had disappeared around 6pm on Wednesday. After she did not return home, her family and villagers launched a search to trace the girl in the night, police said, adding that a villager saw the body lying in semi-naked condition on the high school campus on Thursday morning after which police were informed. “The girl was murdered with iron rods. As far as rape is concerned, it will be only confirmed once we get the post-mortem report,” said the SP. Police said based on the complaint by the father of the girl, a case has been registered under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Police said, in his complaint, the girl’s father, who runs a tea shop, has alleged that three workers from West Bengal, who were employed at an under-construction building of the residential school, raped the girl. “Prima facie, it is clear after seeing the body that she was raped and then murdered. There were holes made in the mouth with hot iron rod,” said Adhaura block pramukh Vipin Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/11yrold-brutally-killed-in-bihar-rape-suspected-police-101633630444158.html
08-10-2021||India||2 arrested in Lakhimpur violence case, summons sent to Mishra’s son: UP Police||Lucknow: Two people were arrested in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri incident in Uttar Pradesh while summons were sent to the main accused, Ashish Mishra, son of the Union minister of state for home Ajay Kumar Mishra Teni, for questioning, senior police officials said on Thursday. Additional Director General (ADG), Law and Order, Prashant Kumar said that two people , identified as Luv Kush and Ashish Pandey, were arrested. Kumar said so far names of total six accused have surfaced during the course of investigation, adding that three of them are dead now..Inspector General of Police Laxmi Singh, however, did not disclose names of the three deceased accounted for in connection with the incident.The Lakhimpur police late on Thursday evening pasted a notice at the Union minister’s residence in Shahpura Kothi locality in Lakhimpur city, asking his son Ashish Mishra alias Monu to appear at the crime branch office in reserve police lines, Lakhimpur Kheri, at 10 am on Friday. The notice read that Ashish Mishra must appear in person and present evidences that he is aware of about the incident.“If Ashish Mishra does not abide by the summons, legal procedure will be adopted,” IG Singh said, adding that there was no time limit in the summons sent to Mishra. Luv Kush and Ashish Pandey were claimed to be close aides of Ashish Mishra and more raids were going on, people aware of the matter said. The arrests came only a few hours after the Supreme Court on Thursday asked the Uttar Pradesh government to submit a report within a day on how many arrests have been made so far in connection with the case. ADG Kumar said the forensic team have found two cartridges and is examining one of the vehicles involved in the incident.The IG added that the incidents of firing or any fire arm injuries were not confirmed in the post-mortem report of the eight deceased. She said the police will proceed with evidences that are coming up during the investigation. Eight people, including four farmers, were killed in Lakhimpur Kheri district on Sunday, in the bloodiest clash since the farmers’ protest over the Centre’s three contentious agricultural laws started last year. The farmers were allegedly knocked down by a convoy of vehicles, one of which belonged to Mishra. Two BJP workers -- Shubham Mishra and Shyam Sunder -- and a driver -- Hari Om Mishra -- were allegedly pulled out of the vehicles and lynched by angry protesters. A journalist working for a private TV channel, Raman Kashyap, also died in the violence. The farmers allege that Mishra’s son was in the convoy. The Lakhimpur Kheri violence has triggered a major political storm with the opposition leaders demanding the removal of Union minister Ajay Mishra, who on Wednesday met Union home minister Amit Shah in New Delhi. He has claimed that his son was not in the car that ploughed through the protesters. He claimed the driver lost balance after being attacked by stone-pelters and then some protesters came under the car. Later, the driver was lynched and the car was set on fire, the minister has claimed. However, the police FIR states that Ashish Mishra was driving the car that ran over the protesters. (WITH AGENCY INPUTS)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-arrested-in-lakhimpur-violence-case-summons-sent-to-mishra-s-son-up-police-101633630386675.html
08-10-2021||India||SC questions ₹8L annual income limit for EWS quota||The Supreme Court on Thursday questioned the methodology adopted by the Union government in fixing ₹8 lakh as the annual income limit to identify the economically weaker section (EWS) for providing 10% quota in public jobs and educational institutions. Seeking relevant points that led to determination, a bench, headed by justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud launched a probe into government’s fixation of income criteria while hearing a clutch of petitions that challenged the 10% quota for EWS within All-India Quota (AIQ) seats in medical admissions. The 10% EWS quota was introduced under the 103rd Constitution (Amendment) Act, 2019 which is under challenge before a five-judge Constitution bench of the Supreme Court. As the Act has not been stayed, the government issued a notification on July 29 introducing 10% EWS quota along with 27% quota for other backward classes (OBC) within the All-India Quota (AIQ) seats for postgraduate medical courses from this academic year. By this decision, 2,500 PG seats in government medical colleges would go to OBCs and 1,000 to EWS. This decision was challenged in a clutch of petitions that came up for hearing on Thursday.The bench said, “We have to probe you (government) on what exercise you did before arriving at this decision or you simply lifted creamy layer criteria applicable to other backward classes (OBC) and applied it to EWS.”The income criterion of ₹8 lakh fixed by the Centre was one of the grounds taken by the petitioners to question the July 29 decision. Senior advocate Arvind Datar arguing the petitions said, “Statistics show that the per capita income in states differs widely - Goa is the state having the highest per capita income of almost ₹4 lakh whereas Bihar is at the bottom with ₹40,000. Therefore, determining EWS for all-India level requires careful study by an expert committee, so that the ends of social justice are attained. They have not shown whether any such exercise was done and if so, by whom.”Datar argued that for this year, EWS reservation should not be given effect in the absence of any criteria explaining the reservation. He referred to a government order of January 17, 2019 which said income from all sources will be counted for EWS reservation. However, in August 2021, another government communication referred to the Commission for Economically Backward Classes headed by retired Major General SR Sinho that formed the basis for providing EWS reservation by fixing ₹8 lakh as the income limit.Additional Solicitor General (ASG) KM Nataraj appearing for the Centre told the court that the criteria adopted can be explained only by the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment and Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT), which has not been represented by the petitioners. He was appearing for the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. On instructions, he stated that the figure of ₹8 lakh was a policy decision of the government based on the National Cost of Living Index. He said the creamy layer fixed for exclusion of the advanced among the OBCs was also ₹8 lakh as per last revision in 2017.The bench said, “You cannot apply the criteria for OBC and apply it to EWS. The OBCs will get reservation if they earn below ₹8 lakh and are socially and educationally backward, so they have to fulfil twin criteria. But with EWS, we are purely dealing with economic backwardness of persons who are forward communities.”The court allowed the ministry of social justice and empowerment and the DoPT to be joined as parties to petition and sought detailed response by Oct 21, the next date of hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scquestions-8l-annual-income-limit-for-ews-quota-101633630265500.html
08-10-2021||India||Tourist visas to be issued from October 15: MHA||The Indian government will be issuing tourist visas once again from October 15, eighteen months after suspending them because of the Covid-19 pandemic, the ministry of home affairs said in a statement on Thursday. Initially, for a month, the tourists will be issued visas only for travel in chartered flights. From November 15, tourists could travel via non-chartered flights, particularly those run as part of Vande Bharat Mission or under ‘air bubble’ arrangements with different countries, MHA said. “Once the demand for tourist visas picks up, regular commercial flights will also start operating,” said a senior ministry official not wishing to be named. MHA said in a statement that it had received a lot of requests from various state governments as well as stakeholders in the tourism sector to allow foreign tourists to come again. The ministry then consulted the ministries of health, external affairs, civil aviation, tourism, and the state governments.“After consulting various inputs, the MHA has decided to begin granting fresh tourist visas for foreigners coming to India through chartered flights with effect from October 15. Foreign tourists entering into India by flights other than chartered aircraft would be able to do so from November 15 on fresh tourist visas,” the statement read. The government added that the visiting tourists, carriers bringing them to India, and all other stakeholders at landing stations will have to adhere to the ever-evolving Covid-19 guidelines issued by the ministry of health and family welfare. Following the first wave of infections in March last year, the issue of tourist visas to foreigners was stopped. But later (when), foreign travellers were allowed to enter India on visas other than the tourist visa. Now, with Covid-19 cases plateauing, and 64.5% of the eligible population being inoculated with both doses of the vaccine, the international tourism industry in India can resume. Last month, Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant wrote to MHA and MEA to grant special permission to allow chartered flights into the state. “Goa is ready to start tourism and is open to welcome tourists. I think ours is the first state to welcome tourists during the pandemic,” Sawant said. Goa, Lakshadweep, Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Sikkim have inoculated 100% of their populations with the first dose, said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary of the health ministry. Earlier, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in an interaction with Goa’s political leaders and health workers last month, had said the Centre has decided to give 500,000 tourists free visas. “Travel and tourism stakeholders will be given loans of up to ₹10 lakh with a 100% guarantee by the government. Tourist guides are being given the facility of taking a loan of up to ₹1 lakh,” Modi had said. Prior to the pandemic, Goa witnessed close to 90 lakh tourists, including around 9 lakh foreigners, directly contributing 16.43% towards the state’s gross domestic product, and employing nearly 35% of the state’s population, according to official estimates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tourist-visas-to-be-issued-from-october-15-mha-101633630264252.html
08-10-2021||India||Court refuses to extend Aryan’s custody, to hear bail plea today||A metropolitan magistrate court on Thursday rejected a plea by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) for a four-day extension of the custody of Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood actor Shahrukh Khan, and seven others arrested with him in the cruise ship rave party case.Immediately after the court rejected NCB’s plea, Aryan and others filed bail applications, but on the request of additional solicitor general Anil Singh, to grant the agency time to react to the bail applications, the court posted the pleas for hearing on Friday.Aryan and the others were, however, not sent to jail, as prison authorities require fresh RT-PCR test reports before admitting any new inmate. The group would spend the night at the NCB office.NCB on Saturday (October 2) night raided a cruise ship at the international cruise terminal in Mumbai and apprehended Aryan Khan, his friend Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha, and five other persons.All of them were booked under section 8C, 20B, 27 read with 35 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985, after officers seized 13 gm of cocaine, 21 gm of charas (hasish), 22 pills of MDMA (ecstasy), 5 gm MD and cash worth ₹1.33 lakh from the cruise ship and were placed under arrest on October 3.All the eight were produced before the metropolitan magistrate court on Thursday afternoon,as their earlier NCB remand ended.Additional solicitor general Anil Singh urged the magistrate court to extend their NCB custody for four more days, contending that based on the information provided by Aryan Khan and Arbaaz, one more person, said Aachit Kumar, a drug supplier has been arrested and 2.6 gm marijuana has been seized from his house in Powai.Singh claimed that Aachit was part of the drug trafficking network in the city and Aryan and Arbaaz were connected with him. He added that one foreign national has also been arrested in the case and contraband material in commercial quantity seized from him.Aryan’s lawyer Satish Maneshinde strenuously opposed the contention. He submitted that Aryan has cooperated with investigators and has not been interrogated for the past two days. “Now, they want to confront me with Aachit Kumar, which they could have done earlier,” he said.Lawyers for the other accused persons also opposed the prayer for extension of their NCB remand.Advocate Taraq Sayed, who represented Arbaaz, submitted that Aryan and Arbaaz know each other, but they can’t be connected with the others.The agency has failed to establish their connection with any other accused.Metropolitan magistrate RM Nerlikar accepted their contentions and rejected the NCB plea, terming it vague. “As per the submissions made by the prosecution they want to confront Aryan Khan and Arbaaz Merchant with Aachit Kumar who was arrested recently,” said the court.“Aachit was arrested after their statements. I do not want to go in that aspect and discuss the fact that why despite the statement given on the first day itself, they (NCB) arrested Aachit now,” the court added.“We cannot discuss what took the agency so much time to arrest the accused Aachit.”The magistrate said for police custody every detail needs to be pointed out and the same is need to be reflected in the remand application.“The remand report is vague,” said the court, adding, “No doubt it is the right of the agency to demand custody. But, police custody without cogent reason would amount to violation of the fundamental rights of the accused.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/court-refuses-to-extend-aryan-s-custody-to-hear-bail-plea-today-101633630084617.html
08-10-2021||India||Mementos to PM Modi auctioned off, ₹16cr raised for Clean Ganga||India’s Olympic gold medallist Neeraj Chopra’s javelin fetched ₹1.5 crore, as several mementos presented as gifts to Prime Minister Narendra Modi were sold over three rounds of auction conducted to coincide with his 20 years in political office since his first term as Gujarat chief minister began in 2001.All the proceeds of the auction will go to the mission to clean the Ganga. According to officials, a total of ₹16 crore was collected for over 1,300 items auctioned.“The third round of e-auction of prestigious gifts and mementos presented to Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi was held from 17th September to 7th October, 2021 through the web portal www.pmmementos.gov.in. The proceeds of the e-auction go to the Namami Gange Mission. Shri Narendra Modi is the first Prime Minister of India to auction all the gifts he has received for the noble cause of conserving and rejuvenating the lifeline of the country - the Holy river Ganga,” the government said in a statement. The bidding for some of the items was continuing until the time of going to print.“1,348 mementos were put up for e-auction in this third round, which has evoked a huge interest among the public, who enthusiastically placed bids to get an opportunity to own a valuable piece of history. The highlight items of this round of e-auction included the sports memorabilia of the medal winning Tokyo 2020 Paralympic Games and the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games; models of Ayodhya Ram Mandir; Varanasi’s Rudraksh auditorium and many other precious and interesting collectibles. More than 8,600 bids were received for the items,” the government statement added. Other items such as the decorative mace, a replica of the Statue of Unity, and a Charkha and a bell received the highest bids in terms of bid value as compared to their base prices. “Maximum number of bids were received by the sculpture of Sardar Patel (140 bids), wooden Ganesha (117 bids), memento of Pune Metro line (104 bids) and memento of Victory flame (98 bids). The favourite picks in terms of the highest bid value were Neeraj Chopra’s javelin ( ₹1.5 cr), autographed fencing sabre of Bhavani Devi ( ₹1.25 cr), Sumit Antil’s javelin ( ₹1.002 cr), Angavastra autographed by the Tokyo 2020 Paralympic contingent ( ₹1 cr) and Lovlina Borgohain’s boxing gloves ( ₹91 lakh),” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mementos-to-pm-modi-auctioned-off-16cr-raised-for-clean-ganga-101633630027854.html
08-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur violence: Opposition leaders attack govt, meet families of victims||Opposition politicians made a beeline for Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri district on Thursday, visiting the families of some of the people who died in violence three days ago and attacking the government for not arresting the accused.Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav told the victims’ kin that if his party forms the government in next year’s assembly elections, it will give ₹2 crore ex gratia each to the families of the four farmers who died. “People from all political parties are here so that the families get justice. The son of a minister will not be arrested as there is a BJP government both in UP and at the Centre,” said Yadav, assuring the grieving families of support. Farm groups say a car owned by Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra ‘Teni’ mowed down protesters from behind while they were returning from a demonstration in Tikunia village on Sunday afternoon.The minister and his son, Ashish Mishra, deny the charge and say farmers pelted the car with stones that led the driver losing control of the vehicle. They also accuse the protesters of lynching two BJP workers and the car’s driver. A local journalist was also killed.Yadav, who was detained in Lucknow when he attempted to visit the village on Monday, met the families of farmers and the journalist. “To keep people’s faith in the government and in the Constitution, the minister must resign and the accused must be sent to jail,” he told reporters. A Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) delegation led by party general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra met the victims’ kin and accused the ruling party and police of trying to save the accused, Ashish Mishra, who has been booked for murder.“The hearing started by the Supreme Court in the Lakhimpur incident gave hope to the people for relief and proper justice, as the attitude of the BJP government in this matter appeared mostly biased,” Mayawati said in a tweet in Hindi.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who spent around 55 hours in detention after being held on Monday while trying to go to Tikunia, met the families of two farmers in Bahraich.“If the minister of state for home does not resign nor is he sacked, then it means that the government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi is giving a message to the public that if someone is in power, if he is a minister, he can do anything,” she told reporters in Moharnia, where she met the family members of Gurvinder Singh, one of the four farmers killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence.“Justice will be done in Lakhimpur case. Yogi Adityanath ji has led from the front and defused tension. An inquiry will unravel all aspects of the case, including those who fanned the fire,” said UP minister Suresh Rana||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-violence-opposition-leaders-attack-govt-meet-families-of-victims-101633630026221.html
08-10-2021||India||Free education, monthly stipend for children who lost parents to Covid-19||Free school education, assistance in getting loans for higher studies, health coverage under Ayushman Bharat scheme and a monthly stipend after attaining the age of 18 — these were among a slew of measures announced by the Centre on Thursday for children who lost both their parents to Covid-19, under the ‘PM CARES for Children’ scheme.On May 29, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced that the Union government will provide support to children who lost both their parents due to the infection. In a set of guidelines to ensure comprehensive care and protection of such children, the ministry of women and child development said the scheme will be applicable to children who have lost both parents or surviving parent or legal guardian/adoptive parent(s) in the pandemic between March 11, 2020 and December 31, 2021. Besides, the beneficiaries should be less than 18-years of age as on the death of their parents to avail the benefits. The scheme is expected to continue till the year when every identified beneficiary shall turn 23 years of age, the guidelines said.The guidelines fixed the responsibilities at different levels with the ministry working as the nodal point for execution at the central level. According to the guidelines, the district magistrates (DMs) will be the nodal authority at the district level for execution of the scheme. The DMs, with assistance of the Child Welfare Committee (CWC), will first try to rehabilitate the child within her/his extended family, relatives, kith or kin. In case that is not an option, the child, aged between 4 to 10, should be placed in foster care after due diligence as prescribed under the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015.“If the foster family is not available/not willing/not found fit by CWC, or the child (aged 4 -10 years or above) is not willing to live with them, the child is considered eligible beneficiaries under the PM CARES for Children Scheme and should be placed in age appropriate and gender appropriate Child Care Institution (CCI),” the guidelines said. For children below 6 years of age, identified beneficiaries will receive support and assistance from the Anganwadi services for supplementary nutrition, pre-school education/ ECCE (early childhood children education), immunization, health referrals, and health check-up.Besides, children above 10 years of age, who are not willing to live in child care institutions, may be enrolled in central government-run-residential schools such as Netaji Subhash Chand Bose Awasiya Vidyalaya, Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya, Eklavya Model Schools, Sainik Schools, Navodaya Vidyalaya, or any other residential school by the DM. For non-institutional care, financial support will be provided to children (in account of the guardian) and for children in institutional care, a maintenance grant will be given to the CCIs, the guidelines stated. Under the scheme, the DMs will ensure that the beneficiaries are provided admissions in any nearest school as a day scholar. “In government schools, two sets of free uniform and textbooks shall be provided, under Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan, as per the scheme guidelines. In private schools, tuition fees shall be exempted under section 12(1)(c) of Right to Education (RTE) Act. Under circumstances where a child is unable to receive above benefits, the fees, as per the RTE norms, will be given from the PM CARES for children scheme. The scheme will also pay for expenditure on uniforms, textbooks, and notebooks,” the guidelines said. For higher or professional education, beneficiaries will be assisted with obtaining an education loan and interest will be paid from PM CARES for Children Scheme in case they are unable to clear them. Besides, several scholarships will also be provided to the beneficiaries.According to the guidelines, a lump sum amount from PM CARES will be transferred directly in the post office account of beneficiaries upon opening and validation of their account. A pro-rata amount will be credited upfront in the account of each identified beneficiary such that the corpus for each beneficiary becomes ₹10 lakh at the time of attaining 18 years of age. “Children will receive a monthly stipend once they attain 18 years of age, by investing the corpus of ₹10 lakh. The beneficiary will receive stipend till they attain 23 years of age. They will receive an amount of ₹10 lakh on attaining 23 years of age,” it added. Meanwhile, the beneficiaries will also be covered under Ayushman Bharat Scheme (PM-JAY) with a health insurance cover of ₹5 lakhs, till 18 years of age, and the premium will be paid by the PM CARES.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/under-pm-cares-free-education-monthly-stipend-for-children-who-lost-parents-to-covid19-101633630024114.html
08-10-2021||India||A trafficking racket that fed on desperation across borders||In 2013, when she was 17, both her parents -- daily wage labourers in a village in Khulna, Bangladesh -- died of an illness. With no other source of income, she turned to begging on the streets, trying to battle for survival. One day, two people who were known in the locality, arrived at her door with a proposition. Come with us, they said, and we will give you a better life across the border in India. Eight years later, the 25-year-old lives in a government shelter home in Indore, after years of substance and sexual abuse at the hands of an organised trafficking ring that crosses international boundaries, and state boundaries within India. Their names were Bakhtiyar and Shabana, she remembers. There was nothing left for her in Bangladesh, so she willingly left with them.They took her to Jessore, and then later to Rajshahi in Bangladesh. In the dark of the night, they crossed a porous river boundary, across the Padma, into Murshidabad in West Bengal. “We walked for an entire night and reached the home of an agent. I don’t remember his name but he took me on a bus to Kolkata the next day,” she said. In Kolkata, the 17-year-old found herself in a room with 10 other girls, with nobody allowed to leave the apartment. “A man used to come to teach us etiquette, table manners, and English. They made us practice wearing fashionable clothes and high heels. At this point, we thought we were being trained for formal work,” she said. In a matter of weeks, she was moved to Mumbai, along with the others. “Two men and a woman received us at a railway station. They took us to a flat where they wanted to train us in prostitution. I refused. But two agents began forcing us to consume MDMA and ecstasy on a daily basis. There were no options before us,” she said. In the years that followed, she found herself in a massage parlour in Surat, reporting to the king pin of the operation, named Munirul, and then in a lodge at Mahalakshmi Nagar in Indore, where she and 21 others were housed, constantly “being supplied” to parties as prostitutes and drug mules. Until September 2020, when the Indore Police broke through the front door and rescued the women, and began the unraveling of an international trafficking, prostitution and drug ring, that is emblematic of the dark underbelly of India’s cities, and the impunity with which these networks operate across borders. The police investigation that began last year has now seen the rescue of 21 women, the arrest of at least 30 people, and finally on October 2, the arrest of Munirul, the 28-year-old man at the centre of the trafficking ring. Cases have been registered, and arrests are being made under section 370 (trafficking) of Indian Penal Code and the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act at Vijay Nagar and MIG police stations. Indore (east) superintendent of police Ashutosh Bagri said, “Surat has emerged as a big centre for supplying Bangladeshi women across India. We have unraveled the trafficking network and are now looking to discovering the networks of customers for the ring.” National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data shows a total of 6,242 cases filed under section 370 (human trafficking) between 2018 and 2020. Of the 1,714 cases of human trafficking registered in 2020, the latest NCRB Crime in India report says that there were 1,912 men and 2,797 women affected. Of the 48 cases of international human trafficking, 24 people were from Bangladesh, the highest, followed by 20 from Nepal. Madhya Pradesh based woman rights activists Rolly Shivhare said, “Trafficking is a serious problem that needs to be addressed socially and by implementing the law stringently. In MP, though people know that women from Bangladesh and Nepal are being brought, but police raids are intermittent. Similarly, women from Odisha and tribal areas have been trafficked for years to Bundelkhand and Chambal on the pretext of marriage as the sex ratio is very low at these places. The government must develop a stronger information network to tackle the crisis.”How the racket was busted On September 21, 2020, two women, who said they were from Mumbai, walked into the Vijay Nagar police station in Indore, and registered a complaint. They said that they were brought to the city on the pretext of a modelling event, but were being forced into prostitution, and kept hostage in a flat. Vijay Nagar station incharge Tehzeeb Qazi said, “These women somehow managed to flee the flat. We raided the flat the same day and rescued 15 women. The police arrested five people, who were working as local agents, and they informed us that six more women had also been kept hostage in a guest house in Lasudiya. Out of these, 12 were from Bangladesh while the others were from West Bengal and Bihar. The locals have been handed over to their family members.” The then deputy inspector general (DIG) of police, Indore, HN Mishra, formed a special investigation team (SIT) of four police officers led by additional superintendent of police Rajesh Raghuvanshi to probe the matter. But there was one major roadblock -- afraid of the ramifications of being implicated in the case, none of the 15 victims were amenable to speaking.The break came when, a few days later, a 29-year-old woman came to the police station, and said she was ready to tell all. “She was also a resident of Khulna, and was raped by a villager. Instead of complaining to the police, her family abandoned her. Like the others, she was brought to India by Bakhtiyar and Shabana. She went through the same training process in Kolkata, and was sold to an agent in Mumbai, where she began working with Munirul. She was sent to Indore, where she shared her ordeal with a man who decided to marry her. Despite her leaving the network, Munirul and another accused, Indore-based Sagar Jain, continued to blackmail her. She told us she was often raped by the two men. When the raids took place, and she found out, she came forward to file a separate FIR,” said Qazi.Based on the information they gathered, the SIT arrested Aruz Syed, 32, and Titu Gazi Bengali, 34, from Surat on October 10,2020. It was Aruz and Titu who held training sessions in Mumbai, coaching the trafficked girls on how to “behave with customers” and dodge the police. In the same month, more arrests were made. Deepak Vaishnav and Govardhan Purohit were arrested from Indore, for allegedly developing fake Aadhar cards for the women. “There were 20 other agents that were nabbed as well, for supplying women,” police officers said. Then, two months later, the SIT made another significant arrest in December, of Sagar Jain, a crucial link in the chain. He served two purposes for the gang in Indore. One was the supply of drugs, and sending the girls into parties essentially as drug peddlers. The second was working to fix deals with agents to set up encounters with customers for the women, who often were sent to different places for prostitution for several days. Jain, the police discovered, was arrested once before in 2017, on the charge of “supplying Russian women” to different parties in Indore, but was released on bail in 2019. Soon after his release, he turned his attention to woman from Bangladeshi women since the police was on the lookout for Russian women. How the operation worked From identifying girls from underprivileged families in Bangladesh to imparting training and providing fake documents in India, every person in the operation had a defined role, police officials said. Rajesh Raghuvanshi, assistant superintendent of police and head of the SIT, said, “Bakhtiyar and Shabana, from Khulna and Jessore, would identify the victims, all from poor or marginalised families saying they would give them a good life in India, perhaps marry them off in a rich family, or find good work.” Initially, when their networks weren’t fully established, Munirul would marry the women crossing the border, to cement their identities as Indians by using false documentation. “Munirul has told us that he married at least 25 women between 2012 and 2019. He used to present the agents as family members before the Qazi for Nikaah. These marriages took place in West Bengal, Surat and Mumbai,” Raghuvanshi said. Back in their homes in Bangladesh, Bakhtiyar and Shabana would pay the guardians or the girls’ families about ₹30,000 a month for a few months. The money flow would soon stop, but by that time, the girls were trapped, either addicted to the drugs, or worried that their illegal entries into the country would be exposed. Munirul would the “supply of the women.” Agents would “select” women through video calls. The repetitive rejection of a woman would lead to her use only to supply drugs, police officers said. Most were made to interact with prospective customers through video calls on WhatsApp. “The agents also used to send a short video of them. The prospective clients were members of WhatsApp groups in cities like Mumbai, Indore, and Surat. Later, Munirul used to charge up to ₹5 lakh from local agents for sending the woman for a week or fortnight to any city. To make up the money, local agents like Sagar Jain used to fix up to five customers for a woman in a day,” said Raghuvanshi. Interrogations have revealed that Munirul supplied over 200 women over the past five years. “He has high-profile contacts but is not revealing them at this time. We are investigating his call detail records,” said Jyoti Sharma, incharge of women’s police station in Indore. The king pinMuch like the origin story of the victims themselves, Munirul, alias Gazi, came to India at the age of seven, crossing the border illegally sitting atop a steamer in an attempt to escape domestic abuse, police said. While the details of his life are still sketchy, in the next decade he found himself in Surat, working at a clothes and jewellery market. “It was here, at the age of 19, that he told someone, who is yet to be identified or arrested, about his roots in Bangladesh. He was told that it was getting difficult to bring Russian and Thai girls into India. So he began exploring the idea, and his contacts back home,” a police officer said. Over the past eight years, Munirul accumulated wealth, buying a lavish home in Gulmohar in Surat. When the police raided his house, it had multiple security guards, and more than a dozen servants. On the walls were photographs of Munirul with some of the women he was trafficking. In the year since the investigation began though, Munirul was changing locations and sim cards every month, even evading a police raid in Surat once. In late September, the police were informed that he was hiding in a slum near Zorba Pati, from where he was eventually arrested. He was sent to Indore Central Jail on Sunday, after being produced before court. Yet, even as Munirul is now in jail, the investigation has been stymied by a security breach in the government shelter home the 12 Bangladeshi victims were lodged in. Between March and July 2021, 10 of them went missing, and thus far, the police have been able to recover only one woman, who was one of those married to Munirul. Qazi, the police station incharge, said that the police wrote to the district administration for the serious lapses in security -- but no action has been taken so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-trafficking-racket-that-fed-on-desperation-across-borders-101633629903672.html
08-10-2021||India||UK lifts its quarantine rule for Indian flyers||The UK said on Thursday it will begin accepting India’s vaccine certificates from October 11, ending a row that had resulted in British nationals facing a 10-day mandatory quarantine on arrival even if they are fully vaccinated. New British guidelines on approved Covid-19 vaccines and the requisite proof of vaccination said India would be added to a “list of countries and territories with approved proof of vaccination [from] 4 am [on] Monday 11 October”. British high commissioner Alex Ellis tweeted there would be “no quarantine” for Indian travellers who were fully vaccinated with Covishield or any other UK-approved vaccine, and thanked the Indian government for its close cooperation on the issue over the past month. “From Monday... a traveller from India to the UK, double jabbed with Covishield or another vaccine recognised by the UK regulator, does not have to quarantine. It will be easier and cheaper to enter the UK. This is great news,” Ellis said in a video statement. The move was in line with the comprehensive strategic partnership agreed to by the prime ministers of the two countries in May, he said. Britain has issued thousands of visas to students, business travellers and tourists in recent months, Ellis added, while calling for further opening up of travel between the two sides. “Some of the noise about this issue over the last few weeks just shows how keen people are to travel to the UK and I’m delighted by that. So, let’s now go further. Let’s open up more flights between the two countries, let’s get British tourists able to come in to India... let’s facilitate business travellers who are trying to come in to India with e-visas,” Ellis said.Indians arriving in the UK before October 11 must follow the “rules for people who are not fully vaccinated”, according to the new guidelines. “If you arrive after that, you can use a vaccine certificate to prove your vaccination status,” a government notification said. Earlier in the day, India had said it was hopeful of finding a solution to the vaccine certification row. “Discussions are ongoing and we remain hopeful that some solution may emerge,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told a regular news briefing. He described Britain’s travel restrictions on Indian nationals with valid vaccine certificates as “clearly discriminatory” and said measures imposed by the UK from October 4 were “not right”. He added, “We took up the issue with the UK at various levels but without success.” Once the British travel rules came into force on October 4, India imposed “reciprocal measures” that apply only to UK nationals arriving in India from Britain. The measures kicked in as the UK government didn’t make a call on accepting India’s vaccine certification more than 10 days after the conclusion of technical discussions between the two sides. The row erupted because Indians travelling to the UK had to undergo 10-day home quarantine under new rules. The British government’s failure to recognise Covishield, an Indian version of the Britain’s AstraZeneca jab, had also given rise to allegations of vaccine racism. The UK subsequently included Covishield in its list of approved vaccines. As part of an update of its travel rules, the UK also removed 47 countries and territories from its “red list”. From October 11, the red list will be reduced to seven countries, and proof of vaccination will be recognised from 37 new countries and territories, including India, Brazil, Ghana, Hong Kong, Pakistan, South Africa and Turkey. Eligible travellers vaccinated in these 37 countries and territories will “be treated the same as returning fully vaccinated UK residents, so long as they have not visited a red list country or territory in the 10 days before arriving in England”, an official statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-lifts-its-quarantine-rule-for-indian-flyers-101633629783650.html
08-10-2021||India||On SC prod, minister’s son called by UP police||Hours after the Supreme Court termed the Lakhimpur Kheri incident “very unfortunate” and gave the Uttar Pradesh government 24 hours to report back whether it has arrested all the accused booked for the violence that killed eight people, the UP Police arrested two people on Thursday.However, Ashish Mishra, son of Union minister of state for home affairs Ajay Mishra ‘Teni’, was neither detained nor arrested. Ashish Mishra, who was named in the murder FIR registered on Monday and who has been interviewed by some TV channels, has repeatedly denied the charges.UP Police summoned him for questioning at 10am on Friday, and pasted a notice outside Ajay Mishra’s house in Lakhimpur. The notice said Ashish Mishra must appear in person. “If Ashish Mishra does not abide by the summons, legal procedure will be adopted,” said Lucknow inspector general Lakshmi Singh.The two arrested individuals were identified as Luvkush Rana and Ashish Pandey, both believed to be associates of Ashish Mishra, said additional director general, law and order, Prashant Kumar. He said the police identified six people as accused — three of them dead in the violence, the two accused, and Ashish Mishra. Another accused was unidentified. Kumar added that the forensic team had located two bullet cartridges from the spot and was examining one of the vehicles involved. Farmers allege that Ashish Mishra fired shots during the violence, a charge denied by him.“This is a very unfortunate incident. You tell us how many accused are there and whether they have been arrested or not. You give us a status report tomorrow,” a bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana, told senior advocate Garima Parshad, who appeared for the state government in the case registered by the top court on its own (suo motu) as a public interest litigation. The bench, which also comprised justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli, said that the state government’s report should also give details of the persons who lost their lives in the fateful incident and all the steps taken by the authorities ever since.When Parshad described the incident as unfortunate, the bench retorted: “We also feel the same way. Eight people have lost their lives...the allegation is that you are not investigating properly.”Parshad said that she needs some time to place on record the steps taken by the Uttar Pradesh government, which, she said, has also set up a judicial inquiry under a former judge of the Allahabad high court apart from registration of a first information report in the case. At this, the bench said that Parshad should put on record her report by Friday, giving details of the deceased, status of accused as regards to their arrest and the judicial inquiry. Parshad has also been asked to gather status of a petition filed before the Allahabad high court on the same issue.The bench also asked the UP government to ensure proper medical facilities to mother of Lovepreet Singh, who lost his life in the incident on October 3. “We have received a communication from a lawyer, Amanpreet Singh Khalsa, that mother of deceased Lovepreet Singh is very unwell... she is critical but is not getting proper medical care. You make sure she gets proper treatment immediately. Shift her to a nearby hospital,” the court told the senior lawyer. Advocate Shiv Kumar Tripathi, one of the two lawyers whose letter to the CJI formed the basis of the court taking up the case suo motu, submitted that the interference of the apex court is imperative in view of the involvement of politicians in the ghastly incident. Tripathi said that mere registration of the FIR is not enough and that the apex court should monitor the investigation to ensure a free and fair probe against all the accused. Since news of the violence broke on Sunday, Opposition leaders have made a beeline for the village amid rising political tensions over the incident. On Thursday, the day the state police formed a revamped nine-member team to probe the incident, former CM and chief of the Samajwadi Party Akhilesh Yadav visited the families of the deceased.On Wednesday, the court registered the suo motu case as “In Re Violence in Lakhimpur Kheri (UP) leading to loss of life” after receiving a letter from Tripathi and CS Panda. The matter was registered as a criminal writ petition, pertaining to investigation and prosecution.The development came on a day Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, along with Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, his Punjab counterpart Charanjit Singh Channi, and other senior leaders reached the village, roughly 10km from the India-Nepal border. Farm groups say a Mahindra Thar owned by Ajay Mishra mowed down protesters from behind while they were returning from a demonstration in Tikunia village on Sunday afternoon.The minister and his son deny the charge and say farmers pelted the car with stones that led the driver losing control of the vehicle. They also accuse the protesters of lynching two BJP workers and the car’s driver. A local journalist was also killed. The Mishras claim Ashish Mishra was not at the site. Some unverified videos of the incident show the Thar knocking down protesters from behind. On Wednesday, a new, clearer 45-second video of the incident showed the Thar ploughing through the farmers at high speed, with two vehicles in tow. The identities of individuals was not clear and HT couldn’t independently verify the authenticity of the clips.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-sc-prod-minister-s-son-called-by-up-police-101633629725695.html
08-10-2021||India||What does the fire in global energy markets entail for India?||On April 20, 2020, exactly 40 days after the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 as a pandemic, WTI Crude -- the US benchmark for crude oil prices -- fell into negative territory. As of October 6, WTI was trading at $76.94 per barrel. This underlines the sharp turnaround in global energy markets. With energy prices on the upswing and the world bracing itself for Brent crude (the global benchmark for petroleum prices) hitting the $90 mark, what are the likely consequences for India?Broad based spike in energy markets and OPEC playing hardball will keep oil prices highWhile crude price has been on an upward trajectory since the end of September, the prices of other energy resources, including natural gas and coal have risen to multi year highs across the globe as demand for energy soars against the backdrop of a massive shortage. IMF data on global commodity prices (till August ) shows that price of natural gas and coal (represented by their indices) are the highest since the financial crisis in late 2008.Coal prices have increased across the world, a trend which started from the coal shortage in China. The price of natural gas has also increased due to lower supplies amid rising demand across developed economies. Bloomberg reported (on September 24) that the surge in natural gas prices is expected to force some consumers in the US to switch to oil.This, when read with the fact that OPEC+, the cartel of oil producing countries, is refusing to increase crude production to pre-pandemic levels, means that oil prices will continue to face tailwinds.Rising oil and falling rupee mean higher domestic prices for petroleum productsIndia imports 81% of crude petroleum and the price it pays is captured by the price of India’s Crude Oil Basket (COB). Although not identical to Brent crude prices, the two move in sync. Another factor which matters for India’s petroleum import bill is the value of the rupee. For the same dollar rates, the import cost for the domestic economy can vary a lot with exchange rate changes.Petroleum ministry data shows that India’s COB was priced at $80.49 per barrel on October 5. At the exchange rate of ₹74.53 to a dollar, the rupee price came to ₹5999 per barrel. Crude oil prices have been significantly higher in the past. India’s COB price was above the $100 per barrel mark between February 2011 and August 2014, but the exchange rate was more favourable then. This means that the current rupee price is much higher, despite the dollar prices not being as high. With oil prices rising and the rupee falling, domestic prices could increase further.What does it mean for petrol-diesel and general prices?This depends on two factors in addition to crude prices: exchange rate and taxes. A September 29 note by Madan Sabnavis, the chief economist at CARE Ratings expects the exchange rate to be in the range of ₹75-75.5 per dollar “before clarity descends on OPEC+ action”. The tax impact is a bit more complicated because state and central taxes differ in nature. While bulk of central taxes are fixed and do not change with prices, state Value Added Taxes (VAT) are ad-valorem in nature and the tax burden can increase when base prices rise. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman flagged this issue in an HT interview on September 21.“The only very strong case for me to put forward – excise levied by the Centre is not value added; it is fixed. If it were value added, each time the price increases, it goes up. And prices are going up. So, I have to balance this with what’s happening in the states. It’s also a question of time. I won’t be able to comment on it beyond that”, Sitharaman said then in response to a question on high oil prices.Higher energy prices are likely to generate tailwinds for inflation as well. A research note dated October 5 by Pranjul Bhandari, chief economist at HSBC Securities and Capital Markets (India) Private Limited points that India is amongst the few countries in the region where energy prices have a high correlation with the core Consumer Price Index.The effect on India’s trade balanceIndia’s oil imports reached an all-time high of $17.42 billion in the month of September. This is likely to increase as prices rise further. Sabnavis’s note gives some projections on this count.“India imports around 4.5-5 million barrels per day which for the second half of the year would be 820-910 million barrels. Intuitively $ 10/barrel will mean an increase in the import bill by $ 8.2- $ 9.1 billion for this period. In FY20 the oil bill was $ 130 billion and in FY21 $ 82.4 billion. In the first 6 months of FY22, oil imports were $ 70.5 billion and hence assuming a similar quantum would be imported in the second quarter there would be an increase in the half yearly bill by 11.6% to 12.9%. This will tend to impact the trade deficit too. The trade deficit for the first half was around $ 75.7 billion”, the note says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-does-the-fire-in-global-energy-markets-entail-for-india-101633629607024.html
08-10-2021||India||Modi lauds India’s fight against Covid, inaugurates 35 oxygen plants||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said 1,150 pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants have started functioning in the last few months and now every district has them under the PM Cares Fund as the government was setting up their network across the country.Speaking at an event at Rishikesh’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences for the inauguration of 35 PSA oxygen plants established under the fund across 35 states and union territories, he lauded the bravery with which India faced the biggest crisis--Covid-19 pandemic--of 100 years. He detailed how the country’s medical oxygen generation capacity and testing were ramped up while over 130,000 vaccination centres were set up.Modi said the capacity of 900 metric tonnes of medical oxygen was increased by 10 times and called it an unimaginable feat for any country. “From one testing lab, we have set up a network of 3,000 testing labs. More than 130,000 vaccination centres have been set up across the country.” He said the world’s fastest, and largest vaccination drive shows their determination, unity, and resolve to serve people. Modi said the country’s varied terrain and large population were among the challenges India faced in its fight against the pandemic.“Every person in the country should know and understand how we met this challenge in such a short time.” He added the production of oxygen is more in the country’s eastern part while there is greater demand for it in the northern and western parts. “Faced up with these logistic challenges, we worked on war footing level. We got oxygen tankers from wherever we could manage in the world. We sought the help of the Indian Airforce in the supply of oxygen. We provided money for one lakh (100,000) oxygen concentrators.”Also Read | Govt aims to set up at least one medical college in every district: PM ModiHe was referring to the steps the government took when the second wave of Covid-19 triggered an unprecedented shortage of medical oxygen in the country.Modi called it is a matter of pride that 930 million Covid-19 vaccine doses have been delivered and soon India will cross the one-billion mark. He spoke about how vaccination was carried out in far-flung areas in Uttarakhand Himalayas.Modi said the government no longer waits for people to come with their problems and reaches out to them directly for resolving them. “Now the government is reaching out to people directly... in the health sector too, the government is moving ahead with this approach,” he said on the day he completed 20 years in public office.Modi said he had been serving people for decades, but it was on this day, 20 years ago, he got the new responsibility as the chief minister of Gujarat. “I never imagined this journey, first as the chief minister and then as the Prime Minister. Now I am entering 21 years of my journey. And in these 20 years, I have been getting affection of Uttarakhand... feel blessed to be here. My determination to keep serving people has been further strengthened in this divine land,” he said. He added he feels blessed to be in the state on the first day of Navratri. Modi spoke about initiatives and projects taken up for development and improving connectivity in Uttarakhand. He said the all-weather Char Dham road will give a new dimension to the region’s development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-lauds-india-s-fight-against-covid-inaugurates-35-oxygen-plants-101633603262624.html
08-10-2021||India||BJP drops Birendra Singh, Varun Gandhi from national executive committee||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Thursday recast its national executive committee by dropping some leaders who have been critical of government policies in recent weeks, and inducting key Union ministers in the crucial decision-making body.Among those inducted were Union ministers S Jaishankar, Jyotiraditya Scindia, Anurag Thakur, and Ashwani Vaishnaw. Those dropped included Varun Gandhi, Maneka Gandhi and Subramanian Swamy.Chaudhary Birendra Singh, also dropped, and Varun Gandhi have been critical of the government’s handling of the farm agitation, while Swamy has hit out at the government on issues of economic policy.Chaudhary, a former Union minister, joined a protest against the three contentious farm laws in Rohtak district of Haryana last year. Varun Gandhi has been tweeting about the need to adopt a more humane approach to deal with the farmers’ agitation, and through this week, he has expressed his support for the farmers over the incident at Lakhimpur Kheri, where a convoy ran over a group of protesting farmers.The BJP downplayed the exclusion of members who were seen to be critical of some of the party’s policy decisions.“Whenever the committee is reconstituted some names are dropped to accommodate newer faces,” said a senior party leader on the condition of anonymity.The BJP’s national executive committee includes party patriarchs LK Advani and MM Joshi apart from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union defence minister Rajnath Singh and Union home minister Amit Shah. The central decision making body of the party also includes 50 special invitees and 179 permanent invitees, including chief ministers, deputy chief ministers of BJP-ruled states, leaders of the legislative assemblies and state presidents.According to a party functionary, BJP president JP Nadda will preside over a meeting of the national officer bearers on October 18 and the meeting of the reconstituted national executive committee will be held on November 7.As per the party’s constitution, the committee lays down rules for carrying out functions of all units and organs of the party and frames rules for the maintenance of party funds which have to be audited and approved annually. The committee also has the mandate to allocate powers to all other units and organs, to frame rules, to create machinery for holding elections and for settlement of disputes.The party’s constitution also requires the national executive and state executive to meet once every three months. Owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, the national executive has not met in the last two years.Among other key inclusions in the 80-member list are Union minister Meenakshi Lekhi, actor-turned-politician Mithun Chakraborty and former railway minister Dinesh Trivedi, who quit the TMC and joined the BJP ahead of the West Bengal election. Khushbu Sundar has been included in the list of special invitees from Tamil Nadu; she quit the Congress to join the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-drops-birendra-singh-varun-gandhi-from-national-executive-committee-101633599302520.html
08-10-2021||India||Residents seeking cancellation of coal mining in Chhattisgarh’s Hasdeo Arand begin march||Around 250 residents of Chhattisgarh’s Hasdeo Arand started a march from Surguja district to Raipur, around 330 kilometres away, on Monday demanding cancellation of all coal mining projects in their region. Environmentalists and activists are also taking part in the march.“The representatives of all 30 villages of Hasdeo Arand ... are part of this padayatra (foot march) demanding justice from state and Central government by cancelling all coal mining projects in the region,” said Alok Shuka, the convener of Chhattisgarh Bachao Andolan, which works for tribal rights in the state.The villagers are also demanding that all land acquisitions without prior consent from village councils be immediately withdrawn.Also Read- Exclusive: Need visa to go to UP, asks Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh BaghelThere are 23 coal blocks in Hasdeo Arand, which is one of the largest contiguous stretches of dense forest in central India spanning 170,000 hectares. In 2009, the environment ministry categorised Hasdeo Arand as a “no-go” zone for mining because of its rich forest cover. But the region was opened again to mining.Jayanandan, a resident of Fatehpur village in the region, said the aim of the march was to tell the government that for them forests are important than mining. “The protest for our demands will continue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/residents-seeking-cancellation-of-coal-mining-in-chhattisgarh-s-hasdeo-arand-begin-march-101633411392953.html
