09-10-2021||India||Bihar plans residential schools for girls from backward classes in all districts||The Bihar government on Saturday decided to open intermediate level residential schools for girls belonging to other backward classes (OBC) in all the districts.A direction to this effect was given by chief minister Nitish Kumar during a review meeting of backward classes and extremely backward classes welfare department.“Open plus two-level residential schools for girls belonging to other backward classes (OBC) in all the districts and ensure early completion of Jannayak Karpoori Thakur Welfare Hostels in districts where they are being constructed,” Kumar told officials.In another decision, it was decided to provide online classes and coaching facilities to students from backward classes lodged in various hostels run by the state government.The meeting was also attended by Deputy CM Renu Devi, who is also the minister for the department concerned.The Bihar government had earlier announced that it would reserve 33 per cent seats for girls in medical and engineering colleges. The state has 2,035 engineering seats and 1,330 medical seats in the 38 engineering and 11 medical colleges it runs.In 2006, the Kumar-led NDA government had reserved 50 per cent seats for girls in primary schools and 35 per cent in secondary schools at the panchayat levels. The state had in 2016 reserved 35 per cent jobs for women in the police and 33 per cent in other government jobs. Besides, to encourage girls to pursue higher education, the state gives a cash incentive of ₹50,000 to those who pass their graduation.The government has also come up with a women’s entrepreneurship incentive, under which up to ₹10 lakh worth of financial assistance would be provided to women to help them set up businesses. While ₹5 lakh will be provided as grant or subsidy, the remaining amount will be interest-free loan.Earlier, the entrepreneurship scheme was available only to SC (Scheduled Caste), ST (Scheduled Tribe) and EBC (Extremely Backward Caste) women. Now, it has been extended to all women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-plans-residential-schools-for-girls-from-backward-classes-in-all-districts-101633802920119.html
09-10-2021||India||Will supply 'all required quantities': Centre to Delhi govt amid coal shortage||The central government on Saturday assured the Delhi government that it will supply "all required quantities of gas" to Bawana and Pragati stations after the Delhi government raised concerns regarding the shortage of coal at power plants. In view of the looming crisis, the Centre has also directed National Thermal Power Corporation Limited (NTPC) to increase coal stocks equal to the national average for Dadri and Jajjhar stations "for full availability", Union Power Secretary said in a statement.The statement comes hours after the Delhi government said that it has only one day of stock left at the thermal power station and the city might plunge into the darkness within the next few days. "There is an acute shortage of coal in coal-fired power plants across the country. There is only one day's stock left in the plants from which Delhi gets electricity, there is no coal at all," Delhi's power minister Satyendra Jain had said.India is at the brink of a major power crisis as more than half of the country's 135 coal-fired power plants have fuel stocks to last less than three days, according to a report by Reuters. Besides Delhi, several states including Odisha, Punjab, Tamil Nadu and Chhattisgarh have also asked the Centre for adequate supply as they raised similar concerns regarding the low coal stocks.Meanwhile, the Centre said that the core management team, constituted by the Union ministry of power, is closely monitoring and managing coal stocks on a daily basis. The management body is also working to ensure follow up actions with Coal India Limited and coordinating with Indian "Railways to improve the coal supply to power plants," it added.The power ministry says that an "unprecedented increase in electricity demand due to revival of the economy (after the second wave of Covid-19) and heavy rains in coal mine areas in September have affected the coal production", which has led to the countrywide power crisis."Rise in imported coal prices resulting in dependence on domestic coal are reasons behind depletion of coal stocks at power plants," it also stated.The core management team comprises representatives from the Union ministry of power, the central electricity authority, power system operation corporation, railways and Coal India Ltd to ensure daily monitoring of the coal stocks and despatches.Prices of power-generation fuels are surging globally with industrial growth pushing up electricity demand, leading to a tightening of coal and liquefied natural gas supplies.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-supply-all-required-quantities-centre-to-delhi-govt-amid-coal-shortage-101633801539495.html
09-10-2021||India||Union minister's son Ashish Mishra arrested in Lakhimpur Kheri violence case||Union minister Ajay Mishra's son, the primary accused of the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, Ashish Mishra was arrested on Saturday after hours of interrogation by the Special Investigation Team. The arrest was confirmed by deputy inspector general Upendra Agarwal who is heading the SIT. A day after staying away from interrogation, Ashish Mishra appeared before the investigation team on Saturday morning. The interrogation lasted for hours as the special investigation team prepared over a dozen of questions for the Union minister's son. However, the answers received during the marathon questioning were not satisfactory, police said. Towards the evening, unconfirmed reports claimed that he was arrested but the confirmation came only on Saturday night.“He was arrested after he failed to cooperate in the interrogation. He could not inform or validate various points regarding his whereabouts at the time of the incident on the day of the incident. And we will try to get information after getting him on police remand,” Upendra Agarwal said. While Ashish was facing interrogation, his father Ajay Mishra Teni was huddling with a group of lawyers, reports said.After two of his aides were arrested, the police pasted a notice on the Union minister's residence asking his son to be present before the investigation committee. On Friday, Ashish did not appear before the committee and his father said he was not well; he would be present on Saturday. Ashish was named in the FIR as the main accused of the Lakhimpur Kheri incident where four farmers were crushed by a vehicle in which Ashish was allegedly present. Four others were killed in the violence that began after the incident on last Sunday in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri.The FIR said Ashish managed to get out of that overturned car and opened fire. The Union minister has denied his son's link with the incident and said earlier that it was his car but his son was not present there. He also claimed that the driver of the car lost balance as stones were pelted on the car.Ahead of the Uttar Pradesh assembly election, the Lakhimpur Kheri has become a major political issue with the Congress taking to the streets over this issue. Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi visited Lakhimpur Kheri earlier this week. The party has asked its state/UT unit chiefs to observe 'maun vrat' on Monday in protest of Lakhimpur violence. The removal of the Union minister is one of the demands of the Congress.The UP Police sprung into action after being rapped by the Supreme Court which on Thursday asked the government how many arrests it has made so far regarding the case, as four days had already passed between the incident and the Supreme Court taking up the case. While the police arrested two of Ashish Mishra's aides and summoned Mishra to appear for interrogation, the apex court on Friday said it was not satisfied with the investigation done by the Uttar Pradesh Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-minister-s-son-ashish-mishra-arrested-over-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-101633800292600.html
09-10-2021||India||No drugs found on Aryan Khan; what are the accusations against him?||Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan is lodged at Arthur Road prison as he has been sent to 14-day judicial custody in connection with the cruise rave party case that the Narcotics Control Bureau raided on October 2. As of Saturday, there have been 18 arrests made in the case. Producer Imtiyaz Khatri's Mumbai home, office has been raided and the producer has been called for interrogation.On Saturday, Aryan Khan approached the sessions court after the detailed 15-page order copy was made available by the magistrate court.SRK's driver summoned by NCB; Sameer Wankhede says 6 people have been let off, not 3Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan has not been found in possession of drugs. He has been charged with the consumption of drugs. Every time the case has been heard, his bail plea has been opposed and here is what the NCB said.1. NCB said Aryan Khan's WhatsApp chats reveal that he might be a regular consumer of drugs. While Aryan's lawyer Satish Maneshinder said there are chats about football, the NCB said there are chats about 'bulk quantities' which do not go with the football.Also Watch | Aryan Khan to spend weekend in jail as court rejects SRK's son's bail plea in NCB's drugs case2. The NCB said it might be possible that the arrested have a connection and they planned to attend the party, which Aryan Khan has refused.3. As Aryan Khan belongs to an influential family, he may try to tamper with evidence if he is released on bail, the NCB said.4. Aryan Khan and Arbaaz Merchant named on Achit Kumar who has also been arrested by the NCB and is now in judicial custody. The NCB wanted to confront them, but now all are in judicial custody.5. The NCB claimed that their statements, their WhatsApp chats reveal that their presence at the party was planned and they are not new to use contraband.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-drugs-found-on-aryan-khan-what-are-the-accusations-against-him-101633798904721.html
09-10-2021||India||Centre pushes for optimum power generation; coal crisis to improve soon||A day after the power ministry issued guidelines to coal-fired power plants, a core management team monitoring the coal stock situation in the country noted the situation in power plants are likely to improve soon, according to people familiar with the matter. The committee reviewed the status on Saturday amid reports of acute coal shortage in several states. It noted that the total dispatch of coal by Coal India Limited (CIL) touched 1.501 MT on October 7, reducing the gap between consumption and actual supply.The coal dispatch is likely to touch 1.7 MT per day after three days, helping the coal supply and consequent power situation to improve, the core management team (CMT) assured.The team has cited the surge in electricity demand; heavy rains in coal mine areas; increase in prices of imported coal to unprecedented high level; and non-building of adequate coal stocks before the onset of monsoon as the primary reasons behind the coal shortage. The dependence on coal has increased since 65% to 70% demand of more than 4 billion units per day consumption of electricity is being met by coal-fired power generation only, according to the CMT.The monitoring team has also noted that legacy issues of heavy dues of coal companies from certain states have aggravated the crisis.On Friday, the ministry of power issued guidelines for operationalising optimum utilization of generating stations in the electricity grid. The ministry said that the utilised power capacity that remains idle under power purchase agreements needs to be despatched in the public interest.Under the new guidelines, the Central government has allowed the generator to sell the unrequisitioned power in the power exchange if the procurer does not requisition power from the power plant up to 24 hours in advance prior to the day of delivery of power.“Where the procurer decides not to schedule power for any period, either full or part capacity, from the generating station with which he has signed the PPA, which may be more than 24 hours in advance, the generator shall be free to sell the un-requisitioned power, for the period for which it has not been requisitioned, in the power exchange,” the guidelines read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-pushes-for-optimum-power-generation-coal-crisis-to-improve-soon-101633796416941.html
09-10-2021||India||Andhra govt plans to set up ‘YSR Rural Clinics’ to take healthcare to doorstep of villagers||The YS Jagan Mohan Reddy government in Andhra Pradesh has come up with a unique concept of taking healthcare facilities to the doorstep of people in the villages by opening rural clinics.Called ‘YSR Rural Clinics,’ named after former chief minister of combined Andhra Pradesh Dr Y S Rajasekhar Reddy, these village clinics would be formally launched by chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on January 26, coinciding with Republic Day.An official from the health department familiar with the development said the rural clinics would go a long way in creating health infrastructure at the grassroot level.“At present, healthcare in the rural areas is being taken care of by Primary Health Centres (PHCs), they are operating from the mandal (block) headquarters. Now, the government plans to set up as many as 10,032 YSR Rural Clinics to take healthcare to the villages. They are attached to the village secretariats and each clinic covers a population of 2 000,” the official said.Each rural clinic will comprise Mid-Level Health Providers (MLHPs) who have completed B.Sc. Nursing and Certificate Programme in Community Health (CPCH), along with an Auxiliary Nursing Midwife (ANM). Even ASHA (Accredited Social Health Activist) workers would report to the rural clinics.These clinics would be linked with PHCs regularly through video conferences. In the coming days, they would also be linked to laboratories. The health records of the villagers will be available in the respective village clinics through their Arogya Sri (a state government health scheme) cards. Using the QR code on them, those details can be viewed.These details can be accessed by the nearby PHC doctors, who would visit the villages from time to time and they will be very useful while diagnosing and treating the cardholder. “Every mandal will have two PHCs equipped with facilities and staff, including two doctors, and they will be integrated with emergency health services and ambulance services.The main task of the staff at the rural clinic is to provide 12 basic medical services and 14 types of basic diagnostic tests, and 64 types of medicines will be stored at the clinic. Further, 67 types of basic medical equipment will be available in these clinics, apart from telemedicine services, the official said.“The government is investing ₹16,203 crore for revamping government hospitals and medical colleges across the state in order to strengthen public healthcare and health Infrastructure. The chief minister has already given the green signal for the recruitment of 14,200 doctors and paramedical staff this year, so that there is no staff crunch in the hospitals,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-govt-plans-to-set-up-ysr-rural-clinics-to-take-healthcare-to-doorstep-of-villagers-101633794996119.html
09-10-2021||India||‘Covid-19 containment can be derailed if…': Health minister's warning amid festive season||Covid-19 containment measures can be derailed if the festivals are not observed in strict adherence to the health protocol, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya warned on Saturday. "The two-pronged solution is to follow Covid protocols very strictly and to speed up vaccination," the minister also said in a statement. The health minister also urged medical authorities of 19 states to escalate their inoculation pace so that India can achieve administering 100 crore vaccine doses in the next few days.He also cited results of experiments that showed 96% immunity from the Covid-19 after the first dose of the jab. The number increases to nearly 98 per cent for people who have taken both doses of the vaccine, the health minister noted.The states that have been asked to accelerate vaccination drives are Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Haryana, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal."In consultation with the states, the minister exhorted each state to increase their target so that the administration of the last six crore doses for reaching the mark of 100 crores is achieved in the next few days," the health ministry said in a statement.The statement was released after a meeting was held between the 19 state officials and the Union health ministry. It was also attended by Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, who asked the state health officials to ensure that the standard operating procedure, released by the Centre on September 30, is being strictly followed.According to the SOP, mass-gatherings in containment zones are prohibited. It also restricts mass gathering in districts that have more than 5% case positivity. Districts that have a positivity rate below 5% can organise gatherings, but advance permissions are required. It will also be subjected to the number of people allowed at the gathering.The senior health official also asked states to closely monitor case trajectories in all districts daily to identify any early warning signal of a Covid outbreak.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-containment-can-be-derailed-if-health-minister-s-warning-amid-festive-season-101633794462399.html
09-10-2021||India||'So what if it is micro and small': Uddhav, Rane share stage, exchange barbs||Union minister Narayan Rane who was briefly arrested by the Maharashtra police for his 'Slap CM' remark in August shared the stage with his arch-rival chief minister Uddhav Thackeray at the inauguration of an airport at Chipi in Sidhudurg and the unease between the two translated into sharp comments, barbs aimed at each other.As Rane listed the work done by him since he was elected as MLA from Sidhudurg for the first time in 1990, he said, "People know who works. Uddhav-ji." Rane left Shiv Sena around 16 years ago and he exit from the party was bitter. And it was Bal Thackeray who gave Rane the responsibility of the district. "... the work for basic amenities like roads, power, education, water, and healthcare was carried out. The existing infrastructure is because of Narayan Rane. Nobody can match it,” he said.In his speech, Rane also remembered Balasaheb a number of times and said Balasaheb did not like lying.As Uddhav Thackeray started his speech, he countered Narayan Rane on every point in good humour as he said, "As per my knowledge, the Sindhudurg fort was built by (Shivaji) Maharaj...otherwise someone might say `I built it'". He reiterated his father's trait of not putting up with lies, already mentioned by Rane, and said Balasaheb used to kick out people of the party for lying."You (Rane) are a minister. So what if it is `micro and small', it is still an important department and (we are sure) you will use it for the benefit of Maharashtra," Thackeray said taking a swipe at Rane's profile.Civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia who was present at the inauguration event said with the new airport, the distance of 530 km between Mumbai and Chipi can now be covered in 50 minutes. There are also plans to connect Chipi with Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Kolkata and other major cities and 20-25 flights to Chipi will be started in the next five years, the minister said adding that Maharashtra now has 14 airports.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/so-what-if-it-is-micro-and-small-uddhav-rane-share-stage-exchange-barbs-101633793369465.html
09-10-2021||India||These three Centre-run hospitals in Delhi to start OPD services on Sunday||The outpatient department (OPD) services at Safdarjung, Ram Manohar Lohia and Lady Hardinge hospitals will remain available on Sundays, according to the ministry of health and family welfare. The OPD services at the three Centre-run hospitals will start with selected specialities: paediatric medicine, medicine, surgery, gynaecology OPD and orthopaedics. The health ministry had issued a directive in this regard on October 7."Initially, Sunday OPD will be started in Safdarjung Hospital, Lady Hardinge Medical College and Associated Hospitals and Dr RML Hospital without any additional financial implication, the health ministry said in the communication directive to the heads of all these three hospitals.“The hospitals will manage Sunday OPD with existing manpower and will submit the comprehensive proposal with detailed financial implication after 02-03 months after getting feedback/inputs from concerned departments, other hospitals and general public,” it added.The pharmacies will also remain open on all seven days while the emergency lab services will be available for those requiring urgent medical attention, as per the communication directive. The timings on Sunday for OPD registration will be from 8am to 11.30pm and the OPD timings will be from 9am to 1pm.The OPD services will formally launch on October 17 after a trial this Sunday.All three hospitals have issued separate circulars stating that the OPD services will start on a trial basis on October 10."It should also be noted that these facilities are to be started with existing manpower," the office order stated.“The specialities are medicine, general surgery, paediatrics, obstetrics and gynaecology, orthopaedics, Eye, ENT, urology. Besides, Emergency Lab Services will be available for patients requiring urgent investigations in NEB (New Emergency Block),” a circular issued by Safdurjung hospital reads, reported news agency PTI.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/these-three-centre-run-hospitals-in-delhi-to-start-opd-services-on-sunday-101633793398029.html
09-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: 28 Rajya Sabha MPs shifted out of existing panels due to poor attendance and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.In annual rejig, 28 Rajya Sabha MPs shifted out of existing panels due to poor attendanceBihar’s former deputy chief minister Sushil Modi has replaced Bhupendra Yadav as the chairman of the Personnel, Public Grievances and Law and Justice panel of Parliament in the latest reshuffle of the standing committees on Saturday. Read MoreAll Cong unit chiefs to observe 3-hour 'maun' protesting Lakhimpur violenceThe Congress has asked all its state and Union Territory unit chiefs to observe a three-hour ‘maun’ on Monday demanding the immediate removal of Union minister Ajay Mishra and the arrest of his son Ashish Mishra in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. Read MoreMumbai crime branch issues notice to Param Bir Singh in extortion caseThe Mumbai Police crime branch on Saturday issued a notice to former police commissioner Param Bir Singh in connection with an extortion case registered against him on the basis of a complaint by a city hotelier and civic contractor. Read More‘Great news that they got runs but where do they play’: Pollock on Suryakumar, Kishan’s spot in IND playing XI at T20 WCMumbai Indians on Friday failed to qualify for the Indian Premier League (IPL) 2021 playoff despite winning their final league stage game against Sunrisers Hyderabad in Abu Dhabi. Read MoreWorld Mental Health Day: How walking can work wonders for your mental healthWorld Mental Health Day: A simple activity of taking a walk can be your first step towards recovery from mental health issues like depression and anxiety. Read MoreAishwarya Rai turns photographer for Abhishek Bachchan as he enjoys sunset view at beach resort in Dubai. See photoAbhishek Bachchan hit the beach in Dubai and shared a picture for his fans. Behind the camera was none other than his wife, Aishwarya Rai, he revealed in the caption of his Instagram post. Read MoreSamantha Ruth Prabhu’s ex Siddharth explains ‘cheaters never prosper’ tweet after her split with Naga ChaitanyaSiddharth clarified that his recent ‘cheaters never prosper’ tweet was not a dig at his ex-girlfriend, Samantha Ruth Prabhu, who announced her separation from her husband Naga Chaitanya earlier that day. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-in-annual-rejig-28-rajya-sabha-mps-shifted-out-of-existing-panels-due-to-poor-attendance-and-all-the-latest-news-101633789852599.html
09-10-2021||India||In annual rejig, 28 Rajya Sabha MPs shifted out of existing panels due to poor attendance||Bihar’s former deputy chief minister Sushil Modi has replaced Bhupendra Yadav as the chairman of the Personnel, Public Grievances and Law and Justice panel of Parliament in the latest reshuffle of the standing committees on Saturday. The latest annual rejig also saw two top-ranking Opposition leaders—Congress’ Abhishek Singhvi and Trinamool’s Derek O’Brien shifting to the committee on home affairs at a time when the Opposition has demanded removal of junior minister for home affairs Ajay Kumar Mishra over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in which eight people were killed after a car mowed down protesting farmers in UP. The reshuffle, for the first time, saw at least 28 Rajya Sabha MPs being shifted out of their existing panels due to poor attendance, according to a senior official. Out of the 237 Rajya Sabha members nominated by Chairman Venkaiah Naidu for the 24 department-related standing committees for 2021-22, a total of 50 members of the Upper House also have been placed in new committees. “This includes 28 members who had poor attendance in the meetings of committees held during 2020-21. 12 of these 28 members didn’t attend any meeting in the last one year due to Covid-19 or elections,” said a senior Rajya Sabha official. Yadav became the Union minister of environment and sciences and labour minister in July this year. Most of the changes involving 50 members of the Rajya Sabha were suggested by the respective parties. Among the major changes, Chaya Devi Verma has moved from Agriculture to Social Justice and Empowerment while Prof Manoj Kumar Jha of RJD has shifted from Railways to Labour. Congress leader Shaktisinh Gohel will join the transport panel from IT committee while BJD’s Sasmit Patra is now in the education committee from the law and justice committee. Trinamool’s Mausam Noor goes from Commerce to Water Resources panel and world champion in boxing, nominated member MC Mary Kom, has opted for Urban Development panel from the food body. Indu Bala Goswami will be in health panel. There are 24 standing committees and each panel has 11 members of Rajya Sabha and 20 of Lok Sabha. “All three Shiv Sena members in the Rajya Sabha got new panels. Sanjay Raut moves to External Affairs from Defence, Anil Desai from Coal and Steel to Commerce and Priyanka Chaturvedi from Commerce to Transport, Tourism and Culture. All 3 had good attendance last year,” said another official. Data for Rajya Sabha members suggest that 9 BJP members, 6 from Trinamool, Congress (4), 3 members each from Sena, CPM, RJD, YSRCP and 2 each from DMK,BJD and TRS have been shifted to new panels as per the consultations with the parties. All other parties have seen at least one member shifting to other panels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-annual-rejig-28-rajya-sabha-mps-shifted-out-of-existing-panels-due-to-poor-attendance-101633792295692.html
09-10-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: October 10, 1996 — Farooq Abdullah sworn in as CM of Jammu & Kashmir||Srinagar- Farooq Abdullah took over as Chief Minister of Jammu and Kashmir for the fourth time today. He and 26 members of his Ministry took oath of office and secrecy at the Centaur hotel here. The oath of office and secrecy was administered by the Governor, Gen. K.V. Krishna Rao. Mr. Abdullah has taken 12 Ministers of the Cabinet rank and some of the Minister of State status and two Deputy Ministers, one of them a woman. A galaxy of political personalities of the country were present during the swearing-in- ceremony. They included former Prime Minister V. P. Singh, Congress president Sitaram Kesri, Union Ministers Ram Vilas Paswan, Mr C.M. Ibrahim, Mr B. S. Ramoowalia, CPI-M leader Harkishan Singh Surject, CPI leader M. Faroom, former Union Minister Rajesh Pilot, Mr. Kamalnath and Mr. Sanjay Singh Originally, 28 Ministers besides Mr Faroog Abdullah were to be sworn in. Only 26 could be sworn in. There were cheers from all over the convention centre when Mr. Farooq Abdullah was called for taking oath. He took his oath in English. At the conclusion of the swearing-in ceremony, the Chief Minister pledged that Kashmir has to be restored its old glory and asked Pakistan to keep off from the internal affairs of the country. Twelve Cabinet Ministers are Ghulam Mohi-ud-Din Shab, Abdul Ahad Vakil, P. L. Handoo, Mohammad Shafi Uri, Abdul Rahim Rather, Bashir Ahmad Kitchloo, Bodh Raj Bali, Dr Sheikh Mustafa Kamal, Choudhary Mohammad Ramzan, Abdul Oayoom, Moulvi Iftikhar Hussain Ansari and Ajat Shatroo Singh. While nine were from the Kashmir Valley, three others were from the Jammu region. Twelve Ministers of State are Ali Mohammad Sagar, Mian Altaf, Aga Syed Mehmood Ali, Bashir Ahmad Nengroo, Sardar Ali Beig, Nissar Ahmad Khan, Mohammad Sharief Tariq, Surjit Singh Salathia, Govind Ram, Tegdan Rimbochay, Oamar Ali Akhoon. Out of these five are from the Kashmir Valley, five from the Jammu region and two from Ladakh region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-october-10-1996-farooq-abdullah-sworn-in-as-cm-of-jammu-kashmir-101633791396118.html
09-10-2021||India||All Congress unit chiefs to observe 3-hour 'maun' on Monday protesting Lakhimpur violence||The Congress has asked all its state and Union Territory unit chiefs to observe a three-hour ‘maun’ on Monday demanding the immediate removal of Union minister Ajay Mishra and the arrest of his son Ashish Mishra in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. The 'maun vrat' will be observed between 10am and 1pm outside Raj Bhavans or centra government offices. Punjab Congress chief Navjot Sidhu has already observed 'maun' since Friday night as he reached Lakhimpur Kheri. he also observed a hunger strike, which he withdrew on Saturday after Asish Mishra went to the police for interrogation.Sidhu begins ‘maun vrat’ demanding arrest of accused in Lakhimpur Kheri caseWhile the Congress is aiming at a nationwide protest over Lakhimpur Kheri violence, Haryana home minister Anil Vij said Sidhu's 'maun vrat' is actually beneficial for the Congress and the country. "Congress leader Sidhu kept maun vrat. If he keeps this forever, it will be very beneficial for Congress and the country," Vij said. The party has decided to hold a Maun Vrat across the country on Monday, the 11th of October between 10 am to 1 pm demanding the immediate sacking of Union Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri Ajay Mishra Teni & immediate arrest of all culprits.: Shri @kcvenugopalmp pic.twitter.com/7ZzyS1yqslOn Saturday, Youth Congress workers took out protests in New Delhi and clashed with Delhi Police. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a platform of farm unions, said farmers from various states would arrive at Lakhimpur Kheri on October 12 to mourn the death of four farmers and a journalist killed in the incident. Farm unions will also block train movement on October 18 and hold a mahapanchayat at Lucknow on October 28.As you eat today: Congress ups demand for Lakhimpur justice; Rahul Gandhi has an appeal"From Gorakhpur to Lakhimpur, the journey of democracy shows the might of the government only applies to the poor. When it comes to powerful people, the government comes to its knees," Congress leader Pawan Khera said at a press meet on Saturday."How do we expect the prime minister to ensure that all his ministers follow the raj dharma when he himself as the chief minister of Gujarat had ignored the advice by then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. The same PM had written a letter to Uttar Pradesh chief secretary against this very person who is now the minister of state for home," Khera added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-congress-unit-chiefs-to-observe-3-hour-maun-on-monday-protesting-lakhimpur-violence-101633789777097.html
09-10-2021||India||Existing Parliament building ‘unsafe’, capacity reached upper limit, says Union minister Puri||Stressing upon the need for a new Parliament building, Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Saturday said that the current one is “unsafe” and doesn’t have the capacity to accommodate more parliamentarians. During an interaction at the 'India Today Conclave 2021', Puri said the parliament building was in Seismic Zone II at the time of its construction but the area now lies in Seismic Zone IV, the high damage risk zone."When the building was constructed, it was in Seismic Zone II and today, that area is in Seismic Zone IV. It is not an exaggeration. We don't want to create panic, but you know you are above pushing the limit..." Puri said at the event.The Union housing and urban affairs minister further underlined that the existing building was a council house of the British colonial power and was never designed to be Parliament. He also pointed to the increasing of parliamentarians since India’s independence. The next delimitation of parliamentary seats is due in 2026, with the 2021 census data as the base."The number of members (parliamentarians) has been increasing since we became an independent country. So, there have been a lot of internal adjustments and new facilities have been added...from a purely structural point of view, it is an unsafe building,” Puri said.The Vice President’s enclave and the new Parliament House will be the first buildings to be completed under the Modi government's ambitious Central Vista redevelopment plan. The total estimated cost of the Central Vista revamp is around ₹20,000 crore. The Opposition parties have criticised the government for spending hundreds of crores on the Central Vista project in the middle of a pandemic. But Puri insisted that the construction of a new Parliament building and redevelopment of Central Vista Avenue will be completed in a time-bound manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/existing-parliament-building-unsafe-capacity-reached-upper-limit-says-union-minister-puri-101633786342560.html
09-10-2021||India||Producers given targets to manage their plastic packaging waste in draft EPR notification||The Union environment ministry has come out with a draft notification for regulation of extended producer responsibility under plastic waste management rules 2016. The draft specifies the quantity of waste that will have to be managed by producers, importers and brand owners who generate plastic packaging waste in India.When passed, the draft notification published on October 6 will come into effect immediately. EPR means the responsibility of a producer for the environmentally sound management of the product (plastic packaging) until the end of its life. People and stakeholders can submit objections or suggestions to the environment ministry on the draft within 60 days.EPR covers three categories of plastic packaging including rigid plastic packaging; flexible plastic packaging of single layer or multilayer (more than one layer with different types of plastic); plastic sheets, carry bags (including carry bags made of compostable plastics), plastic sachet or pouches; and multi-layered plastic packaging.For example, the draft states that in 2021-22 producers of plastic packaging waste will have to manage 35% of the ‘Q1’ waste in metric tons. Q 1 is the average weight of plastic packaging material (category-wise and state wise) sold in the last two years plus average quantity of pre-consumer plastic packaging waste (generated before product reaches the consumer) in the last two financial years minus the annual quantity of plastic packaging supplied to brand owners (BO) including online platforms/marketplaces and supermarkets/retail chains etc during the previous year. This EPR target for producers increases to 70% in 2022-23 and 100% for 2023-24 onwards. Similar EPR targets apply for importers and brand owners but the quantity would be different depending upon the quantity of packaging waste they are responsible for.For brand owners EPR target in 2021-22 shall be the average weight of fresh plastic packaging material purchased and introduced in market in the last two years plus average quantity of pre-consumer plastic packaging in the last two years. There are targets in the draft for recycling of plastic packaging waste which is mostly 30 to 50% of EPR in 2023-24. Those plastics which cannot be recycled will be sent for end-of-life disposal such as road construction, waste to energy, waste to oil, cement kilns etc. as per relevant guidelines issued by Indian Road Congress and Central Pollution Control Board, the draft states.The draft gives producers, importers, and brand owners of plastic waste an opportunity to trade in EPR certificates. They can use the surplus EPR certificates for offsetting previous year shortfall; carry forward for use in succeeding year and sell it to other producers and brands.CPCB will draft guidelines for imposition and collection of environment compensation, a penalty on producers, recyclers and end of life processors for violating obligations specified in the regulation and also for violations of conditions such as sharing false information / certificates as mandated under these guidelines.All producers, importers, brands, recyclers etc will have to be registered with CPCB through an online centralized portal. In case of irregularity or false information provided by them, the registration would be revoked for a five-year period and /or penalty may also be imposed, after giving an opportunity to be heard, the draft states.“We welcome this notification as the industry was waiting for long time and operating in uncertainty. Therefore, this notification brings clarity and opportunities for industry to start working on compliances. Prima facie this notification seems to be giving overall directions and clarity on several issues and sets the processes. However, there could be some challenges due to ground realities which needed to be mitigated based on the experience of implementation of this notification,” said Hiten Bheda, Chairman, Environment Committee, The All-India Plastics Manufacturers Association.“People can send in their comments to us. We have had consultations with industry bodies also on the EPR regulation,” a senior environment ministry official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/producers-given-targets-to-manage-their-plastic-packaging-waste-in-draft-epr-notification-101633786474802.html
09-10-2021||India||Cruise rave party: Who are Pratik Gaba, Rishabh Sachdeva, Amir Furniturewala?||With the Narcotics Control Bureau widening its probe into the cruise rave party case in which Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan has been arrested, the number of people who have been arrested stands at 18. Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik brought charges of foul play and said the agency let off three people who were detained after they were detained by the agency along with Aryan Khan. The three individuals, as named by minister Nawab Malik, are Rishabh Sachdeva, Pratik Gaba and Amir Furniturewala. Rishabh Sachdeva and Pratik Gaba can be seen exiting from the NCB office after detention. pic.twitter.com/1KTS3QykPsWho are Pratik Gaba, Rishabh Sachdeva, Pratik Gaba, Amir Furniturewala?Aryan Khan in his statement to the court mentioned Pratik Gaba. Aryan said he was invited to the party by Pratik Gaba who is a friend. Pratik Gaba and Aryan Khan are also social media friends.Rishabh Sachdeva, as claimed by Nawab Malik, is the brother-in-law of Mohit Bhartiya alias Mohit Kamboj. Nawab Malik said Rishabh was allowed to go after his father and uncle reached the NCB office.Amir Furniturewala might have been known to Aryan Khan as Nawab Malik claimed Pratik Gaba and Amir Furniturewala were the two persons who invited Aryan to the party.What did NCB say?Without confirming the names, the NCB on Saturday said that it has not let off three persons as the minister claimed but six persons as there was no evidence against them. In future, if they are required for the investigation into the case, they might be asked to join the probe, the agency said. “A total of 14 persons were brought to NCB Zonal Office for examination. All of them were served notice, examined thoroughly and their statements were recorded. Thereafter, eight persons were arrested and the remaining six persons were let off since no incriminating evidence was found against them. However, in the course of the investigation, they can be associated if the need arises as per law,” the NCB said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cruise-rave-party-who-are-pratik-gaba-rishabh-sachdeva-amir-furniturewala-101633784893325.html
09-10-2021||India||All but 50 analog terrestrial TV transmitters to be phased out by March 31: MIB||Paving way for emerging technologies, India's largest public broadcasting agency Prasar Bharati is set to phase out all but 50 analog terrestrial TV transmitters by March 31 next year, the Information and Broadcasting Ministry said on Saturday. Announcing the broadcasting reforms taken up by Prasar Bharati, the ministry said that the phasing out of obsolete technology like analog terrestrial TV is in “both public interest and national interest.”“With the exception of around 50 analog terrestrial TV transmitters in strategic locations, Prasar Bharati will be phasing out the rest of the obsolete analog transmitters by 31st March 2022,” the ministry announced.It noted that removing the analog terrestrial TV will make the “valuable spectrum” available for new and emerging technologies such as 5G and will also help in reducing wasteful expenditure on power. About 70% of all analog transmitters have been phased out so far and the use of the rest of them are being gradually discontinued while ensuring, the ministry stated, that “appropriate measures are taken for re-deployment of manpower.”As many as 468 ATTs were phased out during 2018-2019, the highest in a financial year so far.The ministry said that Prasar Bharati has entered into a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur, to develop "Next Gen Broadcast Solution" and a roadmap for digital terrestrial television to enable new applications such as Direct to Mobile Broadcasting and to create new Content Opportunities through the use of Artificial Intelligence Algorithms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-but-50-analog-terrestrial-tv-transmitters-to-be-phased-out-by-march-31-mib-101633780895719.html
09-10-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Farmers to hold rail roko on Oct 18 over Lakhimpur violence, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.The Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of multiple farmers' unions, has called for a 'rail roko' agitation on October 18 to protest against the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in Uttar Pradesh, which killed eight people including four cultivators, news agency PTI reported quoting social activist Yogendra Yadav. The farmers plan to burn effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah on Dussehra (October 15), to mark their protest, Yogendra Yadav announced on Saturday. Read moreAs India battles severe coal shortage impacting power generation, power discom Tata Power Delhi Distribution Limited (TPDDL) CEO Ganesh Srinivasan on Saturday said that Delhi may see an intermittent rotational load shedding in the coming days. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, requesting his intervention for the diversion of adequate coal and gas to power plants supplying electricity to the national capital amid the prevailing crisis. Read moreWith barely a couple of weeks to go for the big-ticket India vs Pakistan T20 World Cup match on October 24 in Dubai, the anticipation is slowly but surely building up. This will be after two years that the arch rivals will meet on the cricket field. The last time India and Pakistan faced each other was also in a World Cup, albeit in the ODI format, in 2019 in England. Read moreAn old video of a young Saif Ali Khan accompanying his mother, veteran actor Sharmila Tagore, to an event, surfaced online. At one point, she took him by the hand and introduced him to late filmmaker Satyajit Ray. Read moreAfter the launch of the new XPulse 200 4V, Hero MotoCorp has now teased a new motorcycle on its social media handles. The latest teaser clip of the upcoming bike throws a glimpse on the face of the motorcycle. Going by the details available, the bike appears to be a special edition model of its popular Xtreme 160R bike. Read moreBollywood actor Sameera Reddy started her fitness journey a few months on social media by revealing to her fans that she wanted to lose weight before Diwali and get fit. The star also talked about the importance of mental health and accepting our bodies. Now, Sameera is once again stressing the significance of taking a break and allowing our bodies the window to reset. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-farmers-to-hold-rail-roko-on-oct-18-demanding-ashish-mishra-s-arrest-and-all-the-latest-news-101633777144508.html
09-10-2021||India||PM Modi meets Danish counterpart, sign MoUs to boost ‘green strategic partnership’||India and Denmark on Saturday agreed on measures to take forward their unique “green strategic partnership” and signed four agreements aimed at boosting cooperation in green technologies and management of natural resources such as groundwater. Following a meeting with his Danish counterpart Mette Frederiksen, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the green strategic partnership finalised a year ago reflected the foresight of both countries and respect for the environment. “This partnership is an example of how by collective effort, through technology, one can work for green growth while preserving the environment. Today, we not only reviewed the progress made under this partnership but reiterated our commitment to increasing cooperation on climate change in the near future,” Modi said.Frederiksen said the cooperation between India and Denmark is a “great example of how green growth and green transition can go hand in hand”. She noted that while Denmark has the skills in the field of green technologies, India has the scale to use them to benefit a population of more than a billion.“Our green cooperation is now part of a very ambitious five-year joint action plan,” Frederiksen said, adding there is huge untapped potential in trade and investment.Among the four agreements signed on Saturday was a memorandum of understanding (MoU) between the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, the National Geophysical Research Institute in Hyderabad, and Aarhus University the Geological Survey of Denmark and Greenland on mapping groundwater resources and aquifers.The Indian Institute of Science-Bengaluru and Denmark’s Danfoss Industries Private Limited inked an MoU to establish a centre of excellence on natural refrigerants for tropical climates. A traditional knowledge digital library access agreement was signed by the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research and the Danish Patent and Trademark Office, while the skill development ministry and the Danish government signed a joint letter of intent.Three commercial agreements announced on Saturday were an MoU between Reliance Industries and Stiesdal Fuel Technologies for developing a hydrogen electrolyser and its manufacturing and deployment in India, an MoU between Infosys Technologies and Aarhus University to establish a centre of excellence for sustainability solutions in Denmark, and an MoU between the Observer Research Foundation and the State of Green on research on green transition.Modi welcomed Denmark’s decision to join the International Solar Alliance, saying this has added a new dimension to bilateral cooperation. He also thanked Denmark for backing India at different international forums.The two sides also decided to expand the scope of their cooperation, including a new partnership in health. “In order to increase agricultural productivity and income of farmers in India, we have decided to cooperate in agriculture-related technology. Under this, work will be done on technologies in many areas such as food safety, cold chain, food processing, fertilisers, fisheries and aquaculture,” Modi said. India and Denmark will also cooperate in smart water resource management, “waste to best”, and efficient supply chains.Modi referred to Danish companies that have been working in India for a long time in areas such as energy, food processing, logistics, infrastructure and machinery, and said reforms in the domestic economy, especially steps in the manufacturing sector, are facilitating many opportunities for these firms. ...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-meets-danish-counterpart-sign-mous-to-boost-green-strategic-partnership-101633778076030.html
09-10-2021||India||SRK's driver summoned by NCB; Sameer Wankhede says 6 people have been let off, not 3||Narcotics Control Bureau zonal director Sameer Wankhede on Saturday said the agency had actually let off six people, not 3 people, as Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik claimed earlier in the day, in connection with the cruise rave party case in which Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan has been arrested. Aryan Khan is now at the Arthur Road Jail after he was denied bail by the metropolitan magistrate court on Friday. Reports said Shah Rukh Khan's driver has been summoned by the NCB for questioning.Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik, whose son-in-law was arrested by the NCB in January this year, has brought a series of allegations against the NCB in connection with the Aryan Khan case. On Saturday, the minister said the agency let off three individuals and one of them is Rishabh Sachdeva, the brother-in-law of Mohit Bhartiyam a former Yuva Morcha chief of the BJP. The other two are Amir Furniturewala and Pratik Gaba, as Nawab Malik claimed.NCB says Gosavi, Bhanushali were independent witnesses in Aryan Khan case; not known to agency"It has been said that we let off three people. But we actually let off six people as their roles didn't transpire in the investigation. We had brought them to the office for inquiry by serving them notice under sections 67 of the NDPS Act and as their role was not found in the case, they were subsequently allowed to go. For security reasons, their identity can not be revealed," Sameer Wankhede said.Clarifying the number of how many people were arrested from the cruise on that day, NCB said 14 people were detained and 8 eight were later arrested while six were let off as there was no evidence against them. "We have recorded statements of all the detainees. The time of the statement has also been mentioned. NCB's all actions were well within the law and transparent. The case related documents were produced before the court. We would soon file chargesheet in the case," NCB deputy director-general Gyaneshwar Singh said."All the allegations levelled against NCB are baseless, motivated afterthoughts & prejudiced in nature. Such statements are based on conjecture and assumptions. These assumptions are frivolous and malicious in view of documents and records of procedures duly followed by NCB that can subject to legal verification," the agency said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-people-let-off-not-3-ncb-s-reply-to-minister-aryan-khan-s-driver-quizzed-101633777357957.html
09-10-2021||India||Don't consider those who killed BJP workers in Lakhimpur as culprits: Rakesh Tikait||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Saturday said that he did not consider the killing of the two Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri as a crime or those who did it the “culprits” explaining that they simply reacted to the SUV running over protesters.The statement comes in response to the death of eight people in the violence that broke out on October 3 after an SUV,  allegedly belonging to the convoy of Union minister of state for home (MoS) Ajay Mishra, ran over a group of anti-farm law protesters who were demonstrating against the visit of Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya at Tikonia-Banbirpur road in Lakhimpur Kheri.A total of four farmers, two BJP workers, a driver and a journalist were killed in the violence. Farmers have claimed that the Union minister's son Ashish Mishra was in the SUV that mowed down the protestors."The killing of two BJP workers in Lakhimpur Kheri after a convoy of cars mowed down four farmers is a reaction to an action. I do not consider those involved in the killings as culprits," Tikait was quoted as saying by PTI, in reply to a question asked during a press conference in Delhi.Tikait and other farmer leaders have demanded that both Union Minister Ajay Mishra and his son be arrested in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case, and said the incident was a "pre-planned conspiracy".“Ajay Mishra should also be removed from the government as he started this conspiracy and is also protecting the culprits in the case,” said Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) leader Yogendra Yadav during the press conference.Yadav went on to say that the SKM will on October 15, that is Dusshera, burn the effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah to protest against their inaction over the violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-consider-those-who-killed-bjp-workers-in-lakhimpur-as-culprits-rakesh-tikait-101633775157791.html
09-10-2021||India||India, China to hold 13th round of military talks, Hot Springs to be in focus||The Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) will on Sunday hold the next round of military talks to cool tensions along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC), with the dialogue expected to focus on hammering out a disengagement plan for rival frontline soldiers deployed at Hot Springs, which is one of the friction points on LAC, officials familiar with the developments said on Saturday. The 13th round of talks between corps commander-ranked officers will be held at Moldo on the Chinese side of LAC, said one of the officials cited above. It will begin at 10.30 am. The last round of military talks was held on August 2 after which the two armies pulled back their forward deployed troops from Gogra or Patrol Point-17A, which was one of the friction points on LAC. It was the second round of disengagement this year after the two sides pulled back their troops and weaponry from the Pangong Tso sector in mid-February. “Problems at Hot Springs or Patrol Point-15 are likely to be discussed during the talks. We are hopeful of positive outcomes that will take the disengagement process forward,” said a second official. If PLA is there to stay in the Ladakh theatre, so is the Indian Army, army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said on the eve of the talks, referring to the massive military buildup and infrastructure development by the neighbouring army across LAC. “It is a matter of concern that the large-scale buildup that occurred last year (when the border row erupted) continues to be in place. To sustain that kind of buildup, there has been an equal amount of infrastructure development on the Chinese side. It means that they (PLA) are there to stay. But if they are there to stay, we are there to stay too,” he said at the India Today conclave. India and China have been locked in a border standoff for 17 months and despite two rounds of disengagement at friction points this year, the two sides still have 50,000 to 60,000 troops each in the Ladakh theatre. The 13th round of military dialogue follows a face-off between Indian and Chinese soldiers along LAC in Arunachal Pradesh’s sensitive Tawang sector last week and another incursion by PLA in Uttarakhand on August 30. “PLA plans to keep the entire border active so that they can keep reinforcing their claims. It can also be an act of creeping assertiveness to subsequently lay a claim to these areas,” former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General BS Jaswal (retd) said on Friday. Top Indian and Chinese commanders agreed to a speedy resolution of outstanding issues on LAC at the 12th round of talks, with the dialogue focusing on disengagement of rival troops from the remaining flashpoints on the contested border. A joint statement issued after the 12th round described the talks as “a candid and in-depth exchange of views on resolution of remaining areas related to disengagement along LAC in the Western Sector of India-China border areas.” After the disengagement of troops from Gogra, former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd) said, “Hopefully, it can provide grounds for further disengagement in other areas. The real test will come when Depsang is discussed, and a breakthrough here could lead to a major de-escalation.” To be sure, the problems at Depsang predate the current border standoff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-to-hold-13th-round-of-military-talks-hot-springs-to-be-in-focus-101633776156787.html
09-10-2021||India||If PLA there to stay, so is Indian Army, says Gen Naravane on eve of LAC talks||If the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) is there to stay in the Ladakh theatre so is the Indian Army, army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said on Saturday referring to the military buildup and infrastructure development by the neighbouring army across the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC). His comments came on the eve of the 13th round of military talks with PLA to cool LAC tensions. “It is a matter of concern that the large-scale buildup that occurred last year (when the border row erupted) continues to be in place,” the army chief said. “To sustain that kind of buildup, there has been an equal amount of infrastructure development on the Chinese side. It means that they (PLA) are there to stay. We are keeping a close watch on the developments. But if they are there to stay, we are there to stay too,” he said at the India Today Conclave. He said India had taken countermeasures and matched PLA’s moves. India and China have been locked in a border standoff for 17 months and despite two rounds of disengagement at friction points this year, the two sides still have 50,000 to 60,000 troops each in the Ladakh theatre. “If they continue to stay there for the second winter, it will definitely mean we will be in a Line of Control (LoC) kind of situation (referring to the Indian and Pakistani deployments on the LoC), though not an active LoC as is there on the western front. We will have to keep a close eye on PLA troop buildup and deployments to ensure they don’t get into any misadventure once again,” Naravane said. Asked to comment on PLA’s intentions given its aggressive moves in the northern sector, he said, “I wish I knew. The most difficult thing is to get into your adversary’s mind. This is the question we have been asking not just within the army but also at other forums. But whatever those reasons may have been, I don’t think they have been able to achieve their aims because of the rapid response by the Indian armed forces.” The army chief said renewed infiltration attempts by Pakistani terrorists were being witnessed along LoC in Kashmir after a four-month lull following the renewal of a ceasefire pact with Pakistan in February 2021. The two countries first agreed in 2003 to observe truce along their de facto border in Jammu & Kashmir. “The ceasefire held in totality till July. Incidents have started taking place again. There have been three incidents of ceasefire violation in north Kashmir. It seems to be a repeat of the 2003 pattern when it started with one odd incident and then rising to...as good as not having a ceasefire,” he said. On the Afghanistan situation and its impact on Kashmir, the army chief said when the previous Taliban regime was in power 20 years ago; Afghan-origin terrorists were operating in the valley. “There is reason to believe that the same thing might happen once again. We are prepared for any such eventuality. Just as we dealt with them in early 2000s, we will deal with them now should they venture anywhere near us.” Naravane flagged concerns about the recent targeted killings in Kashmir, saying the acts were unacceptable and a last-ditch attempt by terrorists to stay “a little relevant”. On the possibility of women being assigned front-line combat roles given that the doors of the National Defence Academy have been opened to them, he said, “We have opened 10 branches of the army to women, except infantry, armoured corps and mechanised infantry. I think for the foreseeable future that will remain the same. I will not make any false promises. We will have to see how it goes along. None of our neighbouring countries have opened up their combat arms to women officers. Things could change in future. We have to move slowly...change will happen but at its own pace.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-pla-there-to-stay-so-is-indian-army-says-gen-naravane-on-eve-of-lac-talks-101633774960669.html
09-10-2021||India||NCB says Gosavi, Bhanushali were independent witnesses in Aryan Khan case; not known to agency||The Narcotics Control Bureau on Saturday issued a statement clarifying the association of Manish Bhanushali and KP Gosavi in the Aryan Khan case and said the agency did not violate any norm. The presence of independent witnesses is a must during raids and KP Gosavi and Manish Bhanushali whose names have come to the media were among those independent witnesses, deputy director-general Gyaneshwar Singh said adding that there were a total of nine independent witnessed in the case. None of these witnesses was known to the NCB prior to the raid, the official clarified.NCB's operation raised questions after Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik released photos of KP Gosavi and Manish Bhanushali arriving and leaving the NCB office on the day of the raid. While Manish Bhanushali is a BJP leader, KP Gosavi himself had fraud cases against him. KP Gosavi also took a selfie with Aryan Khan which went viral and NCB issued a statement denying any association between Gosavi and the agency.Cruise rave party: Who took the selfie with Aryan Khan? What did NCB say?While the NCB earlier claimed that Manish Bhanushali and KP Gosavi do not belong to the agency, it is the first time that the agency clarified what role they had in the case. Manish Bhanushali admitted to the media that he is a BJP leader and claimed to be an informer in this case. “As per due procedure established by the law of land, independent public witnesses are mandatorily required to be present during seizure operations. NCB strongly adheres to this procedure and involves at least 2 independent witnesses in all the operations. As the operations are conducted on a real-time basis, field verification of independent witnesses is not possible as the main focus is on the operation and drug recovery. A total of 9 independent witnesses were involved in the whole operation. Manish Bhanushali and KP Gosavi were among them,” Singh said in his statement. While Gosavi was seen in the selfie with Aryan, Manish Bhanushali was the person who was seen with Arbaaz Merchant, another arrested in the case who has been accused of possession of drugs. Bhanushali earlier said that he was there while the persons detained were being transported, but he was not dragging any of them. In its statement issued on Saturday, the NCB clarified none of the detained or arrested persons was ill-treated and at that time there was a rush to take them to the safety of the NCB custody. "As high-profile persons were involved in the said case, to avoid unwanted leakages of any information and for the safety of the detained persons, they were rushed to the safety of the NCB office to avoid large crowds and numerous cameras gathered. None of the detained or arrested person was ill-treated in any way," Gyaneshwar Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-high-profile-person-was-involved-what-ncb-says-on-kp-gosavi-bhanushali-101633774216549.html
09-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Farmers to hold rail roko on Oct 18 demanding Ashish Mishra's arrest||The Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of multiple farmers' unions, has called for a 'rail roko' agitation on October 18 to protest against the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in Uttar Pradesh, which killed eight people including four cultivators, news agency PTI reported quoting social activist Yogendra Yadav. The farmers plan to burn effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah on Dussehra (October 15), to mark their protest, Yogendra Yadav announced on Saturday.The call to strike comes as the Uttar Pradesh government is facing major flak over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. Two SUVs ran over farmers who were coming out of a protest against the Centre's three farm laws on October 3.The agitated farmers are demanding the immediate resignation of Union minister Ajay Mishra, whose son is allegedly involved in the violence. "Union Minister Ajay Mishra should be removed and arrested as he started this conspiracy," said Yogendra Yadav at a press conference in Delhi."We demand Union Minister Ajay Mishra and his son Ashish be arrested," Joginder Singh Ugrahan, a farmers' union leader who was also present at the conference said, according to a PTI report.Farmers have alleged that Ashish was sitting in the vehicle which mowed over farmers. However, the minister has refuted all allegations and has claimed that his son is innocent.The agitated farmers have alleged that the incident was part of a "pre-planned conspiracy". "They (attackers) tried to terrorise farmers," claimed farmer leader Darshan Pal.Meanwhile, Ashish Mishra appeared for questioning before the Special Investigation Team (SIT) on Saturday in the crime branch of the Police Lines in Lakhimpur Kheri. However, the police officials have refused to comment on the ongoing interrogation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-farmers-to-hold-rail-roko-on-oct-18-demanding-ashish-mishra-s-arrest-101633772259281.html
09-10-2021||India||As you eat today: Congress ups demand for Lakhimpur justice; Rahul Gandhi has an appeal||The Congress on Saturday organised protests demanding justice for the victims of the Lakhimpur violence while Congress leader Rahul Gandhi appealed to everyone to remember the farmers who are giving their blood and sweat to feed the country -- while eating today. Four farmers were killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence as Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni's car allegedly ran over them while four others were killed in the violence that followed,  on last Sunday,  in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri.Indian Youth Congress workers held demonstrations over the violence in New Delhi and clashed with police. The main accused in the case, Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni's son Ashish Mishra appeared before the investigation team on Saturday, after staying away from the interrogation on Friday.
09-10-2021||India||CWC to meet on October 16; farmers issue, political situation on agenda||The Congress Working Committee (CWC) will meet on October 16, a day after Dussehra, to discuss the Lakhimpur Kheri violence and the issues faced by farmers, people familiar with the developments said.The highest executive body of the party is also likely to address some of the questions related to the political turmoil in its Punjab unit, as demanded by G23 leaders earlier, the people cited above added.The meeting, according to a party functionary, will be held physically. For the past 18 months, CWCs have been held virtually amid the Covid-19 pandemic.“The CWC meeting will take place on October 16. It might be a physical meeting,” said a senior leader.The meeting is likely to focus on the farmers’ issues after party leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra visited the kin of farmers who died after being allegedly mowed down by a car belonging to Union minister of state for home Ajay Kumar Mishra Teni in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri district on October 3.With farmers alleging that Teni’s son, Ashish Mishra, was in the car that ran over the people, the Congress has demanded the sacking of the minister and the arrest of his son.Last month, senior party leader Ghulam Nabi Azad had written to party interim chief Sonia Gandhi, seeking a CWC meeting to discuss the political situation in Punjab and Goa units as well as the “mass exodus” in the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-working-committee-to-meet-on-october-16-to-discuss-farmers-issue-political-situation-101633770582248.html
09-10-2021||India||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar to visit Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan and Armenia||External affairs minister S Jaishankar will visit Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan and Armenia during October 10-13 to take forward bilateral relations and boost cooperation in areas ranging from security to trade, the external affairs ministry said.He will be in Kyrgyzstan during October 10-11. This will be his first visit to the country as external affairs minister, and he will meet the foreign minister and the president. Several agreements and memorandums of understanding (MoUs) are expected to be signed during the visit.During October 11-12, Jaishankar will be in Kazakhstan to attend the ministerial meeting of the Conference of Interaction and Confidence Building Measures in Asia (CICA) in Nur Sultan. Kazakhstan is the current chair and initiator of the CICA forum. Jaishankar is also expected to hold talks with the deputy prime minister and foreign minister of Kazakhstan and meet other top Kazakh leaders.Jaishankar will be in Armenia during October 12-13. This will be the first visit by an Indian foreign minister to independent Armenia. Jaishankar will meet his Armenian counterpart, the prime minister and the president of the National Assembly.The three-nation tour will be an opportunity to review bilateral relations with all the countries and share views on developments in the region, the ministry said.The tour will also be a “continuation of our increased engagement with countries in our extended neighbourhood”, according to the ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/external-affairs-minister-s-jaishankar-to-visit-kyrgyzstan-kazakhstan-and-armenia-101633767094773.html
09-10-2021||India||Attack on doctor's house in Srinagar is 'fake news': J-K police||The Jammu and Kashmir police on Saturday dismissed reports that a terror attack took on the house of a doctor in Srinagar and called it “fake news”. The police clarified that stray bullets hit two vehicles and the windows of two houses in the locality on Friday night during an encounter in the Natipora area of the city. "Fake news is being circulated about an attack on the house of a doctor in Srinagar. Few stray bullets during the Natipora encounter had hit two vehicles and windows of two houses in the locality last night," the police said in a Twitter post.A fake news is being circulated about an attack on the house of a doctor in Srinagar.Few stray bullets from Natipora encounter had hit two vehicles and windows of two houses in the locality last night. @JmuKmrPolice @KashmirPoliceA report earlier claimed that there was an attack on a doctor's residence in the high-security zone of Tulsi bagh in Srinagar. The city has been placed under high alert after two school teachers, including Supinder Kaur, were killed in back-to-back “targetted killing” by terrorists in the Idgah Sangam area of Srinagar on Thursday. Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) backed new Kashmiri terror group The Resistance Front (TRF) has been suspected behind the attacks.Meanwhile, an encounter broke out between terrorists and security forces on Saturday during a cordoning operation in the Chanapora area of the city, police said. The encounter started after an operation was launched to nab the terrorist, who escaped the encounter in the nearby Natipora area on Friday where one of the terrorists was killed by security forces. There were no reports of any casualties so far in the gun battle on Saturday, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/attack-on-doctor-s-house-in-srinagar-is-fake-news-j-k-police-101633762693333.html
09-10-2021||India||Centre restricts export of 3 categories of syringes for 90 days||With the vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in full flow, the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) announced on Saturday that “quantitative restrictions” were being imposed on the export of three categories of syringes for a period of three months. It explained in a statement that this was being done with a view to boost the domestic availability and uptake of syringes for the nationwide exercise.“The domestic vaccine manufacturers, and manufacturers of syringes have played an important and critical role in the implementation of India's Covid-19 vaccination programme, the largest in the world. Syringes are vital to sustain the momentum of the drive to vaccinate all eligible citizens in the shortest possible time,” the health ministry noted in its statement.The three categories, the export of which has been blocked for 90 days are: 0.5ml/1ml AD (auto-disable), 0.5ml/1ml//2ml/3ml disposable, and 1ml/2ml/3ml RUP (re-use prevention). “It is clarified that the ban is not on the export of any kind/type. It is only a quantitative restriction for a limited period and does not cover syringes of other denominations or type other than those mentioned,” the statement further mentioned.Any restriction which is "quantitative" in nature limits the quantity of goods to be imported or exported.The national inoculation drive against the viral illness commenced on January 16 this year and, thus far, more than 940 million doses of a Covid-19 jab have been administered. At present, only those aged 18 and above are eligible to get vaccinated; the government aims to vaccinate 100 per cent adult population by the end of the year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-announces-ban-on-export-of-3-categories-of-syringes-for-90-days-101633764186804.html
09-10-2021||India||India, China border talks tomorrow; Hot Springs de-escalation possible||A meeting between India’s Ladakh Corps Commander and Chinese South Xinjiang military district commander is expected to take place on Sunday at Chushul with de-escalation from patrolling point 15 or general area Hot Springs on the agenda. According to people familiar with the matter, the senior military commanders will take up remaining points of friction in East Ladakh, including Depsang Bulge and Charding Nullah Junction in South Demchok, one at a time. If the two decide to come to an agreement (most plausible) on de-escalation from Hot Springs, the PLA aggression of May 2020 will be reversed with the status quo intact in East Ladakh. As of now, some 50 PLA personnel are ahead for their positions at patrolling point 15 with an equal number of Indian Army troops facing them at a distance.Even though the military situation has eased out between the two sides as compared to last year, the PLA has still deployed more than two divisions and a number of combined arms brigades. The Indian Army also has matching deployments with the air force on standby from both sides. “If de-escalation from PP 15 is reached on Sunday, then both India and China can work towards de-induction of troops from the East Ladakh theatre after 16 months,” said a Beijing watcher.While India will welcome the de-escalation from Hot Springs after the Gogra agreement in the previous round of military dialogue, New Delhi wants continued discussions to resolve patrolling rights in Depsang Bulge and Charding Nullah Junction so that all pin-pricks along the 1597km long Ladakh LAC are removed.While there has been recent excitement within the media over PLA transgressions in Barahoti Plains in Central Sector and Tawang in the eastern sector, the armies on both sides have taken them as routine annual fall-outs of an undefined border. However, India has made it very clear that normalcy in bilateral relations is totally dependent on peace and tranquillity along the 3488km LAC with PLA directed to desist from making any unilateral changes on the ground.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-border-talks-tomorrow-hot-springs-de-escalation-possible-101633764475644.html
09-10-2021||India||News updates from HT at 1pm: UK high commissioner ‘delighted’ on end of vaccine certification row with India||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Absolutely delighted': UK high commissioner on end of vaccine certification row with IndiaTwo days after he announced that the UK government will recognise the vaccination status of Indian nationals double jabbed with the Covishield Covid-19 vaccine as “fully vaccinated,” British high commissioner to India, Alex Ellis, on Saturday expressed his “delight” at the policy reversal by the Boris Johnson administration, adding that people are “desperate” to travel to India from the United Kingdom. Read moreSmriti Irani shares selfie along with an inspirational caption. Seen it yet?Smriti Irani is an active user of Instagram. She often takes to the platform to share varied kinds of posts. From witty to inspirational, her shares often leave people in awe. Case in point, her latest post where she shared a selfie along with a motivational caption. There is a possibility that her post will wow you. Read more'Thank you for the memories': Warner's heartfelt social media post suggests end of run with Sunrisers Hyderabad in IPLWhen David Warner did not turn out for Sunrisers Hyderabad after the first two matches of the UAE-leg, it was perhaps a signal that the franchise could well be done with him. And the Australia batsman all but confirmed the speculation through a post on social media, where he posted a warm and heartfelt note, suggesting the end of his run with SRH. Read moreSamantha Ruth Prabhu was planning to start a family with Naga Chaitanya: Shakuntalam producer on abortion rumoursOn Friday, actor Samantha Ruth Prabhu took to Instagram to address rumours surrounding her split with husband Naga Chaitanya. She denied claims that she had affairs, abortions and that she never wanted children. Read moreTata Punch first drive review: Pocket-sized SUV with rocket-sized promisesTata Punch is the next SUV lined up for the Indian car market by Tata Motors. Punch may well be far smaller in dimensions than its siblings but is likely to be the most sought-after because of the segment and play of field it seeks to compete in. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1pm-uk-high-commissioner-delighted-on-end-of-vaccine-certification-row-with-india-and-all-the-latest-news-101633759321406.html
09-10-2021||India||Centre ready for hard options against targeted minority killings in Valley||The Centre is ready to exercise hard security options to counter Pakistan instigated fresh cycle of violence in Kashmir Valley with the objective to terrorise the minority Hindu and Sikh communities. As many as five innocents from these minorities were gunned down in Srinagar by local fronts of Pakistan based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) this month. As many as four counter-terror and intelligence teams from intelligence agencies and the National Investigation Agency (NIA) are parked in Srinagar with firm instructions to eliminate these terror modules through pin-pointed action. Besides, counter-insurgent force, the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), has been told to pull up its socks in Srinagar and the Border Security Force (BSF) has been asked to prevent infiltration from across the border.On Friday night, the J-K police gunned down Aqib Bashir, a LeT terrorist from Shopian, in an encounter in the Natipora area in Srinagar. An AK-47 assault rifle and two magazines were recovered from the body and a fresh attempt to target minorities was foiled. Another terrorist, said to be a Pakistani national, managed to escape the encounter site.After the targeted killing of a Kashmiri Pandit pharmacist Makhan Lal Bindroo, school principal Supinder Kaur, schoolteacher Deepak Chand and Virender Paswan, a hawker from Bihar, the security forces are scanning the Srinagar city to neutralise the new threat as the Centre has made it clear that it will not allow anyone to terrorise the public.According to senior officials of J-K police, three local modules two terrorists of LeT front, so-called the resistance force, are operating in Srinagar and targeting innocents with small arms. The officials confirm the presence of a Pakistani national who is guiding the attacks by selecting the targets.After a review of the security situation was conducted by Union home minister Amit Shah along with National Security Advisor Ajit Doval on October 7, the Centre has decided that its first priority is to eliminate the perpetrators of the crime and then go after their sponsors in the Valley and beyond. The intelligence and security status has been upgraded as there is a legitimate fear of proliferation of US-made assault rifles, sniper rifles and night vision devices from Taliban occupied Afghanistan. The US forces exited Afghanistan last month after leaving billions worth of military hardware including lakhs of assault rifles and ammunition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-ready-for-hard-options-against-targeted-minority-killings-in-valley-101633758559193.html
09-10-2021||India||‘Absolutely delighted': UK high commissioner on end of vaccine certification row with India||Two days after he announced that the UK government will recognise the vaccination status of Indian nationals double jabbed with the Covishield Covid-19 vaccine, British high commissioner to India, Alex Ellis, on Saturday expressed his “delight” at the policy reversal by the Boris Johnson administration, adding that people are “desperate” to travel to India from the United Kingdom.Also Read | No quarantine for fully vaccinated Indians travelling to UK from October 11“I'm absolutely delighted that the UK government cooperated very well with the Indian government. Now, this enables Indian visitors, vaccinated with recognised vaccines, which include Covishield, to enter the United Kingdom without quarantine. We now have to get people moving between the two countries. People are desperate to come here (India),” Ellis said, according to news agency ANI. #WATCH We are delighted with UK-India cooperation on Covishield, those travelling from India can now enter the UK without quarantine, says Alex Ellis, UK High Commissioner to India pic.twitter.com/EPY1X1BTy6The next step, the high commissioner said, is easing the way for business travellers to come to India, and opening up more flights. “We have to look at each process and, in turn, at each vaccine. We start with the ones recognised by regulators, and that includes Covishield,” Ellis said, when questioned on the possibility of British regulators recognising Covaxin, India's first indigenous anti-Covid jab.A major diplomatic row erupted between New Delhi and London after the latter announced that under its new entry rules, Indian nationals arriving in the UK will have to spend 10 days in quarantine even if they are fully vaccinated against Covid-19 but not from a vaccine not recognised here, including Covishield. The jab, in reality, is the Indian version of Britain's Astrazeneca vaccine.Later, the Johnson administration accepted Covishield, though it did not approve India's CoWIN-generated vaccine certificates.In response, New Delhi imposed reciprocal measures. The respective entry norms of both sides came into effect on October 4.The new travel rules to the United Kingdom will apply from October 11. As a result, India, too, is likely to relax quarantine rules for those arriving from there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/absolutely-delighted-uk-high-commissioner-on-end-of-vaccine-certification-row-with-india-101633759092964.html
09-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Sidhu ends hunger protest after Ashish Mishra reports to cops||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Saturday ended his day-long hunger protest after Ashish Mishra, the son of Union minister of state Ajay Mishra ‘Teni’, reported to the Uttar Pradesh police for questioning in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case. Demanding the arrest of Ashish Mishra, Sidhu started the hunger strike on Friday at the Lakhimpur residence of late journalist Raman Kashyap, who was among the eight people killed in the October 3 violence. However, after Mishra showed up for the interrogation a day after he dodged an earlier summons, Sidhu ended his hunger protest.Also Read | Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Union minister's son reports to policeAshish Mishra on Saturday appeared before the Uttar Pradesh police in connection with the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri during which eight people, including four farmers, lost their lives. The minister's son showed up at the Crime Branch office in Lakhimpur Kheri a day after the Supreme Court pulled up the Yogi Adityanath-led UP government over its handling of the case. “This is an offence registered under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code (murder charge),” the Supreme Court told lawyer Harish Salve, who was representing the UP government, during the suo motu case hearing. “Do you treat everyone in the same manner? Giving them an invitation that you please come?”On Saturday, Mishra's legal advisor Awadesh Kumar confirmed that his client was going to arrive before the police, and moments later, the minister's son reported to the cops as scheduled. “We respect the notice and will cooperate in the investigation,” Kumar told the ANI news agency before his appearance.Also Read | 'Not satisfied with UP govt probe in Lakhimpur Kheri case': Supreme CourtCongress has called for the immediate dismissal of MoS Teni and the arrest of his son, Ashish. Navjot Singh Sidhu met late journalist Raman Kashyap's family on Friday and said, “Nothing is greater than law and justice. But no action is being taken by the state government because the accused is the minister's son.” “Now the law is different for both, people in power and poor people. Police can do anything as they are highly efficient, but nothing is being done in this case,” he added.On Thursday, too, Sidhu led a march to Lakhimpur and called for “ahuti” (sacrifice) of a minister to restore farmers' faith in the judicial system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-sidhu-ends-hunger-protest-after-ashish-mishra-reports-to-cops-101633759981867.html
09-10-2021||India||Flooded restaurant, cars floating on roads: How rains battered Hyderabad | Watch||An intense spell of rainfall caused waterlogging in many parts of Hyderabad, Telangana on Friday evening and at least two people were washed in the Vanasthalipuram area of the capital city. Several low-lying areas remained inundated till Saturday morning as the city received 10-12cm of rain in the span of fewer than three hours, between 8:30pm and 11pm. K Purushottam, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), Vanasthalipuram said that the rescue team was searching for the two, who were washed away after the heavy rain.Videos and pictures of the rain-battered areas showing roads and the low lying places inundated were doing rounds on social media platforms. In one of the video clips from Old City shared by news agency ANI, people were seen sitting and eating in ankle-deep water at a restaurant as the entire area was flooded. #WATCH | Telangana: Rainwater entered a restaurant in Old City after incessant rains lashed Hyderabad, yesterday pic.twitter.com/ACLKd1Vb19A similar situation was seen in Vanasthalipuram and Kukatpally areas where gutters overflowed due to heavy rain. Cars were also seen floating and being swept away due to strong currents.Vehicular movement has been badly affected in several parts of the city while several flights got cancelled or diverted. The downpour on Friday reminded residents of the horrific rains that wreaked havoc in Telangana last year.Visited Chintalkunta area along with @D_SudheerReddy Garu where a person on motor bike has been reported missing, he has been found, & he is safe & sound. @GHMCOnline, @Director_EVDM, MONSOON EMERGENCY TEAMS are actively working on the field to resolve the issues. @KTRTRS pic.twitter.com/qYcvAO9eJ3More rainfall is expected on Saturday, Hyderabad mayor Vijayalaxami Gadwal warned citizens, advising them to stay indoors. “Heavy rainfall is expected to continue over the city. Monsoon emergency teams are on the field. Citizens are advised to stay indoors unless needed. Dial @GHMCOnline control room on 040-21111111, 040-29555500 for any rain-related issues and assistance,” the mayor tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flooded-restaurant-cars-floating-on-roads-how-rains-battered-hyderabad-watch-101633758628126.html
09-10-2021||India||Rajnath Singh salutes Coast Guard: ‘Started with 4-6 boats, now over 150 ships, 66 aircraft’||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday presented gallantry and meritorious service medals to Indian Coast Guard personnel at the Investiture Ceremony being held at National Stadium Complex in the national capital. Speaking on the occasion, the defence minister said that the Indian Coast Guard was started with 4-6 boats, and today, with more than 150 ships, and 66 aircraft, it holds an important place in the world's best maritime forces.Started with 4-6 boats, Indian Coast Guard now have more than 150 ships, and 66 aircraft & holds an important place in the world's best maritime forces: Defence Minister Rajnath Singh pic.twitter.com/5C2K5YAGHjSingh further said that the Indian Coast Guard's professionalism, and ever-growing nature, instills confidence among the countrymen that our national maritime interests are under the safe watch of brave guards.Meanwhile, on Friday, Singh extended his greetings to the air warriors and their families on Air Force Day and stated that the Indian Air Force (IAF) is steadfast in its service to the nation.“Greetings and warm wishes to all Indian Air Force personnel and their families on the 89th anniversary of this indomitable force. Proud of our air warriors for responding to varied challenges with alacrity and resilience and being steadfast in the service to the nation,” Singh tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-salutes-coast-guard-started-with-4-6-boats-now-over-150-ships-66-aircraft-101633758741518.html
09-10-2021||India||Union minister's son reports to police in connection with Lakhimpur Kheri violence||Ashish Mishra, the son of Union minister of state for home affairs Ajay Mishra ‘Teni’, on Saturday appeared before the Uttar Pradesh police in connection with the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri during which eight people, including four farmers, lost their lives. Ashish Mishra reported to the Crime Branch office in Lakhimpur Kheri town a day after he evaded the police. “We respect the notice and will cooperate in the investigation. Ashish Mishra will appear before the police today,” Awadhesh Kumar, legal advisor of Ashish Mishra, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI before his appearance.The police tightened security outside Teni's residence and Lakhimpur Kheri police lines ahead of Ashish Mishra's appearance on Saturday. Ashish Mishra did not appear before the police on Friday when he was summoned as a witness. The Union minister later said his son could not report to the police due to ‘health reasons’. His non-appearance prompted the UP police to paste a fresh notice outside the minister's residence asking his son Ashish Mishra to appear before them for questioning on October 9.Also read | UP govt protecting accused of Lakhimpur Kheri violence: CongressThe Supreme Court on Friday pulled up the Uttar Pradesh government for not immediately arresting Ashish Mishra and said that the state police do not appear to be “really serious” even as the “brutal” episode left eight people dead.On Monday, the Uttar Pradesh police booked Ashish Mishra for murder. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of several farmers’ unions, alleged that Ashish Mishra arrived with three vehicles around the time that farmers were leaving after staging a protest against the three central farm laws at the helipad and mowed down farmers. However, Ajay Mishra and Ashish Mishra refuted SKM's allegations and said his son was not present at the spot where the incident took place.Meanwhile, the Uttar Pradesh police arrested two accused, who are said to be close aides of Ashish Mishra in connection with Lakhimpur Kheri violence. The arrested men have been identified as Luvkush and Ashish Pandey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-union-minister-s-son-reports-to-police-101633756894760.html
09-10-2021||India||Kerala HC sends notice to Centre over PM Modi’s photo on vaccine certificate||The Kerala High Court on Friday sent a notice to the Union Government on a petition seeking the Covid-19 certificate without Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s photo on it. Petitioner M Peter, a resident of Kottayam, contended that the present vaccine certificate violates the fundamental rights of a citizen and sought a certificate without the photo of the Prime Minister. After submitting his plea Justice P B Suresh Kumar directed both, union and state governments, to file their views in two weeks. The petitioner also produced vaccination certificates of different countries including the United States, Indonesia, Israel and Germany saying they all carried necessary information, not photos of their heads of the government.The petitioner, a frequent traveller, also said he has to carry the certificate with him to several places and the photo of the PM has “no substance, utility or relevance.” If the government is firm, people can be given an option to carry the certificate without any photo.In the petition filed through Advocate Ajit Joy, he said the fight against the pandemic is converted into a public relations and media campaign and it gives an impression that it was a one-man show. He said he has every right to carry a vaccine certificate without the photo of the PM.“The photograph is a needless intrusion into the private space of the petitioner. The Central government or the PM cannot claim to have done anything particular, but their duty,” he contended in the petition.Earlier, the Union government defended its decision to include the photograph in the certificate saying the PM’s image along with his words help create general awareness and Covid-appropriate behaviour. When a question came up in the upper house two months back, Minister of State for Health BP Pawar said the PM’s photo was ideal to promote awareness. “Given the context of the pandemic, its evolving nature and the fact that following of Covid-appropriate behaviour has emerged as one of the critical measures for preventing the spread of the disease,” he said in a written reply justifying the photo. “The photograph along with his words reinforces the message for creating awareness and importance of following Covid-appropriate behaviour even after the vaccination. It was done in the larger public interest,” he said. But Congress and other opposition members deplored it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-hc-sends-notice-to-centre-over-pm-modi-s-photo-on-vaccine-certificate-101633756653276.html
09-10-2021||India||India logged most Covid-19 cases from these 2 states this week: Check latest updates||India has been recording at least 20,000 cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) nearly every day in the last week, which have now pushed the country’s infection tally to 33,935,309. On Saturday, India logged 19,740 new Covid-19 cases and 23,070 recoveries, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. With this, the country's active caseload now stands at 236,643—the lowest in 206 days. The recovery rate is currently at 97.98 per cent, the highest since the beginning of the coronavirus pandemic."On an average, 20,000 Covid-19 cases have been recorded daily. Of these 56 per cent cases were reported from Kerala last week,” Union health ministry’s joint secretary Lav Agarwal said on Thursday.Kerala has currently recorded more than one lakh active cases of Covid-19 and the number of infections in Mizoram crossed the 1 lakh mark with 102,629 infections on Thursday. A four-member expert team sent by the Centre has been camping in Mizoram and were in Champhai district on the Mizoram-Myanmar border on Thursday to conduct an on-the-spot study of the pandemic situation, news agency PTI reported.Here are the latest updates on Covid-19 in India:1. India has administered 940 million vaccine doses under the nationwide vaccination drive.2. Last week, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla wrote to the chief secretaries of all the states and Union territories on Covid-19 safe behaviour during the upcoming festivals. "There should be a focus on the five-fold strategy, i.e., Test-Track-Treat-Vaccination and adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour to safely navigate through the festive season to avoid the possibility of a surge in Covid-19 cases,” Bhalla wrote in his letter.3. As many as 71 per cent of adult citizens have received at least one dose of a Covid-19 vaccine and 27 per cent of the population have received both doses, said the government.4. Two Indian drugmakers—Aurobindo Pharma Ltd and MSN Laboratories—have requested permission to end their late-stage trials on Merck & Co's experimental antiviral drug molnupiravir in moderate Covid-19 patients, the drug regulator's expert committee said on Friday.5. The latest serosurvey has revealed that 70 per cent of people in Tamil Nadu have Covid-19 antibodies. Chennai and Coimbatore have reported the seropositivity at 82 per cent and 71 per cent in the third serosurvey conducted between July and August, reports PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-logged-most-covid-19-cases-from-these-2-states-this-week-check-latest-updates-101633751945142.html
09-10-2021||India||PM Modi receives Danish counterpart, Mette Frederiksen, at Rashtrapati Bhavan||Prime Minister Narendra Modi received visiting Denmark prime minister Mette Frederiksen on Saturday at the Rashtrapati Bhavan in Delhi, where she was accorded a ceremonial welcome. Frederiksen arrived in New Delhi earlier today for her 3-day visit to India. Minister of state (MoS) for external affairs Meenakshi Lekhi received Frederiksen, who is on her first state visit to India, at the Delhi airport.The Danish prime minister also paid floral tributes to Mahatma Gandhi at Rajghat on Saturday.During her visit, Frederiksen will call on President Ram Nath Kovind and hold bilateral talks with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. She will also interact with think tanks, students, and members of civil society. India termed Mette Frederiksen's visit very important as she is the first head of state visiting India since Covid-19 restrictions are in place since last March. Minister of external affairs S Jaishankar had visited Denmark earlier this year.India and Denmark have strong trade and investment ties. More than 200 Danish companies are present in India and over 60 Indian companies have a presence in Denmark.There exists strong collaboration in the fields of renewable energy, clean technologies, water and waste management, agriculture and animal husbandry, science and technology, digitisation including ICT, smart cities, shipping, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-receives-danish-counterpart-mette-frederiksen-at-rashtrapati-bhavan-101633753518222.html
09-10-2021||India||India logs 19,740 new Covid-19 cases; daily infections 7% lower than yesterday||Fresh infections of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country fell below the 20,000-mark as 19,740 people tested positive for the viral illness, the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) said on Saturday. This is a fall of a little over 7 per cent from yesterday, when the daily case count stood at 21,257.After this latest rise, the cumulative Covid-19 infection tally was at 33,935,309, data showed.Also, as per Saturday's data, 23,070 more patients were discharged after recovering, taking the total number of such cases to 33,248,291, with the recovery rate rising to 97.98 per cent. The recovery rate is at its highest since March last year, the Union health ministry noted in a statement. The number of fatalities due to the infection rose to 450,375, as 248 more patients succumbed to it. Deaths constitute 1.33 per cent of the overall caseload.The number of active patients, meanwhile, slumped further to 236,643, registering a fall of 3578 cases, the bulletin showed. This is their lowest count in 206 days, while their contribution in the national tally, at 0.70 per cent, is the lowest since March last year, the health ministry said.The ministry also noted that the latest daily positivity rate stood at 1.56 per cent, while weekly positivity rate was at 1.62 per cent. This is for the 40th and 106th straight days, respectively, that these have been below the 3 per cent mark.In terms of vaccination, India's cumulative vaccination coverage is nearing the 940 million mark, as 939,915,323 doses of a Covid-19 jab have been administered since January 16, when the nationwide inoculation drive commenced. Of these, 7,912,202 doses were administered on October 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-logs-19-740-new-covid-19-cases-over-7-lower-than-yesterday-101633752608800.html
09-10-2021||India||Northern Railway prepares action plan to manage crowds during festive season. Details here||With the festive season officially underway, the Northern Railway (NR) is gearing up to manage crowds at railway stations in the national capital, and to ensure that they comply with Covid-19 norms. As heavy rush is expected due to festivals such as Diwali and Chhath Puja, both of which will be celebrated next month, NR will run 78 trains from Delhi to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar from October 29 to November 10.To manage crowds effectively, officials have directed that trains will be parked at designated platform 30 minutes before scheduled departure time, according to a report in Hindustan Times' sister publication Live Hindustan; this is being done to give passengers sufficient time to get onboard. Additionally, during festivals, there shall be no change in platform from which a train is scheduled to depart. All trains leaving for Bihar from New Delhi and Anand Vihar railway stations will depart from platform number 16 and 1 respectively, officials said. This, according to them, is because these are close to the entrance gate of the respective railway stations.To ensure compliance with Covid-19 norms, arrangements will be made for sanitisation at all stations, Dimpi Garg, Delhi Zone rail manager, said, adding that passengers will be made to undergo thermal screening. On platforms, marks have been made for social distancing, she further said.Further, mini control rooms will be set up at New Delhi, Old Delhi and Anand Vihar stations. Staff members from all departments, including operations, commercial and electrical, will be present 24X7, and are required to act immediately on a complaint. A special duty officer will be appointed at each station for coordination with top officials. Special duty officers have been instructed to send information, with photos, to senior officials on a WhatsApp group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/northern-railway-prepares-action-plan-to-manage-crowds-during-festive-season-details-here-101633749897902.html
09-10-2021||India||Andhra Pradesh power plants running out of coal stocks, CM sends SOS to PM Modi||With Andhra Pradesh heading for a severe power crisis due to a sharp decline in generation in the power plants in the state, chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday sent a virtual SOS to the Centre, requesting urgent allotment of coal and revival of defunct coal-fired power plants.In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday evening, the chief minister said the power demand increased by 15% in the last six months and by 20% in the last one month, coupled with a coal shortage.“The power generation stations operated by AP power generation corporation (APGenco), which meet about 45% of state’s energy needs, have coal stocks hardly sufficient for one or two days. The coal-based power plants are operating at less than 50% of their 90 MU/day capacity because of coal shortages. Even the Central Generating Stations have not been able to supply more than 75% of their 40 MU/day capacity,” he said.Jagan said the state had to depend heavily on market purchases for sourcing its shortfall energy. The daily average market price of about 40 MU/day power has increased three times, from an average of ₹4.6 per unit (kilowatt-hour) on September 15 to a daily average of ₹15 per unit on Friday.“On some days, the rates in the power market have gone up to ₹20 per unit irrespective of peak or off-peak hours. The power is also not available at certain hours in the market due to less availability of generation in the country,” he said.The chief minister describing it as an alarming situation and said the finances of distribution companies would deteriorate further if the situation persists. CM Jagan said it had become increasingly difficult to meet the grid demand and the circumstances are pushing the state towards load shedding.“More water is required in the last stage of harvesting and if it is denied, fields would dry up and farmers stand to lose. Unplanned power cuts once resorted to, will lead to chaotic conditions,” he pointed out.Seeking the Centre’s help to tide over the power crisis, Jagan said the coal ministry and railways might be directed to allot 20 coal rakes to AP thermal stations. He suggested that the stranded and non-working pit-head coal plants in India without PPAs or coal linkage may be revived on an emergency basis.“Deep-water well gas available with ONGC and Reliance may be supplied on an emergency basis to the 2300 MW stranded and non-working gas-based power plants in AP. Similarly, the deficit of nearly 500 MW from Central Generating Stations due to plant maintenance can be bridged by reviving the plants at the earliest or postponing their maintenance,” he suggested.Jagan also requested that banks and lending institutions be instructed to provide working capital loans liberally to power distribution companies to make coal payments and undertake market purchases till the crisis is overcome.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-power-plants-running-out-of-coal-stocks-cm-sends-sos-to-pm-modi-101633751972244.html
09-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: Heavy rainfall expected to continue over Hyderabad today||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Heavy rainfall expected to continue over Hyderabad, warns mayorHeavy rain is expected to continue over Hyderabad on Saturday, the city's mayor warned, as Telangana's capital, on Friday, witnessed showers which resulted in at two least people being washed away. Read moreAssam-Meghalaya border dispute: States to hold key meet todayOfficials from Assam and Meghalaya will on Saturday hold a key meeting over the border dispute between the two northeastern neighbours. The meeting will take place at Silchar in Assam. Read moreWorld Post Day: All you need to know about this dayWorld Post Day is observed every year on October 9 to mark the establishment of the Universal Postal Union (UPU) and the creation of the revolutionary mode of communication with letters in the everyday lives of the people. Read moreWhatsApp, Facebook, Instagram down AGAIN!Just days after the mega social media outage, Facebook, WhatsApp and Instagram were down again in the early hour of October 9. Several users took to Twitter to confirm another outage of Facebook's three major services across the globe. Read moreSalman Khan, Sajid celebrate late musician Wajid Khan's birthday, Iulia Vantur joins them. WatchSalman Khan and musician Sajid Khan celebrated the birthday of late musician Wajid Khan on Friday. Wajid died in June last year at the age of 42. Watch here'Never thought he was a dangerous T20 batter': Gambhir says CSK star has 'exceeded all expectations'And yet again, Chennai Super Kings have made it to the Playoff of the Indian Premier League. After last year's disappointing campaign, MS Dhoni's team revived its fortunes dishing out impressive outings in the league stage to become the first team to qualify for the Playoffs. Read moreShilpa Shetty wears glamorous ₹70k white saree for Super Dancer 4 finale, check out her photosBollywood star Shilpa Shetty has a saree collection worth dying for. Take a look at her Instagram profile, and you will know what we are talking about. The star, who is currently a judge on Super Dancer Chapter 4, often drapes herself in the most beauteous creations. Know moreWhy Priyanka Gandhi was sweeping floor of this temple in LucknowCongress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi visited a Dalit locality on Friday and picked up a broom to sweep the floor of a Valmiki temple. Priyanka was responding to a barb thrown at her by UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath for sweeping the floor of Sitapur guest house where she was detained. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-updates-from-ht-heavy-rainfall-expected-to-continue-over-hyderabad-today-101633748594851.html
09-10-2021||India||Assembly Elections 2022: Opinion poll predicts BJP win in UP, Uttarakhand, Manipur; hung assembly in Punjab||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is likely to retain power in Uttar Pradesh, Manipur, Goa and Uttarakhand in the assembly elections scheduled to be held early next year, ABP C-Voter’s latest survey has predicted. According to the survey, Punjab is headed for a hung assembly with the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) set to emerge as the single largest party in the northern state. The AAP is seen emerging as the main challenger or a close third party in Punjab and Goa as well as in Uttarakhand. The Congress may witness severe infighting across all the state units with Punjab and Manipur being the worst hit. The predictions are in line with the first round of the ABP-C Voter survey last month. According to the latest survey, the Yogi Adityanath-led BJP can get 41.3 per cent of vote share, while Akhilesh Yadav’s Samajwadi Party can get 32 ​​per cent, the Bahujan Samaj Party can get 15 per cent, Congress 6 per cent and others can get 6 per cent in the politically crucial state of Uttar Pradesh. The BJP has been continuously maintaining its vote share of around 41 per cent in the state—in the last assembly elections in 2017, the ruling party garnered 41.4 per cent of the votes polled in the state. In terms of seats, the survey shows that the BJP is likely to get 241 to 249 seats and the share of the Samajwadi Party can be 130 to 138 seats. Mayawati’s BSP can be reduced to between 15 to 19 and Congress between 3 to 7 seats, according to the survey.The ABP CVoter survey has predicted a hung assembly in Punjab with the Arvind Kejriwal-led Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) emerging as the single largest party. The AAP can get a big advantage in the elections to the 117-member assembly in Punjab. The AAP is likely to get 36 per cent of the vote share, Congress 32 per cent, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) 22 per cent, the BJP 4 per cent and others 6 per cent. In terms of seats, the AAP can get 49 to 55, Congress 30 to 47, Akali Dal 17 to 25, the BJP 0-1 and others 0-1 seats.The BJP can once again make a comeback in the Uttarakhand elections next year. According to the survey, Congress may get 34 per cent, BJP 45 per cent, Aam Aadmi Party 15 per cent and others 6 per cent of the vote share. The Congress party is likely to get 21-25 seats, the BJP 42-46 seats, the Aam Aadmi Party 0-4 seats and others 0-2 seats in the hill state, the survey shows.According to the survey, the BJP can once again form its government in Goa with the maximum number of seats in the 40-member assembly in the coastal state. According to the survey, the BJP can get 24 to 28 seats in Goa, the Congress can get only 1 to 5 seats, the Aam Aadmi Party 3 to 7 and others 4 to 8 seats. The BJP can get 38 per cent of the vote share, the Congress may get 18 per cent, AAP 23 per cent and others 21 per cent. The Congress emerged as the single largest party in the state in the last assembly elections, but it could not form the government in the state.The survey also shows that the BJP can get 21 to 25 seats in Manipur. Apart from this, Congress may get 18 to 22 seats, the regional Naga People's Front (NPF) 4 to 8 and others 1 to 5 seats. However, at least 31 seats will be required to form the government in the northeastern state. The BJP can get 36 per cent of the vote share in Manipur elections, while Congress can get 34 per cent, NPF 9 per cent and others 21 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opinion-poll-shows-bjp-win-in-up-uttarakhand-goa-hung-assembly-in-punjab-101633748008212.html
09-10-2021||India||India, Hungary agree to mutually recognise vaccine certificates; Serbia follows||Hungary and Serbia agreed for mutual recognition of India's Covid-19 vaccination certificate, informed ministry of external affairs (MEA) spokesperson Arindam Bagchi. He said that the recognition of the vaccination certificates will cater to help people move across countries for education, business, tourism, and other things in the post-pandemic world."Yet another country recognizes India's vaccination certificate! Traditional friendship with Serbia translates into mutual recognition of Covid-19 vaccination certificates!" Bagchi said in a tweet.Yet another country recognizes India's vaccination certificate!Traditional friendship with Serbia translates into mutual recognition of Covid-19 vaccination certificates!While in another tweet, Bagchi wrote, "Mutual recognition of Covid-19 vaccination certificates begins! India and Hungary agree to recognise each other's Covid-19 vaccination certificates. Will facilitate mobility for education, business, tourism, and beyond."Mutual recognition of Covid-19 vaccination certificates begins!India and Hungary agree to recognize each other's Covid-19 vaccination certificates. Will facilitate mobility for education, business, tourism and beyond.The developments come a day after the UK government decided to remove the requirement of mandatory quarantine for vaccinated Indian passengers."No quarantine for Indian travellers to the UK fully vaccinated with Covishield or another UK-approved vaccine from 11 October," Alex Ellis, British High Commissioner to India said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-hungary-agree-to-mutually-recognise-vaccine-certificates-serbia-follows-101633744954021.html
09-10-2021||India||‘Less than what NFL earns’: India urges developed nations to deliver on $100 billion climate pledge||India displayed a stern stance regarding climate change at the United Nations on Friday, pointing out that a “large gap” still exists in the commitment made by developed nations to provide developing countries with $100 billion for climate action. “This amount is less than what NFL (National Football League; the professional American football tournament) earns on media right,” said TS Tirumurti, India's permanent representative to the UN, while speaking on climate action at the ongoing 76th session of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA76).Also Read | Denmark PM to meet PM Modi on climate change ahead of COP 26Long-term finance was a key pillar of the Paris Agreement (Paris Climate Accords), which recognised that it is crucial for developed nations to contribute to global efforts to tackle the climate crisis in order to aid developing nations to catch up with the efforts. However, even though this pledge of financial support—to mobilise $100 billion annually in climate finance to support the needs of developing countries—was made in 2010, much of it has still not been met. In fact, the UN climate change executive secretary Patricia Espinosa also personally urged the developed countries earlier this year in June to make good on their promise, according to an official statement by the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC).Recognising that there is a need to desist from “cherry-picking” of the UNFCCC's structure, India's permanent representative to the UN, Tirumurti, said that the negotiation should be done by all the member-states and not just a few nations who tend to decide for all. “There is a need to desist from ‘cherry-picking’ from the inclusive and comprehensive structure of the UNFCCC,” the ANI news agency quoted Tirumurti as saying. “It is negotiated by all the member-states. A few should not decide for all. India supports member-states driven process in the interest of developing countries.”Need to desist from “cherry-picking” from inclusive & comprehensive structure of UNFCCC, it's negotiated by all member-states. A few should not decide for all. India supports member-states driven process in interest of developing countries: India's Permanent Rep to UN on Climate pic.twitter.com/jlvlOCtdzDAccording to Patricia Espinosa, who was speaking at the UN climate talks earlier this year, nations are still “talking about this promise” even though the need for climate action becomes more desperate with each passing day.Also Read | ‘The way net zero target is being formulated is unfair’“We are still talking about this promise, despite greenhouse gas emissions continuing to be at their highest concentration ever; while extreme weather continues to decimate more parts of the world and with greater intensity; and while vulnerable people continue to suffer, continue to lose their livelihoods and their lives,” said the UN climate change executive secretary.The trillions of dollars being spent by developed nations for recovery from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) shows that $100 billion annually could be mobilised “relatively easily with the adequate political will”, according to the UN. For many nations, securing the financing necessary to spur their own transition to a more sustainable future can’t happen without this promised support. This includes action to cut greenhouse gas emissions and action to build resilience to the inevitable impacts of climate change, such as frequent and severe droughts, floods, and storms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/less-than-what-nfl-earns-india-urges-developed-nations-to-deliver-on-100-billion-climate-pledge-101633742690731.html
09-10-2021||India||JP Nadda to begin 2-day Manipur visit today||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national president JP Nadda will arrive in Manipur on Saturday for a two-day visit, as the northeastern state gears up for the assembly elections, which are likely to take place early next year. According to an itinerary shared by his office, Nadda will arrive at Imphal airport at around 12 noon, from where he will proceed towards a booth president's residence at Utlou village, and is expected to reach there by 1:15pm.The BJP president will then address a public meeting in the village at 2:30pm, his office said. This will be his final engagement for the day. BJP National President Shri @JPNadda Ji will attend several programs on his Manipur visit. pic.twitter.com/XEVg5ppq6xOn Sunday, the second and final day of his visit, Nadda will begin his day by visiting Shri Govindajee Temple at 8:15am, and, at 11am, inaugurate the BJP's office in Imphal. His final engagement on the tour will be an interaction with achievers and prominent celebrities at the City Convention Centre, at 3:30pm.Ahead of Nadda's arrival, chief minister N Biren Singh, on Friday, carried out an inspection of the venues that are scheduled to host his party chief. “Went out for an on-site inspection of the preparation for Shri @JPNadda Ji's visit to Manipur. The people are eagerly waiting to give a rousing welcome to Shri JP Nadda Ji,” Singh tweeted. Went out for an on-site inspection of the preparation for Shri @JPNadda Ji’s visit to Manipur along with Sh @sambitswaraj Ji around Imphal city.The people of Manipur are eagerly waiting to give a rousing welcome to Shri JP Nadda Ji. pic.twitter.com/RmQgnOkOSdThe chief minister was accompanied by fellow BJP leader Sambit Patra during the inspection.  Manipur is among five states where assembly elections will take place around February-March 2022, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa and Punjab being the other four. Of the four other states, the BJP is in power in UP, Uttarakhand and Goa, while the Congress governs Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jp-nadda-to-begin-2-day-manipur-visit-today-101633743472330.html
09-10-2021||India||Terrorist shot dead as police bust J&K cell||A terrorist was killed and another escaped during a brief shootout in Srinagar’s Natipora area on Friday evening, a police spokesman said, adding that the terrorists fired at a local police team which hit back at them.Srinagar police are on high alert in the wake of heightened terrorist activity in the city and checking of vehicles has been stepped up.“During the encounter, one militant got neutralised but one escaped. Arms and ammunition were recovered,” the spokesman said. According to an identity card recovered from the killed terrorist, he has been identified as Aqib Bashir Kumar of Trenz Shopian.Friday’s action busted a terror module aimed at targeting minorities and civilians. Several such modules of three members each backed by the TRF have been set up, armed with light weapons and headed by Pakistani nationals with Indians involved as overground operatives.The terrorist killed in Friday’s encounter was an Indian and the one who escaped was Pakistani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorist-shot-dead-as-police-bust-j-k-cell-101633742006502.html
09-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur: SC pulls up UP police over delay in arrests||The Supreme Court on Friday pulled up the Uttar Pradesh government for not immediately arresting Ashish Mishra, son of Union minister of state for home affairs Ajay Mishra ‘Teni’, in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, commenting that the state police do not appear to be “really serious” even as the “brutal” episode left eight people dead five days ago.Mishra has been named as an accused in a murder first information report (FIR) lodged on Monday. The court was exceptionally harsh while commenting on the police’s lenient handling of Mishra, although it didn’t name him.“This is an offence registered under Section 302 (murder charge under the Indian Penal Code). Do you treat everyone in the same manner? Issue notice and then wait for them to appear? Will an accused in every part of the country be treated in the same way like the present case? Giving them an invitation that you please come? We want to question you so you kindly come?” the bench asked lawyer Harish Salve, who was representing the UP government in the case registered by the top court on its own (suo motu) as a public interest litigation.Mishra dodged a summon to appear before the police (as a witness, not an accused) on Friday. Although he made an appearance on some TV channels to proclaim his innocence, he has not been seen since Thursday.The bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana, held that the apex court is “not satisfied” with the investigation conducted so far in the case.It added that the special investigation team (SIT) constituted by the state government does not inspire any confidence, and asked the state to have an “alternative agency” with independent investigators take over the probe.“What is the message you are sending? If a case is lodged under Section 302, the police will normally go and arrest the accused. After all, this is a case involving the brutal death of eight people. The law should have taken its course and all accused should have been arrested,” the bench, which also comprised justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli, told Salve.The bench expressed anguish that the UP Police issued a notice as a witness (to Ashish Mishra) despite his name being in the murder FIR lodged on Monday.The UP Police on Thursday arrested two men, both believed to be associates of Mishra. The arrests happened hours after the Supreme Court hearing on Thursday when the bench termed the Lakhimpur Kheri incident “very unfortunate”. Mishra, however, was sent a notice under section 160 of the Criminal Procedure Code as a witness of the October 3 incident, for presenting himself before the investigators Friday.Salve said that the police have issued a notice to Mishra and he has sought time till 11 am on Saturday.“If he does not come, the rigours of law will follow. I was told that the post-mortem did not show any bullet wounds that is why a notice has been sent. But there is strong evidence to show prima facie that this is a murder case... the case is extremely serious,” added Salve.Unmoved by his submissions, the court retorted: “This is the opinion of the bench. We expect you to act as a responsible government and as a responsible police force. When there is a serious allegation of death or gun-shot injury, will you treat the accused like this? You say this is an extremely serious case but the way you are proceeding, you are not really serious. It is only in your words and not in action.”The court also expressed its disapproval at the composition of the SIT set up by the state government to carry out the probe after noticing that the team comprised a deputy inspector general, superintendent of police and all other police officials from the UP Police itself.“Look at the composition of the SIT. It has all your officers. This is what happens when you have all local people in the SIT...We don’t know if a good probe is conducted in this case because of the officers involved. Please, ask the DGP (director general of police) to ensure that all evidence is protected and not destroyed in the interim by the time another agency takes over,” said the bench, asking Salve to inform the court on October 20 about some other agency that can take over the probe.It also inquired from Salve if the state has made any request to CBI to step in. While Salve said the court could pass such orders on the next date after giving the state an opportunity to show the progress in the investigation, the bench itself remarked that the CBI may not be a solution here “because of the persons involved”.“We hope that the state will take necessary steps. Because of the sensitivity of the issue, the state should understand that we are not saying anything more... We will take it up after the Dussehra break but that should not mean that the state holds its hands. Take immediate steps. You have to act to inspire confidence,” it told Salve.Salve, on his part, conceded that what needed to be done has not been done and that he is giving his personal assurance that the state would be in a position to satisfy the court by the next date of hearing.The court then recorded in its order that it is not satisfied with the steps taken so far by the state government and that Salve has assured it that an alternative agency would be explored for further probe in the matter. The bench has also noted that the evidence collected so far shall be preserved properly.Farm groups say a Mahindra Thar owned by Ajay Mishra mowed down protesters from behind while they were returning from a demonstration in Tikunia village on Sunday afternoon. A video clip that is yet to be authenticated forensically shows the same.The minister and his son deny the charge and say farmers pelted the car with stones that led to the driver losing control of the vehicle. They also accuse the protesters of lynching two BJP workers and the car’s driver. A local journalist was also killed. The Mishras claim Ashish Mishra was not at the site.On Wednesday, a new, 45-second video of the incident showed the Thar ploughing through the farmers at high speed, with two vehicles in tow. The identities of individuals in the vehicles were not clear and HT could not independently verify the authenticity of the clips.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-sc-pulls-up-up-police-over-delay-in-arrests-101633742171847.html
09-10-2021||India||Assam-Meghalaya border dispute: States to hold key meet today||Officials from Assam and Meghalaya will on Saturday hold a key meeting over the border dispute between the two northeastern neighbours. The meeting will take place at Silchar in Assam. Also Read | ‘Will move from status quo to solution of borders disputes’: Assam, Meghalaya CMsDays before Saturday's meeting, the two states, on October 5, conducted their maiden joint inspection of the interstate border areas to resolve the long-pending boundary dispute. Assam minister Atul Bora and Meghalaya minister Renikton Lyngdoh Tongkhar led the cabinet-level committees of their respective states. “The motive of the visit was to see the ground reality. While no decision will be taken on the basis of this visit, the committees will submit their feedback to the respective chief ministers,”Tongkhar said.Also Read | Potential clash on Assam-Meghalaya border preventedThe two chief ministers, Assam's Himanta Biswa Sarma and his Meghalaya counterpart Congrad Sangma, met on July 23 and August 6 to discuss border issues. Three days after that first meeting, an unprecedented gunfight broke out between the Assam Police and their counterparts from Mizoram, resulting in casualties.Overall, Assam and Meghalaya have border dispute over 12 areas. Of these, “minor” differences exist over six areas, and the two governments have decided to focus on these half a dozen regions in the first phase of discussions. The six areas are Tarabari, Gijang, Phalia, Baklapara, Pilingkata and Khanapara. These, according to Assam, fall within its territory at Kachar, Kamprup Metro and Kamrup Rural. However, Meghalaya's counter claim is that the areas are within its territory at West Khasi Hills, Ri Bhoi and East Jaintia Hills.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assammeghalaya-border-dispute-states-to-hold-key-meet-today-101633739057139.html
09-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Union minister's son Ashish Mishra expected to appear before cops today||Ashish Mishra, the son of Union minister of state (MoS) of home affairs Ajay Mishra ‘Teni’, is expected to appear before the Uttar Pradesh police at 11am on Saturday for questioning in connection with the incident where eight people lost their lives. Ashish Mishra was previously summoned as a witness, not an accused, by the police on Friday but he failed to appear before them. MoS Teni later said his son was unable to report to the police due to ‘health reasons’. After this, the UP police pasted a fresh notice outside the minister's residence asking his son Ashish Mishra to appear before them for questioning on October 9.In photos posted by the ANI news agency, it was seen that the UP police has already started making preparations to tighten the security in Lakhimpur Kheri police lines, ahead of Ashish Mishra's expected appearance before the cops today.Security tightened in Police lines Lakhimpur Kheri as Ashish Mishra (Son of MoS Home Ajay Mishra Teni) summoned by UP Police today. pic.twitter.com/7xkXqiuYYFAshish Mishra was named in a first information report (FIR) following allegations that he was in one of the vehicles that mowed down farmers protesting against UP deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya's visit on Sunday.Also Read | My son is at home, says Union minister Ajay Mishra after cops paste 2nd noticeDespite summons, Ashish Mishra managed to dodge the calls for questioning on Friday, even though he was seen making an appearance on some TV channels to proclaim his innocence earlier this week. A police team, headed by deputy inspector general (headquarters) Upendra Agrawal, waited for hours at the Lakhimpur Kheri police lines for Ashish, who had been asked to appear there at 10am, but he never showed up.Around 2pm, the media waiting outside learnt that a second notice with the Saturday deadline had now been affixed at the family’s home in the town. Ashish's father Ajay Mishra later faced a slew of journalists at the Lucknow airport, where the junior home minister said his son was not well but will record his statement before the police on Saturday.The Supreme Court, however, has expressed its displeasure with how the UP police has been handling the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case. While hearing the suo motu case regarding the matter on Friday, the top court pulled up the Yogi Adityanath-led UP government for not immediately arresting Ashish Mishra, commenting that the state police do not appear to be “really serious” even as the “brutal” episode left eight people dead five days ago. “This is an offence registered under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code (murder charge),” the Supreme Court bench told lawyer Harish Salve, who was representing the UP government. “Do you treat everyone in the same manner? Giving them an invitation that you please come?”Also Read | Lakhimpur Kheri incident: SC slams UP government over delay in arrest of Ashish MishraMeanwhile, in Delhi, Congress has called for the immediate dismissal of Union minister Ajay Mishra ‘Teni’ and the arrest of his son, Ashish. It also sought the setting up of a commission of two sitting judges to deliver justice within 30 days. For their part, the UP police have so far arrested two men after the matter reached the Supreme Court on Thursday, besides issuing the summons to the minister's son.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-union-minister-s-son-ashish-mishra-expected-to-appear-before-cops-today-101633738912078.html
09-10-2021||India||Ex-Chhattisgarh CM's son booked for rioting: Police||Former Chhattisgarh chief minister Raman Singh’s son Abhishek Singh and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP from Rajnandgaon, Santosh Pandey, were on Friday booked for rioting and causing damage to property in connection with the communal violence in Kawardha town on Tuesday, a police officer said on condition of anonymity.Kabirdham superintendent of police Mohit Garg said both Pandey and Singh were present at a rally in the town which turned violent after Bikes were torched and some houses were ransacked, prompting police to resort to a lathi charge and impose a curfew in the area.“Based on initial investigation, we have booked both Pandey and Singh for rioting and damaging property, along with other leaders of Hindu outfits,” Garg said.“The charges against me are false... People in the rally got scattered and some miscreants entered the lanes where the violence took place,” Pandey said.Singh was unavailable for any comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/exchhattisgarh-cm-s-son-booked-for-rioting-police-101633735833455.html
09-10-2021||India||J&K L-G vows to avenge killing of civilians, likely to meet Amit Shah today||Amid a spate of targeted attacks, Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha has vowed to avenge the killings of civilians and “completely demolish” the terror ecosystem. Sinha is likely to meet Union home minister Amit Shah to discuss the security situation on Saturday, people familiar with the matter said.In a statement, the L-G said: “I am deeply pained and anguished and I promise the family members of the innocent victims that perpetrators of the barbaric acts will be punished soon. The UT administration and the whole country stand in solidarity with the families of the victims...”In a stern warning to those aiding and abetting terrorists, Sinha said: “I assure you that we have given a free hand to the security agencies to eliminate the enemies of humanity, and soon the terrorists and those aiding and abetting them will pay for their heinous crimes. Every drop of innocent civilians’ blood will be avenged.”(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-l-g-vows-to-avenge-killing-of-civilians-likely-to-meet-amit-shah-today-101633726977150.html
09-10-2021||India||India, China in fresh face-off in Arunachal||Scores of Indian and Chinese soldiers were involved in a tense face-off along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Arunachal Pradesh’s sensitive Tawang sector last week, officials familiar with the development said on Friday. The latest confrontation comes at a time when both sides are planning to hold the next round of military talks to cool tensions in the Ladakh sector.The face-off took place when rival patrols came face-to-face in a contested area near Yangtse, with the soldiers asking each other to retreat to their respective sides, said one of the officials cited above, asking not to be named.“The face-off lasted a few hours before the matter was resolved at the level of local commanders,” said a second official.“Both sides undertake patrolling activities up to their perception of the border. Whenever patrols of both sides physically meet, the situation is managed according to established protocols and mechanisms. Physical engagement can last for a few hours prior to disengaging as per mutual understanding. This is routine business,” he said.The Chinese foreign ministry, however, said it did not have “relevant information” about the skirmish.“I am not aware of relevant information,” Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said at a regular media briefing.The latest incident came weeks after Chinese patrols consisting of around 100 soldiers crossed LAC in the central sector in Uttarakhand on August 30 and damaged a footbridge before they went back to the other side. The area in which the intrusion took place is manned by the Indo-Tibetan Border Police.“PLA plans to keep the entire border active so that they can keep reinforcing their claims. It can also be an act of creeping assertiveness to subsequently lay a claim to these areas,” said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General BS Jaswal (retd).Last week, Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said that the next round of military talks with the Chinese PLA to reduce tensions along LAC in eastern Ladakh could take place in the second week of October.He said the situation on the LAC was under control and outstanding problems with PLA could be resolved through talks.The two armies have been locked in a border standoff for almost 17 months and both sides are carrying out negotiations to reduce tensions. Outstanding problems at Hot Springs, or Patrolling Point-15, which is one of the friction points on the LAC, could be taken up during the 13th round of talks.The rival armies carried out the second round of disengagement in early August when both sides pulled back their forward-deployed troops from Gogra, or Patrolling Point-17A, with the breakthrough coming after the 12th round of military talks.Earlier, India and China wrapped up the disengagement process in Pangong Tso area in mid-February, with their armies pulling back forward-deployed troops, tanks, infantry combat vehicles and artillery guns from strategic heights where rival soldiers last year fired shots for the first time at the LAC after 45 years.(With inputs from Sutirtho Patranobis)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-in-fresh-face-off-in-arunachal-101633725458586.html
09-10-2021||India||2016 Mysuru court blast case: NIA convicts 3 al-Qaeda inspired terrorists||Bengaluru An NIA court here on Friday convicted three people, who had pledged their allegiance to proscribed terrorist organisation al-Qaeda, for their involvement in the bomb blast in a Mysuru court in 2016, an official said.Nainar Abbas Ali, M Samsun Karim Raja and Dawood Sulaiman, all residents of Tamil Nadu, have been convicted for their involvement in the bomb blast on August 1, 2016, in a public toilet in the court premises at Chamarajapuram in Karnataka’s Mysuru city, the NIA official said.Quantum of punishment will be pronounced on October 11, the official said. The case was registered against unknown accused. Based on the orders of the MHA, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) re-registered the case and took over the investigation. The bomb blast in the Mysuru court was one among a series of five explosions by the members of Base Movement, an organisation owing allegiance to al-Qaeda, the NIA official said.In 2016, they had executed a blast at Chittor Court at Nellore in Andhra Pradesh in April, at Kollam court in Kerala in May, again at a Nellore court in September 2016 and at Mallapuram court in Kerala in November 2016, the official said.Ali and Sulaiman had formed the Base Movement in Tamil Nadu in January 2015, inspired by the ideology of al-Qaeda and its leader Osama Bin Laden, according to the NIA official.They recruited other accused and hatched a conspiracy to threaten government departments, especially courts, holding them responsible for “atrocities and injustice meted out to a particular religious group”, the official said.They systematically issued threats to prison authorities and police officials of different states and the French Embassy in India.The NIA had filed a charge sheet against Nainar Abbas Ali, Raja and Sulaiman in May 2017 and the trial in the case was concluded in September 2021, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2016-mysuru-court-blast-case-nia-convicts-3-al-qaeda-inspired-terrorists-101633725147378.html
09-10-2021||India||Odisha MLA Prashant Jagdev, suspended by BJD for assaulting BJP leader, arrested||Bhubaneswar: A 50-year-old Odisha MLA who was suspended from the ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) last month over assaulting a Dalit leader of BJP near Chilika lake was arrested on Friday and sent to jail after a sessions court rejected his bail petition.Prashant Jagdev, the BJD’s Chilika MLA, was sent to judicial custody after the Khurda additional sessions court rejected his bail application in the case of slapping and abusing BJP leader Niranjan Sethi. The Orissa high court rejected his anticipatory bail application on October 5.Jagdev, who in the past has courted controversies over his strong-arm tactics, allegedly thrashed BJP’s Dalit leader Niranjan Sethi on September 8 when the latter protested the delay in distribution of National Food Security Act cards for the beneficiaries and assistance for construction of houses under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana in Balugaon area of Khurda district. Jagdev also attacked a photojournalist and snatched his mobile.Biju Janata Dal suspended Prashant Jagdev from the party within hours.In December 2018, Prashant Jagdev threatened former Begunia sarpanch Naba Swain at the block office in the presence of district officials. In November 2016, he allegedly flung a kerosene lantern at the woman tehsildar of Bolgad when the latter was mapping a land. In July 2016, Prashant Jagdev and his supporters allegedly thrashed BJP activists over showing black flags to food supply minister and Youth BJD president Sanjay Dasburma in Boudh district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-mla-prashant-jagdev-suspended-by-bjd-for-assaulting-bjp-leader-arrested-101633725086095.html
09-10-2021||India||Bengaluru: Police complaint against online gaming firm for violating new law||Bengaluru A police complaint was registered in Bengaluru on Thursday against a popular online gaming company for alleged violation of the newly enforced laws on online gambling and gaming barely two days after the contentious legislation was notified. According to the Bengaluru police, a complaint was registered in Annapurnenshwari Nagar station on Thursday. “A complaint has been registered by a person who said that the website of Dream 11 continued to be active despite the new legislation coming into force. He said that this was a game of chance and not skill,” said a senior police official from Annapurneshwari Nagar on Friday. He said that a case was registered under Section 79 and 80 of the Karnataka Police Act. The complaint comes two days after the Karnataka governor’s assent to a Bill that was passed by both houses of the state legislature in the just concluded monsoon session held between September 13 to 24.Araga Jnanendra, the home minister had tabled the ‘Karnataka Police (Amendment) Bill, 2021’ to bring an amendment as technologies like smartphone, computers have increased gambling on apps and other platforms. He had said that terms like cyber space and online gaming were included in the Act. The swift notifying of the ban on online gambling and gaming by the Basavaraj Bommai-led government has caught operators off guard who were hoping for some more time for the law to come into force, especially with the ongoing Indian Premier League (IPL) that brings in a significant chunk of the revenues. The All India Gaming Federation (AIGF) on Wednesday had told Hindustan Times that it was “needless to say, the industry will challenge this in court and seek legal recourse”. Companies had on Wednesday said that they had banned users from Karnataka from accessing their respective apps. Dream 11 declined to comment. The bill comes at a time when Deepavali is just around the corner during which there is gambling in almost every household as part of the festivities. The Indian gaming industry, part of the Sunrise sector, has been a roaring success in the country especially since the Covid-19 induced lockdown where engagement increased from around 2.5 hours (11% of total smartphone time) before the pandemic to 4.1 hours (15% of the total smartphone time) in just the first month of the lockdown, according to a June 2021 report by KPMG. “The industry has been seeking clarity in regulation based on several precedents which establish the legitimacy of “games of skills” and the state should take cognizance of these judgements in issuing an enabling gaming policy that will facilitate growth and opportunity for this sector,” Biren Ghose, the chairman of the CII’s National committee on AVGC and president of Association of Bangalore Animation Industry (ABAI) said on Wednesday. The online gaming industry, which gained significant traction during the Covid-19 -induced lockdown, is slated to grow from 360 million gamers to 510 million by 2022, according to a 2021 report by All India Gaming Federation (AIGF) and EY. The report adds that 85% of these are mobile gamers. It also estimates that online real money game players are expected to grow from 80 million in 2020 to 150 million by 2023.Estimates indicate that Karnataka, known for its prowess in technology, accounts for around 15% of the country’s market. According to the Internet and Mobile Association of India (IMAI) there are 92 gaming companies registered in Bengaluru which employ over 4,000 people and have, in the last three years alone, attracted ₹3000 crores in investments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengalurupolice-complaint-against-online-gaming-firm-for-violating-new-law-101633724607020.html
09-10-2021||India||Karnataka: Sri Ram Sene’s chequered past back under lens after hate crime||Bengaluru: Over nine months have passed since the Special Investigation Team (SIT) are on the trail of the assassins who were involved in the murder of journalist turned activist Gauri Lankesh in Bengaluru. Until the first of June, police had arrested several accused in the murder conspiracy, including the mastermind – Amol Kale. But the man who pulled the trigger on Lankesh was still at large. The suspects in the custody remained silent on the identity of the shooter even after weeks of interrogation. Finally, a breakthrough came in the form of a codeword in Kale’s diary – builder. One of the suspects finally told police that it was the builder (bodybuilder) who pulled the trigger, but he didn’t know his name. Armed with a forensic report that showed that the shooter was around 5.1 feet tall, an SIT team reached Sindagi town in North Karnataka’s Bijapur, based on a mobile number found next to the code name ‘builder’. They conducted an identity parade of people with a criminal past. Among them was a muscular man who was 5.2 feet tall. His photo was sent back to SIT and a suspect in custody confirmed that it was the shooter. On June 11 morning, the team arrested Parashuram Waghmore, the man who shot Lankesh dead. The SIT investigation on the conspiracy found that the syndicate that murdered Lankesh was recruiting young men from various right-wing organizations, who had a tussle with the law in the past. Waghmore was recruited from Sri Rama Sene. During this time in the organization, in 2012, Waghmore along with his associates hoisted a Pakistan flag in front of tahsildar’s office in Sindagi on January 1. They alleged it was done by the Muslim community and communal tension prevailed in the city. He was later acquitted by a lower court citing mistakes and technical errors in the charge sheet. Sri Ram Sene was founded in the late 1960s by Kalki Maharaj, the right-hand man of Shiv Sena leader Bal Thackeray, and a former member of the Bajrang Dal and the Vishva Hindu Parishad. In Karnataka, controversial right-wing activist Pramod Muthalik held the top post in the organization, and over the years, it became infamous. The incident in Singadi was not the first time Sri Rama Sene was entered in the record books of the Karnataka Police. On January 24, 2009, a group of 40 activists of the Sene barged into a pub called “Amnesia — The Lounge” and allegedly trashed a group of young women and men, claiming the women were violating traditional Indian values. Two of the women were hospitalized. In the latest incident, on Thursday, police arrested members of a group ‘Sri Ram Sene Hindustan’ for murdering and decapitating a 24-year-old Muslim man who was in a relationship with a Hindu girl. According to police, Sri Ram Sene Hindustan’ is an offshoot of Sri Ram Sene headed by Muthalik. A senior officer who was part of the Gauri Lankesh investigation pointed out the rise of right-wing Hindu organisations like Sri Rama Sene is a matter of concern. “During the Gauri Lankesh investigation, we learnt that around 22 Karnataka youths went through firearms training so they could carry out assassinations of intellectuals. All of them were recruited from organisations like Sri Rama Sena. It is a dangerous trend. These right-wing organisations often act with impunity across the state, which attracts a lot of youth,” said a senior police officer who didn’t want to be named. “Even though members organisations like Sri Rama Sene is involved in crimes, like the Gauri Lankesh murder (Bengaluru, 2017), intentionally creating communal tensions (Bijpiur, 2012), Pub attack (Mangaluru 2012) and now the murder of this young man (Belagavi 2021). There is no proposal to ban the organisation. In fact, in the Gauri Lankesh case, the government didn’t even appeal when the petition was filed to drop charges of organised crimes against the some accused,” the officer added. According to another officer, a criminal past of the organisation, from moral policing to organised murder, is a cause for concern. “Moral policing is a big problem in coastal regions and to some extent in north Karnataka as well. They are often dismissed as vigilantes but these incidents show why the trend is alarming,” said an ADGP rank officer who was posted in the coastal Karnataka region. As per Karnataka Communal Harmony’s records, there have been 1,288 instances of communal violence including moral policing, cattle vigilantism, and hate speech since 2010 in coastal Karnataka alone. Out of this, 322 instances were of moral policing by vigilantes. According to Vidya Dinker, a Mangaluru based activist who has been fighting moral policing known as “love jihad”, a term used by some Hindu groups to describe relationships between Muslim men and Hindu women, came to Karnataka way before it became familiar across the country. “The Hindu-Muslim divide was often used (by political/religious outfits) to convince people that there was an attempt to steal girls to convert them. This thought has been institutionalised over a period of time and this is now resulting in such brutal murders,” she said. Sri Ram Sene Hindustan chief Ramakant Konduskar earlier distanced his organisation from the alleged murder, saying the members had been targeted for “being Hindutva workers”. “Our members don’t indulge in murders. We do charity work. The men who have been arrested acted on their own,” he said on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-sri-ram-sene-s-chequered-past-back-under-lens-after-hate-crime-101633724006025.html
09-10-2021||India||CBI skipped initial enquiry. It doesn’t vitiate FIR, rules SC in corruption case||NEW DELHI: A First Information Report (FIR) registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation in a corruption case without holding a preliminary enquiry does not vitiate the case against the accused, the Supreme Court held on Friday and set aside the Telangana high court’s February 2000 verdict quashing the FIR against Andhra Pradesh education minister A Suresh, and his wife, an income tax commissioner, over a disproportionate assets case registered against her in 2017.“If CBI chooses not to hold a preliminary enquiry, the accused cannot demand it as a matter of right,” the bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, Vikram Nath and BV Nagarathna ruled, upholding the agency’s appeal against the high court judgment.The court examined the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), Prevention of Corruption (PC) Act and the CBI Manual and held that institution of a preliminary enquiry is not made mandatory before the registration of an FIR.To be sure, the PC Act was amended in 2018. One of the changes brought about by this amendment was that it barred a police officer from conducting any enquiry or inquiry or investigation into any offence alleged to have been committed by a public servant without the government’s sanction if the alleged offence is relatable to any recommendation made or decision taken by such public servant in discharge of his official functions or duties. It is not clear how these changes will impact a procedure to be adopted by CBI in a disproportionate assets case.In this case, CBI argued that it did not feel the need to hold a preliminary inquiry (PE) referred to in CBI Manual because the material against the I-T commissioner TH Vijaylakshmi was collected during its investigation into another case where she was one of the accused. During the earlier investigation, CBI conducted searches at four places belonging to her during which documents were seized. She was later examined and on basis of such information and documents, the FIR was registered.“We hold that in case the information received by CBI, through a complaint or a “source information” discloses the commission of a cognizable offence, it can directly register a regular case instead of conducting a preliminary enquiry, where the officer is satisfied that the information discloses the commission of a cognizable offence,” the three-judge bench said.However, the bench left the choice open to CBI whether it decides to file a regular case or preliminary enquiry. “We hold that since the institution of a preliminary enquiry in cases of corruption is not made mandatory before the registration of an FIR under the CrPC, PC Act or even the CBI Manual, for this court to issue a direction to that effect will be tantamount to stepping into the legislative domain.”CBI alleged that TH Vijayalakshmi, the MLA’s wife who was a central government officer, was found to possess disproportionate assets to the tune of over ₹1.1 crore which was 22.86% of the income earned during the check period between 1 April 2010 to 29 February 2016. The high court examined the FIR and the material and concluded that the allegations were not made out and set aside the FIR and proceedings under it on several grounds, one of which being no preliminary enquiry preceding lodging of FIR.Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Aishwarya Bhati, appearing for CBI, argued that CBI Manual does not make it mandatory to conduct a preliminary enquiry before the registration of the FIR. She stated that a PE cannot be made mandatory for all cases of corruption and is only conducted when the information received is not sufficient to register a regular case. The court reserved its orders on September 22.The agency also said if the accused is confronted with the evidence before the registration of an FIR by filing a PE, there would be a risk of tampering with or destruction of evidence.The case against the legislator, A Suresh, who is the education minister in the YSR Congress government in Andhra Pradesh, was alleged to be that of being an abettor under Section 109 of Indian Penal Code (IPC). He argued that CBI registered the case against him without taking the Speaker’s sanction, alleging that the entire case was part of a conspiracy hatched by his political rivals.The court noted that registration of a regular case can have disastrous consequences for the career of an officer, if the allegations ultimately turn out to be false. “In a preliminary enquiry, CBI is allowed access to documentary records and to speak to persons just as they would in an investigation, which entails that information gathered can be used at the investigation stage as well. Hence, conducting a preliminary enquiry would not take away from the ultimate goal of prosecuting accused persons in a timely manner.”However, the court clarified that it was for CBI to choose not to hold a preliminary enquiry, underlining its order should not be seen as taking away “the value of conducting a preliminary enquiry in an appropriate case”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-skipped-initial-enquiry-it-doesn-t-vitiate-fir-rules-sc-in-corruption-case-101633723678129.html
09-10-2021||India||Air chief hails IAF actions during Ladakh standoff||Three units of the Indian Air Force were on Friday awarded the Chief of Air Staff’s ‘unit citation’ for their role in strengthening India’s military posture in eastern Ladakh after a border row erupted with China last year, officials familiar with the development said on Friday.These units are No. 47 Squadron equipped with upgraded MiG-29 fighters, the 116 Helicopter Unit consisting of advanced light helicopter Mark IV (ALH Mk IV) Rudra and 2255 Squadron Det which operates the OSA-AK-M surface-to-air weapon, the officials said. It is customary for the IAF to announce ‘unit citations’ on IAF Day (October 8).In an address on the occasion of the Air Force Day, Air Chief Marshal VR Chaudhari said the year gone by was “quite challenging yet extremely rewarding”. “The prompt actions in response to developments in eastern Ladakh were a testament to the Indian Air Force’s combat readiness. Our efforts in completing all Covid-related tasks was also a major achievement in support of national efforts.”India and China have been locked in a border standoff for 17 months and both sides are carrying out negotiations to reduce tensions.“In May 2020, the No. 47 Squadron was deployed for air defence as well as air-to-ground operations in the northern sector, and carried out extensive operations at high altitude,” said one of the citations.After the February 2019 Balakot airstrikes by the IAF, the MiG-29 squadron was deployed in an air defence role and flew extensively to ensure that there was no misadventure by Pakistan.After the Galwan Valley skirmish in June 2020, the 116 Helicopter Unit was deployed for offensive operations at a high-altitude airfield in the Ladakh area. “The unit quickly established the first-ever high-altitude attack helicopter detachment in the region and executed day and night operations, including air-to-ground weapons delivery at high altitude,” said another citation. A trust deficit persists between the Indian and Chinese armies after their soldiers were involved in the brutal clash along the contested LAC. The Galwan Valley clash of June 15, 2020, was the first deadly skirmish between Indian and Chinese troops along LAC in more than five decades, and it pushed the bilateral relationship to a breaking point - it left 20 Indian soldiers and an undisclosed number of Chinese troops dead.The 2255 Squadron Det was mobilised for air defence activation in Ladakh following the Galwan Valley skirmish.“Since then, the squadron has undertaken various innovations to sustain serviceability and reliability of its equipment. This has enabled it to maintain its operational readiness in harsh climatic conditions,” said a third citation.The IAF played a critical role when border tensions with China peaked last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-chief-hails-iaf-actions-during-ladakh-standoff-101633720185950.html
09-10-2021||India||Karnataka govt seeks more Covid vaccine doses from Centre, funds to upgrade PHCs||Bengaluru: Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai along Karnataka state health minister Dr K Sudhakar on Friday met Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya in New Delhi and sought additional funds from the Centre to upgrade and modernise primary health centres (PHCs) under the National Health Mission (NHM), said Sudhakar’s office in a statement. Apart from this, the government also sought more Covid-19 vaccines for Karnataka as it aims to inoculate 70% of its population with the second dose by December-end.“The Karnataka government is planning to upgrade and modernise all PHCs in the state and we have sought additional allocation under NHM for the purpose. The Centre has responded positively to our request,” Sudhakar told reporters after the meeting.The minister said he has also discussed about strengthening trauma care, secondary and tertiary care in all districts across the state.The health minister further said that Mandaviya appreciated Karnataka’s efforts in Covid-19 management. State has an inventory of over 5 million doses of vaccine and has achieved 82 per cent coverage in first dose and 37 per cent coverage in second dose among eligible population. Sudhakar said the state government is awaiting Centre’s guidelines on vaccinating children.“The vaccine for children is in trial phase and the Centre will soon decide after discussing with vaccine-manufacturers. We must not let our guard down against the pandemic,” the minister said keeping in view the approaching festival season.He added that the state is conducting about 100,000 Covid tests everyday and the positivity rate is less than 0.4 per cent. So, there is no need to panic, said Sudhakar. Bommai after the meeting with Mandaviya informed that Centre has assured it will supply more Covid-19 vaccines to Karnataka. “The minister assured us that he will give more (vaccines) if required. We have a stock of 5.1 million doses and a special drive is being undertaken. We are focusing on giving the second dose to people,” Bommai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-govt-seeks-more-covid-vaccine-doses-from-centre-funds-to-upgrade-phcs-101633723285820.html
09-10-2021||India||Bengaluru civic body: Will finish old buildings’ audit in 15 days||Bengaluru Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) chief commissioner Gaurav Gupta said on Friday that the audit on old and dilapidated buildings in the city would be completed within 15 days, giving an extension to its own initiative that adds risks to the lives and property of people living in unstable structures. After two buildings collapsed in Bengaluru on two consecutive days in September last week, Gupta had instructed zonal joint commissioners and chief engineers to form a committee to conduct a resurvey of dilapidated buildings and submit a report within 15 days.“We had to do it within 15 days. On September 30, the revenue minister asked us to do it within 15 days,” Gupta said.On September 30, revenue minister R Ashok held a meeting with BBMP, the city’s civic body, to take stock of old and dangerously unstable buildings in the city. The civic body chief commissioner said the corporation was asked to take action on the earlier survey and demolish unstable structures. He added that the structures that can be fixed would be regularised. The statements come as another multi-storied building collapsed in Bengaluru on Thursday, making it the third such incident in the city in the last couple of weeks. A surge in population led to rapid and unplanned expansion of Bengaluru as land sharks and builders encroached upon lakes, storm water drains, roads and other unapproved spaces for construction of residential and commercial buildings. According to a 2019 survey, there were at least 185 dilapidated buildings identified by the civic body in Bengaluru of which only 10 were demolished. Gupta said a probe will be undertaken by structural engineers into the collapse of the multi-storied building in Kasturinagar, in east Bengaluru, on Thursday, and that action will be taken on the basis of the report. “I think there is a need for a proactive approach, like the 15-20 year car policy, with regular checks on old and ageing buildings,” V Ravichandar, a Bengaluru-based urban infrastructure expert, told Hindustan Times. Experts also point out violations of building permits by builders that is often neglected or has the tacit approval of officials. “Because of the violations, the foundation of a building does not have the capacity to take the load,” Ravichandar said. “It is important to involve the community and Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) for early identification of any signs of cracks or damage.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-civic-body-will-finish-old-buildings-audit-in-15-days-101633722926045.html
09-10-2021||India||PM Modi, Japan PM Kishida discuss bilateral ties, free, open Indo-Pacific||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Japanese counterpart Fumio Kishida agreed on Friday to boost cooperation in a range of areas, including political and security issues, and to work for a free and open Indo-Pacific.The matters figured when Modi telephoned Kishida to congratulate him on assuming charge as the prime minister of Japan. Kishida was elected to the post after his predecessor Yoshihide Suga quit last month following criticism of his handling of the Covid-19 crisis.Modi and Kishida expressed satisfaction at progress in the bilateral special strategic and global partnership and agreed to enhance cooperation in areas such as high-technology and futuristic sectors. Modi invited Japanese companies to benefit from India’s economic reforms through greater investment, the external affairs ministry said.The leaders discussed the “increasing alignment of perspectives and robust cooperation between India and Japan in the Indo-Pacific region”, and reviewed cooperation under the Quad framework, the ministry said.A readout from the Japanese side said the two leaders, while looking ahead to the 70th anniversary of diplomatic relations next year, decided to elevate the bilateral partnership to greater heights by promoting cooperation in political and security issues, economic cooperation and people-to-people exchanges.Modi invited Kishida to visit India at his earliest convenience for a bilateral summit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-japan-pm-kishida-discuss-bilateral-ties-free-open-indopacific-101633720947983.html
09-10-2021||India||Haryana CM Khattar withdraws his ‘tit-for-tat’ remark, says was ‘misconstrued’||Chandigarh: Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday retracted his controversial “tit-for-tat” remark allegedly made against farmers protesting the Centre’s farm laws, saying it was “misconstrued” and he did not have any ill-intention towards anyone.The CM also said he won’t be attending a programme of the Aggarwal community in Kaithal as farmers had objected to his visit. Khattar had made the remark at a BJP Kisan Morcha meet, a video of which had surfaced on social media, with farmers bodies alleging that he was telling party supporters to “pick up sticks” against farmers protesting the Centre’s agriculture laws.Apparently referring to the agitation, Khattar had said, “Form groups of 500, 700, 1,000 farmers and make them volunteers. And then at every place, ‘sathe sathyam samacharet’. What does it mean--it means tit for tat (jaisa ko taisa).””Do not worry...when you remain there (in jail) for a month, three months or six months, you will become big leaders, your names will be etched in history,” he added.Withdrawing his remark on Friday, Khattar said it was publicised that he suggested “picking up sticks”.The statement had been “misconstrued”, he told reporters in Panchkula after paying obeisance at the Mata Mansa Devi temple on the occasion of Navratras.The remark had been made in the “context of self-defence” and not out of ill-intention towards anyone, Khattar said.“I want to tell my farmer brothers who are hurt that I am taking back my statement,” said Khattar, who was accompanied by Speaker Gian Chand Gupta.The CM further said he does not want any breach of peace or law and order problem in the state.“Everyone has a right to hold protest in a peaceful manner but only thing is that no one should cross the limit. No one should be harmed, vehicles should not be damaged,” he said.Khattar also said he won’t be attending a programme of the Aggarwal community in Kaithal as farmers have said they will oppose his visit.The protesting farmers have said they have no objection if a BJP leader from the community attends the event, the CM said.“Speaker Gian Chand Gupta will attend the event on my behalf,” he said.Khattar also said his government has been taking pro-farmer initiatives.Referring to reports of crop damage due to recent showers in parts of Haryana, Khattar said a special “girdwari” has been ordered to assess the extent of damage. PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-cm-khattar-withdraws-his-tit-for-tat-remark-says-was-misconstrued-101633722687441.html
09-10-2021||India||Kerala to add backlog of 7,000 deaths to Covid toll||The Kerala government said on Friday that it will soon add a backlog of around 7,000 Covid-19 deaths, or old fatalities that had previously gone unreported or misreported, to its toll.The move, announced on Friday by state health minister Veena George, will result in a massive spike in the state’s Covid-19 death toll. She said these uncounted deaths occurred before hospitals started uploading data of such fatalities online before June this year. Till Friday night, a total of 26,072 people are reported to have lost their lives to the viral disease in the state. This number does not yet include the roughly 7,000 uncounted deaths that occurred between March 2020 and June 2021, according to government data.George also denied the Opposition charge that there were deliberate attempts to underplay the death rate to keep the state’s mortality rate low. “There was no deliberate attempt to exclude deaths of so many from the tally. We have been following ICMR guideline regarding Covid-19 deaths, but due to some technical glitches these deaths were left out. We will revise the list again,” the minister said while replying to an adjournment motion moved by the Opposition. The massive reconciliation will dent Kerala’s reputation as the state with one of the best case fatality rates (CFR) in the country – 0.5% against a national average of 1.5%. After the reconciliation is issued, this number is expected to rise to around 0.7%, data shows.Kerala reported 10,944 new cases on Friday after 95,510 samples were tested with a test positivity rate of 11.45% – the highest in the country. With an active caseload of 116,645, the state remains, by far, the biggest Covid-19 hot spot in the country.Several other states such as Maharashtra, Bihar, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, have all issued such statistical corrections to incorporate previously uncounted fatalities in their Covid-19 death tolls. Such exercises have not only pushed up the country’s death count in recent months, but also implied that the fatalities reported during the peak of the outbreak in the country were grossly under-reported.When the matter of unreported deaths came up in the state assembly on Friday, Opposition members insisted for an explanation and later walked out of the house. “The government did it deliberately to maintain its record on low mortality. The list is incomplete as many Covid deaths fail to figure in the list. Its public relations exercise fell flat. No government should have done such a disservice to its people,” said Congress leader VD Satheesan. He said the government was even denying the paltry relief to victims due to its indifferent attitude, a charge that the health minister rejected.Experts expressed the need for more transparency in reporting of such deaths. “The government is slowly admitting its mistakes. It has done a grave injustice to victims. We need more transparency and these measures should not be politicised,” said public health expert Dr SS Lal, who was earlier with the World Health Organisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-to-add-backlog-of-7-000-deaths-to-covid-toll-101633722446768.html
09-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Farm unions allege Uttar Pradesh police allowed main accused to flee||Farm unions on Friday alleged the Uttar Pradesh police went soft on the main accused of the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case, Ashish Mishra, the son of Union minister Ajay Kumar Mishra Teni and “allowed him to abscond” after the October 3 incident in which eight people, including four farmers were killed. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella platform of the farm unions, cited the Supreme Court’s displeasure of the ongoing investigation and blamed police helping the main accused, Ashish Mishra. “The police allowed the prime accused to go missing by not acting immediately to arrested even though an FIR was filed,” said Gurnam Singh Chaduni, head of Haryana unit of Bharatiya Kisan Union. He said farmers would demonstrate against UP police in front of police stations.Notably, on Thursday, the state police arrested two of Mishra’s aides -- Luv Kush and Ashish Pandey -- and sent summons to Ashish Mishra to appear before it on Friday, after the Supreme Court’s order. However, Mishra failed to appear before the police. The minister, on Friday, reiterated that his son, who faces a murder case, was “innocent” and will appear before Uttar Pradesh Police on Saturday to record his statement.Eight people were killed on Sunday, including four farmers, in the bloodiest clash since the farmers’ protest over the Centre’s three contentious agricultural laws started last year.The farmers alleged that the protestors were knocked down by a convoy of vehicles, one of which belonged to Mishra. However, the minister has denied all the charges.In a statement released on Friday, the SKM stated that the one-member judicial commission set up by the state government was not as per their demands and “does not instil confidence in farmers of the country”. “The UP government’s notification dated 6th October 2021, setting up the judicial commission of inquiry into Lakhimpur Kheri Farmers’ Massacre appears to have been put out due to the SC hearing on the matter apart from mounting public pressure,” reads the statement. The SKM has demanded the resignation of the Union minister. “The Samyukt Kisan Morcha demands that Uttar Pradesh government should immediately impose cases with murder charges against all those involved from the side of Ajay Kumar Mishra Teni. The Union MoS should be dismissed immediately,” Chaduni said on Friday. He said farmers would also organise protests across UP until the minister was dismissed. Chaduni said, “The Yogi Adityanath-led UP government was responsible for protecting the prime accused.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-farm-unions-allege-uttar-pradesh-police-allowed-main-accused-to-flee-101633721845572.html
09-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Yogi vows justice but says no arrests without evidence||Lucknow/Gorakhpur Amid growing pressure to arrest Union minister of state for home Ajay Kumar Mishra Teni’s son in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath asserted on Friday that justice would be done but no arrests will be made without sufficient evidence. Describing the October 3 violence, which claimed eight lives, as unfortunate, the chief minister said that no action will be initiated under any pressure. “There is no place for violence in democracy and when the law is giving guarantee to secure everyone, there is no need to take it into one’s hands, whosoever they be,” he told a news channel.On allegations that efforts are being made to shield the minister’s son, Ashish Mishra, in the case, Adityanath said: “There will be no injustice with anyone. No one will be allowed to take the law in his hands but no action will be taken under any pressure.” “We will not arrest anyone on the basis of allegations. But yes, if someone is guilty, he will also not be spared, irrespective of who he is,” he said.The chief minister added that even “the Supreme Court has said that before arresting someone, we should have sufficient evidence against him”. Teni’s son Ashish Mishra, along with others, were booked on murder and other charges after a vehicle belonging to the Union minister allegedly mowed down four farmers during a protest against the agricultural laws on Sunday. Two BJP workers and a driver were beaten to death allegedly by angry protesters, while a local journalist was also killed in the violence that ensued. Farmers maintain that Ashish was in the lead car that ran over people. The minister and his son have denied the latter’s alleged involvement in the incident.Earlier on Friday, Ashish failed to turn up at the crime branch office in Lakhimpur Kheri at 10 am for questioning, prompting the police to issue a fresh summon and warning of legal action if he does not appear again. “We did this all over the state.. We take action against someone whenever evidence is found.. Be it a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA or an Opposition MLA... We never hesitated in taking action… In Lakhimpur also, the government is doing the same thing,” he said. “A special investigation team (SIT) has been constituted by the government and a judicial commission has also been formed to probe the case… The arrests of those whose videos have come and involvement was confirmed have started,” he added. Former Uttar Pradesh CM and Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Friday tweeted, “By doing the formality of sending summons to a named accused (of murder accused) by the UP government and administration has further increased public anger against the government.” Earlier in the day, Yadav said the minister’s son should have been arrested. Priyanka wields broom againMeanwhile, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday made a surprise visit to a Valmiki temple at Luv Kush Nagar in Lucknow and picked up a broom to clean it, hours after Adityanath’s dig at her act of sweeping of floor at a Sitapur guest house in detention. In reply to a question during a TV interview, Adityanath said, “The people wanted to make them (the Congress leaders) worth doing that and that is what they have made them”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-yogi-adityanath-vows-justice-but-says-no-arrests-without-evidence-101633721125402.html
09-10-2021||India||Son innocent, will appear before police today: MoS on Lakhimpur Kheri violence||Union minister of state for home Ajay Kumar Mishra ‘Teni’ on Friday insisted that his son Ashish, who faces a murder case in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri violence on October 3, was “innocent” and will appear before police on Saturday to record his statement. The minister’s remarks came hours after police issued a second summon to his son, Ashish Mishra, who failed to turn up at the crime branch office in Lakhimpur Kheri at 10 am for questioning. Alleging that his son was unwell, Teni told reporters at Lucknow airport, “We have full faith in law. My son is innocent. He got a notice on Thursday but he said he was not well. He will appear before the police tomorrow and give his statement and evidence as he is innocent.” The developments came after Supreme Court was exceptionally harsh while commenting on the police’s lenient handling of Ashish Mishra, although it didn’t name him.The apex court said it was “not satisfied” with the action taken by the state government and sought to know why the accused was not arrested. Ashish, along with others, were booked on murder and other charges after a vehicle belonging to the Union minister allegedly mowed down four farmers during a protest against three central agricultural laws on Sunday. Two Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers and a driver were beaten to death allegedly by angry protesters, said Ashish, while a local journalist was also killed in the violence that ensued. Farmers maintain that Ashish was in the lead car that ran over people. The minister and his son have denied the latter’s alleged involvement in the incident and said they were not at the spot. On Thursday night, the state police made their first arrests in the case by taking two people, Luvkush Rana and Ashish Pandey, into custody -- hours after the Supreme Court sought a report in this regard. Rana and Pandey are said to be associates of Ashish Mishra.On the Opposition’s demand for his resignation, Teni said, “Opposition can demand anything. This is a BJP government which works in an unbiased manner. Action will be taken against those found guilty.” The latest police notice to Ashish warned of legal action if he failed to appear before the probe team on Saturday. “The notice to Ashish was issued under Section 160 (police officer’s power to require attendance of witnesses) of code of criminal procedure and he was asked to appear in person and present evidence that he is aware of about the incident. Ashish has failed to appear. We will now adopt other legal procedures,” Lakhimpur Kheri superintendent of police Vijay Dhull said. A police official, on condition of anonymity, said Ashish continued to remain untraceable as several reports suggested that he fled to Nepal. The official added that the accused’s last location was traced near Banbirpur village under Tikunia police station limits, somewhere near India-Nepal border. “The investigation committee headed by deputy inspector general, police headquarters, Upendra Agarwal and senior member of the committee Sunil Kumar Singh, a commandant at 10th battalion PAC, Barabanki, are discussing the next course of action,” the official said. A few reports also suggested that Ashish was planning to surrender before a local court on Saturday. Hitting out at the government, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav said sending summons to the minister’s son for questioning was only a formality and insisted he should resign for an unbiased probe into the incident.“The government has woken up after the Supreme Court intervention. The minister should resign,” Yadav told reporters outside his residence in Lucknow before leaving for Bahraich to meet families of two farmers who were killed in the violence.“Otherwise, the officer who will be questioning him will have to first salute him and then interrogate him. Before leaving, the officer will have to again salute him due to his post,” he added. Internet services restartMeanwhile, internet services were restored in Lakhimpur Kheri on Friday, six days after they were suspended following violence in the district on Sunday. The services were restored for a few hours on Tuesday morning, but were again suspended the same day. Most markets, schools and other educational institutions were also opened in the district, including those closer to Tikunia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/son-innocent-will-appear-before-police-today-mos-ajay-mishra-on-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-101633720525383.html
09-10-2021||India||‘Marks Jihad’: Kerala minister seeks action against DU teacher||Kerala education minister V Sivankutty on Friday sought action against Delhi University Professor Rakesh Kumar Pandey who made a controversial post on “marks jihad”, saying the university’s silence over the issue is condemnable.Sivankutty told reporters that the teacher’s statement is part of a deliberate move to prevent students from Kerala in getting admission in Delhi University and browbeat them. He said it was never expected from a teacher and sought strict action against him.“We want action against the teacher for making such an irresponsible and highly communal statement. He can’t simply get away by making such a baseless statement,” the minister said, adding that the teacher later justified it in interviews with various news channels.Activists of the CPI(M)-backed Students Federation of India (SFI) took out protest rallies in many parts of the state on Friday.In a Facebook post, Pandey, a physics teacher of Kirorimal College in Delhi, wrote: “A college had to admit 26 students in a course having 20 seats only because they all had 100 per cent marks from the Kerala education board. For last few years Kerala board is implementing #marksjihad#.”Later he justified it saying he was only mentioning about the “improper paper evaluation system” in Kerala and has no plan to withdraw it or apologise. What angered the Left leaders is his justification that he did not differentiate between leftists and jihadis.“What do you mean by ‘love jihad?’ It means you start misusing love for spreading religion. This ‘marksjihad’ is when you misuse marks to spread leftist ideology. For me, leftists and jihadis are same. I don’t differentiate between them. Jihad has wider meaning, not just religion alone, which fits into this slot,” he told a Malayalam news channel justifying his position. Pandey is a member of the RSS-affiliated teachers’ body, National Democratic Teachers’ Front.Many academics, writers and leaders have decried his statement. In a series of tweets, Congress leader and writer Shashi Tharoor said the use of “jihad” as a synonym for any trend one doesn’t like “is exceeding all limits.” “Now a DU teacher has got attention by absurdly decrying ‘marksjihad.’ It is ridiculous. Kerala students scoring 100% have struggled against all odds to get to DU,” he tweeted.“It is part of the Sangh Parivar agenda. A well-planned strategy is on change the secular and democratic fabric of the country. It is sad, no action is taken against the teacher,” said CPI(M) Politburo member M A Baby, also former state education minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/marks-jihad-kerala-minister-seeks-action-against-du-teacher-101633720406811.html
09-10-2021||India||Dowry death: Kerala HC rejects husband’s bail plea||KochiThe Kerala high court on Friday rejected the bail plea filed by a man who was arrested in connection with the death of his wife due to alleged dowry harassment.Vismaya, an Ayurveda medical student, was found hanging in the bathroom of her husband’s house at Sasthamkotta in Kollam district on June 21 this year. Her parents and brother had alleged torture and harassment by her husband S Kiran Kumar over dowry. Following the outrage over the woman’s death, Kiran, who was working as an assistant motor vehicle inspector, was dismissed from service.Dismissing Kumar’s bail plea, Justice M R Anitha observed that the petitioner has been charged with a grave crime of dowry death, which is a social evil.The court rejected his bail plea, accepting the prosecution argument that he was likely to influence witnesses and tamper with evidence if he was granted bail.The Court also evaluated the nature of allegations against the petitioner and the gravity of accusation-- the death of his wife within 13 months of their marriage out of the cruelty and harassment in demand of dowry, which drove her to commit suicide-- before taking the decision.Kumar had been in jail ever since his arrest on June 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dowry-death-kerala-hc-rejects-husband-s-bail-plea-101633719804651.html
09-10-2021||India||High court quashes charges against key accused in Kerala gold smuggling case||Thiruvananthapuram: The Kerala high court on Friday quashed the imposition of Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act (Cofeposa) on Swapna Suresh, main accused in the gold smuggling case. Her mother had moved the court three months ago seeking quashing of the continuous detention of her daughter under Cofeposa. In her petition, Swapna Suresh’s mother said Cofeposa can be applied on habitual offenders and that the gold smuggling case was first case against her. A division bench of Justices A K Jayashankaran Nambiar and C P Mohammad Nias allowed the mother’s plea. Though Cofeposa was quashed, Swapna Suresh will remain in the judicial custody as many other cases are pending against her. The Customs probing the gold smuggling case had invoked provisions of the Cofeposa against two accused in gold smuggling case, Swapna Suresh and Sandeep Nair, in October last year. Sooraj T E, counsel of Suresh’s mother, said the preventive custody under Cofeposa was “illegal, arbitrary and vitiated by improper application of mind”. He said usually habitual offenders will come under its ambit and Suresh was wrongly included in the list. Later the court overruled the customs department’s objections and quashed Cofeposa charges. The sensational gold smuggling case came to light in July 2020 after the seizure of 30 kg gold hidden in bathroom fittings in one of the consignments camouflaged as diplomatic baggage of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) consulate in state capital. The case was later handed over to the National Investigation Agency and it arrested Swapna Suresh and her accomplice Sandeep Nair from their hideout in Bangaluru. Now a multi-agency team headed by the NIA is probing the case and 34 people have been arrested so far. One of the alleged key funders of the smuggling racket, Rabins Hameed, was extradited from the UAE and another key suspect Faizal Fareed is still at large. The case invited enough embarrassment to the Left front government after the CM’s principal secretary M Sivasankar, a senior IAS officer, was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate. Later he was suspended and he secured bail from the High Court later. Though four central agencies (NIA, ED, DRI and Income Tax) are probing the case, other than initial arrests, investigation failed to make much headway, officials of the central agencies admit. Main beneficiaries and dispatchers are still at large and some politicians whose names cropped up in the course of investigation also remain untouched. The union and state governments locked horns several times over the case and the latter even constituted a judicial commission against the Enforcement Directorate (ED), a first of its sort, alleging bid to implicate many senior leaders including CM Pinarayi Vijayan in the case. But later the HC had squashed the judicial commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-court-quashes-charges-against-key-accused-in-kerala-gold-smuggling-case-101633719745237.html
09-10-2021||India||TN police challenge IAF’s custody of flight lieutenant accused of rape on campus||Chennai: The Coimbatore city police have said that their department has filed a petition before the district court seeking custody of the flight lieutenant accused of raping his colleague and challenging a lower court’s order that handed him over to the Indian Air Force (IAF). After a 28-year-old woman officer filed a complaint to the IAF against the accused, she said was unhappy with the manner in which her case was handled, so she went to the Coimbatore city commissioner Deepak M Damor on September 20 to file an FIR against him. The All-Women’s Police Station in Coimbtaore’s Gandhipuram carried out preliminary enquiries, registered a case against the accused officer and arrested him on September 25. This was challenged by his counsel as well as representatives of the IAF who argued in the Additional Mahila Court that the local police have no jurisdiction in the case as the complainant and the accused belong to the armed forces and therefore subject to the Air Force Act, 1950. The lower court on September 30 ordered that the accused be handed over to the IAF custody allowing a court martial. “The investigation on the woman’s complaint is still with us. The case was not handed over,” said a senior police officer of the Coimbatore city police. The investigation officer of the case from the All-Women Police Station on Thursday filed a revision petition in the Court of Principal District and Sessions Judge against the order of Judicial Magistrate of the Additional Mahila Court handing over the accused to IAF. “The revision application is to set aside the order of the magistrate and to keep the accused in judicial custody. And subsequently to direct the judicial magistrate to pass orders on the police custody application,” the officer quoted above said.The contents of the appeal will be known only when it’s numbered by the court, said N Sundaravadivelu, counsel of the accused. “The police are incorrect to say that the case is not transferred and only the custody has been exchanged. When the court made the order under section 124 of the Air Force Act which is for the purpose of the investigation and enquiry, so the entire case stands transferred,” says Sundaravadivelu. He added that the process for the court of inquiry under the IAF is going on. He had previously argued that the court martial is the right authority to investigate the case. According to the woman’s FIR, she was sleeping in her room after taking medicines for her ankle injury when the accused entered and committed the crime on September 10. She also made a serious allegation that the IAF medical doctors subjected her to a two-finger test to examine rape which has been banned by the Supreme Court in 2013. Reacting to the allegations, during a customary media interaction, the Indian Air Force chief Air Chief Marshal Vivek Ram Chaudhari on October 5 said that no illegal two-finger test was conducted on the woman IAF officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-police-challenge-iaf-s-custody-of-flight-lieutenant-accused-of-rape-on-campus-101633719504557.html
09-10-2021||India||CWC may meet over Lakhimpur clashes, internal row this month||The Congress Working Committee (CWC) is likely to meet this month to discuss the Lakhimpur Kheri violence and the issues faced by farmers, people familiar with the developments said. The highest executive body of the party is also likely to address some of the questions related to the political turmoil in its Punjab unit, as demanded by G23 leaders earlier, the people cited above added. “The CWC meeting will take place but it is unclear when it will be held. The schedule is yet to be finalised,” two senior leaders told HT on condition of anonymity. The meeting is likely to focus on the farmers’ issues after party leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra visited the kin of farmers who died after they were allegedly mowed down by a car belonging to Union minister of state for home Ajay Kumar Mishra Teni in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri district on October 3. With farmers alleging that Teni’s son, Ashish Mishra, was in the car that ran over the people, the Congress has demanded the sacking of the minister and the arrest of his son. Last month, senior party leader Ghulam Nabi Azad had written to party interim chief Sonia Gandhi, seeking a CWC meeting to discuss the political situation in Punjab and Goa units as well as the “mass exodus” in the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cwc-may-meet-over-lakhimpur-clashes-internal-row-this-month-101633719030055.html
09-10-2021||India||Telangana assembly adopts resolution urging Centre for caste census||The Telangana state assembly on Friday unanimously adopted a resolution requesting that the Centre take up a caste-wise census of backward classes as part of the general census for 2021.The resolution was introduced by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao soon after the question hour. It was passed by the members cutting across parties through a voice vote.“Telangana Legislative Assembly, with a view to ensuring welfare of backward classes, urges the Central government that caste-wise census of backward classes be conducted while holding the general census for 2021,” the resolution said.KCR, as the chief minister is known, said the OBCs constituted nearly 50% of Telangana’s population. In the absence of an accurate census of the OBCs, the welfare schemes being implemented by the state were not reaching all sections.“It is necessary to maintain accurate statistics for taking up various welfare schemes for the uplift of the backward classes. Various political parties across the country also demanded caste-based census of OBCs and several state assemblies also passed resolutions in this regard,” he said.The chief minister first mooted the proposal during a debate in the state assembly on Monday. He demanded that the Centre take up enumeration of castes while taking up the nation-wide census.“I don’t understand why the Centre is refusing to take up the enumeration of Other Backward Classes (OBCs) in the country. It even submitted an affidavit to the Supreme Court in this regard,” he pointed out, adding that the state assembly would adopt a resolution on caste-based census and send it to the Centre for necessary action.KCR also demanded that the Centre increase the percentage of reservations for Scheduled Castes in tune with their growing population.“The Centre has fixed a 15 per cent reservation for the SCs in education and employment at the national level as well as in the states. Over the years, the population of SCs has gone up considerably all over the country. Therefore, the Centre should also consider increasing the quota of the SCs,” he said.He said a Comprehensive Household Survey conducted in Telangana six years ago had revealed that there were 10.03 million families in the state, of which 1.82 million families belong to the Scheduled Castes, accounting for 17.53% of the total families.“The survey was six years old and the Dalit population in the state might have gone up substantially. Therefore, there is a need to increase the reservations for SCs in tune with the increase in their population,” KCR said.Meanwhile, the Telangana Backward Classes Commission welcomed the resolution urging the Centre to take up caste-based census.Commission chairman Vakulabharanam Krishnamohan said the demand for enumeration of OBCs across the country has been a long-pending one. Though the Centre took up the exercise in 2011, it did not disclose the details of the case-based census.“Supreme Court, high courts of various states and OBC commissions in several states also suggested to the Centre to take up caste-wise census and enumerate the OBCs based on their socio-economic conditions,” Krishnamohan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-assembly-adopts-resolution-urging-centre-for-caste-census-101633719028812.html
09-10-2021||India||Want to make helicopter a vehicle for common people: Scindia||Dehradun: Union civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia on Friday announced nine key decisions as part of the Centre’s new helicopter policy, under which dedicated hubs and corridors would be established to boost air connectivity, as he highlighted the plans to make “helicopter a vehicle of common people”.“A momentous day for India as we set out to expand helicopter operations with the following 9 key decisions,” Scindia stated during his speech at the third Helicopter Summit organised by industry body the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry (FICCI), in association with the Union civil aviation ministry and Pawan Hans Ltd.As part of the new policy, he added, the central government is going to put together a dedicated helicopter-acceleration cell in the Civil Aviation Ministry that will look at the helicopter industry’s issues and help instil ease of doing business. “It is going to be a resource that you can use to facilitate your growth,” he said.The new policy also exempts helicopter operators from landing charges or parking deposits.Officers of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) and Air Traffic Control (ATC) will engage with the helicopter industry stakeholders so that adequate training is given to all individuals regarding helicopter issues, he added.Under the new policy, an advisory group has been set up in the Civil Aviation Ministry to discuss any pain points of the industry. A booklet, titled Heli-Disha, was also inaugurated during the event to help district collectors understand all rules and regulations regarding helicopter operations. “This will ensure ease of operations at all levels”, he said. A centralised Heli-Seva portal will be upgraded to a level so that all permissions for a helicopter flight could be granted online. The government has also decided to build Heli-hubs in Mumbai, Guwahati, Delhi and HAL airport in Bengaluru. “As a beginning, we are going to start with three dedicated corridors for helicopters -- Juhu-Pune-Juhu, Mahalakshmi race course-Pune-Mahalakshmi racecourse and Gandhinagar-Ahmedabad-Gandhinagar,” Scindia said.He added that the ministry has identified 10 cities and 82 routes to develop helicopter corridors across the country, starting with six between Juhu and Pune; Malakshmi Race Course and Pune; Gandhinagar and Ahmedabad.To further strengthen the helicopter emergency medical services in India, heliports will be developed alongside three expressways (Delhi-Bombay, Ambala-Kotpuli and Ambala-Bhatinda-Jamnagar) to ensure timely evacuation and medical treatment for accident victims, he said. Scindia said Helicopter penetration is a priority in India and with this thought must come action. “This is epitomized by the Prime Minister’s actionable ideas, ways of thinking and working.” “We are trying to make helicopters a vehicle of common people. We aim to provide the best service when it comes to helicopters,” he added.Minister of State in the ministry of civil aviation and former chief of Army Staff Gen (Retd) VK Singh in his address said Helicopters are extremely effective in hilly areas with limited space. “We are trying to make it economically viable for the common people”, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/want-to-make-helicopter-a-vehicle-for-common-peoplescindia-101633718725065.html
09-10-2021||India||Grant permanent commission to women officers with no pending issues: SC||New Delhi: The Supreme Court on Friday told the Union government and Army to come back with orders granting permanent commission to those among the 72 women short service commission officers (WSSCO) who do not have any disciplinary or vigilance issues pending against them. Hearing the contempt petitions filed by the 72 officers who were declared unfit for permanent commission (PC), the bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and BV Nagarathna directed the Army to segregate the names of those officers who face doubtful integrity or serious disciplinary issues. “You have to set your house in order,” the bench told army. Directing this exercise to be done by the next date of hearing on October 22, the court reminded the army that no additional factors could be introduced to deny PC under the March 25 order of the court that prescribed 60% marks based on their track record as decided by the Selection Board, medical fitness, and vigilance/disciplinary clearances. Appearing for the Centre, additional solicitor general (ASG) Sanjay Jain said the 72 officers have been declared unfit as their service records show serious charges such as “disobedience of orders, lapses in government procurement, forging medical documents, poor work ethics, lack of professionalism, un-officer like conduct, poor performance in courses” that render them unfit under the Army Policies of 1983 and 2012. In June, the army filed a clarification application in the top court to know whether the judgment of the court requiring the women officers to clear the 60% merit benchmark and medical fitness will automatically mean they are fit for PC or the army can declare them unfit on the above issues of integrity and discipline. The application was dismissed on August 2 as “not maintainable” and the court directed the army to comply with its March 25 order. The bench said, “We are conscious of the fact that this is the Army. If there is a problem on vigilance or disciplinary grounds, you can remove them. But for the rest of the officers, come with order granting PC on the next date. If an officer has issues relating to vigilance/discipline, we make it clear we will not interfere.” It was only on September 28 the army had released the results of the 72 officers when it came to light that they had achieved the 60% threshold fixed by the court judgment. Senior advocate Huzefa Ahmadi, appearing in the contempt petition, said, “The fact that these officers have been issued release orders shows that they do not face any discipline or vigilance issues. Now, there are new grounds being brought in to deny us PC.” The court reiterated, “All women officers who have attained 60% marks shall be entitled to PC, subject to medical fitness, disciplinary and vigilance clearance. The question is can there be supervening or additional factors to be considered beyond what the Court has stated. You wanted this but did not get this in your clarification application.” ASG Jain told the court that the Special No 5 Selection Board held in September 2020 that considered the grant of PC for these officers considered even their vigilance and disciplinary clearance. “We are willing to share the confidential records of each of the 72 officers to the Court to satisfy the grounds on which they were denied PC. These pertain to serious questions of integrity as per Army policies,” Jain said. It was the army’s claim that out of the 529 WSSCOs opting for PC, 514 fulfilled 60% marks criteria and 72 among them were held ineligible on other grounds. The army filed an affidavit explaining that all orders passed in the March 25 judgment were complied with. “We are not faulting you but we do not want to get behind our judgment and scrutinise each file. We have already undertaken a long exercise,” the bench said. The court directed Jain and senior advocate R Balasubramanian, appearing for army, to scrutinise each case and examine where there are serious vigilance or disciplinary grounds to reject PC. “We would trust you as officers of the court to carry out this exercise,” the bench added. Senior advocate Meenakshi Arora, who appeared in one of the contempt petitions, informed the court that the army has asked the 72 women officers to put in their papers or else their pension benefits will be withdrawn. The court said, “Tell your clients not to be anxious about these issues. We understand the feeling of humiliation they have suffered. Till the next date, hold your horses.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/grant-permanent-commission-to-women-officers-with-no-pending-issues-sc-to-centre-army-101633718305195.html
09-10-2021||India||India, US to discuss defence, Afghanistan crisis in slew of meetings||India and the United States are set to hold a series of meetings in the coming weeks that will take forward cooperation in key areas such as counter-terrorism, defence and the Indo-Pacific and help shape the response to the situation in Afghanistan.These meetings, including the 2+2 ministerial dialogue, are being scheduled against the backdrop of US deputy secretary of state Wendy Sherman’s remarks that the US does not see itself “building a broad relationship” with Pakistan.Defence secretary Ajay Kumar is expected to travel to the US this week for a meeting of the bilateral Defence Policy Group (DPG), people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. The DPG is the highest body that oversees cooperation in areas such as exercises, defence technology, joint research and development and production, and military exchanges.The India-US joint working group on counter-terrorism is set to meet during October 26-28, and the two sides will also hold the bilateral homeland security dialogue and talks on designation of terrorist individuals and entities in the coming weeks, the people said.Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman is also expected to visit the US, and a meeting of the Trade Policy Forum, which is co-chaired by the US trade representative and India’s commerce minister, is on the cards. The 2+2 defence and foreign ministers’ dialogue is expected to be held in November though the dates are yet to be locked in, the people added.India will also participate in the Summit for Democracies to be hosted by the US during December 9-10.Speaking at a virtual event organised by the Ananta Centre on Thursday, Sherman highlighted the importance of the relationship with India for the US.“With so much that unites us, I truly believe that there is no challenge so great that the US and India cannot overcome it by working together,” she said.At the same time, she said she was travelling from India to Pakistan on the last leg of a four-nation trip for a “very specific and narrow purpose”.“We don’t see ourselves building a broad relationship with Pakistan and we have no interest in returning to the days of a hyphenated India-Pakistan. That’s not where we are, that’s not where we are going to be,” Sherman said. She indicated her visit to Pakistan was largely focused on the situation in Afghanistan, and the need to get the Taliban to deliver on their commitments.“But we all need to know what’s going on in Afghanistan, we all need to be of one mind in the approach to the Taliban. We all need to make sure that we have the capabilities that we need to ensure everybody’s security, including India’s of course,” she said.The frostiness in US-Pakistan relations was on display when Sherman was received by a mid-ranking official on her arrival at the Foreign Office in Islamabad. In marked contrast, Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi had personally received Taliban leaders during recent visits.US state department spokesperson Ned Price said Sherman and Qureshi had “discussed areas of bilateral cooperation, the importance of the US-Pakistan relationship and the way forward in Afghanistan” during their meeting. Sherman also “emphasised the importance of a coordinated approach to Afghanistan and other issues vital to regional stability”, Price said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-us-to-discuss-defence-afghanistan-crisis-in-slew-of-meetings-101633717944880.html
09-10-2021||India||Three convicted in rape case that shook Rajasthan||New Delhi: A court in Rajasthan on Friday convicted three people for the rape and suicide of a Dalit girl in a college in 2016 -- a case that had sparked widespread public anger and conversations on caste discrimination and women’s safety. The 17-year-old girl, the daughter of a primary school teacher in Rajasthan’s far-flung Barmer district, was found dead inside a water tank on the roof of her college. Her parents alleged that a teacher raped her, and accused the college authorities of trying to hide the crime by making her sign a statement defending the teacher. The district court in Rajasthan’s Bikaner district convicted Pragya Prateek Shukla, the principal of the college where the victim studied, his wife Priya Shukla, the warden of the hostel where the victim resided, and Vijendra Singh, the physical education teacher who raped the victim. “After five years, justice has been served, especially in a case involving a minor from an underprivileged community,” said the victim’s lawyer, Anwar Ahmed. Singh was convicted for abetment of suicide, abduction, rape, and under sections of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. Pragya Prateek Shukla and Priya Shukla were convicted for abetment of suicide and under the SC/ST and Pocso acts. A copy of the judgment had not been uploaded till the time of going to print. The lawyers for the convicted said that they will wait for the written order before deciding on appealing the conviction. The sentencing for the three was set for Monday. The maximum punishment they face is the death sentence.“According to us, there was no natural evidence to convict them. To maintain discipline in an institution, the management has to take some steps. Definitely we are considering appealing in the high court,” said Vivek Sharma, who represented the Shuklas. Singh’s lawyer, Raviratan Godara, refused to comment. THE CRIMEThe victim hailed from a remote village just a couple of kilometers from the India-Pakistan border, and was the first Dalit girl in the region to pursue higher education. She got admitted to a college roughly 400km away to pursue a Basic School Training Certificate and moved to stay in a hostel, according to case documents and police first information report (FIR) seen by HT, and corroborated by the victim’s lawyers. At the time, the girl was hailed as a model to be followed in the remote region and inspired many other girls to study, said her family.But in college, the young student started facing discrimination, the family told the police, after the principal and the warden of the hostel repeatedly made her clean teachers’ rooms, especially that of the physical education teacher Singh. She was in her second year when tragedy struck. On March 28, the victim’s father travelled from their village to the college to drop her off at the hostel around 11am at the end of the Holi vacation, according to the FIR. That night, around 8pm, she called him back.“She told me that the hostel warden Priya Shukla sent her to Vijendra Singh’s room on the pretext of cleaning it, and there he raped her. Later, he threatened to kill her if she told anyone,” the father told the police at the time. Around 8am the next morning, her body was found floating in the water tank of the building. “From the beginning, we wanted to hold the Shuklas accountable, along with Singh, for their role in making the minor victim sign a document that made the incident look like her fault,” said Anwar Ahmed, the victim’s lawyer. The documents in question – called “mafinama” in court records -- were two statements signed by the victim and Singh, respectively, and addressed to the principal and warden. The victim was forced to sign the document when she brought the rape to the attention of the principal and the warden, the family told police. “I made a mistake, and please forgive me for it,” said the coerced statement of the victim, who was allegedly forced to write it by the Shuklas. “Instead of supporting the victim (a minor and a Scheduled Caste girl), the accused Priya Shukla, the warden, and her husband Pragya Pratik Shukla, the principal, shamed her by forcing her to write an apology in the middle of the night. The accused were in a position of power (as in-charge of the institute), who misused their authority in contravention of the law,” said the written submissions made by the victim in court. THE TRIALThe case triggered uproar across the state, and put the then Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government under pressure, with top Opposition leaders making a beeline for the remote border village where the victim’s family lived. But delays dogged the investigation, and trial finally began in Bikaner in 2017 – this meant that the victim’s father had to travel 400km from Barmer district for every court hearing.As the trial progressed, other challenges emerged, showed case documents and conversations with lawyers. At least 10 witnesses listed by the police turned hostile in court, dealing a blow to the prosecution. “Many of these witnesses were either students in the college or employees of the institution, and therefore were liable to be pressured by the accused at the time,” said Ahmed.Such problems in cases involving Dalits is common across India, and especially in Rajasthan, where roughly 50% of cases under the SC/ST Act don’t reach the charge sheet stage. This is the worst rate among major states, according to data by the National Crime Records Bureau.The victim’s lawyers, instead, focused on documentary and other evidence. They proved that on the night of the crime, there were only four people in the premises and accounted for all of them, and additionally proved that all gates were locked – meaning only Singh could have had access the girl’s hostel. They were also helped by the forensic laboratory report, which HT has a copy of, which showed that traces of semen were found on the victim’s clothes, bedspread and underclothes. The medical examiner also said that the victim’s body showed signs of recent forced intercourse. “What stood in our favour was that the victim’s roommate, who was also a minor, was the only major witness who didn’t turn hostile. She withstood all pressure to say that the victim told her that night that she was raped,” said Ahmed. In the five years between the crime and the conviction, a lot changed. A new government came into power and named the Dalit-dominated village, where the family lived, after the victim. The father, who was a vocal proponent of education for girls in the area, fell silent. And, many young women in the area stopped going away for higher education, stymied by the grisly crime and fearful families.This judgment, hope experts and activists, will change that. “This is a very important judgment given that cases involving Dalits fall through the cracks many times. It shows the importance of good legal representation and is a testament to the fighting spirit of the victim’s family,” said Anurag Bhaskar, a professor at Jindal Global Law School. “To us, it is a message to all girls who want to pursue education, that they need not fear,” said Ahmed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-convicted-of-rape-that-shook-rajasthan-101633717483411.html
09-10-2021||India||Tatas bid 39% more than floor price for Air India; transaction likely to be completed by December||Tata Sons won the country’s flagship carrier Air India (AI) for ₹18,000 crore after bidding 39% higher than the reserve price and surpassing the offer by SpiceJet promoter Ajay Singh-led consortium by little more than 19%, the government announced on Friday, putting an end to a five-year struggle to privatise the debt-laden airline. The transaction is expected to be completed by December this year as the share-purchase agreement (SPA) was already agreed between the government and the bidder, disinvestment secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey said. The financial bid, was submitted on September 15, was opened in presence of bidders on September 29 and after due process, an empowered ministerial panel -- Air India Specific Alternative Mechanism (AISAM) – on October 4 (Monday) approved the highest price bid of Talace Pvt Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Tata Sons, for the sale of government’s 100% equity shares in AI, Pandey said. AISAM is headed by home minister Amit Shah. finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, commerce minister Piyush Goyal and civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia are its members. In line with the approved procedure for strategic disinvestment, a reserve price was fixed after the receipt of sealed financial bids for the transaction, based on valuation using methodologies as per the established process, Pandey said. After the reserve price was fixed, the sealed financial bids were opened in the presence of the bidders. Talace Pvt Ltd quoted an enterprise value of ₹18,000 crore, while consortium led by Ajay Singh quoted an EV of ₹15,100 crore, he said. The reserve price was ₹12,906 crore. “The transaction does not include non-core assets including land and building, valued at ₹14,718 crore, which are to be transferred to government-owned special purpose vehicle (SPV) Air India Asset Holding Ltd (AIAHL), he said. According to Pandey, the successful bidder (Tatas) will take over debt worth ₹15,300 crore and the rest, ₹46,262 crore, will go to government-owned SPV, AIAHL. This remaining debt will have sovereign guarantee. Consequent to the acquisition, the Tatas will own 100% stake in Air India as well as its subsidiary Air India Express Ltd (AIXL), and 50% in the joint venture Air India SATS Airport Services Pvt Ltd (AISATS), a Tata Group statement said. AIXL, a wholly owned subsidiary of Air India, operates an eponymous low-cost carrier and is headquartered in Kochi. AISATS is a 50:50 joint venture between AI and SATS Ltd, providing ground handling services and food solutions. “This is a historic moment, and it will be a rare privilege for our Group to own and operate the country’s flag bearer airline. It will be our endeavour to build a world-class airline which makes every Indian proud. On this occasion, I would like to pay tribute to JRD Tata, pioneer of Indian aviation, whose memory we cherish,” Tata Sons chairman N Chandrasekaran said. Through this acquisition, the Tatas will get ownership of iconic brands like Air India, Indian Airlines and the Maharajah, the company said in a statement. Air India has a fleet of 117 wide-body and narrow body aircrafts and AIXL has a fleet of 24 narrow body aircrafts. Air India also has a frequent flyer program with more than 3 million members.According to the government, AI is one of the most extensive flight service providers in India with network coverage of 98 destinations (56 domestic destinations with around 2,712 departures per week and 42 international destinations with around 450 departures per week) as of November 1, 2019. AI offers 75 additional destinations through its secondary network of code share operations covered under 25 agreements with foreign carriers. During FY2019, AI carried around 22.1 million passengers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tatas-bid-39-more-than-floor-price-for-air-india-transaction-likely-to-be-completed-by-december-101633717482883.html
09-10-2021||India||Maharaja boards return flight||Air India will return to the Tata Group, where it was born as India’s first air service 89 years ago, marking the end of an era in which India ran a national carrier from shortly after Independence, but also the start of a new chapter that could end years of taxpayer-funded life support that kept the airline afloat.Tata Sons, the holding company for the autos-to-steel Tata conglomerate, will pay ₹18,000 crore for a 100% stake in Air India, Tuhin Kanta Pandey, secretary of the Department of Investment and Public Asset Management, said at a briefing on Friday.The bid amount includes Tata’s taking on of about ₹15,300 crore of the national flag carrier’s ₹61,562 crore debt. The remaining will be transferred to Air India Assets Holding Limited (AIAHL), Pandey added. AIAHL is a special purpose vehicle formed by the government.Also Read| Tatas bid 39% more than floor price for Air IndiaThe deal is a big boost for the government’s disinvestment drive, as well as its financial books – it will fetch the Centre ₹2,700 crore in cash in addition to the debt that will now be offloaded. In the 2021 financial year, which was battered by the pandemic, the airline is estimated to have lost ₹27 crore a day.“Air India’s return to the Tata group marks a new dawn for the airline! My best wishes to the new management, and congratulations to DIPAM secretary and the civil aviation ministry for successfully concluding the difficult task of paving a new runway for the airline to take off!” civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia said on Twitter on Friday.“I hope the airline will continue to deliver on its mission of bringing people closer through its successful operations,” he added.The airline’s current fortunes are far removed from its storied early years. Established by JRD Tata, who was India’s first licensed pilot, the airline originally flew mail in the 1930s between Karachi, in then-undivided British-ruled India, and Bombay, now Mumbai.It soon turned commercial, began to fly domestic and international destinations, and was taken over when the government nationalised the sector in its entirety in 1953. JRD Tata would continue to steer the carrier – and its domestic wing Indian Airlines which was hived off after the government takeover – for 25 years, without accepting a salary, until a messy dismissal in 1978 when the then Morarji Desai-led government appointed retired Air Chief Marshal Pratap Chandra Lal as the chairman for both airlines.“Welcome back, Air India,” Ratan Tata, JRD Tata’s successor and chairman emeritus of Tata Sons, said in a tweet on Friday. “On an emotional note, Air India, under the leadership of Mr JRD Tata had at one time gained the reputation of being one of the most prestigious airlines in the world,” Ratan Tata added.Also Read| ‘Big challenge, as well as strong potential in future’: Ratan Tata on AI bidIn the 1950s, 1960s and 1970s, Air India led the charge of the world’s aviation boom. Those were the golden years for air travel — still considered a luxury and a novelty, not a chore — and Air India’s service, replete with champagne and (for a lucky few first-class passengers) porcelain ashtrays designed by Salvador Dali, was legendary. Its advertising was equally famous; its hoardings in Mumbai (then Bombay) used to make headlines at one time. And even into the 1980s and 1990s, the airline was profitable.But the advent of private carriers in mid 1990s, a rush of low-cost, no-frills airlines in the mid-2000s, an ill-advised merger (with Indian Airlines), and poor management, Air India lost its edge in both domestic and international markets. The carrier, known for its Maharaja mascot, began to bleed money.Air India hasn’t turned a profit since its 2007 merger with Indian Airlines.An empowered ministerial panel — Air India Specific Alternative Mechanism (AISAM) — on October 4 approved the highest price bid of Talace Pvt Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Tata Sons, for the sale of government’s 100% equity shares in AI, Pandey said.AISAM is headed by Union home minister Amit Shah. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, commerce minister Piyush Goyal and civil aviation minister Scindia are its members.The government first announced a plan to sell a part of Air India in 2018, when in March it said it wanted to offer a controlling stake of 76%. In June, having received no interest from bidders, it shelved the plan.In December 2019, it revised the plan, offering 100% stake and flexible debt assumption terms. On September 15, the finance ministry said it received two bids.Tata Sons and SpiceJet chairman and managing director Ajay Singh said they were among the bidders. “I congratulate the Tata Group on winning the bid for Air India and wish them all the success. It was my honour and privilege to be shortlisted for bidding for Air India,” Singh said on Friday after the winning bid was announced.For Tata Group, Air India adds a third airline to its stable – it already holds a majority interest in AirAsia India and Vistara, a joint venture with Singapore Airlines Ltd. It will also fetch the company the prized landing and parking slots. At present, Air India has control of 4,400 domestic and 1,800 international landing and parking slots at domestic airports, as well as 900 slots at airports overseas such as London’s Heathrow.“While admittedly it will take considerable effort to rebuild Air India, it will hopefully provide a very strong market opportunity to the Tata Group’s presence in the aviation industry,” Ratan Tata said in his statement.The airline has a 172-strong aircraft fleet at present, with 128 in the Air India colours, 25 that make up the Air India Express fleet and 19 in service for Alliance Air.The fleet is a mix of narrow body and wide body jets from Boeing and Airbus, configured differently so that it can fly routes as short as Jammu and Srinagar (a distance of 123km) and as long as Delhi-San Francisco (15,300km in the trans-Pacific route).“This is a major development which will have positive impact on investors’ sentiment and bail out the government from losing taxpayers’ money every day, which accumulated to a total debt of ₹61,562 crore as on August 31. Tatas have both experience and passion to turn it around. It is a prudent decision which will help the Maharaja regain its lost glory,” said Abhishek A Rastogi, partner at law firm Khaitan & Co.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharaja-boards-return-flight-101633717346797.html
09-10-2021||India||Virtual hearings cannot be a norm: Supreme Court||Virtual courts cannot become the norm as this would envisage that the building in which we sit should be closed, the Supreme Court observed on Friday, expressing its strong reservations on a petition that asked for continuation of virtual court hearings as a matter of fundamental right.“It is one thing to demand live telecast of court proceedings, and quite another to say that when Covid is receding, people need not come to courts and instead continue with virtual hearing,” the bench of justices L Nageswara Rao and BR Gavai said.The bench, however, went ahead to issue notice to the Union government, pointing out that the court will take up the petition after four weeks along with a similar plea filed earlier by a group of lawyers.The court on Friday was hearing a petition by National Federation of Societies for Fast Justice, an advocacy NGO that campaigns for judicial reforms, along with former Central Information Commissioner (CIC) Shailesh Gandhi and former Mumbai Police Commissioner Julio Ribeiro.The petition, drafted by lawyer Siddharth R Gupta, also wants the top court to bar high courts from discontinuing virtual court hearings without the Supreme Court’s approval, pointing out that high courts of Uttarakhand and Gujarat have already issued orders to this effect on August 10 and 16, respectively.“For more than 70 years, we all understood courts to function physically. It was in view of Covid-19 pandemic that we thought that courts should continue to function and developed this new system of virtual hearing of cases. But virtual courts cannot become a norm as courts have to function physically when normalcy gets restored. The result of seeking virtual hearing as a norm is to envisage that the building where we sit should be closed down.”Senior lawyer Manoj Swarup, appearing for the petitioners, said virtual courts allowed litigants to address the courts and get justice at a very cheap cost. “They also have the advantage of engaging a lawyer of their choice and all this promotes access to justice which no system of governance can ignore,” Swarup said, urging the bench to allow the option of virtual courts to continue.The bench wondered what would happen to the provisions in Indian Penal Code and Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) which talk about open courts and open justice, referring to the 18th century English philosopher Jeremy Bentham who advocated for courts to be open for the public to enhance public confidence in the justice delivery system.The top court also countered a suggestion that physical court hearings put people living in remote areas at a disadvantage since they have to travel all the way to Delhi for hearings.“Nobody in remote areas is being denied access to justice. There is only a small percentage of cases that reach the Supreme Court from trial courts. Litigants already have the facility to approach those courts. If we allow virtual courts that will be sounding the death knell for physical functioning of courts,” the bench remarked, and asked Swarup if there was any study to back up its argument.The petition referred to findings of the Supreme Court E-Committee which propagated virtual courts as the most accessible, affordable, transparent, and cheap mode of justice available to litigants of the country, especially those coming from the marginalized sections.The bench referred to the standard operating procedure (SOP) released by the Supreme Court on Thursday, by which virtual hearing of cases would be discontinued on two days in a week beginning October 20. “So, you want us to set aside that SOP also,” the bench told Swarup, stating that it is a huge challenge the top court is facing to resume physical functioning.“You ponder over how physical courts have to resume after normalcy returns. We started a hybrid hearing in the Supreme Court, but lawyers are not coming to court. What norms can be laid down; we can think over it at the next date of hearing.”At one point, the bench questioned whether this petition was driven by the interest of lawyers. “You want this happy option to remain so that lawyers can argue from Mussoorie, Shimla or London,” the bench remarked, to which Swarup responded saying this petition is by citizens who genuinely feel that keeping the option of videoconferencing open is in the interest of access to justice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/virtual-hearings-cannot-be-a-norm-supreme-court-101633717287679.html
09-10-2021||India||Protect EWS students’ right to e-learning, SC tells states||The digital divide due to online teaching has produced stark consequences with underprivileged children forced to discontinue their studies or, worse, drop out, the Supreme Court lamented on Friday as it urged the Centre and states to put together a “realistic and lasting solution” for protecting the right to receive online education of children belonging to economically weaker sections (EWS).“The states must come out with a plan, otherwise there will be massive dropouts and as a result, there will be dangers of child marriage, child labour and child trafficking. Threat is so grave that the State has to act quickly and take this with utmost seriousness, and come out with some kind of policy to make sure children continue in schools,” observed a bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and BV Nagarathna.“It is heart-rending that on one hand we are merging children belonging to EWS and DG with other children in good schools but on the other, how do we get the laptops and tablets for their parents who could be drivers or house maids. There is a real and grave threat of dropout of children because of lack of resources like devices and connectivity,” added the bench.“If Article 21A (right to free and compulsory education between the age and 6 and 14) is to become a reality, the needs of children from the underprivileged section to receive online education cannot be denied,” asserted the court.The bench was dealing with an appeal by a group of private unaided schools against a Delhi high court order that directed these schools in the national capital to provide free gadgets and internet connections to poor students for online classes and claim reimbursement from the Delhi government.The Delhi government and the Centre have also filed appeals against this judgment.The concerns of the top court have come two days after a report released by the Union education ministry said that 29.6 million school students do not have access to digital devices, as per data collected from 24 states and Union territories (UTs) until June. The numbers could be higher. Seven states and UTs, including the densely populated Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra, have not submitted the data.Representing NGO Justice For All, advocate Khagesh B Jha cited before the bench the government’s report, containing startling numbers that highlighted the extent to which students have been disadvantaged over the past year and a half when almost all education has been online in the shadow of the Covid pandemic. The high court order on September 18 had come on a petition by the NGO.Agreeing with Jha, the bench said that it is a “crucial issue involving young citizens of India who could be deprived of their right to free and compulsory education under the RTE Act due to a lack of resources”.Senior advocate Shyam Divan, who appeared for the private schools, said that the issue is complex as they cannot go on burdening parents of general category children if the Centre and states throw their hands in the air.The court found merit in Divan’s submissions. “Mr Divan is right that we can’t burden private schools with everything. They will cross-subsidise it with other parents. But it is not like parents not belonging to EWS can pay for everything. What is the Delhi government doing? They should have a plan of action,” it said. On his part, the Delhi government counsel replied that financing the devices and internet are the chief issues.At this, the court said that it will record its concerns in the order and would request the Chief Justice of India to list all the petitions on these issues as soon as possible so that “a practical solution can be found” while it expects “the central government and state governments to take up the matter in close coordination on an immediate basis and come out with a realistic and practical solution.”Asking the Delhi government to come out with a plan to achieve the salutary purpose of the RTE Act, the court said in its order that “the need to provide adequate computer-based equipment together with access to online facilities for the EWS/DG children is of utmost importance”.The education ministry’s data, which was released on Wednesday and is a part of a report titled “Initiatives by school education sector in 2020-21 for continuing teaching and learning”, is the first set of official statistics on the digital divide.As reported by HT on October 7, of the 29 million, 14 million are from Bihar, with the number translating into 58% of total students in the state. This is followed by 3.2 million from Jharkhand, which is 43% of total student strength in the state; 3.1 million from Karnataka, 27% of the total strength of students in the state; 3.1 million from Assam, 44% of students in the state; and 1.75 million from Tamil Nadu, which is 14.5% of total student strength in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protect-ews-students-right-to-e-learning-sc-tells-states-101633717178391.html
09-10-2021||India||Denmark PM to meet PM Modi on climate change ahead of COP 26||New Delhi: Danish Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen will meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday and the two sides will review the Green Strategic Partnership and discuss collaborations on climate change mitigation ahead of the Glasgow (COP 26), people familiar with the matter said on the condition of anonymity.A joint statement, spelling out how the two countries will collaborate on climate change, is expected at the end of the meeting.“The Green Strategic Partnership guides the discussion on how to meet the climate challenges, and how to turn words into action,” said Freddy Svane, Denmark’s ambassador to India, adding that it will be the “greenest summit”.On Thursday, ministry of external affairs spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said the Danish PM’s visit, beginning Saturday, is “very important” as it is the first head of state or head of government level visit since the onset of Covid-19 pandemic.Frederiksen and Modi co-chaired a virtual summit between India and Denmark on September 28 last year, following which a joint statement was issued, stating that the green strategic partnership was a mutually beneficial arrangement to advance political cooperation, expand economic relations and green growth, create jobs and strengthen cooperation on addressing global challenges and opportunities; with focus on an ambitious implementation of the Paris Agreement and the UN Sustainable Development Goals.“India and Denmark agree to be at the forefront in the global fight against climate change. Both countries have set very ambitious national targets on climate and energy that will contribute to an ambitious implementation of the Paris Agreement. Together, the two countries will show the world that delivering on ambitious climate and sustainable energy goals is possible,” the joint statement had said. The partnership has four tracks—climate, energy, water, and green financing.“There will be talks on taking the partnership to the next level. One of the key areas will be climate finance. In 2009, when we (Denmark) hosted COP 15 in Copenhagen, developed countries had made a commitment to mobilise $100 billion for developing countries by 2020 for climate mitigation and adaptation. We are quite far from that goal still. But the PM (Frederiksen) has said Denmark is committed to delivering its commitment to finance. We will honour our commitment and hopefully, the rest of the world will follow,” a senior official from Denmark said on Friday. said during an informal press briefing on Friday on the eve of Frederiksen's three-day visit.“Denmark stands out as an example and proves we can fight climate change and at the same time expand our economy. Our economy has grown from the early 1980s to double its size. Our energy consumption has been more or less stable,” the official added.Denmark’s energy minister Dan Jorgensen visited India last month when he met Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s principal secretary PK Mishra, power minister RK Singh and environment minister Bhupender Yadav. One of the main areas of partnership for Jorgensen was setting up an offshore clean and wind energy hub in Tamil Nadu of about 1 gigawatt (GW).“All eyes are on India. If India really wants to consolidate its role in climate change mitigation, it will enhance its NDC (Nationally determined contributions). India is already in a good place with its expansion in renewable energy. It has sought more financing from the developed world which I support. We need strong NDCs from big emitters to keep the 1.5 degrees target alive. The IPCC has already made it clear that all countries will need to transition to net zero at some point,” Jorgensen had said following his meeting with Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/denmark-pm-mette-frederiksen-to-meet-pm-modi-on-climate-change-ahead-of-cop-26-101633690390716.html
09-10-2021||India||Lalu Prasad among RJD’s star campaigners for by-polls||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad, who was released on bail this year after serving four years in prison following his conviction in cases related to the multi-crore fodder scam, was listed as one of the star campaigners for the party’s nominees ahead of the by-elections to Tarapur and Kusheshwarsthan assembly seats on October 30. The names of his son, Tej Pratap Yadav and daughter, Misa Bharti are missing from the list.The list of 20 RJD star campaigners was submitted to the Election Commission of India on Thursday. State RJD president Jagdanand Singh said the omission of names of Prasad’s family members had nothing to do with Tej Pratap Yadav’s outbursts. He said the campaigners have been chosen considering the social composition of the constituencies so that the party could connect with the voters more effectively. “ We have picked leaders for the campaigning who have been regularly working in these two constituencies and have a connect with the electorate so that the party does well,” Singh said.Prasad’s name tops the list followed by Tejashwi Yadav and Abdul Bari Siddiqui, the RJD’s national principal general secretary. The name of former chief minister and Lalu’s wife Rabri Devi is also missing from the list.Siddiqui said Prasad has approved the list. The 20 names in the star campaigner list include Lalu Prasad Yadav, Tejashwi Yadav, Abdulbari Siddiqui, Jayprakash Narayan Yadav, Uday Narayan Chaudhary, Shyam Rajak, Bhola Yadav, Tanveer Hassan, Trishan Patel, Lalit Kumar Yadav, Manoj Kumar Jha, Bharat Mandal, Ram Kumar Sahani, Alok Kumar Mehta, Shiv Chandra Ram, Lovely Anand, Chandrahas Chaupal, Bharat Bind, Ramvraksh Sada, Anil Kumar urf Sadhu Paswan.RJD leader Bhola Yadav said Prasad is expected to address a few election meetings on October 25 and 26 and return to New Delhi. He added all will depend on Prasad’s health condition.Tej Pratap Yadav and Bharti were the star campaigners for the party in the 2020 assembly polls. Earlier this week, RJD leader Shivanand Tiwary said Tej Pratap Yadav, who has alleged Prasad was being kept “hostage” in New Delhi, was not in the party as he has formed his own outfit, Chhatra Janshakhti Parishad. Tej Pratap Yadav and Misa Bharti could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.Chief minister Nitish Kumar and Janata Dal (United) president , whose party seeks to retain both the seats, has accused Prasad of steering the RJD’s election campaign from the jail during the 2020 assembly elections. Taking potshots over Prasad’s planned campaigning, he said, ”He (Lalu Prasad] used to run his party and plan election drives sitting in the jail.” Bharatiya Janata Party leader Nikhil Anand said Tej Pratap Yadav’s omission suggests he has been ousted from the party. He added there is a clear indication that Bharti would not get another Rajya Sabha term. “It is also unfortunate that state president Jagdanand Singh’s name is also missing. It shows how senior leaders are just being side-lined.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lalu-prasad-among-rjd-s-star-campaigners-for-by-polls-expected-to-electioneer-after-years-101633673469101.html
09-10-2021||NA||Breaking news highlights: Gujarat records 19 Covid cases, 22 more recoveries||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:Gujarat records 19 Covid-19 cases, 22 more recoveriesGujarat's caseload of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) climbed to 826,099 on Friday after 19 new cases were reported in the last 24 hours. No new fatality was recorded and the death toll remained unchanged at 10,085. The recovery count stood at 815,838 after 22 persons were discharged during the day.India, Hungary to recognise each other's Covid vaccination certificatesIndian and Hungary have agreed to recognise each other's Covid-19 vaccination certificates, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said on Friday. "Will facilitate mobility for education, business, tourism and beyond.Gujarat extends night curfew in 8 cities till November 10Gujarat extends night curfew between 12 midnight and 6am by a month in eight cities. The night curfew will continue in Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat, Rajkot, Gandhinagar, Junagadh and Bhavnagar till November 10.Tamil Nadu reports 1,359 new Covid cases, 20 deathsTamil Nadu on Friday reported 1,359 fresh infections and 20 related deaths. The active cases in the state now stand at 16,379.Chief economic adviser K V Subramanian to step down from post after completing 3-year termChief Economic Adviser (CEA) K V Subramanian on Friday announced his decision to step down from the post after completing his 3-year term in the finance ministry. Subramanian said in a statement that he will return to academia.Kerala reports 10,944 new Covid-19 cases, 120 deathsKerala reported 10,944 new Covid-19 cases and 120 related deaths on Friday, taking the total death toll in the state 26,072. Union Home Minister Amit Shah calls on J&K LGUnion home minister Amit Shah called on Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant governor Manoj Singh to meet him in Delhi tomorrow, in connection with targeted killings in the Valley in the past few days, said ANI quoting government sources. Punjab Cong chief Sidhu starts silent protest in Lakhimpur KheriPunjab Congress state chief Navjot Singh Sidhu sat on a 'Maun vrat(vow of silence) dharna  (silent protest) at journalist Raman Kashyap's house in Nighasan, Lakhimpur Kheri. Sidhu said his dharna will continue till the arrest of the accused. Kashyap was killed in the violence that broke out in Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday.Om Birla congratulates Italian Parliament for successful organisation of P20Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, who is in Rome, for the P20 event, congratulated the host country Italy for organising it. He also met Italian Senate Maria Elisabetta Alberti Casellati on the sidelines of the summit. Actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan, actor Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha denied bail in cruise drugs bust caseA Metropolitan Magistrate Court on Friday rejected the bail pleas of Aryan Khan, son of actor Shahrukh Khan, actor Arbaaz Merchant, and Munmun Dhamecha in the cruise drug bust case saying they were no maintainable before it. Metropolitan Magistrate, R M Nerlikar rejected the pleas.15 killed, over 90 wounded in Afghanistan's Kunduz mosque blast, reports AFP#BREAKING 15 dead, over 90 wounded in Afghanistan's Kunduz mosque blast: MSF hospital source pic.twitter.com/gQdl8KQcjgTata Sons wins bid, to take over Air IndiaTata Sons, the salt-to-software conglomerate, won the bid to take over national airlines Air India on Friday. Panel of ministers cleared winning bid for Air India, which is being pegged at Rs.18,000 crore. Aryan Khan, other accused to be kept in Arthur jail's quarantine cell for 3-5 days Nitin Waychal, Superintendent of Arthur Jail, said Aryan Khan and the other accused caught in the cruise party drug bust will be kept in Arthur jail's quarantine cell for 3-5 days, reported ANI.Union minister Ajay Mishra says son could not join probe due to 'health reasons'Union minister Ajay Mishra told ANI that his son, Ashish, could not join on going probe into Lakhimpur Kheri incident due to 'health reasons', adding that he will “report tomorrow”. Nobel Peace Prize 2021 awarded to Maria Ressa and Dmitry Muratov The 2021 Nobel Peace Prize 2021 was awarded to Maria Ressa and Dmitry Muratov for their efforts 'to safeguard freedom of expression', the Norwegian Nobel Committee announced on Friday. Read MoreAt least 1 dose of Covid vaccine needed to attend office from Oct 16, Delhi govt tells employeesDelhi government employees who have not been inoculated with at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine will not be allowed to attend office from October 16, a DDMA order informed on Friday.UP Police pastes another notice outside Union minister's homeUttar Pradesh police pasted a second notice outside Union minister Ajay Kumar Mishra's residence in Lakhimpur Kheri, asking his son Ashish Mishra to appear before it on October 9, 11am, in connection with Sunday's violence, reported ANI.Not satisfied with UP govt's probe in Lakhimpur case, says SCSupreme Court says not satisfied with UP govt's probe in Lakhimpur Kheri case, next hearing on October 20.Ashish Mishra will appear at 11am tomorrow: UP govt to SCSenior lawyer Harish Salve, appearing for UP government, informs Supreme Court that prime accused Ashish Mishra, who failed to appear before police today despite summons, will appear at 11am tomorrow.Lakhimpur Kheri case hearing begins in Supreme CourtSupreme Court begins hearing of the case on the violence that killed eight people in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri district on October 3.Sloganeering during funeral procession of teacher gunned down in Kashmir#WATCH Slogans of "We want justice" raised during the funeral procession of Supinder Kaur, a teacher who was shot dead by terrorists inside a Srinagar school yesterday pic.twitter.com/Z0ljycgG0PSlogans of "We want justice" raised during the funeral procession of Supinder Kaur, a teacher who was shot dead by unidentified terrorists inside a Srinagar school yesterday.Congress announces candidate for Dadra and Nagar Haveli bypollsCongress fields Mahesh Kumar Balubhai Dhodi as its candidate for Lok Sabha byelections to Dadra and Nagar Haveli.CBI court convicts Gurmit Ram Rahim for disciple's murderCBI court in Panchkula convicts Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmit Ram Rahim for the murder of his disciple. Gurmit already serving the sentence for rape. Quantum of sentence to be pronounced on October 12.Lakhimpur Kheri case: Ashish Mishra fails to appear before police Ashish Mishra, prime accused in Lakhimpur Kheri case, fails to appear before police despite summons.Real GDP growth projection retained at 9.5%, says RBI governorThe projection for real GDP growth is retained at 9.5% for FY 2021-22. This consists of 7.9% in Q2, 6.8% in Q3 and 6.1% in Q4 of 2021-22. Real GDP growth for Q1 of FY 2022-23 is projected at 17.2%: RBI governor SHaktikanta DasRBI keeps repo and reverse repo rates unchangedRBI keeps repo rate unchanged at 4% while reverse repo rate, too, remains unchanged at 3.35%.SAD delegation in Lucknow to visit Lakhimpur KheriA delegation of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) arrives at Lucknow airport to visit Lakhimpur Kheri to meet families of farmers who lost their lives in recent violence.India's daily Covid-19 cases fall to 21,257India reports 21,257 new Covid-19 cases. Active caseload at 240,221, lowest in 205 days.IAF begins Air Force Day celebrations#WATCH | Air Force Day Parade commences at Air Force Station Hindan, Ghaziabad on the 89th anniversary of the IAF pic.twitter.com/jVFjh919xXIndian Air Force begins Air Force Day 2021 celebrations at Hindon Air Force Station, Ghaziabad.Fire breaks out at fabric godown in Delhi's OkhlaA fire broke out at fabric godown in Harkesh Nagar, Okhla Phase 2 at around 3:45am today. 18 fire tenders rushed to the spot to bring the fire under control, no casualty reported so far: Delhi Fire DepartmentTruck overturns in Maharashtra's ThaneAn apple-laden truck overturned at around 2:35am today on Ghodbunder road near Manpada flyover bridge. Regional Disaster Management Cell, police and traffic officials present on the spot: Thane Municipal CorporationPM Modi greets IAF on 89th foundation dayGreetings to our air warriors and their families on Air Force Day. The Indian Air Force is synonymous with courage, diligence and professionalism. They have distinguished themselves in defending the country and through their humanitarian spirit in times of challenges. pic.twitter.com/UbMSOK3agPGreetings to our air warriors and their families on Air Force Day. The Indian Air Force is synonymous with courage, diligence and professionalism. They have distinguished themselves in defending the country and through their humanitarian spirit in times of challenges: PM ModiFace-off between Indian and Chinese troops in Arunachal last week: ReportsIndian and Chinese troops had a face-off in the Arunachal sector last week due to difference in perception of the Line of Actual Control (LAC), reports ANI citing sources in the defence establishment. Engagement reportedly resolved in a few hours as per existing protocols.IAF announces recipients for Chief of Air Staff citationThis Air Force Day, Chief of Air Staff Unit Citation will be awarded to three units, including the 47 Squadron for operations along Pakistan border, post-Feb 26, 2019, Balakot Air Strikes and in Ladakh sector opposite China since April-May last year for extensive high altitude ops: IAFBrazil likely to buy 150 million Pfizer Covid-19 vaccinesBrazil's health ministry has said it is in talks with Pfizer to purchase 100 million doses of the latter's Covid-19 vaccines, with a possibility of acquiring an additional 50 million doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-october-08-2021-101633653114668.html
