10-10-2021||India||20-yr-old takes over as the High Commissioner of Britain for a day||New Delhi Aditi Maheshwari, a 20-year-old woman from Chittorgarh in Rajasthan, became the top boss at the British High Commission in India for a day after winning a competition that was aimed at empowering the next generation of women as leaders and trail-blazers.Aditi is the fifth winner of the India edition of the ‘High Commissioner for a Day’ competition, organised annually since 2017 to celebrate the International Day of the Girl Child on October 11, the British embassy here said. She is currently pursuing a Bachelor’s programme from Miranda House college of the Delhi University and oversaw the functioning of the British High Commission on Friday.“As the UK’s top diplomat in India, Aditi experienced a broad variety of diplomatic activity. She observed the India-UK Energy for Growth Dialogue,” the embassy said it a release.It said she met with beneficiaries of a leadership programme for aspiring female politicians funded by the Chevening Alumni Programme Fund besides joining climate experts from the Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW) and young leaders from the not-for-profit Global Youth. “Aditi’s packed day also included a hands-on demonstration of the I-PACE-Jaguar’s zero-emissions, all-electric performance SUV to be used by world leaders at the COP26 climate conference in Glasgow next month,” the embassy said.On her part, Aditi said she had applied for the competition last year as well and was really pleased that she got the opportunity. “The interaction with senior diplomats and with women from ‘She Leads’ leadership programme were the two personal highlights of the day for me. I also enjoyed being driven around in an electric vehicle by the High Commissioner,” she said. “The amount of work that both the UK and India are doing to tackle issues like climate change and gender inequality made me really hopeful as a young woman. I will cherish this day for a long time to come,” she added.The applicants for the competition were invited to submit a one-minute video answering the question: ‘How can young people best support tackling the global challenge of climate change?’ The embassy said UK High Commissioner Alex Ellis acted as the Deputy High Commissioner for that day.“It was a pleasure for me to work with Aditi throughout the day. Her confidence and thoughtfulness on important issues like climate change and women’s rights shone through. The UK is working with India to provide a platform for young women like Aditi to help them reach their potential,” Ellis said. The envoy said he was happy that so many young girls sent in their entries for this year’s competition.“Women are disproportionately affected by climate change and are often left out of decision making on it. The UK is committed to hosting an inclusive COP26 that advances gender equality by calling on all countries to implement the Gender Action Plan agreed at COP25,” Ellis said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/20yrold-takes-over-as-the-high-commissioner-of-britain-for-a-day-101633890421536.html
10-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: SKM warns of intensifying protests if minister Ajay Mishra not removed from post by Oct 11||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of 40 farmer unions, on Sunday warned the Union government and the Uttar Pradesh state government of phase-wise protests over the Lakhimpur Kheri incident if the minister of state for home affairs Ajay Mishra is not sacked and arrested by October 11 (Monday).Earlier on Wednesday, the SKM had issued an ultimatum to the government to initiate action against Ajay Mishra by October 11, after which the farmers' body has warned of protests against the violence."Justice clearly getting compromised because Ajay Mishra is in a minister's post in the Union government," news agency PTI quoted the SKM as saying on Sunday. “The SKM warns Government of India and Uttar Pradesh government that time is running out on the deadline of October 11 given by it. Ajay Mishra's arrest and dismissal are awaited in addition to arrests of all culprits in Lakhimpur Kheri farmers' massacre,” it added.Further, the farm unions have also said that they would take out a ‘Shaheed Kisan Yatra’ from Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh with the ashes of the farmers who lost their lives after October 11 if their demands were not met by then. Alongside, the unions have also called for protests by blocking trains from 10am to 4pm on October 18 and a ‘mahapanchayat’ (farmers meeting) in state capital Lucknow on October 26. “Planning, meetings are happening in various states to implement SKM call for action for justice in Lakhimpur Kheri farmers massacre,” the SKM also said.Meanwhile, Ashish Mishra, son of Ajay Mishra, has been remanded to judicial custody for a period of 14 days, a day after his arrest.Eight people died in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, of which four were farmers allegedly hit by a vehicle carrying BJP workers. Two BJP workers and their driver were also dead as violence erupted. While the protesting farmers claim that Ashish Mishra was present in one of the vehicles involved in the incident, Mishra and his father have both denied it saying that they possess evidence to prove otherwise.However, the farmers have said that Mishra continuing as the minister of state, particularly for home affairs, is “untenable and inconceivable"."It is clear that the MoS Home had a role to play in promoting enmity and disharmony, in criminal conspiracy and murder, as well as in harbouring offenders and trying to obstruct justice and to tamper with/conceal evidence," the SKM further said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-skm-warns-of-intensifying-protests-if-minister-ajay-mishra-not-removed-by-oct-11-101633888113425.html
10-10-2021||India||Bhupesh Baghel attacks UP CM over Priyanka Gandhi's detention, calls him a 'coward'||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Sunday came down heavily on his Uttar Pradesh counterpart Yogi Adityanath, calling him a "coward" for not letting Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra visit Lakhimpur Kheri following the violence that ensued last Sunday and keeping her in the custody, reported news agency PTI. Priyanka Gandhi was detained in Sitapur on Monday following her attempt to visit the violence-hit district in which eight people, including four farmers, were killed.Bhagel made the remarks while addressing the party’s "Kisan Nyay Rally" in Varanasi. During his address, he also slammed the BJP, claiming that the party divides people in the name of religion, which they "learnt from the British".Training guns at Adityanath, the Chhattisgarh chief minister said he had never known seers to fear anyone but CM Yogi proved to be an exception who, he said, was a “big coward”."He is such a coward that he got afraid of a woman, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, that he did not allow her to go to Lakhimpur Kheri and kept her in jail for four days. The UP chief minister will be such a big coward, I never knew this," PTI quoted Baghel as saying."When I reached Lucknow from Raipur, I was not allowed to move out of the airport. When I said that I want to go to the UP Congress office and that I want to meet Priyanka Gandhi, I was told that I cannot go out of the airport. Such a coward and frightened person, I have not seen," Baghel added.Stating that Congress has always fought for the farmers, Baghel urged people to vote for the party in the upcoming Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls. He also mentioned that unlike CM Yogi who never stayed true to his word of doubling the farmers' income, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi gave farmers in Chhattisgarh ₹2,500 per quintal for paddy, the only state to do so."The RSS and Savarkar used to act as informers of the British while on the other hand, it was Mahatma Gandhiji, who fought for the farmers. (Jawaharlal) Nehruji and Sardar Patelji also fought for the farmers," he said."They (BJP) know how to make people fight in the name of religion and this quality of divide and rule they have learnt from the British. This has been going on since the freedom struggle," he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhupesh-baghel-attacks-up-cm-over-priyanka-gandhi-s-detention-calls-him-a-coward-101633884757959.html
10-10-2021||India||IMD alerts: Monsoon withdrawal and cyclonic storms to bring heavy rain in 4 states, UTs till Oct 15||The withdrawal of southwest monsoon continues from the northwestern regions of India, according to the latest bulletin of the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Furthermore, a cyclonic circulation lies over the north Andaman Sea and its neighbourhood, and another one lies over the east-central Arabian Sea. Owing to these conditions, the IMD has forecasted heavy rainfall coupled with thunderstorms in as many as four states and Union territories (UTs), including Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Maharashtra, Kerala and Mahe in Puducherry.The IMD has already issued an orange alert in six districts of Kerala, including Idukki, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam, and Ernakulam. A yellow alert has been sounded in four districts – Thiruvananthapuram, Malappuram, Palakkad, and Kozhikode. These districts have been put on alert till October 13 due to the possibility of heavy rainfall caused by two low depressions in the Bay of Bengal.The latest IMD bulletin said that conditions are favourable for further withdrawal of southwest monsoon from some parts of Chhattisgarh, Gujarat; some parts of Maharashtra, Odisha and West Bengal, and most parts of Madhya Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand over the next two days.Meanwhile, the cyclonic storm over the Andaman Sea is expected to trigger the formation of a low-pressure area over the same region in the next 36 hours. “It is likely to become more marked and move west northwestwards towards south Odisha-north Andhra Pradesh coasts during subsequent four to five days,” the IMD stated in its bulletin.Additionally, the cyclonic storm that lies over the Arabian Sea is “very likely to persist during the next three to four days.”Under the above influences, here are key IMD alerts for four states and UTs till October 15:1.     Due to the cyclonic storm over the Andaman Sea, light to moderate rainfall at most places with isolated thunderstorms and heavy to very heavy falls are likely over Andaman and Nicobar Islands till October 15.2. southern peninsular India is expected to receive fairly widespread to widespread, light to moderate rainfall with isolated heavy downpours till October 15. The IMD has forecasted the same weather for Maharashtra till October 13.3.     According to the IMD bulletin updates, isolated very heavy rainfall is very likely over Kerala and Mahe in Puducherry between October 12 and 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-withdrawal-cyclonic-storms-to-bring-heavy-rain-in-4-states-uts-imd-101633886969737.html
10-10-2021||India||In Kerala snake bite murder case, verdict to be delivered on Monday||The district magistrate court in Kollam (south Kerala) will deliver its verdict in the sensational snake bite murder case on Monday in which a 25-year-old woman was allegedly killed by her husband who put a cobra in her room and forced it to bite her while she was sleeping. The macabre incident which triggered outrage and indignation took place on May 7, 2020 and the trial was completed in record time. The prosecution has sought death sentence for the main accused P Sooraj, the victim’s husband, saying it was a well-planned and executed murder. The victim’s parents also said they want maximum punishment for the accused. The victim, Uthra, got the fatal bite in her home while she was undergoing treatment for another snake bite that she suffered a couple of months ago. During the probe, the special investigation team (SIT) found that he had procured enough training from a local snake handler, who provided him with a cobra. He became overconfident after nobody suspected any foul play during his alleged first attempt in which he used a viper. The case surfaced after the woman’s parents filed a police complaint a couple of days after her death, alleging that Sooraj and his family members harassed their daughter for dowry. The couple had been married for two years and has a son. After the parents filed a complaint, Sooraj filed a counter-complaint against Uthra’s brother saying he wanted to usurp her father’s property. Her married brother was staying separately and he had some property dispute with the father and Sooraj used this to mislead investigators, the SIT found. During investigation the SIT found that he bought a fully-grown black cobra from a snake handler Suresh, who turned an approver later, after paying ₹10,000 and took it to Uthra’s house in Anchal where she was staying after the first bite. The SIT said on May 6 night after she fell asleep he allegedly took out the snake from the bottle and threw it on her and provoked it and it bit her twice. Sooraj reportedly told the police that since she was under heavy medication for the first bite she failed to get up. He kept awake all night to ensure that it did not bite him and went out as usual in the morning. Though she was rushed to a nearby hospital doctors said she died of snake bite. During investigation the SIT found that he was planning to marry again after eliminating his first wife. His parents were also charged with dowry harassment, destruction of evidence and other charges. Though there are no direct witnesses the SIT had managed several scientific evidences including autopsy of the dead cobra. It later reconstructed the murder scene using a dummy experiment. The dummy video submitted in the court is expected to play a crucial role in the case_ the video shows the cobra trying to bite the dummy of the woman lying on the bed after it was provoked by the handler. Sooraj was charged with murder while his parents and sister are accused of domestic violence and abetment to the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-kerala-snake-bite-murder-case-verdict-to-be-delivered-on-monday-101633884899781.html
10-10-2021||India||New travel rules in UK from October 11. What changes for Indians?||The United Kingdom is easing its travel restrictions starting from October 11 allowing travellers from more countries to enter the UK. Indians were already allowed to travel to the UK but what changes from October 11 is that those who are vaccinated with both doses of Covishield will not require to undergo 10-day mandatory quarantine in the UK.Here is all you need to know:If you are fully vaccinated then before travelling to the UK, you will have to book and pay for a day 2 Covid-19 test which is to be taken after your arrival. The passengers will also have to complete a passenger locator form 48 hours before arriving in England.You will be considered fully vaccinated if you had taken the second dose of the vaccine at least 14 days before you arrive in Englan. The day you had your final dose does not count as one of the 14 days, the government advisory said.The UK government has accepted Covishield and India's vaccine certificate. "India will be added to this list of countries and territories with approved proof of vaccination 4am Monday 11 October. If you arrive in England before that date you must follow the rules for people who are not fully vaccinated. If you arrive after that, you can use a vaccine certificate to prove your vaccination status," the UK advisory said.Only 7 countries on UK red list nowIn the latest revision of the travel rules, UK now has only seven countries on the red list which means people from these countries can't travel to the UK. Panama, Colombia, Venezuela, Peru, Ecuador, Haiti and the Dominican Republic remain on the red list.Apart from India, vaccinated travellers from Brazil, Hong Kong, Pakistan, South Africa and Turkey will be treated the same as returning fully-vaccinated UK residents so long as they have not visited a red-list country in the 10 days before arriving in England, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-travel-rules-in-uk-from-october-11-what-changes-for-indians-101633884218398.html
10-10-2021||India||20 arrested in cruise rave party case. What does this mean for Aryan Khan?||Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan was arrested on October 3 by the Narcotics Control Bureau after it raided a rave party on a Goa-bound cruise. In the last seven days, the number of arrested has gone up to 20 with the agency arresting a Nigerian national on Sunday. This is the second foreign national arrested in connection with the case.Here is how the arrests are connected to Aryan Khan> Shivraj Ramdas Harijan, who was arrested by the NCB, has been sent to NCB custody on Sunday. The agency claimed to have recovered 62 gram of charas. The agency said he is Arbaaz Merchant's supplier and part of the charas supply chain.> The NCB has already arrested Achit Kumar who was named by both Aryan Khan and Arbaaz Merchant.> The agency said it is making effort to explore the foreign linkages in the case on the basis of interrogation of all accused persons.No drugs found on Aryan Khan; what are the accusations against him?> Sameer Wankhede earlier said that the agency has a strong case and they will make an attempt that the case will go to a logical conclusion.> Bollywood producer Imtiyaz Khatri has been questioned by the NCB. Shah Rukh Khan's driver has also been interrogated by the agency for hours. Reports said that NCB found that Shah Rukh Khan's driver Rajesh Mishra is not involved in arranging drugs for Aryan Khan.The NCB has so far opposed Aryan Khan's bail saying that the agency is probing into the case and as Aryan Khan is an influential person, he might tamper with the evidence. At present, Aryan is in judicial custody and his lawyer Satish Maneshinde has approached a Sessions court for his bail plea which the agency will oppose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/20-arrested-in-cruise-rave-party-case-what-does-this-mean-for-aryan-khan-101633881863729.html
10-10-2021||India||NIA raids on TRF in Jammu and Kashmir amid spate of civilian killings||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Sunday carried out raids at multiple locations in Jammu and Kashmir and arrested two operatives of The Resistance Front (TRF) in connection with its larger conspiracy probe against the outfit, people familiar with the development said. Among the residences searched, are that of Sajjad Gul, who is the Commander of TRF in the valley. TRF was created by the Pakistan army and the ISI in response to India’s abrogation of Article 370 in 2019 that gave somewhat special status to Jammu and Kashmir. Indian agencies claim that the outfit is nothing but an offshoot of LeT. The outfit has claimed responsibility of the recent attacks on civilians in the valley. Investigators have stated that the TRF is also behind the June 27 recovery of an Improvised Explosive Device (IED) weighing 5.5 kg, which was dropped using a drone in Jammu on June 27 in Bathindi (Jammu) as well as twin-drone based attacks at the Air Force Station in Satwari on the same day. The places raided on Sunday are located in Kulgam, Srinagar and Baramulla districts. Two TRF operatives arrested by the probe agency have been identified as Tawseef Ahmed Wani, a resident of Baramulla and Faiz Ahmed Khan, a resident of Anantnag. “Investigation has revealed that Pakistan-based handlers of proscribed terror outfit LeT and their associates based in J&K had conspired to cause extensive terror activities for harming the public. They had planned that responsibility for the terrorist acts so committed would be taken by the pseudo-acronym TRF so as to maintain plausible deniability and evade Law Enforcement Agencies. During the searches conducted today many digital devices including mobiles, pen drives, data storage devices and other incriminating materials have been recovered,” the NIA said in a statement. A senior counter terrorism official said Pakistan-based terror outfits are trying to create tension in the valley using their operatives. The Union home minister, during a meeting with senior security officials on Friday, has directed hard action to be taken on all the elements including terrorists, overground workers (OGWs) and sympathizers for the killings of civilians. According to Jammu and Kashmir police data, a total of 28 civilians have been killed by terrorists in the Valley this year out of which seven have been killed since Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-raids-on-trf-in-jammu-and-kashmir-amid-spate-of-civilian-killings-101633881359787.html
10-10-2021||India||Nearly 500 detained over civilian killings in Kashmir||Nearly 500 people have been detained in Jammu and Kashmir by security forces who are investigating the spate of killings by terrorists, AFP quoted an official as saying on Sunday. The development follows the killing of seven civilians from Kashmiri Pandit, Sikh and Muslim communities over the past few days.Refusing to be named, a senior police officer told AFP that those detained are suspected to have links with terrorist groups.Another report by NDTV on the matter stated that many of those detained are suspected to have links with the banned Jamaat-e-Islami group or are people on a list of suspected overground workers (OGW)."No stone will be left unturned to find the killers," an officer told AFP.A top anti-terrorism intelligence officer sent by New Delhi is heading the probe. The National Investigation Agency today summoned 40 schoolteachers in the main city of Srinagar for questioning on Sunday, officials told AFP.The killings have triggered outrage from opposition leaders who have blamed the administration for not being able to curb such attacks.A total of 29 civilians have been shot dead in Kashmir so far this year, AFP quoted authorities as saying.Recently, two teachers from the minority Sikh and Hindu communities were shot dead by gunmen at a government-run school in Srinagar on Thursday.Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) backed new Kashmiri terror group 'The Resistance Front (TRF)' is suspected as the prime terror outfit behind targeted killings in Jammu and Kashmir.The Centre held a high-level meeting chaired by Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday at his North Block office.Meanwhile, General Officer Commanding of Chinar Corps Lieutenant General DP Pandey on Sunday condemned the killings in the territory, stating that some elements are trying to divide the society on communal lines. He further said that such elements are jealous of the positive developments that have taken place in the country and the union territory over the last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-500-detained-over-civilian-killings-in-kashmir-101633875828803.html
10-10-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: October 11, 2014 — Peace Nobel united India, Pak: Kailash Satyarthi shares prize with Malala Yousafzai||letters@hindustantimes.comNEW DELHI: Child rights activists Kailash Satyarthi of India and Malala Yousafzai of Pakistan won the Nobel Peace Prize on Friday (October 10), a rare sharing of an honourbetween the nuclear-armed nations locked in their worst border conflict in a decade.Little known in his own country, Satyarthi has been heading a more than three-decade-long campaign for child rights, pushing for their education and fighting against child trafficking and bonded labour.Yousafzai, aged 17, is a schoolgirl and education campaigner who was shot in the head by the Taliban two years ago for advocating girls’ right to education.“The Nobel Committee regards it as an important point for a Hindu and a Muslim, an Indian and a Pakistani, to join in a common struggle for education and against extremism,” said Thorbjoern Jagland, the head of the Norwegian Nobel Committee.The Nobel jury said the prize was going to the two for their struggle against the suppression of children and young people and for the right of all children to education.Satyarthi dedicated the Nobel Peace Prize to children in slavery, pledging to join hands with fellow laureate Yousafzai.“I am thankful to the Nobel Committee for recognising the plight of millions of children who are suffering in this modern age. It is a huge honour for me,” said the 60-year-old activist, the second Indian to win a Nobel Peace Prize after Mother Teresa.Satyarthi said he spoke with Malala after the announcement and now hoped to work with her for peace.“Children should be born and grow in peace ... I will definitely invite Malala to come and work with me,” he said at his office after the announcement. “The fact that the prize has been given to an Indian and a Pakistani is a big statement from the Nobel Committee and this statement has to be read not only by the government but the public too.”Malala, who was in school when the Nobel was announced, urged the Indian and Pakistani prime ministers to attend the prize ceremony. “I want India and Pakistan to talk about peace and focus on education and development … I request Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif to join us when we receive the Nobel Peace Prize,” she said in Birmingham, England, where she is now based.“I’m feeling honoured that I’m being chosen as a Nobel laureate. I’m proud that I’m the first Pakistani and the first young woman, or the first young person, who is getting this award,” she said. “The award is not for me but for every child in the world. This is not the end of the campaign I started, but the beginning. I want to see every child in the world go to school. I want every child to stand up for their rights, to receive quality education, not to suffer child labour, child trafficking.”After the announcement in Oslo, joyous celebrations broke out at Satyarthi’s Bachpan Bachao Andolan office in Kalkaji as friends and family distributed sweets and activists hugged each other.Modi congratulated Satyarthi on winning the Peace Nobel. “Shri Kailash Satyarthi has devoted his life to a cause that is extremely relevant to entire humankind. I salute his determined efforts,” he tweeted.The New Delhi - based Bachpan Bachao Andolan has been at the forefront of the fight against child labour, creating domestic and international consumer resistance to products made by bonded children as well as with direct legal and advocacy work.Satyarthi, an electrical engineer by training, has rescued some 80,000 children sold to pay their parents’ debts and helped them find new lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-october-11-2014-peace-nobel-united-india-pak-kailash-satyarthi-shares-prize-with-malala-yousafzai-101633879208603.html
10-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: India to resume 2018 visa exemption agreement with Maldives from Oct 15 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India resumes 2018 visa exemption agreement with MaldivesIndia has agreed to resume the 2018 visa exemption agreement with Maldives from October 15. Read More5th Covid-19 vaccine camp underway in Tamil Nadu as state aims to achieve 70% first dose inoculation by OctoberThe fifth mega Covid-19 vaccination camp in Tamil Nadu began on Sunday with around 30,000 such camps set up across the state to vaccinate eligible beneficiaries against Covid-19. Read MoreIndia, China hold 13th round of talks to ease LAC tensionsThe Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) on Sunday held talks to resolve problems at frictions points on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. Read More'He doesn't captain. Only looks at the video analyst': Gambhir rates Kohli, Morgan, Dhoni, Pant; names his No. 1 skipperMS Dhoni, Virat Kohli, Eoin Morgan and Rishabh Pant have been instrumental in leading their respective teams into the IPL 2021 Playoffs. Read MoreAli Fazal, Anjana Sukhani support Shah Rukh Khan amid Byju’s row: ‘Don’t underestimate power of his fans’ love’Shah Rukh Khan got support from several celebrities, including Ali Fazal, Anjana Sukhani and Nakuul Mehta, after it was reported that ed-tech company Byju’s stopped all advertisements featuring him amid the ongoing investigation against his son Aryan Khan in a drugs case. Read MoreWorld Mental Health Day: Pandemic-induced panic attacks, OCD on rise, says psychiatristPandemic-induced anxiety disorders such as panic attacks, phobias and OCD are on rise among people amid the fear of a third wave, re-opening of schools and work from home situation where all family members are operating from a single place. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-india-to-resume-2018-visa-exemption-agreement-with-maldives-from-oct-15-and-all-the-latest-news-101633878288169.html
10-10-2021||India||5th Covid-19 vaccine camp underway in Tamil Nadu as state aims to achieve 70% first dose inoculation by October||The fifth mega Covid-19 vaccination camp in Tamil Nadu began on Sunday with around 30,000 such camps set up across the state to vaccinate eligible beneficiaries against Covid-19. Four such mega camps have been conducted so far in the state on Sundays previously on September 12, 19 and 26 and on October 3. The mega vaccination camps have been part of the state’s strategy to increase Covid-19 vaccinations and also create awareness among the people about the immunisation drive.J Radhakrishnan, the state health secretary, said that almost 65% of the eligible population in the state has received the first dose while 22% of the state’s population has been fully immunised against the disease, news agency ANI reported on Sunday."Already 65% people have taken the first dose. We are low on the second dose. Almost 26 lakh people are due for the second dose. So, this type of drive allows them to come and ensure that they get their second dose," ANI quoted Radhakrishnan as saying.Further, Radhakrishnan also said that the camps are being conducted to not only vaccinate the people but also to create awareness about the drive. “We are trying to spread the message that those who are vaccinated are safe. Those who are due should come. So, it is not a forcing approach but a convincing one,” he said.“Before we started this mega camp we were at 46%; now we are [at] 65% first dose [coverage] after four such camps. This is only the scientific way forward to protect ourselves,” he added.Briefing on the vaccine availability in the state, the health secretary said that there were 47 lakh vaccine doses currently and another six lakh doses would be received on the day and so the availability of vaccines was not an issue.Meanwhile, the fifth mega camp is the highest yet in the state, in terms of the number of camps, with 30,000 such facilities set up, state health minister Ma Subramanian had said earlier this month. “Currently we have about 24 lakh vaccine doses in stock and expect another nine lakh to be sent from the Centre, totaling 33 lakh. By Saturday evening we expect to have 25 lakh vaccines to conduct the fifth Mega Vaccination Camp,” news agency PTI quoted him as saying on October 5. The minister also said that the state government aims to inoculate at least 70% of the population with one dose by the end of October, which he called was a safe standard prescribed by the World Health Organization (WHO).(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5th-covid-19-vaccine-camp-underway-in-tamil-nadu-as-state-aims-to-achieve-70-first-dose-inoculation-by-october-101633877361262.html
10-10-2021||India||'Will speak openly for people of Jammu openly': Surjit Singh Slathia on resigning from National Conference||Surjit Singh Slathia who resigned from the National Conference (NC) on Sunday said his resignation would let him speak for the people of Jammu openly and he took this step because being in the party “did not feel right anymore”.Hours after submitting his resignation to party supremo Farooq Abdullah, Slathia said he had no “problem with the party or its leadership”. The former NC leader also said that he could continue to “serve people even outside the party”.Slathia along with party colleague Devendra Rana announced their decision to quit the Jammu and Kashmir-based NC on Sunday. Rana, who has served as the party’s provincial president of Jammu, told reporters outside his residence that he and Slathia had “resigned from the basic membership of the National Conference”.Slathia and Rana, who had won from the Nagrota and Vijaypur constituencies, respectively, are expected to join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday in the presence of general secretary, Arun Singh, MP Jugal Kishore, J&K chief Ravinder Raina and Union minister Jitendra Singh."Dr Farooq Abdullah has received & accepted the resignations of Mr Salathia & Mr Rana. No further action or comment is deemed necessary," a National Conference spokesman tweeted earlier in the day.Rana also said quitting the NC will help him work for the people of Jammu by helping them realise their aspirations, adding his political philosophy going forward would be based on the Jammu declaration.The two leaders' exit came after a spate of civilian killings that rocked the valley in recent days. As many as eight civilians have lost their lives since last Sunday. The Resistance Front, an offshoot of the Lashkar-e-Taiba, has claimed responsibility for five of these deaths.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-speak-openly-for-people-of-jammu-surjit-singh-slathia-on-nc-resignation-101633877423670.html
10-10-2021||India||What does SAS tell us about India’s animal farms?||Have tractors finally replaced bullock carts and private dairies the milk-animal in the Indian farmer’s house? Vigilante groups (“gau rakshaks”) claiming to be protecting cows have been making news (for the wrong reasons) in the past few years in India. But how many “gau palaks” — those who keep cows at home — are there in India? How big are animal farms and animal farming in the business of farming in India?HT has analysed unit-level data from the latest Situation Assessment of Agricultural Households and Land and Livestock Holdings of Households in Rural India (SAS) to answer some of these questions. The SAS was conducted in the calendar year 2019 and gives data for the July 2018-June 2019 period on animal farming.A Rajasthan farmer is about thrice as likely to have an animal as his Telangana counterpart The SAS only looks at households which meet the criterion set for agricultural households. This requires at least one member to be self-employed in agriculture and an output in specified agricultural activities of ₹4,000 (in 2018-19) in the past 365 days. Just as not all farmers are counted as agricultural households, not all agricultural households which have an animal at home – this excludes pets – qualify for the animal farming household (AFH) category in the SAS. Only those agricultural households are considered in AFH category that received some value of output – such as milk, wool, live animals, or even manure -- from animal farming. An estimated 60.2 million out of the total 92.5 million agricultural households or 65% qualify for the AFH category in the entire July 2018-June 2019 period. Data on ownership of animals was, however, only collected when data on agricultural households was being collected with reference to July-December 2018. During this period, 58% households were engaged in animal farming, but 71% owned some kind of livestock (excluding pets). However, there are significant state-wise differences in whether or not an agricultural household qualifies for the AFH category. Among major states, the share of AFHs among agricultural households was 90% in Rajasthan. This number was just 34% in Telangana. Cows and hens, not buffaloes and goats What are the most common animals in India’s animal farms? 45% of India’s agricultural households own cattle, 27% own buffaloes and 14% have poultry birds. Ovine and other mammals (sheep, goat, pig, rabbits, etc) are owned by only 19% of agricultural households. In terms of estimated numbers, cattle and poultry birds outnumber other animals. An average agricultural household owned 1.35 cattle and 1.34 poultry birds compared to 0.90 ovine and other mammals and 0.71 buffaloes. Nearly a third of Other Backward Classes (OBC) agricultural households (32%) own buffaloes, much higher than the 15%, 23% and 32% share for Scheduled Tribe (ST), Scheduled Caste (SC) and agricultural households not belonging to SC, ST or OBC groups. The share of agricultural households owning buffaloes is 2.3 times the share owning cattle in Haryana. Poultry ownership is nil in Haryana compared to 60% in Assam. Size of land-ownership is an important factor in deciding cattle and buffalo ownership though not in case of poultry. Is there a problem of stray cattle in Indian villages? Anecdotal accounts suggest that it is a huge problem. Does the SAS offer any clues on this question? Deductive reasoning suggests that it does. 73% of cattle and 85% of buffaloes owned by agricultural households are female. This means that cattle and buffaloes are largely kept as milk animals and not for working on farms. Such a skewed gender ratio is unlikely to be the result of natural causes. This leaves disposal – either by selling or abandoning -- of male cattle and buffaloes by agricultural households. The SAS shows there is a compelling economic case for doing so. Animal ownership, especially cattle and buffalo ownership, is strongly correlated with land ownership. Intuitively, this makes sense. Animals, like humans, need space to live. Also, cattle feed entails a financial burden. It was 84.4% of a typical AFH’s total expenditure on animal farming in 2018-19. To be sure, not all female cattle and buffalo generates income for the AFH. The SAS found that only 27% of cattle and 37% of buffaloes were giving milk at the time of the survey. Even among female cattle and buffaloes, this figure was 37% and 43%, respectively. This is bound to hurt the net income of such a household. The ownership of in-milk female cattle among OBC and non-SC-ST-OBC households was more than twice that of SC households. Animal farmers are more likely to use poultry than milk for self-consumption Commercial farming is not the driving force behind India’s animal farmers or AFHs. 49% of the value of total value of output is consumed by the household itself. To be sure, the SAS definition of own consumption includes retention for future sale or for use as animal ‘seed’. Also, share of animal output used for self-consumption varies significantly across products. It is around 45% in the case of cattle and buffalo milk, 60% case of poultry, but just 9.9% for fish and nil for live sheep or goat. The regional divide in India’s dairy economy In Gujarat, the home of Amul, which pioneered the cooperative revolution in India’s dairy economy, 64% of the milk produced by AFHs is sold to cooperatives. Gujarat is not the only state where cooperatives have a strong presence in the dairy sector. In Kerala and Karnataka too, around 50% milk is sold to cooperatives. Then there are states such as Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra, where private processors buy more than 40% of the total milk produced. At the other extreme are states like Himachal Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, and Jharkhand, where neither cooperatives nor private businesses have a strong footprint in the milk economy and 3/4th or more of milk production is consumed within the household.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-does-sas-tell-us-about-india-s-animal-farms-101633876739810.html
10-10-2021||India||Army says viral video showing its jawans protesting with farmers is ‘fake news’||Amid the farmers' protest that has been underway for over 10 months, a video has been circulating on social media, showing Indian Army soldiers siding with the protesters. Now, an army official has told news agency ANI that the video is “fake news.”“A video is circulating on social media showing Indian Army jawans standing with civilians under a tent saying that Punjab regiment soldiers are protesting with some farmers. This is fake news,” the official was quoted as saying.According to ANI, the Army officials also state that former servicemen of the unit had “arranged for tea for the serving personnel” while they were shifting from one location to another.Farmers have been protesting against the three farm laws passed by the Centre since November 26, 2020. Several rounds of talks between the farmer unions and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led central government have taken place with no solution to end the stalemate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-says-viral-video-showing-its-jawans-protesting-with-farmers-is-fake-news-101633876162877.html
10-10-2021||India||Minister makes 1st call over BSNL 4G network, says 'Modiji's vision taking shape'||Communications minister Ashwini Vaishnaw on Sunday made the first call over the Indian 4G network of BSNL and took to Twitter expressing happiness that Prime Minister Narendra Modi's vision of Aatmanirbhar Bharat is taking shape.BSNL 4G is live in many areas in India and the company is now offering free 4G SIM to its customers till December 31. This is India's first indigenous 4G network, though its rollout was not smooth. Reports said Tata Consultancy Services may emerge as a partner aiding the later phases of the rollout.BSNL has been working on the 4G network with the help of Indian technology for quite some time. In January this year, BSNL floated the Expression of Interest for proof of concept from Indian Companies interested in participating in BSNL's upcoming 4G tender. In July, the letter of intent was issued to five eligible bidders, according to department information. Made first call over Indian 4G network of BSNL (Designed and Made in India). PM @narendramodi Ji’s vision of Aatmanirbhar Bharat taking shape.Communications minister Ashwini Vaishnaw on Sunday made the first call over the Indian 4G network of BSNL and took to Twitter expressing happiness that Prime Minister Narendra Modi's vision of Aatmanirbhar Bharat is taking shape.BSNL 4G is live in many areas in India and the company is now offering free 4G SIM to its customers till December 31.BSNL has been working on the 4G network with the help of Indian technology for quite some time. In January this year, BSNL floated the Expression of Interest for proof of concept from Indian Companies interested in participating in BSNL's upcoming 4G tender. In July, the letter of intent was issued to five eligible bidders, according to department information.|#+|The government has made a budgetary allocation of ₹24,084 crore for spectrum for 4G services in the financial year 2021-22. The allocation is part of the ₹69,000 crore revival package of BSNL and MTNL.While BSNL is expanding its 4G network with a target of this financial year, the telecom department has asked its R&D organisation C-DoT to start working on 6G technology. Telecom secretary K Rajaraman has asked state-owned telecom research and development organisation C-DoT to start working on 6G and other futuristic technologies in order to catch up with the global market in time, a statement said on Sunday. Samsung, Huawei, LG and some other companies have started working on 6G technologies which are said to be 50 times faster than 5G and are expected to be commercially launched between 2028-2030.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minister-makes-1st-call-over-bsnl-4g-network-says-modiji-s-vision-taking-shape-101633874742843.html
10-10-2021||India||The Week Ahead: Dubai showdown for IPL crown; WHO to decide on Covaxin’s emergency use approval||I am still recovering from that Goa-to-Gold Coast delivery by Indian bowler Shikha Pandey that clean bowled Australian batter Alyssa Healy at Carrara on October 9 during a T20I series. You can watch it here at Cricket Australia’s official Twitter account where, surprisingly, it got less than 40,000 views. But at cricket journalist Annesha Ghosh’s account (who also coined the Goa-to-Gold Coast phrase), it received more than 1.5 million views. This monster of an in-swinger, now being described by many experts as the Ball of the Century in women’s cricket, deserves to be seen in a non-stop loop, it’s that beautiful. The Indian team fought valiantly that day, but Australia is the team to beat in women’s cricket. It is more dominant than Steve Waugh’s and Ricky Ponting’s teams were in the men’s version. Here, too, it is quite often India that dented Australian dominance. Which brings us to this year’s Indian Premier League (IPL). It may not have reached the exalted heights of its 2020 edition, but it certainly is one of the most exciting sporting leagues in the world. This Friday, the 2021 final will be played at the Dubai International Stadium. We don’t know the finalists yet, but Mumbai Indians, which has won more IPL trophies than any other team and the champion in both 2019 and 2020, has not even made it to the playoffs this year. This alone makes for an exciting playoff schedule. There are hearts beating in the Indian pharmaceutical firmament as well. The decision on whether to grant emergency use listing to Bharat Biotech’s vaccine against coronavirus disease will be taken by WHO (World Health Organisation) this week. The experts from WHO, and a group of independent experts, are going through the data currently, and are expected to carry out the risk-benefit assessment this week. Once EUL is granted, Covaxin will be eligible for use in low- and middle-income countries under the COVAX facility. It will also bring huge relief to Indian travellers as some countries might recognise Covaxin and allow Indians vaccinated with it to travel, a significant step in our journey to pre-Covid normalcy. What Indians are also looking forward to this week is the Consumer Price Index (CPI) for the month of September and Index of Industrial Production (IIP) for the month of August. Both will be released on October 12. The Wholesale Price Index (WPI) for September will be released on October 14.To be sure, CPI inflation had moderated further from 5.6% in July to 5.3% in August, a four-month low. It had stayed above the upper limit of Reserve Bank of India’s tolerance zone of 2%-6% in May and June. This decrease in inflation is because of food prices, which grew at 5.15% in June, but decreased to 3.96% in July and 3.11% in August. Food has 39% weight in CPI. Non-food inflation increased from 6.7% in July to 6.8% in August.Meanwhile, IIP grew at 11.45% year-on-year in July, but this has to be read with the fact that factories were affected by the lockdown imposed to curb Covid-19 in 2020. IIP was 131.8 in July 2019, but decreased to 117.9 in July 2020. It was 131.4 in July 2021. Unlike retail inflation, WPI inflation did not show a decline in August. August was the fifth consecutive month of double-digit WPI inflation. The 11.4% inflation in August was also slightly higher than the July inflation of 11.2%, although lower than the 13.1% and 12.1% inflation in May and June. These numbers could have an impact on the stock indices, that have moved either sideways or downward this past week, with the BSE closing above the psychological 60,000 mark on Friday. There are a host of company results to be announced this week and the next, and the indices could see significant action. Internationally, the situation in Afghanistan will continue to remain in focus as external affairs minister S Jaishankar makes an official visit to Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan and Armenia during October 10-13. The Central Asian states have been keeping a wary eye on the security situation in Afghanistan and the issue is expected to figure in Jaishankar’s meetings. Minister of state for external affairs Meenakashi Lekhi will visit Serbia during October 10-13 as the special envoy of the prime minister to attend a commemorative meeting marking the 60th anniversary of the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM). In domestic politics, we have the results of the two-phase local body elections held in nine newly carved districts in Tamil Nadu on October 12. Expelled leader V K Sasikala will be visiting J Jayalalithaa’s memorial on October 16, a day ahead of when the AIADMK celebrates its golden jubilee year. In Assam, Congress leaders and cadres will take part in a three-hour ‘maun vrat’ (vow of silence) on October 11 demanding the sacking of union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni. This is part of the party’s nationwide programme that day. In Kerala, a local court will give its verdict on one of the most intriguing cases of our times – the snake bite murder case – on Monday. A woman was bitten by a cobra let loose by her husband and killed. Her husband and a local snake handler are main accused. For background, read here and here. In Karnataka, chief minister Basavaraj Bommai is expected to take a decision on naming district in-charge ministers and help calm soaring tempers in an increasingly tense cabinet. He is expected to find a balance and name a minister in-charge for Bengaluru or decide to retain the post himself like his predecessor, BS Yediyurappa. The bypoll campaign is gathering momentum as all three parties slug it out to secure victories in Hanagal and Sindgi. This is also the first test for chief minister Bommai after he took over the top chair.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-week-ahead-dubai-showdown-for-ipl-crown-who-to-decide-on-covaxin-s-emergency-use-approval-101633873501182.html
10-10-2021||India||Need to strengthen Jammu declaration, changing path: NC turncoat Devender Singh Rana||Devender Singh Rana, who resigned from primary membership of the National Conference on Sunday, said there was a need for strengthening of the Jammu declaration.Hours after quitting as the provincial president of the NC, Rana said the declaration will become a voice for Jammu and Kashmir and strengthen the Union territory and the country.“For this, I have changed my political path,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI in Delhi. Rana is scheduled to join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at its headquarters in the national capital on Monday.I believe there is a need for strengthening of Jammu declaration. It'll become a voice for Jammu & Kashmir & strengthen UT & country. For this, I have changed my political path:Devender Singh Rana in Delhi, who resigned from primary membership of National Conference earlier today pic.twitter.com/WYSST2g8iMThe businessman-turned-politician is switching over along with Surjeet Singh Slathia, who too sent his resignation to NC president Farooq Abdullah earlier in the day.Also read | Speculations rife over Devender Singh Rana quitting National ConferenceThe NC said both the resignations had been accepted. "Dr Farooq Abdullah has received and accepted the resignations of Salathia and Mr Rana. No further action or comment is deemed necessary," the party wrote on its official Twitter handle.Only days ago, Rana had said he was still with the NC after a meeting with Abdullah and his son, also NC vice president Omar Abdullah, at their Gupkar residence.Rana is the younger brother of minister of state (independent charge) for the ministry of science and technology Jitendra Singh. In 2014, Rana and Slathia had won from the Nagrota and Vijaypur constituencies, respectively.The two turncoats will be joining the saffron camp in the presence of BJP’s general secretary, Arun Singh, MP Jugal Kishore, J&K chief Ravinder Raina and Jitendra Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-to-strengthen-jammu-declaration-changing-path-devender-singh-rana-101633872264123.html
10-10-2021||India||Orange alert in six Kerala districts as IMD forecasts heavy rainfall||Six districts in Kerala have been put on orange alert till October 13 in view of impending heavy rain triggered by two low depressions in the Bay of Bengal, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The IMD said these districts will witness a heavy spell of rain between Monday and Wednesday. An orange alert has been sounded in Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Idukki and Ernakulam districts. A yellow alert was issued in four other districts, Thiruvananthapuram, Kozhikode, Malappuram and Palakkad. Those who live in low-lying areas, in the vicinity of rivers and hilly areas prone to landslips have been put on high alert. The alert-bound district administrations have been asked to open relief camps if the rain persists and control rooms will be opened in all district headquarters. Fishermen have also been advised not to venture into the sea due to the possibility of strong winds with a speed of 50 km per hour. Usually the IMD sounds a red alert if the rainfall is expected to be more than 20 cm and above in 24 hours and an orange alert if it is between 11 and 20 cm. The state has already crossed the 2000 mm rainfall mark during the current south-west monsoon season. This is the fourth consecutive year the state is surpassing the usual quota of (2000 mm) of rain, IMD data showed. In 2018, the state had witnessed the flood of the century which claimed more than 500 lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/orange-alert-in-six-kerala-districts-as-imd-forecasts-heavy-rainfall-101633872118871.html
10-10-2021||India||India resumes 2018 visa exemption agreement with Maldives||India has agreed to resume the 2018 visa exemption agreement with Maldives from October 15. The agreement was temporarily suspended due to coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Maldivian foreign minister Abdulla Shahid tweeted on Sunday."Delighted that India has agreed to resume the 2018 Dec Visa Exemption Agreement between the Maldives and India, which was temporarily suspended due to COVID-19 border closure,” Shahid wrote on the microblogging platform.“From 15 Oct 2021, Maldivian Nationals will be exempt from visa requirements for tourists, medical and business purposes," he added. In a subsequent tweet he also thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and external affairs minister S Jaishankar for considering the Maldivian government’s request to resume the agreement.This move comes as India is gearing up to open up for tourists from October 15 after being closed for a year. The domestic tourism industry has been disproportionately hit by the two waves of the Covid-19 pandemic. The sector accounted for about 10 percent of the Indian economy in pre-pandemic years. Maldives on the other hand has remained open for tourists since July 2020.The 2018 visa exemption agreement eases travel for Maldivian nationals to visit India for tourism, business, education, and medical purposes and it also grants Indian employees work permits within 15 days of their arrival and eases visa rules, allowing their visa fees to be paid for by their employers. The agreement was signed in December of 2018 during the visit of Maldives President Ibu Solih.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-resumes-2018-visa-exemption-agreement-with-maldives-101633871017630.html
10-10-2021||India||Ahmedabad civic body announces free edible oil, lucky draw with gifts worth ₹10,000 to boost Covid-19 vaccination||The Ahmedabad civic body has offered a litre of edible oil and participation in a lucky draw for beneficiaries who take the Covid-19 vaccine as part of its efforts to create awareness about the Covid-19 inoculation drive. It also announced additional gifts worth ₹10,000 for 25 people who would win the lucky draw.Dr Rajnikant Hemraj, medical officer of the Amdavad Municipal Corporation (AMC), said that the gifts were announced to create awareness about vaccinations among the poor people and to achieve 100% vaccination.“We started this initiative to create awareness among slum and poor populations to get vaccinated and achieve 100% vaccination target,” news agency ANI quoted Dr Hemraj as saying. “We have also announced [a] lucky draw for those who will be vaccinated and additional gifts worth ₹10,000 each will be given to 25 people on winning the lucky draw,” he further said.Earlier on Friday, the Gujarat state government extended the Covid-19 induced night curfew in eight cities in the state, including Ahmedabad, until November 10. Other cities include Vadodara, Surat, Rajkot, Gandhinagar, Junagadh, Jamnagar and Bhavnagar.On Saturday, Gujarat reported 24 new Covid-19 cases as the state’s total confirmed infections tally reached 826,123, news agency PTI reported citing the state health department. Further the death toll climbed to 10,086 after one person lost his life to the disease on the day. Ahmedabad added five new cases to the state’s daily infection tally in the last 24 hours.As many as 64,191,194 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been administered to eligible beneficiaries in the state till 7 am on the day, according to data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare. This included 43,150,617 first doses and 21,040,577 second doses, the data also showed.Meanwhile, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Sunday tweeted that 950 million (95 crore) doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been administered in India so far. “India completes administration of 95 crore #COVID19 vaccine doses. Marching rapidly towards administering 100 crore vaccine doses,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahmedabad-civic-body-announces-free-edible-oil-lucky-draw-with-gifts-worth-rs-10-000-to-boost-covid-19-vaccination-101633869719772.html
10-10-2021||India||'Because it's a Khan?': What politicians say on Aryan Khan's arrest in drugs case||The arrest of Aryan Khan, the son of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan, has become a political issue with the Nationalist Congress party accusing the Narcotics Control Bureau of irregularities. NCP leader Nawab Malik alleged that people linked with the BJP were part of the operation. While the agency refuted all these allegations, Aryan Khan is in Arthur Road jail as his last bail plea was rejected. With more arrests being made by the NCB, the case is becoming bigger and several political leaders have commented on Aryan Khan's arrest, apart from Nawab Malik.Kirit Somaiya"I am not able to understand whether Mr Nawab Malik is a spokesperson of Thackeray-Pawar or drug cartel. Yesterday the NCB issued a clarification stating that 14 were taken into the custody of which only eight were found guilty," BJP leader Kirit Somaiya said.Nitesh RaneHow come Nawab Malik is shouting by so much ? Because it’s a KHAN!!N not a Sushant singh Rajput? Just because his name is KHAN he becomes a victim ? N because Sushant was a Hindu he becomes a drug addict??Union minister Narayan Rane's son and BJP leader Nitesh Rane has questioned Nawab Malik's involvement in the case and dug up a Hindu-Muslim angle in it. "How come Nawab Malik is shouting by so much? Because it’s a KHAN!! N not a Sushant singh Rajput? Just because his name is KHAN he becomes a victim? N because Sushant was a Hindu he becomes a drug addict??" Rane tweeted.Adhir Chowdhury
10-10-2021||India||Sasikala to visit Jayalalithaa memorial to mark AIADMK’s 50th founding day||All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s (AIADMK) former interim general secretary VK Sasikala, who has been lying low for the past few months, will visit the former chief minister J Jayalalithaa’s memorial on the Marina Beach in Chennai on October 16-- a day ahead of the golden jubilee celebration of the founding of the AIADMK-- in what is being considered a politically significant move.This will be Sasikala’s first visit to the memorial after her release from the Parappana Agrahara prison in Bengaluru where she served a four-year jail term in a disproportionate assets case. “She wasn’t able to do so before because of the previous government closing the memorial and then the pandemic continued with restrictions,” said a Sasikala aide. She is also likely to visit the residence of former chief minister M G Ramachandran (MGR) w ho founded the party in 1972 after splitting from the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) under M Karunanidhi.She had visited MGR’s residence on her way back from Bengaluru during a 24-hour road show when she sought to reclaim her position in the AIADMK which is being currently led by her former loyalists turned foes O Panneerselvam and Edappadi Palaniswami. The duo had expelled Sasikala and her nephew TTV Dhinakaran and also ordered closure of Jayalalithaa’s memorial just a few days after it was inaugurated with fanfare leading to speculation that it was done to prevent Sasikala’s entry.Before she was sent to the prison in February 2017, Sasikala stopped at Jayalalithaa’s grave, where the mausoleum has come up now, and dramatically thumped her palm to the ground taking a vow.After her release, following staunch opposition by Palaniswami , who was handpicked by Sasikala as the chief minister, Sasikala laid low, delaying her political comeback before the April 6 assembly elections. After AIADMK’s loss, she emerged again with her team releasing her recorded phone conversations with a few members of the AIADMK and a splinter faction founded by Dhinakaran, the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK).Also Read: Tamil Nadu CM Stalin distributes welfare aid, maintenance grant to differently abledIn these audio clips, Sasikala repeatedly consoles and assures cadre that she will “set the party right” and re-establish the rule of MGR and Jayalalithaa. The mouthpiece of the AMMK, Dr Namadhu MGR last week published an article that quoted Sasikala saying that, “We would have formed the government, had everyone stayed united.” AMMK was formed with Sasikala’s supporters for the sole purpose of reclaiming the AIADMK. The party, however didn’t win any seat in the assembly elections.Sasikala’s visit to Jayalalithaa’s memorial will be right after the rural local body election results, to be announced on October 12. The two-phase polls to nine newly-carved districts concluded on October 9 in which AMMK contested a few seats but the competition was chiefly between cadres of the ruling DMK and the principal opposition, AIADMK. Political analysts say that if AIADMK performs poorly then Sasikala would want to use their loss to her advantage to project herself as the only saviour of the party. “But Sasikala is a prisoner of her past,” says political commentator Raveendran Duraisamy. “Palaniswami and Panneerselvam will never give up their right over the two-leaves symbol and authority over the party. They will not admit her in the AIADMK where they were subordinates to her once. Now, she has no room in the party. She has a Herculean task of proving her strength.”Since her release Sasikala has been a threat to the AIADMK’s current leadership and Palaniswami has staunchly opposed any truck with her while Panneerselvam, who has been sidelined, was often seen softening his stance towards her.In a statement, AIADMK’s leadership has urged the party cadre to celebrate the historic golden jubilee by following Covid-19 safety norms. Starting from October 17, when it turns 50, the party plans to hold a yearlong celebration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sasikala-to-visit-jayalalithaa-memorial-to-mark-aiadmk-s-50th-founding-day-101633867138298.html
10-10-2021||India||‘No threat of power supply disruption, Coal India has stock to meet 24 days of demand’ says coal minister Pralhad Joshi||Amid the growing concerns about the shortage of coal and its effect on power supply in the country, Union minister of coal Pralhad Joshi on Sunday said that there were no threats to power supply and Coal India Ltd has “sufficient” stock with it. The minister also said that the coal dispatches would increase in the coming days because of the withdrawal of monsoon.He made the remarks in a tweet following a review meeting regarding the coal production and supply situation in the country.Joshi said that Coal India Ltd currently has 43 million tonnes (430 lakh tonnes) of coal stock which would be sufficient to meet 24 days of demand. “Assuring everyone that there is absolutely no threat of disruption in power supply. There is sufficient coal stock of 43 million tonnes with @CoalIndiaHQ (Coal India) equivalent to 24 days of coal demand,” he tweeted.Reviewed coal production & supply situation in the country.Assuring everyone that there is absolutely no threat of disruption in power supply. There is sufficient coal stock of 43 million tonnes with @CoalIndiaHQ equivalent to 24 days coal demand. pic.twitter.com/frskcJY3UmFurther, the minister also asked people to not fall for fear mongering as the supply of coal is expected to increase following the monsoon’s withdrawal.“Thermal power plants have rolling stock being replenished with daily supply. Moreover, with the withdrawal of monsoons, coal despatches are set to rise in the coming days thereby increasing coal stocks. Reiterating, there is sufficient coal stock, do not fall for fear mongering,” he said in a subsequent tweet.Earlier in the day, the Union ministry of coal said in a statement that any fear about the disruption of power supply was “entirely misplaced” and the coal stock at power plants was at 72 lakh tonnes which was sufficient to meet four days of requirement.Also read | 'Acts of irresponsible behaviour creating panic': Power minister refutes reports of coal shortageThe ministry further said that the domestic coal based power generation grew by nearly 24% this year, till September 2021, based on a robust supply from the coal companies. Also, the average daily coal requirement at the power plants was about 18.5 Lakh tonnes and the daily supply was around 17.5 lakh tonnes, the ministry added.“Due to extended monsoons the despatches were constrained. The coal available at the power plants is a rolling stock which gets replenished by the supplies from the coal companies on a daily basis. Therefore, any fear of coal stocks depleting at the power plant end is erroneous. In fact this year, domestic coal supply has substituted imports by a substantial measure,” the ministry added.Union power minister RK Singh too, on Sunday, denied any possibilities of a power crisis in the country. “In effect, neither there was, nor was there any crisis. It was created unnecessarily. I've warned Tata Power CEO of action if they send baseless SMSs to customers that can create panic. Messages by GAIL & Tata Power qualify as acts of irresponsible behaviour,” news agency ANI quoted the minister as saying after he met with the officials of power ministry, BSES and Tata Power at this residence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-threat-of-power-supply-disruption-coal-india-has-stock-to-meet-24-days-of-demand-says-union-coal-minister-pralhad-joshi-101633864009667.html
10-10-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Priyanka attacks Centre, says nobody safe in this country and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday said nobody was safe under the Narendra Modi government and this included the poor, the Dalit community and women, adding, however, billionaire friends of the regime were managing fine. Read moreThe leave application of a Madhya Pradesh engineer posted in Malwa district has gone viral on social media as he prayed to his senior for off on Sundays because he wants to go door-to-door begging on Sundays. But why? In his application, deputy engineer Rajkumar Yadav explained in detail that he wants to embark on the religious journey to erase his ego, the realisation that dawn upon him after he suddenly had a flashback of his last birth, Livehindustan reported. The story does not end here. The engineer also receives a reply from his senior who says that the journey to erase one's ego should begin by not thinking that he can spend his Sundays the way he wants. Read moreIn a milestone, Malaysia has fully vaccinated 90 per cent of its adult population, enabling the government to lift interstate and international travel restrictions that have been in place for months. Read moreFor the longest time, the Delhi Capitals were known as the perennial underachievers. The Capitals, (formerly known as Delhi Daredevils) always had a brilliant unit, but somehow their campaign never lived up to the expectations. However, the fortunes of the franchise changed in 2019, not only due to the name change but also because of the kind of performance DC dished out. Read moreActor Kangana Ranaut has reposted an Instagram post about Jackie Chan. She took to Instagram Stories to share it. The post mentioned how Jackie had publicly apologised after his son Jaycee was caught in a drugs scandal in 2014. Jaycee was arrested after police found 100 grams of marijuana in his apartment in Beijing. Read moreA Minecraft user has painstakingly built a jungle temple as well as a vast area around it including raised terrain and trees. Take a look at the impressive building created by the user shared through YouTube video. Read moreAbdul Qadeer Khan, known as ‘father of Pakistan's nuclear bomb’ passed away at 85. He died after being transferred to the KRL Hospital in Islamabad with lung problems. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-priyanka-gandhi-attacks-centre-says-nobody-safe-in-this-country-all-the-latest-news-101633862914731.html
10-10-2021||India||BSP chief Mayawati questions Congress on Dalit man’s lynching in Rajasthan||A Dalit man was allegedly lynched in Prempura area of Rajasthan’s Hanumangarh district on Thursday, triggering protests by local residents and a political slugfest between the ruling Congress and the Opposition parties. The Rajasthan Police have arrested four persons and detained one minor in the case. On Sunday, the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati asked why the Congress high command was “silent” on the suspected lynching of a Dalit man. “The lynching of a Dalit in Hanumangarh is very sad and condemnable, but why is the Congress high command silent? Will the chief ministers of Chhattisgarh and Punjab go there and give ₹50 lakh each to the victim’s family? BSP wants answers or else stop shedding crocodile tears in the name of Dalits,” she tweeted. The Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Rajya Sabha MP, Kirodi Lal Meena said the murder of a Dalit youth following “merciless beating” was a horrific example of “misgovernance” by the Congress government. “It is unfortunate that the head of the state is only trying to save his chair, while there are continuous atrocities on the poor, farmers, women, and Dalits in the state. If the accused are not arrested then I will reach Hanumangarh and bring justice to the victim’s family,” he said in a statement. Hanumangarh’s superintendent of police Preeti Jain said of the eight identified accused, four have been arrested and one has been detained as he was a minor. Efforts were being made to nab the rest, she said.The dharna staged by victims and social organisations outside the government hospital has been called off after assurance of speedy arrest of the accused involved in the act. The body of the deceased was handed over to the family and it has been cremated. According to the police, Jagdish Meghwal was thrashed by the accused on October 7 with sticks till his death. He was lynched allegedly over his relationship with a woman and the culprits shot a video of his brutal killing. Jagdish’s body was later dumped outside his residence.Earlier, Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat too hit out at the Congress-led state government for keeping “silent” on the matter while protesting against the incident of violence in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri. “Rahul ji, don’t worry about Lakhimpur where Yogi ji is in the government and not you dear Gehlot ji. Show some courage to speak about the murder of a Dalit youth in Prempura of Rajasthan so that people get to know how truthful you are?” he said in a Twitter post in Hindi. Also Read: Dalit man beaten to death in Rajasthan over love affair, 3 detainedSenior Congress leader and spokesperson Archana Sharma said Ashok Gehlot led Congress government in Rajasthan was sensitive towards all sections of the society, especially for the women, youth, and Dalits. Acting swiftly the police have arrested five accused and the rest will also be arrested soon, she said. Targeting the BJP, she said the party should introspect how the state’s law and order was during their regime. She asked the leaders of the saffron brigade to also “show concern” on the Lakhimpur Kheeri incident where 4 farmers were run over by a cavalcade allegedly led by an SUV driven by Union minister of state for home Ajay Kumar Mishra’s son, Ashish Mishra, last Sunday. The farmers lynched four persons who were travelling in the caravan in retaliation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsp-chief-mayawati-questions-congress-on-dalit-man-s-lynching-in-rajasthan-101633864918145.html
10-10-2021||India||Danish PM Mette Frederiksen visits Taj Mahal with husband, calls it ‘beautiful’||Denmark Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen and her husband Bo Tengberg visited the Taj Mahal on Sunday morning and described it as a beautiful place.Frederiksen had landed at Airforce Station in Agra around 8.30 pm on Saturday. She was received there by Uttar Pradesh Energy Minister Kant Sharma, who was accompanied by officials from the city and police administration.After the welcome, Frederiksen departed for Hotel Amar Vilas for the night stay.On Sunday morning, the Danish PM, her husband and a delegation arrived at the Taj Mahal in eco-friendly vehicles. There the guests were welcomed by local artists of the 'Braj'.Frederiksen spent one-and-a-half hours inside the Taj Mahal with her husband and took interest in the history of the monument explained by the tour guide.In the visitors' book, Frederiksen expressed thanks and said "this place is beautiful".After the Taj Mahal, the prime minister visited the Agra Fort at 10.50 am and explored the monument till 11.50 am.During the VVIP visit, Taj Mahal and Agra Fort were closed for two hours, according to an order of the Archaeological Survey of India, Agra Circle.The Danish prime minister is on her first state visit to India. She arrived in the national capital on Saturday and met Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Aged 43 now, Frederiksen became the youngest woman prime minister in Danish history when she was elected to the post in 2019 -- and only second woman ever to hold the post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/danish-pm-mette-frederiksen-visits-taj-mahal-with-husband-calls-it-beautiful-101633862304334.html
10-10-2021||India||88 under trial prisoners test positive for HIV in 2 Assam jails||Health authorities in Nagaon district of central Assam have detected prevalence of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) among 88 prisoners lodged in two jails. Most of those who tested positive for the virus are under trial prisoners arrested in recent months as part of the new Bharatiya Janata Party-led state government’s special campaign against illegal drugs since May. “88 prisoners, 80 men and 8 women, who tested positive in September alone are drug users who got infected due to use of the same syringe among several users or from the same source,” Dr LC Nath, superintendent of Nagaon Bhogeswari Phukanani Civil Hospital. The fresh detection of HIV cases in Nagaon comes after 27 youths were found positive for the virus in neighbouring Marigaon district. According to a report by Assam State AIDS Control Society (ASACS) released last month, the state has 19,545 HIV positive cases. “The under trial prisoners who were booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, were found positive during a special screening by ASACS,” said Arup Patangia, superintendent of Nagaon special jail which houses inmates from neighbouring Hojai district as well. “Most of those found positive are in the 18-38 years age group. Apart from being peddlers, these inmates are drugs addicts as well and were infected prior to their arrests and didn’t get the virus as a result of using drugs inside the jail,” he added. Of the total cases, 45 were found in special jail and the rest in Nagaon central jail. Jail authorities informed that most of those found positive last month were already out on bail and only 32 remaining were lodged at present in both jails. “These under trial prisoners who were found positive were kept away from the convicted inmates and their treatment has begun,” said Abani Kumar Muktiar, superintendent of Nagaon central jail. Also Read | Centre exploring methods to expand telecom network in the northeast: MinisterA senior prison department official said that following the state government’s drive against illicit drugs, a HIV screening drive is underway in most prisons where arrested drug peddlers are being kept. “Our department is conducting the screening in association with the health departments and ASACS. Few more HIV positives cases among those arrested under NDPS Act have been found in some other jails as well. Proper counselling and treatment of those inmates is underway,” said Barnali Sharma, inspector general of prisons, Assam. Illegal drugs worth around ₹200 crore have been recovered and nearly 2000 persons involved in the drug trade have been arrested across Assam since May this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/88-under-trial-prisoners-test-positive-for-hiv-in-2-assam-jails-101633862577669.html
10-10-2021||India||Owaisi friend of past life, Mohan Bhagwat 'Shakuni': Engineer wants Sundays off||The leave application of a Madhya Pradesh engineer posted in Malwa district has gone viral on social media as he prayed to his senior for off on Sundays because he wants to go door-to-door begging on Sundays. But why? In his application, deputy engineer Rajkumar Yadav explained in detail that he wants to embark on the religious journey to erase his ego, the realisation that dawn upon him after he suddenly had a flashback of his last birth, Livehindustan reported. The story does not end here. The engineer also receives a reply from his senior who says that the journey to erase one's ego should begin by not thinking that he can spend his Sundays the way he wants.In his previous life, as the engineer describes, he was a character of the Mahabharata, with Hyderabad MP Asaduddhin Owaisi being his friend Nakul and RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat was the 'Shakuni mama'. He wrote he wants to know more about his past life and that's why he wants to study Gita. On Sunday, he will go begging, he wrote expecting that his senior will grant him leave on Sundays.The reply to the bizarre leave application has also gone vial with Janpad Panchayat CEO Parag Panthi advising him to work on Sunday to erase his ego, instead of begging. He wrote in his reply that the very thought that one can spend his Sundays the way he wants is egoistic thinking. Extending his support to the deputy engineer's endeavour, his senior said he will help him destroy his ego by making him work on Sundays.“Dear deputy engineer, you want to erase your ego, it is a matter of great happiness. To this end, our cooperation can help you achieve your goal. A person is often egotistical and thinks that he can spend his Sundays at will. Destroying this ego from its roots is indispensable for your progress. Therefore, keeping in view your desire for spiritual progress, you are ordered to work every Sunday by being present in the office, so that your ego of celebrating Sunday as a holiday can be destroyed,” Parag Panthi wrote in reply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/owaisi-friend-of-past-life-mohan-bhagwat-shakuni-engineer-wants-sundays-off-101633861227869.html
10-10-2021||India||Nobody is safe in this country, will not stop until we bring change: Priyanka||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday said nobody was safe under the Narendra Modi government and this included the poor, the Dalit community and women, adding, however, billionaire friends of the regime were managing fine.Addressing a massive crowd at the ‘Kisan Nyay' (justice for farmers) rally in Varanasi, Vadra said, “This country is not the property of the PM and his ministers. This country is yours. If you are not aware, you will not be able to save your own country, and yourself. You have made this country.”Also read | Priyanka picks up broom again at Valmiki temple, says it’s a message to YogiBeginning her speech with a recital of shlokas, the Gandhi scion said, “Today is the fourth day of Navratra. I am observing fast today. I want to start with Maa stuti.... As this is the time of Navratra, I thought of speaking of my heart with all of you.”The gathering was earlier addressed by Congress' Uttar Pradesh unit head Ajay Kumar Lallu and Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel.Vadra, who was detained for more than a day last week on her way to Lakhimpur Kheri where some farmers and a local journalist among others were killed in violent clashes on October 3, said this country was about faith. Here, farmers feed the citizens, and their sons protect the country’s borders. “But when some of them got killed in Lakhimpuri Kheri, their families lost hope for justice.”Around the same time the PM came to Uttar Pradesh to attend some celebratory events, but he did not have the time to meet the aggrieved families, the Congress leader added.Stating that her fight for justice would continue until Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni was suspended, she said the junior home minister’s son (Ashish Mishra) had trampled over protesting farmers, but he was sent an invitation for interrogation. “The chief minister (Yogi Adityanath) is protecting him... What is this?”Also read | Union minister's son Ashish Mishra arrested in Lakhimpur Kheri violence caseShe said Modi did not have time to speak to farmers who had been protesting for almost a year against the three centrally passed agri laws.“The farmers are protesting against the three laws because they know their land will be snatched, if three agri laws were implemented, by the corporate friend of Modi,” Vadra added.Exhorting people to fight for their rights, she said those “who call you andolankari (protesters) and terrorists, force them to give justice. We are the workers of the Congress. We are scared of anyone. Put us in jail, beat us, but we will fight for justice.”“If you want to bring a change, come with me, struggle together and change this government. I will not stop until I bring change here,” she added.Vadra also targeted Modi over growing inflation and rising prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas. She said unemployment was at its peak“People are angry and upset with the government due to these problems. But when people are losing their jobs and small businesses are shutting down, the PM’s rich friends are making billions of money.”She said the PM bought two planes for himself that cost ₹8,000 crore. “And, then Modi sold off Air India for ₹18,000 crore,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nobody-is-safe-in-this-country-will-not-stop-until-change-happens-priyanka-101633860043947.html
10-10-2021||India||'Expose elements trying to divide Kashmiri society on communal lines': Army urge||Condemning the recent killings of civilians in Jammu & Kashmir, the General Officer Commanding of Chinar Corps, Lieutenant General DP Pandey, on Sunday hoped for the people of the Valley to expose the elements trying to divide the Kashmiri society on communal lines.“These killings are condemnable. I believe that Kashmiris will expose the elements who are trying to divide Kashmiri society on communal lines,” the Army officer was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The remark by the top Army officer comes three days after gunmen killed the principal and a teacher of a government-run school in Srinagar's historical old town Eidgah. Two days before the Eidgah shooting, terrorists gunned down three other people, including a prominent Srinagar-based pharmacist, in three separate incidents.Last Tuesday, terrorists belonging to an outfit affiliated to Lashkar-e-Taiba killed three people, including a prominent pharmacist, in three separate incidents.The deceased included Makhan Lal Bindroo, a Kashmiri Pandit and the owner of one of the most popular medical stores in Srinagar, Bindroo Medicate. He was shot dead at his shop in Srinagar's Iqbal Park area.The terrorists then killed a street vendor from Bihar, identified as Virender Paswan, near Madina Chowk in Lalbazar and a taxi driver, Mohd Shafi Lone, in a separate incident at Naidkhai in Bandipora district.The Indian Army launched a massive search operation in Uri last month, after it detected suspicious movement along the Line of Control on the intervening night of September 18 and 19. Three terrorists were killed during their infiltration bid.Earlier in June, Lt Gen Pandey hinted at the possibility of Pakistan-aided terror groups such as Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish –e- Mohammed behind the drone attack on an Indian Air Force base in Jammu. Two Indian Air Force personnel were injured and a building was damaged when suspected drones dropped two explosive payloads on the high security air force station in Jammu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expose-elements-trying-to-divide-kashmiri-society-on-communal-lines-army-urge-101633858648236.html
10-10-2021||India||Ample supply of coal, fears of power supply disruption unfounded: Ministry||Amid concerns over coal shortage that may severely affect power supply in certain parts of the country, the Centre said on Sunday there was ample supply of the mineral to meet all demands and fears of electricity disruption were entirely misplaced.In a statement, the Union ministry of coal said there was a stock of about 72 lakh tonnes, which was sufficient for four days. Also, Coal India Limited (CIL) has more than 400 lakh tonnes of stock, which is being supplied to the power plants.At the same time, Union coal minister Pralhad Joshi said there was absolutely no threat of disruption in power supply. “There is sufficient coal stock of 43 million tonnes with Coal India Ltd equivalent to 24 days of coal demand,” he added.Earlier, Union power minister RK Singh hit out at companies that sent “baseless SMSs” to customers and created panic about a power crisis and warned that such acts would be treated as instances of “irresponsible behaviour”.Also read | Amid warning of power crisis due to coal shortage, Centre lists 4 reasonsThe ministry said the domestic coal-based power generation has grown by nearly 24 per cent this year (till September 2021) based on a robust supply from the coal companies. The daily average coal requirement at the power plants was about 18.5 lakh tonnes of coal per day, while the daily coal supply had been around 17.5 lakh tonnes, it said.The ministry further said there were constraints in despatches due to the extended monsoons. Coal available at the power plants is a rolling stock which gets replenished by supplies from companies on a daily basis.“Therefore, any fear of coal stocks depleting at the power plant end is erroneous. In fact this year, domestic coal supply has substituted imports by a substantial measure,” the ministry said in a statement.Also read | These states may soon face a 'blackout' as coal demands surgeThe ministry also said that despite heavy rainfall in the coalfield areas, the CIL had supplied more than 255 MT coal to the power sector this year, which is the highest ever H-1 supply from CIL to the power sector.“Out of the total coal supply from all sources, present coal supply from CIL to power sector is more than 14 lakh tonnes per day and with the receding rains, this supply has already increased to 15 lakh tonnes and is set to increase to more than 16 lakh tonnes per day by the end of October 2021. The supply from SCCL and captive coal blocks shall contribute to another 3 lakh plus tonnes of coal every day,” the statement read.Stating that coal supplies were likely to set a record high in the current financial year, the ministry said, “Domestic coal supplies have supported power generation in a major way despite heavy monsoons, low coal imports and a steep hike in power demand due to economic recovery.”Due to high international prices of coal, supply of power even under PPAs by import based power plants has reduced by almost 30 per cent, while domestic-based power supply has gone up nearly 24 per cent in the first half of the year. The imported coal-based power plants have generated about 25.6 BU against a programme of 45.7 BU.It may be noted that the comfortable coal position in the country is reflected by the fact that the CIL has been supplying more than 2.5 lakh tonnes (approximately) daily to meet the demand of non power industries like aluminum, cement, steel along with supply of coal to thermal plants of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ample-supply-of-coal-fears-of-power-supply-disruption-unfounded-ministry-101633857842019.html
10-10-2021||India||'Acts of irresponsible behaviour creating panic': Power minister refutes reports of coal shortage||Union power minister RK Singh criticised the Gas Authority of India Ltd (GAIL) and Tata Power for sending “baseless SMSs” to customers and creating panic about a power crisis, warning that such acts will be treated as instances of “irresponsible behaviour”.“I've warned Tata Power CEO of action if they send baseless SMSs to customers that can create panic. Messages by GAIL and Tata Power qualify as acts of irresponsible behaviour,” he said, adding that “neither there was, nor there is any crisis. It was created unnecessarily.”The minister met officials from BSES, Delhi’s power ministry, and Tata power at his residence on Sunday to talk about the issue of coal shortage in power plants. He told reporters that the GAIL CMD was asked to continue supplying the required amount of gas to power plants across the country, and that GAIL has “assured” him that supplies will continue.Also Read: Andhra Pradesh power plants running out of coal stocks, CM sends SOS to PM ModiSingh also hit out at Congress for their remarks on the reported coal shortage, alleging that “the Congress party has run out of ideas. They are running out of votes and therefore they are running out of ideas as well.”Delhi’s power minister Satyendar Jain had warned residents of an acute coal shortage in thermal power plants across the country and cautioned that the national capital had enough coal stocks to last one more day. "There is an acute shortage of coal in coal-fired power plants across the country. There is only one day's stock left in the plants from which Delhi gets electricity, there is no coal at all," Jain told reporters on Saturday.Following which Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal wrote to the Prime Minister urging for his intervention in ensuring power plants supplying electricity to Delhi have access to sufficient quantities of coal and gas.The CEO of Tata Power Delhi Distribution Limited (TPDDL) Ganesh Srinivasan warned on Saturday that the national capital might witness intermittent and rotational load shedding in the coming days as coal-based power stations are left with coal stocks that will last one-two days.Both Jain and Srinivasan’s warnings came after the Central Electricity Authority (CEA) released a report claiming that of the 135 power plants it monitors across the country, 64 non-pithead power plants (plants located 1500 kms away from coal mines) are left with coal stocks for less than four days of supply.Singh refuted these claims insisting that the demand for coal is actually a sign of the economy recovering after the brutal second wave brought things to a standstill.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/power-minister-refutes-reports-of-coal-shortage-101633856449954.html
10-10-2021||India||How does PM Modi take a decision? 'Not seen a listener like him,' says Amit Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah was asked whether PM Modi takes a decision in an autocratic way. "I have never seen a listener like Modi ji. In whatever meeting it is, he speaks the least and listens patiently to every one. He gives importance to the suggestion of every person based on the basis of quality," Amit Shah said in his interview to Sansad TV, which was telecast on Sunday.On the occasion of 20 years of Narendra Modi in political office, Union minister Amit Shah, in his interview, said there is no blame that has not been imposed on PM Modi, but PM Modi has overcome all this because all opposition strengthens PM Modi, as he had the confidence of the people. "The public knows that the decision Modiji takes is for the country. He has nothing to gain from that. Hence, even if there has been any mistake, the public forgave him," Amit Shah said."No Indian Prime Minister has said ever that India has the courage to become a five trillion-dollar economy. Today our economy ranks 6th from 11th and will become 5th soon. I have the confidence that India will soon become a five trillion-dollar economy," Amit Shah said.During the interview, Amit Shah said PM Modi's political life can be divided into three parts -- first his initial days in the organisation, second, after he became the chief minister of Gujarat and third, his entry to national politics. "Modiji strengthened the party in Gujarat through his hard work, planning and determined implementation," he said adding how Bhuj rose from the ashes of the earthquake, but Latur could not.Listing out PM Modi's initiatives, reforms in the last seven years, Amit Shah said PM Modi took bold decision regarding economic reforms. On farmers' protest, he said the concerns are unfounded and the three laws are aimed at helping the farmers."Leftist ideology is not for the welfare of the poor, I am sorry to say. This is only a way to capitalise the resentment of the poor to capture power. Otherwise, what explains the situation of the Left-ruled states?" Amit Shah said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-does-pm-modi-take-a-decision-not-seen-a-listener-like-him-says-amit-shah-101633856012693.html
10-10-2021||India||From drugs to porn cases, Shatrughan Sinha opens up about Bollywood's silence||With a series of controversies surrounding the film industry, actor-turned-politician Shatrughan Sinha, who featured in the latest edition of The Interview with Hindustan Times’ Kumkum Chadha, spoke on why heavyweights choose to remain silent instead of taking a stand. ExcerptsOn one hand, there is a furore on what Javed Akhtar said about Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and the Taliban and on the other there is complete silence on the Raj Kundra-Shilpa Shetty case. Why these double standards?People belonging to the film industry are wise, nice and simple people. I am not their spokesman. If they want to speak…well, fine. If they don't want to speak, no problem. Why do we expect them to speak on every matter? Sometimes this happens because they are very close to the people concerned. They find it a little awkward. Sometimes they do not want to comment because they think this might lead to some undesirable controversy. So, if they want to speak, they come forward and those who do not want to come forward, you can't say they are engaging in double standards, or they are scared. How does it matter?It matters because it is an overview situation. There is pornography, there are drugs, there used to be casting couch syndrome etc. So somewhere the impression is that Bollywood is a dirty place. The clean people there, like you and some of the others, are silent when these wrongdoings go on. So, I think that is probably the issue. If there is mudslinging or if there are these wrongdoings then why don't some of them come out and condemn those black sheep which are tainting the entire industry?Why do they expect only from the film industry people? Do these only happen in the film industry? Does it not happen in the corporate or political corridors? It happens everywhere. But since the film industry seems to be the favourite whipping horse, beat it as much as you want as it is weak. They are businessmen in true sense, they are scared…whichever government is there…they don't want to go against it. As far as I am concerned, I only speak when I am spoken to. It is not that I start speaking on every issue like there are few people in politics who speak on every issue.Will the government tackle the repercussions if a person from Bollywood says something? In such cases, our people have to bear the brunt. There have been protests outside their houses. So, they say let's not do it…When you talk about casting couch or drugs, you judge any industry by majority. Have you heard anything of this sort about the late Dilp Kumar, Amitabh Bachchan, Dev Anand or me? There are certain incidents and these are all accusations, nothing has been proved yet. So, this is important to understand. Out of many good things, there is just one single flaw in the film industry. It is not united; it does not have a platform of its own. There should be an attitude of gratitude but at times selfish attitudes can be seen here.That's exactly my point. Self-centred and I would use the word ‘selfish’ and living for themselves and this indicates that when something happens, they do not come out.First of all, there is no proper association so it becomes a difficult task coordinating with everybody. Secondly, there is no platform where we can talk. Many do not have the courage to debate, so they remain silent or hesitate or feel embarrassed if something happens. They try to distance themselves. There is a need for unity and understanding. If we all become united then it will be great.You are also saying the same thing and substantiating what I am saying. A sad commentary on the film industry and the kind of people who the world or at least the youth look up to shouldn't then set an example rather than a bad example?It's very unfortunate. I may not conclude this matter to the extent where you may like me to conclude. But I hope, wish and pray that my viewpoint is being understood by all. Substantiating in the sense that I say that it's very unfortunate but I have also said this is not only in the film industry, what about the sports industry. If it is about their own leader, then they will come forward and speak. But it is not right to expect from all.Fair enough but senior actors like you, Mt Amitabh Bachchan …people look up to you to take the lead because you have represented the industry for decades. They want you to take the lead and say this far and no further. So this impression goes that they are all thick as thieves, which is damaging for the industry also.It is possible to some extent. You won't expect from those who are seen with the government or are seen being scared from the government. But people have seen that I have called spade a spade but you can't expect this from our friends. They are seen with the government…their so-called lobbying is somewhere else. So, this is too much to expect from them. So in such a situation, we don't blame them. It is better to remain silent than to make an issue out of it.What do they have to fear? They are successful and not dependent on the government for anything. So, to say that actors are scared is really not something which one would expect from them.You answered my question. They are scared because they are successful. Not saying anything at all is better than saying something controversial. At times being silent also shows acts of prudence.Amitabh Bachchan is always a mute spectator to the wrong things which are going on.Well, I won't say much on this. A public figure must know how to behave in public.To be a mute spectator?You focus on his behaviour, his public conduct.If you don't cross the line, then these things will obviously come in questionI am there to cross the line. He is a friend…I do it on everybody's behalf.Why have you been silent on many wrongdoings of the film industry? Yours have been an unblemished career and maybe you are not scared of the government too, so maybe it was easy for you. So, be it drugs, Raj Kundra pornography case or casting couch syndrome, why didn't you take the lead? You said there is no platform. Why did you then not take the lead being fearless, being in politics and being a veteran? And take people like Mr Amitabh Bachchan and some of the others along to tell the younger stars that this far and no further? Or condemn that section which was tainting the entire industry?The direction of talks changes when we say thus far and no further. Many people haven't spoken on Raj Kundra. There are many obvious reasons. Me and my family are very fond of Shilpa Shetty or for that matter Shilpa Shetty's mother. I don't know Raj Kundra ji very well. I just know he is Shilpa Shetty's husband…this doesn't mean I consider him good or bad. The matter is in court. Before we could speak anything, the matter was in court already. So, it is not right to say something now.I had raised my voice against the underworld. I had said this is wrong. There is nothing clear in the drug case now. The images of Dev Anand, Amitabh Bachchan, Jitendra or me are not tainted. I am talking about the majority.There is one well-known actor who said, "Maal chahiye”. People look up to her films. So, what kind of an example does this set?If this is true, then such things should not happen at all. This is absolutely wrong.The new generation actors are undoing whatever your struggles have been.We can suggest counselling to those who are newcomers. Punishment should be given to those who are experts in this field so that they are deterrent to others.What have the senior people like you done on the ground? Don't you think the majority has failed the people? If a well-known actor is consuming drugs, then the younger generation today who watch these films say if they can do it why not us? So, your responsibility is much bigger.I don't agree with you on this. One should see if these issues are genuine or something to divert attention.There are enough video tapes where you see that these people are coming out from parties in drug stateI have said this is wrong. I used to drink but I quit drinking years ago. Jitendra, Amitabh Bachchan used to drink/smoke, they have quit years back.The younger generations have started consuming drugs nowThese are all new habits of the youth. They will sooner understand. I am sure they will see other people and understand.Between Mr Amitabh Bachchan being a mute spectator and Mr Javed Akhtar shooting off his mouth, what is your advice to each of them?Both of them are very dear to me. I am very fond of them. There will be conflict of interest. Both me and the society respect them a lot. So they can answer this better and I am sure they are capable of handling the situation.Are you considering or would you ever consider going back to your parent party which is the BJP?I haven't got any such proposal and I haven't given any such proposal to anybody. I have moved forward. I have no interest or intention. People say politics is an art of possibilities. One can't say what will happen tomorrow, but today I can surely say neither I have any intention nor I am interested.If a proposal from the BJP comes, would you consider it?This question is hypothetical. If they send a proposal and if they feel they have done something wrong, which should not have happened, then I can consider.At one point, you praised the government and you said, “Tremendous efforts in fighting the pandemic”. Are you serious Mr Sinha? People were dying by the minute, there was no oxygen and you were saying “tremendous efforts”?I agree with you whole-heartedly with the second part of your question. Yes, I did say that because I also got carried away at that time but the reality came out to be something else. I feel India could have made a name in such a situation but unfortunately, we were humiliated in this regard.Your wife Poonam ji is richer than you and you owe money to your daughter. Is that true?She is my wife and I am working for her. It's good if she is richer than me. It is the time of women empowerment. Maybe our daughter is also richer than me. If I owe money to my daughter, I will try to repay it.You are an actor and a politician. In your view, which is murkier…politics or Bollywood?It's more when it comes to power game. Politics is murkier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-drugs-to-porn-cases-shatrughan-sinha-opens-up-about-bollywood-s-silence-101633845847932.html
10-10-2021||India||Shiv Sena likens Priyanka to Indira, says she’s charged up party||Shvi Sena has likened Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi to her grandmother and former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, claiming she “exposed” an “attempted cover-up” of the Lakhimpur Khiri violence and one could witness shades of Indira Gandhi in her actions. In his weekly column Rokthok in party mouthpiece Saamana,Sena parliamentarian Sanjay Raut also said that Priyanka’s brother and former Congress president Rahul Gandhi was the only leader who could provide an alternative to the current dispensation in New Delhi. Raut also dismissed the Aam Admi Party (AAP) and the Trinmool Congress (TMC) as “spoilsports” who were likely to end up helping the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). “The Yogi government faces one of the biggest challenges due to this [Lakhimpur Khiri] killings. When Priyanka Gandhi was going to meet the kin of the dead farmers, she was illegally stopped. The way she protested her detention by the police was commendable. She played a major role in awakening the nation about the gruesome murders,” said Raut. He was referring to Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s arrest at Sitarpur en route to Lakhimpur Kheri where 4 farmers were mowed down last Sunday by a cavalcade of three vehicles linked to Ashish Mishra, the son of Union minister of state for home Ajay Kumar Mishra. In retaliation, angry farmers lynched four members of the convoy. Following a political uproar over the incident and politicians from rival political parties wanting to visit Lakhimpur Kheri to meet the aggrieved farmers, the Uttar Pradesh government imposed Section 144 of the CrPC (Code of Criminal Procedure) prohibiting assembly of more than 4 people at a time in the district. Priyanka Gandhi dodged the UP Police to reach Sitapur but was arrested there for violating prohibitory orders. She was finally allowed to visit the farmers after spending two days at a state guest house. Also Read: Have sought audience with President Kovind on Lakhimpur Kheri case, tweets Congress. Then hits deleteRaut said her rivals took notice of the support she received in Sitapur and the images of her cleaning the floor of the rest house with a broom overshadowed the one-day photo session by “some politicians”. Prime Minister Narendra Modi was participating in programme to commemorate the 75th year of independence in Lucknow along with UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath last Tuesday.Raut drew parallel with Indira Gandhi’s arrest on October 3 1977 by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on charges of corruption only a couple of months after her August visit to Bihar to commiserate with the victims of Belchi massacre (May 27) received great response, laying the foundation for her return to power in 1980 Lok Sabha polls. Raut also went on to describe his Tuesday meeting with Rahul Gandhi, saying the Congress leader was committed to fighting the Narendra Modi led Central government. “Rahul Gandhi started his discussion by saying that the present government was all out to destroy democracy in this country and he would fight against these actions,” said Raut. Raut said that Rahul added that he and Priyanka were not worried about getting jailed. “Rahul told me that Priyanka was a brave woman and he was going to Lucknow the next day and was not worried about getting arrested,” he added.The BJP described the Saamana editorial as a desperate attempt to keep the Congress in good humour. “The Sena founder Balasaheb Thackeray opposed Congress all his life and here we have his son Uddhav literally bending backwards [to please the Congress] to remain in power. Uddhav Thackeray has been a failure as the chief minister and instead of pointing fingers at Uttar Pradesh, he should ideally be concentrating on Maharashtra which is in bad shape due to his misgovernance,” said BJP legislator Ram Kadam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-likens-priyanka-to-indira-says-she-s-charged-up-party-101633852496204.html
10-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: Mansukh Mandaviya calls for an end to ‘stigma’ on World Mental Health Day and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.World Mental Health Day 2021: Mansukh Mandaviya appeals for end to 'stigma'On the occasion of World Mental Health Day, which is observed annually on October 10, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Sunday called for an end to stigma associated with mental illness. Read MoreHot Springs conflict: What India and China are discussing in 13th round of LAC talksIndia and China are holding the 13th round of negotiations on Sunday to cool tensions down the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. Read MorePetrol prices cross ₹110 a litre in MumbaiPetrol crossed ₹110 a litre mark in Mumbai on Sunday and was selling at ₹110.12, while diesel was selling at ₹100.66 a litre following an increase in retail prices by 29 and 37 paise respectively for the two automobile fuels. Read More'He is a match-winner, can change the course of a game': Gavaskar suggests big change for CSK ahead of Qualifier 1 vs DCAfter a forgettable campaign in IPL 2021, Chennai Super Kings turned things around and in some style by becoming the first team to qualify for the Playoffs.  Read MoreKangana Ranaut calls Rekha her godmother in birthday wish for actor, shares pic from Virat-Anushka's receptionKangana Ranaut has shared a birthday wish for Rekha who turned 67 on Sunday. Read MoreKajal Aggarwal in printed kaftan and ₹2 lakh bag brings fashion A-game with Gautam Kitchlu at LFWIndian actor Kajal Aggarwal attended day 4 of Lakme Fashion Week with her husband, Gautam Kitchlu. Read MoreService on wheels: Maruti to increase mobile service vans to 300+ by fiscal-endWith an increase in demand for doorstep servicing of vehicles amid the ongoing coronavirus pandemic, Maruti Suzuki has planned to increase the number of its mobile service vans to over 300 by the end of this fiscal. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-mansukh-mandaviya-calls-for-an-end-to-stigma-on-world-mental-health-day-and-all-the-latest-news-101633849205965.html
10-10-2021||India||‘Attempts on to turn Lakhimpur violence into Hindu vs Sikh battle’: Varun Gandhi||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Varun Gandhi on Sunday said that there is an attempt to turn the Lakhimpur Kheri violence into a “Hindu Sikh battle."“Not only is this an immoral and false narrative, it is dangerous to create these faultlines and reopen wounds that have taken a generation to heal. We must not put petty political gains above national unity,” Varun Gandhi said.An attempt to turn #LakhimpurKheri into a Hindu vs Sikh battle is being made. Not only is this an immoral & false narrative, it is dangerous to create these fault-lines & reopen wounds that have taken a generation to heal.We must not put petty political gains above national unityOn Thursday, Varun Gandhi, the BJP MP from Pilibhit constituency in Uttar Pradesh said, "The video is crystal clear. Protestors can't be silenced through murder. There has to be accountability for innocent blood of farmers that has been spilled and justice must be delivered before a message of arrogance and cruelty enters the minds of every farmer.”At least eight people, including four farmers and a local journalist, died last Sunday during a violence that ensued at a rally of protesting farmers.A 29-second video of Sunday’s violence surfaced in which an SUV could be seen ploughing through protesting farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri. The SUV reportedly belonged to the convoy of Ajay Kumar Mishra who was travelling to receive Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to an event in the area.However, hours after Varun Gandhi shared a video on the Lakhimpur Kheri violence demanding accountability, the parliamentarian and his mother Maneka Gandhi’s names were found missing from the party’s national executive committee list that was released by national president JP Nadda.ALSO READ | What happened in Lakhimpur Kheri: Sequence of events according to both sidesWhile four farmers died after the convoy allegedly mowed down protesters opposing the deputy chief minister’s visit, the other four people, reportedly BJP members, were allegedly thrashed to death. The farmer leaders claim that Ashish Mishra was in one of the cars which knocked down some protesters.The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella of farmers' unions, alleged that one of the deceased farmers was shot dead by the minister’s son while the rest were allegedly run over by the vehicles of his convoy. The minister and his son, however, denied the claims even as an FIR has been registered against Ashish.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, too, slammed the BJP-led government at the Centre for its “silence” over the violence in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri. He also called for immediate removal of Union minister of state for home affairs Ajay Kumar Mishra, whose son Ashish was allegedly in the SUV that mowed down the protesting farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/attempts-on-to-turn-lakhimpur-violence-into-hindu-vs-sikh-battle-varun-gandhi-101633849123379.html
10-10-2021||India||Have sought audience with President Kovind on Lakhimpur Kheri violence, tweets Congress. Then hits delete||The Congress, which has staged aggressive protests against the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, said on Sunday it has sought an appointment with President Ram Nath Kovind to present to him a “memorandum of facts”, only to delete the tweet announcing its agenda. The son of Union minister of state for home affairs Ajay Mishra Teni, Ashish Mishra, has been accused of crushing to death four farmers with his jeep in Lakhimpur Kheri and was arrested on Saturday night.Also Read | Union minister's son Ashish Mishra arrested in Lakhimpur Kheri violence case“The shocking incident of broad daylight massacre of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri has shaken the conscience of the entire nation. A delegation of the Congress party headed by Shri Rahul Gandhi seeks an appointment with the honourable President, on priority, to present to him a detailed memorandum of facts,” the party had posted on its Twitter handle, sharing an image of its letter addressed to the Rashtrapati Bhavan.Also Read | In Lakhimpur Kheri violence case, UP police to seek Ashish Mishra’s custodyBesides Gandhi, the delegation would have comprised senior leaders such as KC Venugopal, AK Antony, Mallikarjun Kharge, Ghulam Nabi Azad, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, as well as Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, according to the letter.Also Read | Priyanka Gandhi’s Varanasi rally in backdrop of Lakhimpur violenceThough the said post now stands deleted, the screenshot of the letter was shared by news agency ANI. Lakhimpur Kheri violence | Congress seeks appointment with President Ram Nath Kovind for a 7-member party delegation led by Rahul Gandhi to present a detailed memorandum of facts pic.twitter.com/0rXZW44gyeThe Congress has taken the lead in protesting over the killings, which took place on October 3, as farmers, who planned to protest against UP deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya, were on their way back. In the resulting violence, two workers of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), a driver of Union minister Mishra, and a local journalist were killed as well, taking the toll to 8.Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, and party's Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Hooda were the first two politicians to leave for Lakhimpur in the wake of the incident. However, they were detained in Sitapur before they could reach the violence-hit district, and were formally arrested on October 5. A day later, the Gandhi siblings, along with chief ministers of Congress-ruled Punjab and Chhattisgarh--Charanjit Singh Channi and Bhupesh Baghel--met families of the victims. The two CMs also announced financial compensations for the families of the farmers, and the kin of the journalist, Raman Kashyap.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-case-congress-seeks-appointment-with-president-kovind-101633848225889.html
10-10-2021||India||‘Need to question him’: UP police to seek Ashish Mishra’s custody in Lakhimpur Kheri case||Uttar Pradesh police will file an application before a court on Monday, seeking the custody of Ashish Mishra in connection with the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri that claimed the lives of eight people, including four farmers, last week. UP police additional director general (law and order) Prashant Kumar said the Lakhimpur Kheri Police have applied for the custody remand of Ashish Mishra, the son of Union minister of state for home affairs Ajay Mishra, to interrogate him further about the incident on October 3.Kumar said the application of Ashish Mishra's custody remand was submitted in the competent court late on Saturday and that the court will hear the application on Monday. Ashish Mishra, who has been booked for murder, was arrested on Saturday after being questioned for more than 12 hours in Lakhimpur Kheri. He was produced before a court late on Saturday, which sent him to 14-day judicial custody in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri violence.Also read | Union minister's son in judicial custody over Lakhimpur incidentUpendra Agarwal, deputy inspector general (headquarters), said Ashish Mishra was arrested after he failed to cooperate in the interrogation. “He could not inform or validate on various points regarding his whereabouts at the time of the incident. We will try to get information from him after getting him on police remand,” Agarwal said.Officials said that Ashish Mishra was questioned about his location and involvement in the incident. Ashish Mishra appeared before the special investigation team (SIT) at around 10.30am on Saturday after the police sent a second summons to him the previous day after he failed to turn up for interrogation. A nine-member team headed by Agarwal has been formed to investigate the FIR lodged against the minister's son and others in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case.Also watch| Ashish Mishra charged with murder, to remain in judicial custody now
10-10-2021||India||Petrol prices cross ₹110 a litre in Mumbai||Petrol crossed ₹110 a litre mark in Mumbai on Sunday and was selling at ₹110.12, while diesel was selling at ₹100.66 a litre following an increase in retail prices by 29 and 37 paise respectively for the two automobile fuels. Petrol was priced at ₹109.83 a litre on Saturday in the city. Fuel prices have been raised on all six consecutive days up to October 10. Mumbai on Saturday became the first metro city in the country to see diesel prices cross the ₹100 per litre mark after fuel prices were hiked again.Fuel prices had last dropped in the city at the beginning of September. On 31 August, a litre of petrol was priced at ₹107.52 while one litre of diesel was available at ₹96.48. On September 1, the prices dropped marginally to ₹107.39 for a litre of petrol and ₹96.33 a litre for diesel. Prices further dropped on September 5 when petrol was available for ₹107.26 and diesel for ₹96.19. Petrol crossed the ₹100 per litre mark in Mumbai on May 29.Also Read | Mumbai mega block: Local train services on these lines to be affectedAfter Mumbai and Hyderabad, diesel rates crossed the ₹100 per litre mark in Gandhinagar, the capital of Gujarat, and in the Union Territory of Leh. Diesel now costs ₹100.21 a litre in Gandhinagar and ₹100.06 in Leh. Bhopal, Raipur and Jaipur are other state capitals where diesel is above that mark, according to a PTI report.Prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes.State-owned fuel retailers have since Wednesday started passing on the larger incidence of cost to consumers. This is because the international benchmark Brent crude has soared to over USD 82 per barrel after the decision by OPEC+ not to increase output more than 0.4 million barrels per day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/petrol-prices-cross-rs-110-in-mumbai-priced-at-rs-11012-101633848295792.html
10-10-2021||India||PM Modi tweets on fifth day of Navratri, seeks Goddess Durga’s blessings||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday tweeted his wishes on the fifth day of Sharad Navratri and sought the blessings of Goddess Kushmanda and Goddess Skandamata, the forms of Goddess Durga. "Goddess Skandmata is worshipped during Navratri. I pray that Maa Skandmata gives strength to her devotees to overcome all difficulties,” PM Modi tweeted in Hindi. “We pray to Maa Kushmanda and seek her blessings for our various endeavours," PM Modi said in another tweet and also shared praise of the goddess.
10-10-2021||India||These states may soon face a 'blackout' as coal demands surge||India is facing a coal shortage following a sharp rise in the demand for importing power-generation fuels, such as coal, as the economy jumped-started again with the ebbing coronavirus pandemic. And, with the rising demand, the international prices of such fuels also shot up. As a result, India—the world’s second-highest importer, producer and consumer of coal—may face a potential blackout across the country. Many generation units are running coal as low as two days.Here is a list of states facing an acute coal shortage:Delhi: Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal shot a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday over "a power crisis". "I am personally keeping a close watch over the situation. We are trying our best to avoid it," Kejriwal said in a tweet. Meanwhile, a Tata Power spokesperson said that they have stopped generation in Mundra as the high cost of imported coal is “making it impossible to supply under present PPA terms”.Rajasthan: Rajasthan is facing power outages on a daily basis. The state government has announced that it is resorting to one hour scheduled power cuts on a daily basis to tide over the power crisis.Punjab: Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi asked the Centre to immediately increase the state’s coal supply as per quota to meet the demands against a power crisis that could potentially cause a shutdown of its thermal plants due to the depleting coal reserves. An official of the Punjab State Power Corporation Ltd (PSPCL) told news agency PTI that two units each at Talwandi Sabo power plant, Ropar plant and one unit at the Lehra Mohabbat, 475 MW plant have been shut. The state has already been experiencing at least 3-4 hours of power cuts on a regular basis.Tamil Nadu: The Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) said it suspended power supply in parts of Chennai to carry out maintenance work in the city.Andhra Pradesh: In Andhra Pradesh too, acute supply shortfalls were pushing the state towards unscheduled power cuts, adding that crops could dry up if there is no electricity to power irrigation pumps. "More water is required in the last stage of harvesting and if it is denied, fields would dry up and farmers stand to lose," Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy said in a letter to the Prime Minister.Meanwhile, neighbouring Telangana Genco officials claimed that they have sufficient coal reserves for the next one week to 10 days. Bihar, Jharkhand and Odisha have also been facing an acute energy crunch due to the coal shortage. In Odisha, the industry was facing a coal shortage and had petitioned the state government to ensure an adequate supply of the fuel.An inter-ministerial sub-group led by the Union ministry of power has been monitoring the coal stock situation twice a week. The ministry on Friday issued guidelines for ensuring optimum utilisation of generating stations as per the requirements in the Electricity Grid. Officials have said these guidelines will enable imported coal-based plants with sufficient coal operate and ease out the burden on domestic coal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/these-states-may-soon-face-a-blackout-as-coal-demands-surge-101633844669042.html
10-10-2021||India||Hot Springs conflict: What India and China are discussing in 13th round of LAC talks||India and China are holding the 13th round of negotiations on Sunday to cool tensions down the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. Officials familiar with the development told Hindustan Times on the condition of anonymity earlier this week that problems at Hot Springs, or Patrol Point-15, are likely to come up in Sunday's discussions, which began at 10:30am in Moldo (Chusul) on the Chinese side of the LAC. The ANI news agency also reported citing officials in the know that the resolution of the friction point at Hot Springs will be discussed during the talks on October 10.13th round of Corps Commander level talks between India and China started at 10:30 am to resolve the ongoing military stand-off along the line of actual control in eastern Ladakh: Army SourcesWhat is the dispute over Hot Springs point?Hot Springs, traditionally known as Kyam, is a campsite and the location of an Indian border check-post – Patrol Point-15 – at the Chang Chenmo river valley in Ladakh near the contested border with China. The spot was so named due to the presence of a hot spring in the area; it is one of the four points where the Indian and Chinese armies went face-to-face back during the standoff in May 2020.The three other points of friction are Patrol Point-17A near the Gogra Post, Patrol Point-14 in Galwan Valley, and the northern bank of Pangong Tso. Chinese troops had crossed over the contested border across all these points and positioned themselves in Indian territory. Since then, a series of talks have been held among top military negotiators deployed by New Delhi and Beijing to resolve the friction. The meeting, currently ongoing, is part of the 13th round of these talks.What were the developments in the last round of talks?After the last round of talks – the 12th in the series of negotiations held on August 2 – the Indian and Chinese troops pulled back from the Patrol Point-17A near the Gogra Post, the second such disengagement this year. In mid-February, the two countries agreed to withdraw troops and weaponry from the Pangong Tso sector in Ladakh.Meanwhile, the Indian Army's General Manoj Mukund Naravane said on Saturday that if the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) is there to stay in the Ladakh theatre, so will the Indian troops. He was referring to the massive military buildup and infrastructure development by the Chinese army across the LAC.“It is a matter of concern that the large-scale buildup that occurred last year (when the border row erupted) continues to be in place," the chief of the army staff told HT on the eve of the 13th round of talks. “To sustain that kind of buildup, there has been an equal amount of infrastructure development on the Chinese side. It means that they are there to stay. But if they are there to stay, we are there to stay too,” Gen Naravane added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hot-springs-conflict-what-india-and-china-are-discussing-in-13th-round-of-lac-talks-101633841831640.html
10-10-2021||India||Global shipping crisis sparks trade chaos, how will it impact India||Apple Inc. takes, on a cumulative basis, a month’s worth of shipping time to source all 34 major components and 100s of other small parts for an iPhone from nearly 200 suppliers located across the world. It then sells these to one of its largest contract manufacturers, Taiwanese maker Foxconn, in China’s Zhengzhou. The Zhengzhou facility, which churns out over 300 iPhones a minute, sells the finished products to resellers around the world using different shipping lines. According to data from the World Economic Forum, 80% of global trade by volume are carried by sea this way. A global shipping slowdown has currently sparked a trade chaos, throwing off gear delivery timelines of critical raw material, intermediate goods and finished items. Advanced economies are witnessing labour shortages because the pandemic shrunk the labour force putting pressure on global supply chains. The supply knots are forecast to impact manufacturing output in Asia’s third-largest economy, much like elsewhere. Close to vaccinating a billion people and witnessing a surge in demand amid a festival season, India is a net importer of many things, such as petroleum, electronics components, semi-conductors, active pharmaceutical ingredients and fertilisers. Here’s how the shipping crisis built up One half of the world comprising western economies, which are the biggest recipients of coronavirus vaccines, have opened up faster than the other half, including countries where much of the world’s factories are located and aren’t able to match the demand surge in developed economies. Trouble first began in June when the Ever Given, a 20,124 TEU (twenty-foot equivalent unit is a measure of volume in units of twenty-foot long containers) container giant, got wedged in the Suez Canal for nearly a week, delaying hundreds of ships between Asia and Europe. That same month the port of Yantian in the Chinese city of Shenzhen was partially locked out due to a coronavirus outbreak. This threw shipping schedules out of gear for a whole month, with domino effect. According to the UN Conference on Trade and Development data, 70% of world trade by value are carried by sea. The lack of synchronised recovery due to vaccine inequality has created congestion resulting in ocean freight rates doubling.Also Read: Barge tragedy: Court rejects bail pleas of director, employees of shipping firmThe modern shipping container is to global trade what packaging material is to Amazon. Shortage of labour, higher demand and lack of raw materials have pushed up costs of all-weather containers, the lifeline of global trade. The average price for a 40-foot container increased 2.9% around the middle of September 2021 from a month ago and 323% over a year ago, according to the Drewry World Container Index, which tracks their cost. The gridlock’s nerve-centre is the world’s factory floor, China. The world’s largest trading nation is still pursuing stringent strategies to keep Covid-19 at bay, slowing its manufacturing prowess. Indian small manufacturers, fertilizer makers and the pharmaceutical industry are experiencing delays in import of raw materials and intermediate goods, all of which can stoke inflation. After widespread pandemic-induced layoffs, global corporations are finding it difficult to get workers back, many of who have relocated to less expensive places or have moved jobs. This is the main reason for labour shortage in advanced economies ahead of Christmas. “I am not panicking but will have to if shipping costs don’t stabilise and regularity is restored,” says Anand Sarin, who exports basmati rice from his factory in Hisar, Haryana Quarantine rules at ports means ships are taking twice the time to dock and leave with fresh goods from 60% of the world’s ports, including in India, according to a research note by the Copenhagen-based Sea-Intelligence Plc. It’s going to linger, forecasters say. “It is hard to see supply-chain bottlenecks being resolved any time soon, with some major exporters including Indonesia and Vietnam still struggling to contain the delta outbreak. It could continue to drag on the global recovery by slowing production and pushing up costs, although not derailing it,” wrote Bloomberg’s Asia chief economist Chang Shu in a recent note.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/global-shipping-crisis-sparks-trade-chaos-how-will-it-impact-india-101633843435039.html
10-10-2021||India||Drugs hidden in sanitary pad, shoes: How those aboard cruise tried to evade security||The Mumbai cruise ship drugs case, in which the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has made a series of arrests, including that of Bollywood star Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan, has generated multiple shocking revelations. The federal agency busted the alleged drugs party last week on the Cordelia Cruise ship, which was on its way from Mumbai to Goa, team seized 13 grams of cocaine, 21gm of Hashish, 22 pills of MDMA, and 5gm of MD. It has made as many as 19 arrests so far.Also Read | Byju’s stops Shah Rukh Khan ad amid Aryan Khan drugs probeWhile speaking to news agencies this week, the NCB revealed how those aboard the cruise ship initially planned to evade the check – attempting to conceal the drugs in a sanitary napkin and a pair of socks. An NCB official told the ANI news agency on Saturday that a woman, who is accused in the Mumbai cruise ship drugs case, carried drugs by concealing them in a sanitary napkin. In footage retrieved by a Mumbai-based news channel, the intelligence officials can be seen pulling packaged materials out of what appear to be sanitary pads.Also Read | No drugs found on Aryan Khan; what are the accusations against him?Earlier, the NCB officials informed the Mid-Day morning daily that accused Arbaaz Merchant, who was held on the cruise ship along with Aryan Khan and Munmun Dhamecha, initially attempted to conceal the drugs inside his socks and shoes to evade the security check. The central agency has also accessed WhatsApp chats between Aryan Khan and Arbaaz Merchant and officials familiar with the development said that Merchant may have “shared some drugs” with Khan.A local court in Mumbai on Thursday sent Aryan Khan and seven others to judicial custody for 14 days. The bail plea of Aryan Khan, who was arrested on October 3, was denied by the court on Friday. The sleuths have also summoned film producer Imtiyaz Khatri in connection with the drugs-on-cruise case and asked him to appear before the agency on October 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drugs-hidden-in-sanitary-pad-shoes-how-those-aboard-cruise-tried-to-evade-security-101633833247409.html
10-10-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi’s Varanasi rally in backdrop of Lakhimpur violence||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will address Kisan Nyay (justice for farmers) rally in Varanasi on Sunday, October 10 in Rohania area of the temple town where her mega cut-outs along with those of Rahul Gandhi have been put up in what seems like a loud declaration of the beginning of the election season in Uttar Pradesh.Senior Congress leader Pramod Tiwari and party national secretary Rajesh Tiwari were among the party leaders who inspected the venue to ensure every bit of detail was taken care of for the rally, being billed as the UP assembly election 2022 campaign opener for the Congress . Congress leader Ajai Rai said Priyanka Gandhi will first offer prayers at Baba Kashi Vishwanath Temple and Maa Durga Kund Temple in the city before addressing the Kisan Nyay Rally.Party leaders have held several meetings in eastern UP districts, including Varanasi, Mirzapur, Bhadohi among others,to mobilise support for Gandhi’s Kisan Nyay rally . The Congress leaders, including Tiwari, also met elderly Congressmen and locals in Ballia, Ghazipur, Mau, Azamgarh, Bhadohi and Jaunpur during these visits. Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee president Ajay Kumar Lallu said that the Kisan Nyay rally in Varanasi will not only light up a new path for Uttar Pradesh but also serve a warning for political rivals in Delhi. “We will not rest in peace until the culprits of the heinous crime committed against farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri are put behind bars. We will give full fight for the farmers’ rights so that their demand for justice is not suppressed,” Lallu said.Also Read: Priyanka’s bid to reclaim Congress’ lost ground in eastern UPHe said that the Congress has fought for the rights of farmers since the freedom struggle. He cited that the Land Acquisition Act was passed by a Congress led government at the Centre to protect the rights of farmers.Lallu claimed that the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) government in Uttar Pradesh was silent on the Lakhimpur Kheri incident and questioned why it didn’t release posters of the accused involved in the mowing of a group of farmers last Sunday. Lallu accused the state government of protecting Ashish Mishra, an accused in the Lakhimpur violence case and son of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni. “Instead of taking action against the accused booked under a serious section like 302, a notice was served by the police. What does the government want to show by issuing a notice to appear before the police for interrogation,” he asked. “We will hold the Kisan Nyay Rally in Varanasi on Sunday. Congress’ struggle will continue until the farmers get justice,” Lallu added.On Saturday, Priyanka Gandhi tweeted, “The aggrieved farmer families have only one demand: justice to them. It is impossible to get justice without the dismissal of the minister and arrest of the accused of murder. What message does the government want to convey by sending an invitation to the accused of murder to appear [for questioning before the police]?” The government should not protect the guilty but punish them, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-gandhi-s-varanasi-rally-in-backdrop-of-lakhimpur-violence-101633840434492.html
10-10-2021||India||India's daily Covid-19 tally drops nearly 8% to 18,166||India reported 18,166 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the lowest single-day rise in nearly seven months, which pushed the country’s cumulative infection tally to 33,953,475, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Sunday. This is the second consecutive day that India recorded less than 20,000 new Covid-19 cases. On Saturday, India reported 19,740 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the active caseload to 236,643—the lowest in nearly seven months.The active Covid-19 cases declined to 230,971, according to the ministry's data updated at 8am. This is their lowest count in 208 days, while their contribution in the national tally, at 0.68 per cent, is the lowest since March last year, the health ministry said. Data also showed that 23,624 more patients were discharged, taking the total number of such cases to 33,271,915, with the recovery rate rising to 97.99 per cent. The recovery rate is at its highest since March 2020, the Union health ministry said in a statement. The number of fatalities due to the infection rose to 450,589, as 214 more patients died in the last 24 hours. Deaths constitute 1.33 per cent of the overall caseload.Meanwhile, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) noted that 12,83,212 more samples were tested for the coronavirus disease on Saturday, taking the total samples tested to 58,25,95,693. The ministry also stated that the latest daily positivity rate stood at 1.42 per cent, while the weekly positivity rate is at 1.57 per cent. This is for the 41st and 107th straight days, respectively, that these have been below the 3 per cent mark.India's cumulative Covid-19 vaccination coverage crossed 946.2 million on Saturday, said the health ministry. The Covid-19 vaccination drive has been ramped up through the availability of more vaccines, advanced visibility of vaccine availability to states and Union Territories for enabling better planning by them and streamlining the vaccine supply chain. The latest phase of vaccination began on June 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-daily-covid-19-tally-drops-nearly-8-to-18166-101633837544701.html
10-10-2021||India||World Mental Health Day 2021: Mansukh Mandaviya appeals for end to 'stigma'||On the occasion of World Mental Health Day, which is observed annually on October 10, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Sunday called for an end to stigma associated with mental illness, urging people to show their support for the cause by wearing a green ribbon to create awareness about the issue.Also Read | World Mental Health Day 2021: All about history, significance and theme for this year“Positive mental health plays a crucial role in the well-being of an individual. On World Mental Health Day, let's pledge to end the stigma associated with mental illness. Wear a Green Ribbon to create awareness about mental health. I appeal people in need to come forward and seek help,” Mandaviya tweeted. Positive mental health plays a crucial role in well-being of an individual.On #WorldMentalHealthDay, let's pledge to end stigma associated with mental illness.Wear a Green Ribbon to create awareness about mental health.I appeal people in need to come forward & seek help. pic.twitter.com/RoNqHs9EzOGlobally, green ribbon is used as a symbol of mental health awareness. On Friday, Mandaviya launched a Green Ribbon initiative to actively address the issue of mental health in the country.October 10 was first celebrated as World Mental Health Day in 1992 by the World Federation of Mental Health. The day is observed every year with a special theme, a practice which began in 1994, when it was held under the theme of “Improving the Quality of Mental Health Services throughout the World.” The themes for the next few years were as follows: “Women and Mental Health” (1996), “Children and Mental Health” (1997), “Mental Health and Human Rights” (1998), and “Mental Health and Ageing” (1999).Celebrations in 2021 are taking place under the tagline “Mental Health in an Unequal World.” This is also the second straight year when the World Mental Health Day is taking place in the shadow of the global Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-mental-health-day-2021-mansukh-mandaviya-appeals-for-end-to-stigma-101633836807595.html
10-10-2021||India||Priyanka’s bid to reclaim Congress’ lost ground in eastern UP||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi has visited eastern UP at least six times since 2019 in her bid to revive the Congress party’s lost ground in the region centered around Varanasi. Her current run started in March 2019 through a Ganga Yatra undertaken on a boat from Allahabad to Varanasi via Bhadohi and Mirzapur, when she visited many villages en route, culminating in a visit to the Varanasi boatmen at the famous Assi Ghat. On July 19 the same year, Priyanka landed in Varanasi en route to Umbha village in Sonbhadra district to meet the families of the 10 members of tribal community killed in a firing over a land dispute on July 17, 2019. She was stopped by police and detained at Narayanpur in Mirzapur before being taken to Chunar fort, where she and other Congressmen staged a protest. A day later, the kin of the victims arrived at the fort to meet Priyanka. She returned later in August to Umbha village and met the families of the 10 tribals. In January 2020, Priyanka Gandhi visited Varanasi to support activists and some Banaras Hindu University (BHU) students who had been arrested while protesting against the Citizenship Amendment Act . “They (protesters) were holding a peaceful agitation,” Priyanka said and accused the Uttar Pradesh government of acting against the Constitution. Also Read | Farmers’ crisis, inflation: Priyanka Gandhi to pan UP govt in rally todayIn February 2020, she visited Azamgarh and met family members of some jailed anti-CAA protesters, asserting that raising a voice in a democracy was not a crime. A year later in February 2021, Priyanka returned to Varanasi and offered her obeisance to Sant Ravidas at Seer Govardhan area of the city. This Sunday, she is again in Varanasi, considered the cultural capital of the country by many and also the heart of eastern UP’s socio-political and cultural activities and the parliamentary constituency of Prime Minister Narendra Modi .With Sunday’s rally Priyanka has entered campaign mode for the upcoming assembly elections in 2022. Political analyst Professor Kaushal Kishore Mishra said, “The Congress is trying to regain its lost mass base in eastern UP and that is why it is holding a rally in Varanasi, the centre of politics of eastern UP for a long time.”Mishra added that while her persistent efforts to build a connect with the masses here will certainly rejuvenate Congress workers across eastern UP, it will still not be easy for the party to regain its lost support base before the 2022 assembly elections in “absence of committed workers”. He pointed out that long-time Congress loyalist Laliteshpati Tripathi, the great grandson of former UP CM Pandit Kamalapati Tripathi had quit the party and it reflected the challenges that the party was facing while rebuilding. “The rally will increase the political temperature in the entire region,” Professor Mishra said, and added that the Congress, which had strong support in the region till three decades ago, understood that eastern UP was important.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyankas-bid-to-reclaim-congress-lost-ground-in-eastern-up-101633838514091.html
10-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: Byju's stops SRK ad amid Aryan Khan drugs probe and all the latest updates||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Byju’s stops Shah Rukh Khan ad amid Aryan Khan drugs probeOnline tutoring company Byju’s has stopped all advertisements featuring its brand ambassador and Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan amid the ongoing investigation against his son Aryan Khan in a drugs case. Read moreUnion minister's son in judicial custody over Lakhimpur incidentAshish Mishra, Union minister of state for home affairs Ajay Mishra Teni's son who was arrested on Saturday night in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case, will be in judicial custody and a local court will hear the matter on Monday on whether he should be sent to police custody, his lawyer has said. Read moreCentre takes steps to build up coal stocksThe supply of coal and the power situation in the country are likely to improve soon, with steps being taken to ensure gradual buildup of coal stocks in the near future, people aware of the matter said on Saturday. Read moreSonam Kapoor shares pic of her kitchen at Notting Hill home: 'London has my heart'Actor Sonam Kapoor took to Instagram to share more pictures of her pristine home in London's Notting Hill. This time, she shared photos of her living room and kitchen. She lives in London with her husband Anand Ahuja. Know more'He said, 'incredible effort'. He was overwhelmed': Srikar Bharat reveals Kohli's words after his winning six against DCRoyal Challengers Bangalore needed six runs off the final ball to win their last league stage game against Delhi Capitals. Read moreMalaika Arora attends India's Best Dancer 2 event wearing figure-hugging gown, check out her photosBollywood star Malaika Arora never stops serving looks when it comes to fashion. And the same was witnessed when Malaika attended a press conference for the dance reality show India's Best Dancer. Read moreDelhi staring at power blackout? Centre gets AAP govt SOS over coal shortageDelhi govt claimed that only-day stock of coal is left in the thermal power station from where the capital gets electricity. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal wrote a letter to PM Modi, seeking his immediate intervention into the crisis. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-byju-s-stops-srk-ad-amid-aryan-khan-drugs-probe-and-all-the-latest-updates-101633835609282.html
10-10-2021||India||‘Political tourism’: Union minister Giriraj Singh on Rahul Gandhi's Lakhimpur visit||Union minister of rural development and Panchayati Raj Giriraj Singh on Saturday said that Congress MP Rahul Gandhi's visit to Lakhimpur Kheri is merely an instance of ‘political tourism’. As many as eight people including four farmers died in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence on October 3.“Rahul Gandhi's visit to Lakhimpur Kheri is merely an instance of political tourism. There is no genuine sympathy and compassion involved. Wherever Congress and the other opposition parties get a chance, they go ahead with their political tourism. I would like to ask why did Rahul Gandhi not visit the family of the journalist killed in that incident? Why has he not visited Kashmir to meet families of people who are being killed over there?” Singh said while talking to the media.Congress delegation including Rahul Gandhi and party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra met the kin of deceased farmer Lovpreet Singh in Lakhimpur Kheri district in Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday.Giriraj Singh also congratulated the Bihar government for administering 6 crore vaccine doses before December.“Today, the entire world is appreciating the pandemic management and Covid-19 vaccination pace of India, which we have achieved under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. I am also very proud that in spite of all abuses we faced, not only did we save our own people, but also saved lives worldwide by sending vaccines to various countries,” he added.On the issue of RJD leader Tej Pratap Yadav campaigning for an independent leader, he said, "It is the family matter of Lalu Prasad Yadav. Which son got a bigger share in the party is not my business."In the recent list of star campaigners for the by-elections in Bihar released by the RJD, Tej Pratap Yadav had been left out even as it includes the names of the party supremo Lalu Prasad Yadav and leader of opposition Tejashwi Yadav. By-polls in Bihar in the Kusheshwar Asthan and Tarapur Assembly seats are scheduled for October 30 with the counting of votes scheduled on November 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/political-tourism-union-minister-giriraj-singh-on-rahul-gandhi-s-lakhimpur-visit-101633833335015.html
10-10-2021||India||As India reopens, top virologist has a word of caution. Here's what he said||Even as coronavirus-related curbs across the country are being eased due to declining second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, top virologist Dr W Ian Lipkin has cautioned against this, saying that India does not yet have the sort of “safety armour” needed to start reopening. The “safety armour,” according to Lipkin, is that a large percentage of people should be vaccinated against the viral illness, which, he said, is “very small” in India's case.“Less than 20 per cent of the Indian population is vaccinated. Then, 30 per cent of population under the age of 18 is not yet eligible for vaccination. So, this means that you don't have the sort of armour needed to safely reopen in that way,” Lipkin said on Saturday at a media conclave, according to PTI.The Chicago-born expert was pointing to the fact that though the Government of India aims to fully vaccinate cent percent adult population of more than 900 million by the end of the year, nearly 950 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines have been administered till now, a figure which includes both single and double jabbed (fully vaccinated) beneficiaries. Also Read | Union health minister reviews vaccine progress as India nears 1 billion dosesThe nationwide vaccination drive against the contagious disease began on January 16 this year. However, as mentioned by Lipkin, only those aged 18 and above are eligible to get inoculated.He also stressed that scientists should develop vaccines that will not only prevent severe diseases, but also block their transmission. “We need to improve our public health infrastructure. Also, we should be able to track and trace individuals who have been exposed, so that we can adopt a ring vaccination strategy, which successfully eradicated smallpox in India,” Lipkin said.On Saturday, India recorded 19,740 new Covid-19 cases, down 7 per cent from the day before. 248 more people succumbed due to the infection, the Union health ministry's dashboard showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-india-reopens-top-virologist-has-a-word-of-caution-here-s-what-he-said-101633830836334.html
10-10-2021||India||Farmers' crisis, inflation: Priyanka Gandhi to pan UP govt in Varanasi rally today||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is all set to address a rally in Uttar Pradesh's Varanasi on Sunday, where she plans to target the Yogi Adityanath-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in the state over a host of issues, including the rising inflation, farmers’ protests, and fuel rates, according to party functionaries familiar with the matter. Congress leader Ajay Rai told Hindustan Times earlier this week that preparations are in full swing for the Varanasi rally, for which “a large number of people from different parts of eastern UP” are set to arrive.Also Read | Priyanka’s Kisan Nyay rally in Varanasi todayPriyanka Gandhi, the general secretary of the All India Congress Committee in charge of Uttar Pradesh, would “expose the BJP’s state government”, on a number of issues in Varanasi, which is Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s parliamentary constituency, according to Rai. Rai also said that the Adityanath regime “failed to check the inflation and rise in petro-products, including petrol, diesel and cooking gas.”Priyanka Gandhi also aims to bring up the issue of the farmers' protests, a contention that has recently been magnified due to the violent incident at Lakhimpur Kheri. “The farmers and youth are upset with the state government as unemployment is at its peak and the growing inflation has left every section upset,” Congress leader Ajay Rai told HT.Also Read | Priyanka picks up broom again at Valmiki temple, says it’s a message to YogiVaranasi, an important political center in eastern UP where the Congress enjoyed immense support till three decades ago, is now a BJP bastion. It remains to be seen if the grand old party can dent the saffron fortress ahead of polls. A recent opinion poll, however, showed that the BJP is likely to retain power in Uttar Pradesh in the assembly elections slated to be held early next year. According to the latest survey, the Yogi Adityanath-led BJP can get 41.3 per cent of vote share, while Akhilesh Yadav’s Samajwadi Party can get 32 ​​per cent, the Bahujan Samaj Party can get 15 per cent, Congress 6 per cent and others can get 6 per cent in the politically crucial state of Uttar Pradesh.Priyanka Gandhi is expected to stay in Uttar Pradesh for five days every month, presumably to zero in on her campaigning agenda ahead of the upcoming assembly polls early next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-crisis-inflation-priyanka-gandhi-to-pan-up-govt-in-varanasi-rally-today-101633830212123.html
10-10-2021||India||Centre exploring technologies to expand telecom network in the northeast: Minister||Union minister Devusinh Chauhan on Saturday said the central government is exploring new technologies to overcome challenges of geographical barrier in northeastern states to strengthen telecommunication services in the region. Chauhan, the minister of state for communications, said the government is keen to bring all villages under the telecom network. “A lot of work has already been done in this area. Implementation of the network expansion programme, which has been delayed due to Covid-19, will now be expedited.”“Providing telecommunication services in the northeastern states is challenging because of the geographical barrier. We are exploring new technologies and innovations to solve this issue,” the minister said. Speaking to officials of the departments of posts and telecommunications, Nagaland, at Chumoukedima in Dimapur district, he said there is a paradigm shift towards online use due to the pandemic as all sectors are now depending on the internet to run their operations.Development of the region has been prioritised by the Narendra Modi government, he said. “PM Modi made a policy so that union ministers visit the northeastern states to bring the government services at the doorstep of people,” Chauhan said.During his maiden visit to the state, he applauded the Nagaland government for improving communication infrastructure and said it has the highest teledensity among the northeastern states. “There is no dearth of funds for strengthening the telecom sector. Coverage of the telecom network will be enhanced in the state and also in the northeast region,” Chauhan said.The minister also congratulated the officials on the occasion of World Post Day on Saturday. The state information technology and communication adviser, Mmhonlumo Kikon, urged the minister to improve tele-connectivity and coverage of mobile services in rural areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-exploring-technologies-to-expand-telecom-network-in-the-northeast-minister-101633828242039.html
10-10-2021||India||Amid warning of power crisis due to coal shortage, Centre lists 4 reasons||The Union ministry of power has listed four reasons for the depletion of coal stocks, including an unprecedented increase in demand for electricity due to the revival of the economy, after chief ministers of Delhi, Punjab and Andhra Pradesh flagged the issue of shortage of coal at power plants. The power ministry said that an inter-ministerial sub-group led by the ministry of coal has been monitoring the coal stock situation twice a week as declining coal reserves sparked concerns of a power crisis in the country.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday the Capital could face power outages if the Centre does not quickly resolve the coal shortage at power plants. Kejriwal wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi after reports that over half of 135 coal-fired utilities, which supply more than half of India’s electricity, have fuel stocks to last just under three days.Also read | Centre takes steps to build up coal stocks"There are four reasons for the depletion of coal stocks at the power plant end- unprecedented increase in demand for electricity due to the revival of the economy; heavy rains in coal mine areas during September 2021 thereby adversely affecting the coal production as well as despatch of coal from mines; increase in prices of imported coal to unprecedented high level leading to a substantial reduction in power generation from imported coal-based power plants leading to more dependence on domestic coal; non-building of adequate coal stocks before the onset of Monsoon," the ministry said in a release.Also watch | Delhi staring at power blackout? Centre gets AAP govt SOS over coal shortage, says 1-day stock left
10-10-2021||India||Indian Railways to start festival special trains from today. Details here||The Indian Railways plans to get on track with a number of special trains from Sunday, October 10, in view of the anticipated passenger rush during the ongoing festive season in India. These special trains, which are slated to run from October 10 to November 21, are being started keeping in mind the growing demand in the ensuing holiday period of Durga Puja, Dussehra, Diwali, and Chhatt Puja—occasions that result in an increase in passenger demand during this time, most specifically from the eastern part of the country.Also Read | Indian Railways extends Covid SOP for 6 months, announces fine for not wearing masksThe Indian Railways is usually known to run around 5,000 festival special trains every year during this period. However, the prevailing coronavirus pandemic this year has made the situation complicated; while the passenger demand remains more or less the same, the railway authorities are forced to run at a much lesser operational capacity due to the Covid-19-related protocols.On Wednesday, the Northern Railway took to its official handle on Twitter to announce that it was starting a number of festival station trains “in order to clear extra rush of passengers during the forthcoming festival season”. The details of these are as follows:On the other hand, the Western Railway, the South Central Railway and the South Eastern Railway also made their respective announcements from their official Twitter handles. These include a new festival train, the Howrah-Puri special, which will leave Howrah every Saturday at 8:35pm, and the Hatia-Durg special, which will leave Hatia every Tuesday and Thursday at 8:05pm.On the other side of the country, the Southern Railway is also starting special train services; the Tambaram-Nagercoil superfast special, the advanced reservation for which already started on October 7, will also run on a special fare, according to reports citing railway officials familiar with the matter. Meanwhile, the Western Railway has also announced the extension of trips of five pairs of festival special trains in view of the Dussehra season.In order to clear extra rush during Dussehra festival, SCR will run the special trains between Secunderabad-Narsapur & Secunderabad-Kakinada Town @drmsecunderabad @drmhyb @VijayawadaSCR pic.twitter.com/xjFOdRit2PIn order to clear extra rush during Dussehra festival, SCR will run the special trains between Secunderabad-Narsapur & Secunderabad-Kakinada Town @drmsecunderabad @drmhyb @VijayawadaSCR #Dussehra #festival pic.twitter.com/LMKDXbEqbHIn order to clear extra rush during #Dussehra #festival , SCR will run the special trains between #Purna and #Tirupati Tr. No. 07607 Purna-Tirupati on 11,18,25 Oct'2021Tr. No. 07608 Tirupati - Purna on 12,19,26 Oct'2021@drmned @drmsecunderabad @drmhyb pic.twitter.com/V7XkoPA8fAFor the convenience of passengers and with a view to meet the travel demand, trips of 5 pairs of Festival Special Trains are being extended.@RailMinIndia @drmbct pic.twitter.com/bTsfYANecSOn a related note, the Railway Board has extended its current coronavirus disease (Covid-19) guidelines for another six months. In the new order, the board stated that anyone found violating the mask mandate in railway premises or during travel can be fined up to ₹500. Under the standard operation procedure (SOP) for movement of trains now, the railways mandated that “all passengers shall be wearing face cover/mask at entry and during travel.” The fine for mask mandate violation was supposed to be in place till September but has now been extended for another six months.In April, the Indian Railways first announced a fine of ₹500 for violating the mask mandate owing to the second wave of Covid-19 when the country was reporting more than 200,000 new infections each day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-railways-to-start-festival-special-trains-from-today-details-here-101633822588349.html
10-10-2021||India||Union minister's son in judicial custody over Lakhimpur incident; court to hear matter tomorrow||Ashish Mishra, Union minister of state for home affairs Ajay Mishra Teni's son who was arrested on Saturday night in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case, will be in judicial custody and a local court will hear the matter on Monday on whether he should be sent to police custody, his lawyer has said. "He will be in judicial custody for the time being. He was produced before the judicial magistrate and the police had demanded three-day custody, to which we objected. The matter will be heard on October 11 and it will be decided whether Mishra will be sent to police custody," Ashish Mishra's lawyer Awadesh Singh told reporters on Saturday, according to news agency PTI.Ashish Mishra, who has been charged with murder, was arrested on Saturday after 12 hours of interrogation by the Uttar Pradesh police. Ashish Mishra was later taken to the district jail. Deputy inspector general (state police headquarters) Upendra Agarwal said Ashish Mishra was arrested because he not cooperating during the interrogation and didn't answer a few questions.Also read | Will intensify the agitation after Lakhimpur: FarmersPolice officials said Ashish was questioned about his location and involvement in the incident in Lakhimpur Kheri that resulted in the death of eight people, including four farmers, on October 3. They said the nine-member investigation committee prepared 40 questions for Ashish, who did not clarify his location at the time of the incident.UP police’s additional director general, law and order, Prashant Kumar has said they have identified six people as accused. Three of them have died in the violence, two have been arrested and the sixth is Ashish Mishra. Another accused was unidentified. The police have also raided several places to look for former Union minister Akhilesh Das’ nephew Ankit Das, who said to be accompanying Ashish Mishra in his SUV at the time of the incident, in Lucknow and Lakhimpur Kheri. Das’ black SUV was seen, in videos of the incident shared on social media, following the minister’s car that allegedly mowed down four farmers after which violence broke out. Ankit Das was not found but his driver has been taken into custody.Also watch | Union Minister’s son in judicial custody; court to hear matter on October 11Ashish Mishra’s arrest came after came a day after the Supreme Court questioned the non-arrest of the accused, directed preservation of evidence and mulled transferring the probe to another agency. A bench headed by Chief Justice NV Ramana said that the law must take its course against all accused and the government has to take all remedial steps in this regard to inspire confidence in the investigation of the brutal murder of eight people.Also read | ‘Reaction to action’: Tikait on BJP workers’ murder in Lakhimpur KheriThe Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), which is spearheading the agitation against the three central farm laws, alleged that the violence was held under a pre-planned conspiracy and demanded the arrest of the minister and his son. Ajay Mishra should be “dismissed from the cabinet and arrested on charges of spreading disharmony, murder and conspiracy. He is also protecting the culprits in the case”, SKM leader Yogendra Yadav alleged during a press conference in Delhi.Also read | Harsimrat for SC-monitored probe into Lakhimpuri deathsThe farmer unions said they will take out a 'Shaheed Kisan Yatra' from Lakhimpur Kheri with the ashes of slain farmers if the government does not accept their demands by October 11. Yadav said SKM will burn the effigies of the prime minister and the home minister to protest against the violence on Dusshera on October 15. The SKM also gave a call for a “rail roko” protest across the country from 10am to 4pm on October 18 and a “mahapanchayat” in Lucknow on October 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-minister-s-son-in-judicial-custody-over-lakhimpur-incident-101633823787231.html
10-10-2021||India||S Jaishankar to leave for 3-nation tour today||External affairs minister S Jaishankar will on Sunday embark on a three-nation tour, which will see him visit Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan and Armenia, respectively, from October 10-13. Jaishankar's visit will provide India an opportunity to review the progress in its bilateral ties with the three countries, as well as share views on developments in the region, the Ministry of external affairs (MEA) noted in a statement.Also Read | External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar to visit Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan and ArmeniaDetailing the itinerary of the minister's visit, the MEA informed that Jaishankar will reach Kyrgyzstan on Sunday itself, adding that this will be his first visit to the country as India's external affairs minister. He will meet his Kyrgyz counterpart Rusian Kazakbev, and also call upon the nation's president, Sadyr Japarov. Some MoUs are also likely to be signed between the two countries.On October 11, Jaishankar will leave for Kazakhstan. There, he will attend the 6th ministerial meeting of the Conference of Interaction and Confidence Building Measures in Asia (CICA), of which Kazakhstan is the current chair. He is also expected to meet deputy prime minister Mukhtar Tileuberdi, who is also the Kazakh foreign minister.On the last leg of his tour, Jaishankar will depart for Armenia on October 12. This, the MEA said, will be the first-ever visit of an Indian foreign minister to an independent Armenia. The minister will meet his Armenian counterpart, Ararat Mirzoyan, and will also interact with its prime minister, Nikol Pashinyan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/s-jaishankar-to-leave-for-3-nation-tour-today-101633822870153.html
10-10-2021||India||Centre takes steps to build up coal stocks||The supply of coal and the power situation in the country are likely to improve soon, with steps being taken to ensure gradual buildup of coal stocks in the near future, people aware of the matter said on Saturday.An inter-ministerial sub-group led by the coal ministry has been monitoring the situation twice a week. In order to manage the coal stocks and ensure equitable distribution, the power ministry earlier constituted a core management team (CMT). “The CMT is closely monitoring and managing the coal stocks on a daily basis and ensuring follow up actions with CIL, railways to improve the coal supply to power plants,” an official said on condition of anonymity.Also Read| Amid warning of power crisis due to coal shortage, Centre lists 4 reasonsOn Saturday, the CMT held a meeting to review the latest situation. “It was noted that on October 7, total dispatch of coal by Coal India limited (CIL) touched 1.501 MT thereby reducing the gap between consumption and actual supply. Ministry of Coal and CIL have assured that they are making best efforts to increase dispatch to power sector to 1.6 MT per day in next three days and thereafter try to touch 1.7 MT per day. It is likely to help in gradual buildup of coal stocks at the power plant in near future. The coal supply as well as consequent power situation is likely to improve,” the official quoted above said.There are four reasons for the depletion of coal stocks at the end of the power plants — sharp increase in demand of electricity due to the revival of the economy; heavy rainfall in coal mine areas during September; increase in prices of imported coal, causing more dependence on domestic coal; and non-building of adequate coal stocks before the onset of the monsoon. “There are also legacy issues of heavy dues of coal companies from certain states such as Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, UP, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh,” another official said.With declining coal reserves sparking concerns of a power crisis in the country, the Centre has issued guidelines for optimum utilisation at stations generating electricity, a move that is aimed at ensuring that no “unutilised capacity remains idle” by relaxing some aspects of power purchase agreements.“It has been brought to the notice of the Government that some power plants are not generating to their full capacity at any given time and the unutilised capacity remains idle as they are tied up under power purchase agreements. Whereas in the public interest, such power needs to be despatched, where there is a requirement in the grid by the other users or consumers,” the latest guidelines, issued by the Union power ministry on October 8, said. HT has seen a copy of the guidelines.Also Read| Coal crisis: Delhi may soon face load shedding; Kejriwal seeks PM's interventionAs the Indian economy picked up after the brutal second wave of Covid-19, demand for power rose steeply. Global coal prices also increased by 40% and India’s imports fell to a two-year low. The country is the world’s second largest importer of coal despite also being home to the fourth largest coal reserves in the world.“Where the procurer does not requisition power from the power plant with which he has signed the Power Purchase Agreement (PPA), up to 24 hours in advance prior to 00.00 hrs of the day of delivery of power, the generator shall be free to sell the unrequisitioned power in the power exchange,” the guidelines said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-takes-steps-to-build-up-coal-stocks-101633820191576.html
10-10-2021||India||Union health minister reviews vaccine progress as India nears 1 billion doses||Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya reviewed the progress of Covid-19 vaccination in 19 big states on Saturday, as India inches closer to administering one billion vaccine doses.Mandaviya interacted with principal secretaries and health mission directors of all major states, and reviewed the progress of Covid-19 vaccination, the health ministry said in a statement. “He underlined that the immediate milestone in India’s Covid-19 vaccination journey is the completion of administration of 100 crore (1 billion) doses,” it said. Till Saturday evening, India has administered 940 million vaccine doses.“The twin-pronged solution is to follow Covid-19 protocols very strictly and speeding up of vaccination,” Mandaviya said. “Experiments peg the number of first dose recipients not developing severe Covid-19 to be 96% and the number increases to nearly 98% for people who have taken both doses of the vaccine.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-health-minister-reviews-vaccine-progress-as-india-nears-1-billion-doses-101633813694060.html
10-10-2021||India||Shah Faesal likely to be appointed Lt Guv’s adviser||Former IAS officer Shah Faesal may become the advisor of J&K Lt Governor Manoj Sinha.The speculation about Faesal being nominated as the advisor gained momentum after Baseer Khan was relieved of the said charge earlier this week.The government, however, is tight-lipped about the former IAS officer’s fresh appointment. Off late, Faesal has been repeatedly praising Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah on social media.Last year, 17 months after laying the foundation of a new political party, Faesal had resigned the as president of the Jammu and Kashmir Peoples Movement. The 38-year-old former bureaucrat had also removed the party tag from his bio on social media that gave rise to speculation that he could rejoin the government or pursue other interests. Faesal had formed the party in March 2019.Faesal had resigned as an IAS officer in 2018, citing personnel reasons. He was detained at the Delhi airport on August 4, 2019 after he reached the national capital from Srinagar, a day before Parliament pushed through constitutional changes revoking Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and bifurcating it into two Union territories, J&K and Ladakh.In February, the Public Safety Act was invoked against him, but was revoked before he was released in June.Faesal was the IAS topper of 2010 and has worked in various positions in the Jammu and & Kashmir administration. The government didn’t accept his resignation. Earlier too, there were rumors that Faesal could be appointed as advisor of the Lt Governor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/faesal-likely-to-be-appointed-lt-guv-s-adviser-101633815518391.html
10-10-2021||India||CWC to meet on Oct 16 over farmers’ issues and UP violence||The Congress Working Committee (CWC) will meet on October 16 to discuss the Lakhimpur Kheri incident where eight people died, and the issues faced by farmers, people familiar with the development said.The highest executive body of the party will also likely to address issues related to the turmoil in its Punjab unit, as demanded by some leaders, the people said, requesting anonymity.“The CWC meeting will take place on 16 October,” a Congress leader said. “It might be a physical meeting.” Meetings of the CWC have been held virtually for the past 18 month due to the Covid-19 pandemic, as many leaders could not travel to Delhi, while others preferred to maintain social distancing.The meeting is likely to focus on the farmers’ issues after party leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra visited the kin of four farmers who were run down by a car belonging to junior home minister Ajay Kumar Mishra in Lakhimpur Kheri district on October 3.Cong plans silent protestThe Congress has decided to observe ‘Maun vrat’ or silent protest across the country on October 11, demanding the immediate sacking of Union minister of state for home affairs Ajay Mishra from his post.A letter from KC Venugopal, general secretary in charge of organization, said, “All PCCs are requested to hold Maun vrat in front of Raj Bhavan or Central Government Offices in their respective states/UT headquarters demanding the same..”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cwc-to-meet-on-oct-16-over-farmers-issues-and-up-violence-101633813098300.html
10-10-2021||India||Mumbai cyber police summon CBI chief in data leak case||The cyber wing of the Mumbai Police has summoned Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) director Subodh Kumar Jaiswal for a probe in connection with a case registered under the Official Secrets Act regarding an alleged leaking of a report revealing corruption in police transfers and postings and illegal phone tappings.Jaiswal was the Director General of Police, Maharashtra when the said report was allegedly leaked. He has been asked to remain present before the investigators on October 14, said a senior IPS officer from Mumbai police.Jaiswal did not respond to phone calls and messages. Earlier the cyber police recorded the statement of senior Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Rashmi Shukla in connection with the same matter in May 2021. Shukla, who is presently on central deputation and posted as additional director general of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) in Hyderabad, had refuted the allegations made against her in the FIR. The cyber police had on March 26 registered a case on the basis of a complaint lodged by the state intelligence department (SID) against unknown persons for allegedly leaking the report submitted by Shukla to Jaiswal, over the purported payments for transfers within the police department. Shukla was the commissioner, state intelligence department in August 2020 when the report was prepared by her.Shukla’s report had named senior politicians, middlemen and police officers, who allegedly sought transfers and postings of their liking. The report referred to “monetary exchange” between officers and middlemen acting in close connection with politicians. Home department officials said that the copy that was reportedly leaked was the SID’s office copy and did not bear Shukla’s signature on it. Previously, state chief secretary Sitaram Kunte had submitted a report to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, detailing the circumstances in which Shukla had created the report. Kunte’s report stated that Shukla had intercepted the calls of six people in the name of “public safety” and thus “misguided the authorities”. It further stated that no transfers of police officers took place between June 27 and September 1, 2020, the period in which the calls were intercepted. Kunte’s report raised doubt on whether Shukla had leaked the report. He contended that if that were the case then she would be liable for “strict action”. “The report leak had led to a breach of privacy and defamation of the officers whose names have been mentioned in it. The deals for the transfers mentioned in it and actual transfers done by the government differ. This proves that there was no question of any scam in the transfers,” Kunte’s report stated. Earlier, Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis had alleged, “Shukla had sought proper permissions from the then additional chief secretary (home), and intercepted the phone calls.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-cyber-police-summon-cbi-chief-in-data-leak-case-101633814318195.html
10-10-2021||India||Kerala gold smuggling accused Sandeep Nair out on bail after custody of 15 months||After spending 15 months in judicial custody, the fourth accused in the Kerala gold smuggling case, Sandeep Nair, was released on bail on Saturday from the central jail in the state capital. Earlier he was granted bail in cases registered by the National Investigation Agency and Enforcement Directorate but he could not come out due to charges imposed under the Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act (Cofeposa). His one-year detention under Cofeposa ended on Friday and the High Court also quashed Cofeposa provisions imposed on his acquaintance Swapna Suresh on Friday. After coming out of jail, Nair said most of the charges against him were trumped up and he would fight it out in court. He said he will stick to all statements given to various investigating agencies. While he was in the jail he sent a letter to the chief judicial magistrate in Ernakulam alleging that he was under pressure from a senior officer of the ED to drag the names of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and two other ministers in the case. It led to a major faceoff between the ED and the state government and the latter registered a case against ED assistant director P Radhakrishnan which was later quashed by the High Court. Later the NIA had made him an approver in the case much to the reservation of other central agencies. To a question, Nair said he knew Swapna Suresh for last three years or so but was in touch with first accused P Sarith as an employee of the UAE consulate for many years. He said since he was released on bail under strict conditions he could not divulge further details about cases pending against him. The sensational gold smuggling case surfaced in July 2020 after the seizure of 30 kg gold hidden in bathroom fittings in one of the consignments camouflaged as diplomatic baggage in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) consulate in Thiruvananthapuram. The case was later handed over to the NIA and the agency arrested Swapna Suresh and her accomplice Sandeep Nair from their hideout in Bengaluru. The case invited enough embarrassment for the Left Front government after the CM’s principal secretary M Sivasankar, a senior IAS officer, was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate. Later he was suspended and he secured bail from the High Court. During investigation central agencies found that the accused smuggled at least 180 kg gold on 21 different occasions through the consulate. After the case came to light a senior consulate official slipped out of the country under the garb of diplomatic immunity. Though customs made a request to the Union government to interrogate him the UAE is yet to grant permission. Now a multi-agency team (NIA, ED, Customs and Income Tax) is probing the case and 34 people have been arrested so far but most of them got bail later. Customs preventive officer Sumit Kumar, a tough officer who was supervising the investigation, was also transferred later. On Friday the HC had quashed the Cofeposa slapped on main accused Swapna Suresh. Her mother had moved the court saying Cofeposa can be applied on habitual offenders and this was the first case against her. A division bench of Justices AK Jayasankaran Nambiar and CP Mohammad Nias allowed the mother’s plea that sought quashing of the order. Though Cofeposa was quashed she will remain in judicial custody as many other cases are pending against her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-gold-smuggling-accused-sandeep-nair-out-on-bail-after-custody-of-15-months-101633810897860.html
10-10-2021||India||Big rejig: Ex-ministers now part of key house panels||In the biggest reshuffle of Parliament’s department-related standing committees since 2019, senior BJP leaders, who were dropped as ministers during the cabinet rejig in July, have been accommodated in key House panels.Bihar’s former deputy chief minister Sushil Modi has replaced Bhupendra Yadav as the chairman of the Personnel, Public Grievances and Law and Justice panel. The former has become the Union minister of environment and sciences and the labour minister in July this year. Two top-ranking Opposition leaders—the Congress’s Abhishek Singhvi and Trinamool’s Derek O’Brien—shifted to the home affairs committee at a time when the junior minister for home affairs Ajay Kumar Mishra is in choppy waters over the Lakhimpur violence which killed eight people after a car mowed down protesting farmers in UP.The newly created ministry of cooperation is yet to be allocated to any House panel. Officials pointed out that the House has to take a decisionAmong former cabinet ministers, Ravi Shankar Prasad is in the finance panel, Prakash Javadekar and Harsh Vardhan are in external affairs, Sadanand Gowda in defence, Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank in law and Santosh Gangwar in the commerce panel.The reshuffle, for the first time, also saw at least 28 Rajya Sabha MPs being shifted out of their existing panels due to poor attendance, according to a senior official. Out of the 237 Rajya Sabha members nominated by chairman Venkaiah Naidu for the 24 department-related standing committees for 2021-22, a total of 50 members of the Upper house also have been placed in new committees.“This includes 28 members who had poor attendance in the meetings of committees held during 2020-21. 12 of these 28 members didn’t attend any meeting in the last one year due to Covid or elections,” said a senior Rajya Sabha official.The entry of O’Brien and Singhvi in the home affairs committee assumes significance as both leaders have been vocal critics of the functioning of the home ministry over various issues including internal security.Singhvi told HT, “It’s a privilege to serve on any parliamentary standing committee. But home affairs always has a wide jurisdictional outlook and raises many challenging issues.” O’Brien’s joining comes when the Bengal government, ruled by the Trinamool Congress, has frequently been at loggerheads with the home ministry.While a detailed analysis of shifting of Lok Sabha members was awaited, most of the changes involving 50 members of the Rajya Sabha were suggested by the respective parties. Among the major changes, Chaya Devi Verma has moved from Agriculture to Social Justice and Empowerment while Prof Manoj Kumar Jha of the RJD has shifted from railways to labour. Congress leader Shaktisinh Gohel will join the transport panel from IT committee while the BJD’s Sasmit Patra is now in the education committee from the law and justice committee.Trinamool’s Mausam Noor goes from the Commerce to the Water Resources panel and world champion in boxing, nominated member MC Mary Kom, has opted for the Urban Development panel from the food body. Indu Bala Goswami will be in the health panel.There are 24 standing committees and each panel has 11 members of Rajya Sabha and 20 of Lok Sabha.“All three Shiv Sena members in the Rajya Sabha got new panels. Sanjay Raut moves to External Affairs from Defence, Anil Desai from Coal and Steel to Commerce and Priyanka Chaturvedi from Commerce to Transport, Tourism and Culture. All 3 had good attendance last year,” said another official.Data for Rajya Sabha members suggests that 9 BJP members, 6 from Trinamool, Congress (4), 3 members each from Sena, CPM, RJD, YSRCP and 2 each from DMK,BJD and TRS have been shifted to new panels as per the consultations with the parties. All other parties have seen at least one member shifting to another panel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/big-rejig-ex-ministers-now-part-of-key-house-panels-101633808606690.html
10-10-2021||India||Maharashtra: Uddhav Thackeray, Narayan Rane trade barbs at Sindhudurg airport inauguration||Chipi (Maha): Arch-political enemies Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Union minister Narayan Rane on Saturday shared the dais at the inauguration of an airport at Chipi in the Sindhudurg district, and took swipes at each other.This was probably for the first time the two came together on stage after Rane parted ways with the Shiv Sena -- now headed by Thackeray -- on a bitter note sixteen years ago. The occasion also had a backdrop of Rane’s arrest in August this year for a remark against the chief minister.Rane, who hails from Sindhudurg, in his speech listed the work done by him since he was elected as MLA from this picturesque region of coastal Maharashtra for the first time in 1990.He was given the charge of the district on the instructions of Shiv Sena founder (and Uddhav Thackeray’s father) late Bal Thackeray, and there were no proper roads, water or education facilities in the region then, he said. After the Shiv Sena-BJP combine came to power in the state in 1995, he requested then chief minister Manohar Joshi to declare Sindhudurg as a “tourism district”, Rane claimed. “After that the work for basic amenities like roads, power, education, water, and healthcare was carried out. The existing infrastructure is because of Narayan Rane. Nobody can match it,” he said.“People know who works. Uddhav-ji, I learnt everything from Saheb (Bal Thackeray),” Rane added.The BJP leader also said even today there is no water or electricity infrastructure near Chipi, nor is there a proper road to the airport. In a barely veiled attack on the chief minister, Rane said the late Bal Thackeray disliked lying, and did not care for those who lie.In his speech, chief minister Thackeray hit back, saying, “Balasaheb did not like lying. Hence, many times such people (who lied) were kicked out of the Shiv Sena. (Bal Thackeray would say) Even if the truth is bitter, please speak it.” In another dig at Rane, he said, “As per my knowledge, the Sindhudurg fort was built by (Shivaji) Maharaj...otherwise someone might say `I built it’.” He also said it must be pondered why it took so long for this airport to be built. “Some people said Konkan will be transformed into California, but why has it not happened yet,” Thackeray added.Then he took a dig at Rane’s portfolio at the Centre, namely, Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME). “You (Rane) are a minister. So what if it is `micro and small’, it is still an important department and (we are sure) you will use it for the benefit of Maharashtra,” the CM said. There should also be a heliport at Chipi which can be used for tourism, he said.The chief minister also said he never mixed politics and work, and when Rane called him up for the grant of approval for a medical college in the Sindhudurg district, he immediately cleared the proposal. Since his exit from the Sena in 2005, for which he blamed Uddhav Thackeray, Rane has often targeted the latter. Soon after he was inducted into the Union cabinet, Rane was arrested by the Maharashtra police in August over his comments against Thackeray. He was granted bail by the court the same day. Meanwhile, Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia said on this occasion that thanks to the new airport, the distance of 530 km between Mumbai and Chipi can now be covered in 50 minutes. There are also plans to connect Chipi with Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Kolkata and other major cities and 20-25 flights to Chipi will be started in the next five years, he said. Maharashtra now has 14 airports, Scindia noted. Tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray, who also handles environment portfolio, said all efforts will be made to promote tourism in Konkan while conserving its ecology. The Sindhudurg Airport, also known as Chipi Airport, is spread over 275 hectares. The length of its runway is 2,500 metres, and it can accommodate narrow-body aircraft like Airbus A-320 and Boeing B-737. The airport terminal building has the capacity to handle 200 departing and 200 arriving passengers during peak hours.Union minister Ramdas Athawale and Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar were also among those present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-uddhav-thackeray-narayan-rane-trade-barbs-at-sindhudurg-airport-inauguration-101633808380018.html
10-10-2021||India||NCB records statement of Shah Rukh Khan’s driver in drugs bust case||Mumbai: The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Saturday recorded the statement of one of the drivers of actor Shah Rukh Khan in connection with the seizure of drugs from a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast. The development comes a day after a court denied bail to Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan and seven others in the case and remanded them in judicial custody. An NCB team busted an alleged drugs party on the Cordelia Cruise ship, which was on its way to Goa at mid-sea on October 2. Meanwhile, the NCB on Saturday also recorded the statement of film producer Imtiaz Khatri, shortly after raiding his Bandra residence. After nearly eight hours of questioning, the agency again summoned him to appear before it on Monday. The agency also arrested a drug peddler from Santacruz in connection with the rave party bust, for allegedly supplying contraband material to one of the arrested accused. The peddler’s link was found during interrogation of the arrested accused in the cruise drug bust case, said a NCB officer.So far, the agency has arrested a total 19 accused in the case, including Aryan Khan, his friend Arbaaz Merchant, fashion designer Munmun Dhamecha and a Nigerian national drug peddler, along with others.NCB detained Aryan Khan along with seven others on Saturday night, and arrested him on Sunday afternoon during the raid on the cruise ship on which he was present. The agency recovered 13 grams of cocaine, 5 grams of mephedrone, 22 pills of MDMA (Ecstasy) -- all categorised as “intermediate quantities”, and 21 grams of charas, which falls under “small quantity”, and cash of ₹1.33 lakh during the raid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncb-records-statement-of-shah-rukh-khan-s-driver-in-drugs-bust-case-101633807477479.html
10-10-2021||India||Will intensify the agitation after Lakhimpur: Farmers||Farmer leaders on Saturday said they will intensify their stir against the three farm laws in the wake of violence in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri district where eight people were killed, including four farmers and a journalist.They demanded the immediate arrest of Ashish Mishra, the son of junior home minister Ajay Kumar Mishra, for his alleged involvement in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident.“We demand the dismissal of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra and immediate arrest of his son Ashish Mishra,” Yogendra Yadav, a leader of Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), a collective of farmer organisations, said at a media briefing in New Delhi on Saturday.SKM, which has been leading demonstrations against the three central farm laws for over a year, said farmers from various states would gather in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 12 to mourn the death of the four farmers and the journalist.SKM threatened to block train traffic on October 18, and hold a mahapanchayat (general gathering) on October 28 at Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh’s capital, if their demands are not met.Farm unions blame Ajay Kumar Mishra and his son Ashish, who has been booked under charges of murder among others, for the violent incident in which a convoy of vehicles belonging to the junior home minister ploughed through farmers returning from a protest last Sunday.SKM’s announcement came on a day when Uttar Pradesh police interrogated the minister’s son, who was not arrested till the time of filing of this report. The minister and his son have denied any involvement.“This incident has completely exposed the character of the Union government, the Uttar Pradesh government and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which is in power at both places,” Yadav said. “The BJP is not ready to take any step against its leaders and goons, even after there is clear evidence of such a big murder and involvement of BJP leaders in it. It is clear that the BJP has now turned to violence after losing ground in the face of this historic farm movement.”Farmers have been agitating for over a year against the three new agriculture laws that seek to liberalise farm trade in the country.One of the laws allows big businesses and supermarkets to buy produce from farmers outside the regulated, state-backed wholesale markets. The second law allows private traders to stockpile food, while the third law lays down a framework for contract farming.The government says the changes were necessary to boost investment and raise farm incomes, but farm unions maintain that the new laws would leave them at the mercy of big corporations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-intensify-the-agitation-after-lakhimpur-farmers-101633806683051.html
10-10-2021||India||After marathon questioning, Union minister’s son held for Lakhimpur incident||After nearly 12 hours of marathon questioning, the Lakhimpur police on Saturday arrested Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni’s son Ashish Mishra at the crime branch office, police officials privy to the investigation said.Deputy inspector general, state police headquarters, Upendra Agarwal confirmed the arrest.“He was arrested after he failed to cooperate in the interrogation. He could not inform or validate on various points regarding his whereabouts at the time of the incident. We will try to get information from him after getting him on police remand,” Agarwal said.The officials said Ashish was questioned about his location and involvement in the incident that resulted in the death of eight people, including four farmers, on October 3.A police official said the nine-member investigation committee headed by deputy inspector general (DIG), state police headquarters, Upendra Agarwal, along with senior committee member Sunil Kumar Singh, commandant of 10th battalion PAC, questioned Ashish Mishra.He said the committee had prepared 40 questions to be asked. Ashish presented multiple affidavits through his lawyer Awadhesh Singh, who accompanied him, he said, adding Ashish had not clarified about his location at the time of the incident.He elaborated Ashish Mishra’s mobile phone was seized and video recording of the entire process was done by the investigation committee, which started questioning Ashish soon after he appeared before it at around 10.40 am. Lakhimpur Sadar MLA Yogesh Verma of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) also accompanied Ashish to the crime branch office. However, he stayed out of the interrogation room.Ashish Mishra appeared before the investigators after the second notice was pasted at his Lakhimpur residence on Friday, asking him to appear in connection with the violence in which eight people were killed, including four farmers. He had failed to show up in response to the first notice and missed his 10 am deadline on Friday.The notice to Ashish Mishra was issued under Section 160 of the Criminal Procedure Code and he was asked to appear and present evidence that he was aware of the incident.Earlier on Thursday, UP police’s additional director general, law and order, Prashant Kumar had said the police identified six people as accused, three of them dead in the violence, the two accused who have been arrested and Ashish Mishra. Another accused was unidentified. The two accused Luv Kush and Ashish Pandey were arrested and sent to jail on Thursday.The police also raided several places in search of former Union minister Akhilesh Das’s nephew Ankit Das in Lucknow and Lakhimpur Kheri after he was said to be accompanying Ashish Mishra in his SUV at the time of the incident. In videos of the incident shared on social media, Das’s black SUV was seen following the minister’s car that allegedly mowed down four farmers after which violence broke out. Ankit Das was not found but his driver has been taken into custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-marathon-questioning-minister-s-son-ashish-mishra-held-for-lakhimpur-kheri-incident-101633806038888.html
10-10-2021||India||16-year-old schoolgirl gangraped in Karnataka, four detained: Police||BengaluruA 16-year-old schoolgirl was gangraped by five men in Bantwal taluk of Karnataka’s Dakshina Kannada district, police said on Saturday. Four people have been detained. The incident happened around  7 am on Friday when the survivor was going to school, according to the complaint filed at Bantwal police station. One of the accused, an acquaintance of the girl, arrived in a car with some friends, abducted the girl and took her to a secluded place, where they assaulted her sexually, the police complaint said.The survivor is receiving treatment, and a medical examination report is awaited, police said.“Total four accused have been taken into custody till now. Two of them have been accused of rape. Further investigation is going on,” said Rishikesh Sonawane, superintendent of police in Dakshina Kannada. The accused have been booked under relevant sections of the Indian penal code and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, at Bantwal police station, an official said on condition of anonymity. Police is trying to trace a fifth person, he said. The assault took place barely two months after a woman was raped by drunk men on August 24 in Chamundi Hills, a tourist spot in Mysuru, about 125 km from Bengaluru. Karnataka registered 504 cases of rape in 2020, compared with 2,061 cases in Maharashtra, 1,128 in West Bengal, 997 in Delhi, according to the National Crime Records Bureau. The southern state registered 2,253 cases of kidnapping, compared with 9,309 in West Bengal, 8,103 in Maharashtra, 4,063 in Delhi and 2,056 in Telangana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/16yearold-schoolgirl-gangraped-in-karnataka-four-detained-police-101633805737123.html
10-10-2021||India||Mumbai Police summons CBI director Subodh Jaiswal in phone tapping and data leak case||Mumbai: The Cyber Cell of Mumbai Police on Saturday summoned Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) director and former Maharashtra director general of police (DGP) Subodh Kumar Jaiswal in a phone tapping and data leak case, a senior official said.Jaiswal has been asked to be present to record his statement on October 14, the police official said. The summons was sent by email, he added.The case relates to the `leak’ of a report prepared by IPS officer Rashmi Shukla about alleged corruption in police transfers in Maharashtra when she headed the state intelligence department (SID). Jaiswal was the director general of police during this period.It was alleged that phones of senior politicians and officials were tapped illegally during the inquiry and the report was leaked deliberately, but the FIR registered in this regard by the cyber cell does not name Shukla or any other official. Officials of the BKC cyber police station had earlier recorded Shukla’s statement.Shukla is now posted as Additional Director General of CRPF. The FIR was registered against unknown persons for obtaining “a classified letter and classified information” of the SID under section 30 of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885 (fraudulently retaining a message delivered by mistake), sections 44(b) (failure to furnish information in time) and 66 (computer-related offence) of the Information Technology Act, 2008, and section 5 (wrongful communication of information) of the Official Secrets Act, 1923. Jaiswal, a 1985 Maharashtra-cadre IPS officer, has also served as Mumbai police commissioner in the past.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-police-summons-cbi-director-subodh-jaiswal-in-phone-tapping-and-data-leak-case-101633805377209.html
10-10-2021||India||India, Denmark agree to strengthen ‘green strategic partnership’||India and Denmark on Saturday agreed on a five-year action plan to take forward their unique “green strategic partnership” and signed four agreements aimed at boosting cooperation in green technologies and management of natural resources such as groundwater.Following a meeting with his Danish counterpart Mette Frederiksen, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the green strategic partnership finalised a year ago reflected the foresight of both countries and respect for the environment.“This partnership is an example of how by collective effort, through technology, one can work for green growth while preserving the environment. Today, we not only reviewed progress made under this partnership, but reiterated our commitment to increasing cooperation on climate change in the near future,” Modi said.Frederiksen said cooperation between India and Denmark is a “great example of how green growth and green transition can go hand in hand”. She noted that while Denmark has the skills in the field of green technologies, India has the scale to use them to benefit a population of more than a billion.“Our green cooperation is now part of a very ambitious five-year joint action plan,” Frederiksen said, adding there is huge untapped potential in trade and investment.The five-year action plan for 2021-26 aims to consolidate green and low carbon growth and focuses on sectors such as water, renewable energy, climate action, circular economy, sustainable and smart cities, cooperation in intellectual property rights; maritime cooperation, food and agriculture and health and life science.Among the four agreements signed on Saturday was a memorandum of understanding (MoU) between the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, the National Geophysical Research Institute in Hyderabad, and Aarhus University the Geological Survey of Denmark and Greenland on mapping groundwater resources and aquifers. This will pave the way for long-term collaboration to address groundwater depletion and deterioration of quality.The Indian Institute of Science-Bengaluru and Denamrk’s Danfoss Industries Private Limited inked an MoU to establish a centre of excellence on natural refrigerants for tropical climates. The centre will spread knowledge of CO2-based cooling systems and offer skill development for installation and maintaining such systems.A traditional knowledge digital library access agreement was signed by the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research and the Danish Patent and Trademark Office, while the skill development ministry and the Danish government signed a joint letter of intent to explore collaboration in skill development.Three commercial agreements announced on Saturday were an MoU between Reliance Industries and Stiesdal Fuel Technologies for developing a hydrogen electrolyser and its manufacturing and deployment in India, an MoU between Infosys Technologies and Aarhus University to establish a centre of excellence for sustainability solutions in Denmark, and an MoU between the Observer Research Foundation and State of Green on research on green transition.Modi welcomed Denmark’s decision to join the International Solar Alliance, saying this has added a new dimension to bilateral cooperation. He also thanked Denmark for backing India at different international forums.The two sides also decided to expand the scope of their cooperation, including a new partnership in health. “In order to increase agricultural productivity and income of farmers in India, we have decided to cooperate in agriculture-related technology. Under this, work will be done on technologies in many areas such as food safety, cold chain, food processing, fertilisers, fisheries and aquaculture,”, Modi said.India and Denmark will also cooperate in smart water resource management, “waste to best”, and efficient supply chains.Modi referred to Danish companies that have been working in India for a long time in areas such as energy, food processing, logistics, infrastructure and machinery, and said reforms in the domestic economy, especially steps in the manufacturing sector, are facilitating many opportunities for these firms.Reenat Sandhu, secretary (West) in the external affairs ministry, told a news briefing that the issue of Kim Davy was raised in the meeting between the prime ministers. “We have an understanding that the legal process must go forward and both countries are working on it,” she said.In 2012, India scaled down diplomatic ties with Denmark to signal its displeasure over the refusal of Danish officials to appeal in the Supreme Court against a lower court’s order barring Davy’s extradition. The two countries put their ties back on an even keel in 2018, when they decided to separate the Davy issue from the overall relationship.Sandhu said Modi also briefed Frederik on developments in Afghanistan and the Danish side echoed India’s concerns about the situation and the risks of terrorism. “Both sides share similar views on protection of human rights, including women and minorities, the need to allow people to move freely and to leave the country, the importance of an inclusive government and to prevent terrorism,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-denmark-agree-to-strengthen-green-strategic-partnership-101633805200829.html
10-10-2021||India||Maharashtra: Woman gangraped by 8 on board Pushpak Express train; 4 arrested||A 20-year-old woman was gangraped by eight men on the Lucknow-Mumbai Pushpak Express train in Maharashtra, police said on Saturday. Four people have been arrested.The rape took place when the express train was traversing between Igatpuri and Kasara around 8 pm on Friday, according to Government Railway Police (GRP).“The train had just left from the Igatpuri station and was slowing down before entering a tunnel, when the accused boarded the D-2 sleeper bogie. They were armed with knives and leather belts, and started threatening the passengers,” said a GRP officer, who did not want to be identified. The accused then allegedly dragged the survivor to a corner and raped her, the officer said.Passengers called for help when the train reached Kasara, following which four of the accused were apprehended, police said.“The victim has been taken for a medical examination... The accused are being questioned by our team. We are checking their previous records,” Quaiser Khalid, Mumbai GRP’s Police Commissioner, tweeted on the microblogging site.The accused have been identified as Arshan Sheikh (20), Prakash Pardhi (20), Arjun Pardeshi (20) and Kishore Sonawane (25). Police said Pardhi is a resident of Malwani in Mumbai. The other three live in Igatpuri and Ghoti in Nashik.Police have booked the four accused under sections 395 (dacoity), 397 (robbery or dacoity), 376(D) (gang rape), 354 (assault or use of criminal force to any woman, intending to outrage her modesty), 354(B) (assault or use of criminal force to any woman or abetment of such act with the intention of disrobing or compelling her to be naked of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), and the Railways Act.“A Deputy Commissioner of Police rank officer and a team of Crime Branch are investigating the offence. The total stolen property is estimated at ₹96,390, of which we have recovered property worth ₹34,200,” Khalid said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-woman-gangraped-by-8-on-board-pushpak-express-train-4-arrested-101633805198875.html
10-10-2021||India||‘Reaction to action’: Tikait on BJP workers’ murder in Lakhimpur Kheri||New Delhi Farmer union leader Rakesh Tikait on Saturday said the death of three people said to be associated with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri district on October 2 was a “reaction to an action”. “It was a reaction to the action of (BJP leader) Ajay Mishra’s jeep running over farmers returning home peacefully after a protest,” Tikait said in Hindi. He said a “neutral probe” into the entire incident should be ordered. Farm unions do not have faith in the probe ordered by the UP government by a retired judge, he said, adding he was “saddened” by the loss of lives. Farmers had been provoked into reacting, he said.“(Prime minister Narendra) Modi also said during the Gujarat riots that the violence was a reaction to an action. What’s wrong in saying what appears to have happened?” Tikait, a leader of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Indian farmers’ union), said. Tikait is an influential leader from Baliyan khap (clan) of western Uttar Pradesh, a sugarcane belt. He is among a clutch of leaders who have led yearlong demonstrations against the Modi government’s three farm laws enacted last year. On October 2, a convoy of vehicles belonging to Ashish Mishra, the son of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra, struck protesters, enraging farmers. A viral video a day later, reportedly of the incident, showed a jeep ploughing into farmers from behind at high speed in Lakhimpur Kheri. Eight people were killed in the incident. Four farmers and a journalist are said to have been crushed by the vehicles. Three people associated with the BJP, including the driver of the jeep, died in the ensuing violence. The police have named Ajay Mishra in a first investigation report and are probing whether he was in the vehicle that slammed into protesters. Mishra was being questioned by Uttar Pradesh till the time of filing this report. Both the Union minister and his son have denied involvement in the violence. Major farm unions belonging to the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a platform of farm unions, addressed a press conference in the Capital on Saturday in which Tikait was present. The farm unions have sought dismissal of the Union minister and arrest of his son. They announced a series of agitation to protest the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, including a massive rally in Lucknow on October 26. The unions also said they would block trains for six hours on October 18 and mourn the death of the farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri on October 12, where a large number of protesters are expected to show up. Farmers in several states are on yearlong protests against three new agricultural laws that seek to liberalise farm trade in the country. One law is meant to allow big businesses and supermarkets to buy produce from farmers outside regulated state-backed wholesale markets. A second law seeks to allow private traders to stockpile large quantities of food for future sales. A third law lays down a framework for contract farming. The government has said the changes were necessary to boost investment and raise farm incomes but farm unions say the changes will leave them at the mercy of big corporations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reaction-to-action-farmer-union-leader-rakesh-tikait-on-bjp-workers-murder-in-lakhimpur-kheri-101633804897183.html
10-10-2021||India||Kerala HC sends notice to Centre over Modi's photo on vaccination certificates||Thiruvananthapuram The Kerala high court on Friday sent a notice to the Union government on a petition seeking a Covid-19 vaccination certificate without Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s photo embossed on it. The petitioner, M Peter, a resident of Kottayam, contended that the present vaccine certificate violates the fundamental rights of a citizen and sought a certificate without the photo of the Prime Minister. Justice PB Suresh Kumar directed both the Union and the state governments to file their views in two weeks. The petitioner also produced vaccination certificates from different countries, including the United States, Indonesia, Israel and Germany, saying they all carried necessary information, not photos of their heads of government. The petitioner, a frequent traveller, also said he has to carry the certificate with him to several places and the photo of the PM has “no substance, utility or relevance”. In the petition filed through his counsel Ajit Joy, he said the fight against the pandemic has been converted into a public relations and media campaign and it gives an impression that it was a one-man show and the whole idea is to promote an individual and that too at the expense of the public exchequer. He said he has every right to carry a vaccine certificate without the photo of the PM. “The photograph is a needless intrusion into the private space of the petitioner. The central government or the PM cannot claim to have done anything particular, but their duty,” he contended in the petition. Earlier, the Union government defended its decision to include the photograph in the certificate, saying the PM’s image along with his words helps create general awareness and Covid-appropriate behaviour. When a question came up in the Upper house two months back, minister of state for health BP Pawar said it was ideal to promote awareness. “Given the context of the pandemic, its evolving nature and the fact that following of Covid-appropriate behaviour has emerged as one of the critical measures for preventing the spread of the disease,” he said in a written reply, “the photograph along with his words reinforces the message for creating awareness and importance of following Covid-appropriate behaviour even after the vaccination. It was done in the larger public interest.” The Congress and other opposition members had deplored the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-high-court-sends-notice-to-centre-over-pm-narendra-modi-photo-on-covid-vaccination-certificates-101633804657028.html
10-10-2021||India||Minister’s son arrested after questioning over Lakhimpur||Lucknow/Lakhimpur KheriThe Uttar Pradesh police on Saturday arrested Ashish Mishra, son of junior home minister Ajay Kumar Mishra, for his role in the October 3 Lakhimpur Kheri violence after several hours of questioning, officials said a day after the Supreme Court pulled up the state government for its handling of the case. Confirming the arrest, state police headquarters director general of police Upendra Agarwal said that Ashish Mishra was arrested after he “failed to cooperate”. “He was arrested after he failed to cooperate in the interrogation. He could not inform or validate on various points regarding his whereabouts at the time of the incident on the day of the incident. And we will try to get information after getting him on police remand,” he said. Ashish Mishra, who has been charged with murder, appeared before police at around 10.30am. He was interrogated till late in the night. The minister’s son was accompanied by his counsel, Awadesh Singh and Yogesh Verma, Bharatiya Janata Party MLA from Lakhimpur Sadar, to the crime branch office in Lakhimpur reserve police lines, officials said, requesting anonymity. With heavy media presence in the area, the three were escorted to the crime branch office from a separate entrance, the people said. Security personnel were deployed in strength and barricades were put up in the area.The nine-member panel, headed by Agarwal, interrogated Ashish Mishra from a list of 40 questions, including his location at the time of the violence, a police officer said.Ashish Mishra presented multiple affidavits through his lawyer, the officer said. Police have seized Ashish Mishra’s phone after the closed door proceedings, he said. Earlier on Friday, Uttar Pradesh police issued a second notice to Ashish Mishra, hours after he failed to appear for questioning in response to the first summons. Photos of police pasting the second notice outside the minister’s Lakhimpur Kheri residence were widely shared on social media. The notices were issued under Section 160 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), said officials. According to the notices, Ashish Mishra was asked to appear in person. As the questioning continued till evening, the Union minister was huddled with lawyers at BJP’s office in the district, where a large number of party workers gathered and shouted slogans in his support. Violence broke out on Sunday afternoon after a vehicle, reportedly owned by Ajay Kumar Mishra, mowed down protesters while they were returning from a demonstration in Tikunia village. Farmers allege that Ashish Mishra was in the lead car that ran over people. The junior home minister and his son deny the allegation. They have alleged that farmers pelted the car with stones that led the driver losing control of the vehicle. They also accuse the protesters of lynching two BJP workers and the car’s driver. A local journalist was also killed.Police also conducted raids at several places in Lucknow and Lakhimpur Kheri on Saturday in search of former Union minister Akhilesh Das’s nephew, Ankit Das. There are reports that Das was travelling in the same car as Ashish Mishra at the time of the incident. His driver has been taken into custody. On Thursday, Uttar Pradesh police made the first arrests in the case by detaining two people, Luvkush Rana and Ashish Pandey. Both are said to be associates of Ashish Mishra. Opposition and farm leaders, meanwhile, kept up their attack against the ruling BJP during the day, and sought Ajay Kumar Mishra’s resignation. Yogendra Yadav, who has been at the forefront of the agitation against the three central farm laws since last year, said Ajay Kumar Mishra should be “dismissed from the cabinet and arrested on charges of spreading disharmony, murder and conspiracy. He is also protecting the culprits in the case”.“His son Ashish Mishra and his associates, who have been accused of murder, should be arrested immediately,” he said at a media briefing in New Delhi.Samajwadi Party leader and former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav hit out at the government, saying it has “pulverised the Constitution”. “The way farmers were crushed, now preparations are on to crush the laws. This government has pulverised the Constitution. You have seen how a vehicle ran over farmers who were fighting for their rights. The guilty persons are yet to be caught. Instead of giving summons, a flower bouquet is being given. The summon is only in name, and (in reality) ‘samman’ (honour) is given,” he told reporters in Lucknow.Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury drew a parallel between the Lakhimpur Kheri incident and the Mumbai cruise ship raid case, saying that the “of arresting the son of @iamsrk who is allegedly a drug-addicted kid, was conspicuously absent in the case of arresting the son of Mr Ajay Mishra, MoS Home affairs”. The Narcotics Control Bureau has arrested actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan for alleged possession of contraband DRUGS at a party on a cruise. “The alacrity of arresting the son of @iamsrk who is allegedly a drug-addicted kid, was conspicuously absent in the case of arresting the son of Mr Ajay Mishra, MoS Home affairs,” Chowdhury tweeted. “It is intriguing as the wayward kid of Mr Mishra is alleged to have mowed down by the self-driven car in a savage manner to the innocuous protesting farmers. #LakhimpurKheri,” he said. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), a collective of farmer organisation leading the agitation against the Centre’s three farm laws, alleged that the violence was a “pre-planned conspiracy”.Farmer leader Darshan Pal said, “Union minister Ajay Mishra made some remarks during an event in Lakhimpur Kheri on September 25. It forms the background of what happened on October 3. The video is on Facebook. This incident is a terror attack and part of a pre-panned conspiracy.”(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ministers-son-arrested-after-questioning-over-lakhimpur-101633804596313.html
10-10-2021||India||Delhi stares at a power crisis, sends out SOS||Delhi could face power outages if the central government does not quickly resolve the coal shortage at power plants, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday. His remarks followed reports that over half of 135 coal-fired utilities, which supply more than half of India’s electricity, have fuel stocks to last just under three days.Kejriwal sought the intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to resolve the crisis in a letter. A supply disruption could impact strategic institutions such as hospitals, cold chains for Covid-19 vaccines and Covid Care Centres, he wrote.Of the five coal-fired thermal power plants that supply Delhi about 1,971MW electricity every day, at least one has completely run out of stock, Kejriwal wrote in the letter. He was referring to the Mejia thermal power station in West Bengal, which provides 100MW of electricity to Delhi. The plant has no coal reserve to generate electricity for even one extra day, the letter indicated. Of the remaining four, three had only a day of coal stocks, while the fourth had a reserve of four days, it added. “I draw your attention to the prevailing coal shortage situation that is continuing since August/September for the third month in a row, which has affected power generation from the major central generating plants supplying power to Delhi,” Kejriwal wrote in his letter.Several parts of Delhi are already suffering scheduled power cuts, residents said. Consumers in south and north Delhi, in areas such as Chirag Delhi, Burari, Deoli and Mohan Garden, reported power outages for up to four hours in the past two days.A statement from the Union power secretary’s office said: “The Union petroleum secretary has ensured that all required quantity of gas will be supplied to the gas based Bawana and Pragati stations for Delhi. NTPC has been directed to increase coal stocks equal to the national average for Dadri and Jajjhar stations and to give full availability. Delhi Discoms are not scheduling power from Dadri I as they want to exit PPA after 25 years. They have been advised to schedule power from Dadri-I.”The ministry in a separate statement, said: “Ministry of Coal and CIL have assured that they are making best efforts to increase dispatch to power sector to 1.6 MT per day in next three days and thereafter try to touch 1.7 MT per day. It is likely to help in gradual build up of coal stocks at the power plant in near future. The coal supply as well as consequent power situation is likely to improve.” Taking note of the situation, the Delhi Electricity Regulatory Commission held an emergency meeting on Saturday and decided to relax certain charges for the city’s distribution companies so they can procure power from any source readily available to them. The regulator asked the state-owned Gas Turbine Power Station to make available 270MW of electricity through natural gas or any other alternative fuel available. It separately wrote to the Union power ministry, seeking its urgent intervention to resolve the issue.The coal supply crisis seems to be deepening with the onset of the festival season as 64 power plants not located near coal mines are left with under four days of the fuel stocks.There are a number of reasons for the current situation. International prices of coal have surged, increasing the demand for local coal. Power demand, and therefore the derived demand for coal, has increased sharply in the past couple of months, perhaps a reflection of pent-up demand on account of the disruption from the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in April-May, HT reported earlier. Heavy rainfall, especially in the coal-producing regions of Jharkhand, Odisha and West Bengal, have added to the problems.Delhi power minister Satyendar Jain held a meeting with distribution companies and asked them to buy power at spot prices, if necessary. Spot purchase of power is more expensive than long-term agreements. “No power plant that supplies electricity to Delhi is operating at 100% capacity. They’re all functioning at minimum levels. Even the hydroelectric power plants are not running at full capacity. If they are run at full capacity, at least in peak hours, it will be a huge relief,” Jain said. “Delhi may face a blackout if the supplies are not resumed at the earliest.”Kejriwal requested the central government to allocate enough natural gas to run plants such as Bawana, Pragati-I and Gas Turbine Power Station in and around Delhi. Kejriwal sought that the cost of spot purchase of power be capped to “discourage profiteering by traders or generators” amid the crisis.The Delhi unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) criticised Kejriwal for not initiating steps to prevent power outages. “Whenever a crisis hits Delhi, be it of pollution, water shortage, Covid-19, or the ensuing power crisis, the Delhi government always humbly pleads for help to the Centre. But the moment the crisis passes off, Kejriwal and the Aam Aadmi Party begin criticising the Centre. People of Delhi now understand this dirty politics of the AAP and it will face its consequences in the civic elections of Delhi next year,” said Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-stares-at-a-power-crisis-sends-out-sos-101633804536292.html
10-10-2021||India||Protest erupts as Dalit man lynched in Rajasthan||Jaipur A dalit man was allegedly beaten to death in Rajasthan’s Hanumangarh district, triggering protests by local residents and a political slugfest between the ruling Congress and the Opposition. Police said three people have been detained in connection with the case.According to the police, the incident took place on October 7 in Prempura area of Hanumangarh where the accused thrashed Jagdish with sticks till he died, allegedly because of his relationship with a woman. The culprits also shot a video of the entire incident, in which they are seen giving water to the victim to drink and then thrashing him repeatedly with sticks. The accused later dumped Jagdish’s body outside his residence, police said.Taking strong note of the incident, Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat hit out at the Congress-led state government for keeping “silence” on the matter.“Rahul ji, don’t worry about Lakhimpur where Yogi ji has his governance and not your dear Gehlot ji. Show some courage to speak about the murder of dalit youth in Prempura of Rajasthan so that people get to know how truthful you are?” he said in a Twitter post in Hindi.A couple of days ago, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and his Chhattisgarh counterpart Bhupesh Baghel’s along with other party leaders met the kin of farmers killed in the violence in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri.Meanwhile, Jagdish’s family has refused to accept his body, demanding early arrest of the accused and adequate compensation. Later, SDM Ranjeet Kumar on Saturday met the victim’s family members and convinced them to cremate his body.“A case has been registered against 11 people. Three people -- Mukesh, Om Prakash and Hansraj -- have been detained and two teams have been constituted to nab the remaining accused,” Pilibanga SHO Inder Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protest-erupts-as-dalit-man-lynched-in-rajasthan-101633804476971.html
10-10-2021||India||India, China to hold 13th round of LAC talks today||The Indian and Chinese armies will parley on Sunday to cool tensions along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. Military negotiaters will try hammer out a disengagement plan for soldiers deployed at Hot Springs, one of the friction points on LAC, officials familiar with the developments said on Saturday.The 13th round of talks between corps commanders, to begin at 10.30 am, will be held at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC, said one of the officials. “Problems at Hot Springs, or Patrol Point-15, are likely to be discussed during the talks,” said a second official. “We are hopeful of positive outcomes that will take the disengagement process forward.” Both officials declined to be named.Also Read| If China continues presence along LAC, so will we: Army chief General NaravaneThe last round of talks was held on August 2, after which the two armies pulled back troops from Gogra, or Patrol Point-17A. It was the second such disengagement this year after the two armies pulled back troops and weaponry from the Pangong Tso sector in Ladakh in mid-February.If the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) is there to stay in the Ladakh theatre, so is the Indian Army, General Manoj Mukund Naravane said on the eve of the talks, referring to the massive military buildup and infrastructure development by the Chinese army across the LAC.“It is a matter of concern that the large-scale buildup that occurred last year (when the border row erupted) continues to be in place. To sustain that kind of buildup, there has been an equal amount of infrastructure development on the Chinese side. It means that they are there to stay,” the chief of the army staff said at a public event on Saturday. “But if they are there to stay, we are there to stay too.”India and China are locked in a border standoff for 17 months. Despite two rounds of disengagement at friction points this year, the two armies still have 50,000 to 60,000 troops each deployed in eastern Ladakh.Also Read| No Chinese soldier detained, no structural damage: Govt on Tawang standoffThe 13th round of military dialogue follows a face-off between Indian and Chinese soldiers along the border in the sensitive Tawang sector in northeast India’s Arunachal Pradesh last week, and another incursion by the PLA in Uttarakhand in northern India on August 30.“PLA plans to keep the entire border active so that they can keep reinforcing their claims,” former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General BS Jaswal (retd) said on Friday. “It can also be an act of creeping assertiveness to subsequently lay a claim to these areas.”Indian and Chinese commanders agreed to a speedy resolution of outstanding issues on the LAC at the 12th round of talks, with discussions focusing on disengagement of troops from the remaining flashpoints on the contested border.A joint statement issued after the 12th round described the talks as “a candid and in-depth exchange of views on resolution of remaining areas related to disengagement along LAC in the Western Sector of India-China border areas.”After the disengagement of troops from Gogra, former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd) said, “Hopefully, it can provide grounds for further disengagement in other areas. The real test will come when Depsang is discussed, and a breakthrough here could lead to a major de-escalation.”The problems at Depsang predate the current border standoff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-to-hold-13th-round-of-lac-talks-today-101633804416286.html
10-10-2021||India||Andhra Pradesh plans to set up rural clinics for better health infra in villages||Andhra Pradesh will open rural clinics to reach health care to people in villages, an initiative that will be launched by chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on January 26, India’s Republic Day.Named YSR Rural Clinics after former chief minister of combined Andhra Pradesh, YS Rajasekhar Reddy, these village clinics will help in creating health infrastructure at the grassroots, a health department official said.“At present, healthcare in rural areas is being taken care of by primary health centres. They are operating from mandal (block) headquarters,” the official said, requesting anonymity. “Now, the government plans to set up as many as 10,032 YSR Rural Clinics to take the healthcare to the villages. They will be attached to the village councils and each clinic will cover a population of 2,000.”The clinics will be staffed by health providers who are either graduates in nursing or have completed a certificate course in community health. There will also be trained midwives. Asha (accredited social health activist) workers will report to the proposed rural clinics.The clinics will be linked with primary health centres and pathological labs through video conferencing, the official said. The health records of villagers will be available in the clinics through their Arogyasri cards, the official added. YSR Arogyasri is a health scheme run by the state government.Government doctors at primary health centres will be able to assess health records through the Arogyasri cards, helping them to diagnose and treat patients when they visit villages. “Every mandal (sub-district) will have two primary health centres equipped with facilities and staff, including two doctors, and they will be integrated with emergency health services and ambulance services,” the health department official said.The staff at the rural clinic will provide 12 basic medical services and 14 types of basic diagnostic tests, the official said. As many as 64 types of medicines will be stored at the clinic. Further, 67 types of basic medical equipment will be available in these clinics, apart from telemedicine services, the official said.“The government is investing ₹16,203 crore for revamping government hospitals and medical colleges across the state in order to strengthen public healthcare and health Infrastructure,” the official said. “The chief minister has already given green signal for the recruitment of 14,200 doctors and paramedical staff this year, so that there is no staff crunch in the hospitals.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-plans-to-set-up-rural-clinics-for-better-health-infra-in-villages-101633804296930.html
10-10-2021||India||If China continues presence along LAC, so will we: Army chief General Naravane||If the Chinese army is to stay in eastern Ladakh, so is the Indian Army, army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said on Saturday, referring to the military buildup and infrastructure development by the People’s Liberation Army across the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC).“It is a matter of concern that the large-scale buildup that occurred last year (when the border row erupted) continues to be in place,” the army chief said.“To sustain that kind of buildup, there has been an equal amount of infrastructure development on the Chinese side. It means that they are there to stay. We are keeping a close watch on the developments. But if they are there to stay, we are there to stay too,” he said at a public event in New Delhi.India has taken countermeasures and matched Chinese moves, Naravane said. His comments come at a time when the rivals are planning to hold the next round of military talks to cool tensions in eastern Ladakh. The 13th round of talks to take disengagement at friction points on LAC forward is expected to take place next week.India and China have been locked in a border standoff for 17 months. Despite two rounds of disengagement at friction points this year, the two nations still have 50,000 to 60,000 troops each deployed in Ladakh.“If they continue to stay there for the second winter, it will definitely mean we will be in Line of Control (LoC) kind of situation (referring to the Indian and Pakistani deployments on the LoC), though not an active LoC as is there on the western front. We will have to keep a close eye on PLA troop buildup and deployments to ensure they don’t get into any misadventure once again,” Naravane said.Asked to comment on PLA’s intentions, given its aggressive moves in the northern sector, he said: “I wish I knew. The most difficult thing is to get into your adversary’s mind. This is the question we have been asking not just within the army, but also at other forums. But whatever those reasons may have been, I don’t think they have been able to achieve their aims because of the rapid response by the Indian armed forces.”The army chief said renewed infiltration attempts by Pakistani terrorists were being witnessed along LoC in Kashmir after a four-month lull, following the renewal of a ceasefire pact with Pakistan in February 2021. The two countries first agreed in 2003 to observe truce along their de facto border in Jammu and Kashmir.“The ceasefire held in totality till July. Incidents have started taking place again. There have been three incidents of ceasefire violation in north Kashmir. It seems to be a repeat of the 2003 pattern when it started with one odd incident and then rising to...as good as not having a ceasefire,” he said.On the Afghanistan situation and its impact on Kashmir, Naravane said when the previous Taliban regime was in power 20 years ago, Afghan-origin terrorists were operating in the valley. “There is reason to believe that the same thing might happen once again. We are prepared for any such eventuality. Just as we dealt with them in early 2000s, we will deal with them now should they venture anywhere near us.”Naravane flagged concerns about the recent targeted killings in Kashmir, saying the acts were unacceptable and a last-ditch attempt by terrorists to stay “a little relevant.”On the possibility of women being assigned front-line combat roles given that the doors of the National Defence Academy have been opened to them, he said, “We have opened 10 branches of the army to women, except infantry, armoured corps and mechanised infantry. I think for the foreseeable future that will remain the same. I will not make any false promises. We will have to see how it goes along. None of our neighbouring countries have opened up their combat arms to women officers. Things could change in future. We have to move slowly... Change will happen but at its own pace.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-china-continues-presence-along-lac-so-will-we-says-army-chief-general-naravane-101633803883938.html
10-10-2021||NA||Breaking news highlights: Union minister's son arrested in Lakhimpur violence||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:PM Modi to launch Indian Space Association on October 11Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch Indian Space Association (ISpA) on October 11 and also interact with representatives of the space industry on the occasion.Ashish Mishra, Union minister's son accused of running SUV over farmers, arrestedUttar Pradesh police have arrested Ashish Mishra, Union minister's son accused of running SUV over farmers in Lakhmipur Kheri district. Read moreUS, China resume trade talks with 'candid' exchangeThe United States and China held their first trade talks under the Biden administration with a “candid exchange” in a virtual meeting of US Trade Representative Katherine Tai and China’s Vice Premier on Friday.‘Closely monitoring and managing coal stocks': Power ministry amid power crisisCore Management Team (CMT) set up Power Ministry is closely monitoring and managing coal stocks on daily basis  and ensuring follow up actions with Coal India Limited, Railways to improve the coal supply to power plants, says Power Ministry in statement amid coal crisis. UK records 133 Covid-19 deaths, 34,950 new casesBritain on Saturday recorded 133 deaths within 28 days of a positive Covid-19 test, a slight increase on a day earlier when 127 people died, government data showed.India vaccinates over 60 lakh Covid-19 doses in a dayThe health ministry administers more than 60 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered till 7 pm today, taking India's vaccination coverage to more than 94.62 crores: Union Health MinistryNCB again summons film producer Imtiyaz Khatri in drug caseAfter nearly 8-hours of questioning today, NCB again summons film producer Imtiyaz Khatri to appear before it on Monday in the drugs-on-cruise case.‘Enhance state’s coal supply': Punjab CM to Centre amid power crisisPunjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi has asked the Central government to immediately enhance state’s coal supply as per quota to tide over power crisis with impending shutdown of its thermal plants due to fast depleting coal reserves.Lakhmipur violence: Congress leaders to observe silence on MondayCongress asks chiefs of its state/UT units to observe silence between 10 am and 1 pm on Monday outside Raj Bhavans or Central Govt offices amid row over Lakhmipur Kheri violence. It will be observed in demand for immediate sacking of Mos Home Ajay Mishra and arrest of all culprits including his son.‘Covid-19 containment can be derailed if…': Health ministerCovid-19 containment can be derailed if festivals are not celebrated following protocols, Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya warned and exhorted 19 states to escalate their inoculation pace so that India can achieve administering 100 cr vaccine doses in next few days. Orange alert for parts of KeralaIndia Meteorological Department issues orange alert for Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam and Idukki for next four days. ‘One day' coal stock left in power plants: Delhi minister amid crisisDelhi Power Minister Satyendar Jain on Saturday held a meeting with the representatives of power distribution companies (discoms) in Delhi to discuss "power crisis" in the national capital and said that there is only one-day stock of coal left in the thermal power station from where Delhi gets electricity. Read MoreCM Khattar meets Amit Shah, discusses Singhu border reopening issueHaryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar met Union Home Minister Amit Shah, on Saturday, here in the national capital to discuss the issue of reopening of Singhu and Tikri border. CM Khattar also briefed the Home Minister on the farmers' protest going on in various parts of the state.PM Modi meets Danish counterpart, sign MoUs to boost ‘green strategic partnership’India and Denmark on Saturday agreed on measures to take forward their unique “green strategic partnership” and signed four agreements aimed at boosting cooperation in green technologies and management of natural resources such as groundwater. Read MoreIf PLA there to stay, so is Indian Army, says Gen Naravane on eve of LAC talksIf the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) is there to stay in the Ladakh theatre so is the Indian Army, army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said on Saturday referring to the military buildup and infrastructure development by the neighbouring army across the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC).NCB says Gosavi, Bhanushali were witnesses in Aryan case; not known to agencyThe Narcotics Control Bureau on Saturday issued a statement clarifying the association of Manish Bhanushali and KP Gosavi in the Aryan Khan case and said the agency did not violate any norm. Read MoreIndia, China border talks tomorrow; Hot Springs de-escalation possibleA meeting between India’s Ladakh Corps Commander and Chinese South Xinjiang military district commander is expected to take place on Sunday at Chushul with de-escalation from patrolling point 15 or general area Hot Springs on the agenda.CWC to meet on Oct 16 to discuss current political situationCongress Working Committee (CWC) meeting to be held on October 16 in New Delhi to discuss current political situation, forthcoming Assembly polls, and organisational electionsKhattar says ‘hopeful’ on opening of Singhu and Tikri bordersI met home minister Amit Shah today. We briefed him on the issue of opening of Singhu and Tikri borders. I have also told him about farmers' protests being held at several locations in the state. I am hopeful that borders will be opened soon: Haryana CM ML KhattarMaharashtra CM inaugurates Sindhudurg airportUddhav Thackeray inaugurates Sindhudurg airport in presence of Union minister Narayan Rane, who was arrested recently, and released on bail, for saying he would “slap” the CM. Boat capsizes in DR CongoAround 100 dead or missing after ship capsizes in DR Congo, reports AFP citing officials.Uttarakhand govt directs officials to ensure compliance with Covid-19 rules in schoolsUttarakhand government instructs officials to strictly ensure that Covid-19 rules are followed in schools after a student in the Gopeshwar area of Chamoli district tested positive.PM Modi holds bilateral talks with Danish counterpartPrime Minister Narendra Modi holds bilateral talks with Danish PM Mette Frederiksen at Delhi's Hyderabad House.Sidhu ends hunger strike in Lakhimpur KheriNavjot Singh Sidhu, on hunger strike in Lakhimpur Kheri, ends protest as main accused in Kheri violence case, Ashish Mishra, son of Union minister Ajay Mishra, is questioned by the SIT in connection with the case.Fire breaks out at factory in Delhi's NarelaFire breaks out at a paper plates manufacturing unit in Delhi's Narela industrial area; fire fighting operations underway.Lakhimpur Kheri case: Ashish Mishra appears for questioningAshish Mishra, Union minister Ajay Mishra's son, reports to police for questioning in connection with Lakhimpur Kheri violenceLakhimpur Kheri case: Ashish Mishra will appear for questioning today, says lawyer“We will respect the notice and will cooperate in the investigation. My client will appear before the police today,” says Awadhesh Kumar, legal advisor to Lakhimpur Kheri case prime accused Ashish Mishra.People ‘desperate’ to come to India from UK, says British high commissionerPeople are desperate to come to India. Our next step is to ease the way for travellers to come here, opening up more flights so we can get people moving between UK and India: Alex Ellis, UK High Commissioner to India‘We consider India a close partner’: Danish PM Mette FrederiksenWe consider India as a close partner. I see this visit as a milestone for Denmark-India bilateral relations: Danish PM Mette Frederiksen in DelhiIndia logs 19,740 new Covid-19 cases and 248 deathsIndia logs 19,740 new Covid-19 cases, 23,070 recoveries and 248 deaths as tally rises to 33,935,309.Lakhimpur Kheri case: Security tightened at Police LinesSecurity tightened in Police lines Lakhimpur Kheri as Ashish Mishra (Son of MoS Home Ajay Mishra Teni) summoned by UP Police today. pic.twitter.com/7xkXqiuYYFSecurity tightened at Police Lines in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri as Ashish Mishra, son of Union minister Ajay Mishra, and prime accused in Lakhimpur Kheri violence case, likely to appear before Crime Branch for questioning today.Cruise ship case: NCB raids producer Imtiyaz KhatriNCB carries out raids at residence and office of film producer Imtiyaz Khatri in Mumbai's Bandra in connection with the cruise ship case. Court allows Texas to temporarily reinstate abortion lawA US federal appeals court allows Texas to temporarily reinstate abortion law, challenged in court by president Joe Biden's administration.Mizoram's Covid-19 tally at 103,709712 recoveries from Covid-19 and two deaths due to it in Mizoram on October 8. Case tally at 103,709 including 87,860 discharges, 15,505 active cases and 344 deaths. ‘Large gap’ exists on climate action commitment of development countries: India at UNLarge gap still exists on climate action commitment of developed countries to provide USD 100 billion for developing. This amount is less than what NFL earns on media rights: TS Tirumurti, India's Permanent Rep to UN on Climate Action at UNGA76Covid-19 toll in Latin America tops 1.5 millionDeath toll in Latin America due to Covid-19 surpasses 1.5 million, including more than 600,000 fatalities in Brazil alone.UNSC condemns terror attack on Shia mosque in Afghanistan's KunduzMembers of the UN Security Council “strongly condemn” the “atrocious and cowardly” terrorist attack on a Shia mosque in Afghanistan's Kunduz on October 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-october-09-2021-101633738917184.html
