11-10-2021||India||‘No shortage of coal? But power plants are shutting’: Baghel counters Centre||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Monday took a dig at the Centre for claiming there is no shortage of coal supply in the country. "The Centre claims that there is no shortage of coal but power plants are shutting down... why is it making false claims, coal import has also stopped... this will affect power supply... what is the Centre doing?" Bhupesh Baghel was quoted saying by news agency ANI.“As far as Chhattisgarh is concerned, I have met with SECL, Power, and Railway officers over the supply of coal. They have assured me that there won't be any shortage of coal supply,” the Chhattisgarh chief minister added.The Chhattisgarh government said South Eastern Coalfields Limited (SECL) will ensure the supply of 29,500 metric tonnes of coal per day for thermal power plants in the state. SECL CMD Ambika Prasad Panda gave consent for the supply following a request by Baghel, a government public relations official told news agency PTI.Union minister for home affairs Amit Shah held a meeting with Union power minister RK Singh and Union coal minister Pralhad Joshi earlier in the day to discuss the power crisis, people familiar with the development said.The meeting took place even as RK Singh on Sunday criticised the Gas Authority of India Ltd and Tata Power for sending “baseless SMSs” to customers and creating panic about a power crisis, warning that such acts will be treated as instances of “irresponsible behaviour”.The CEO of Tata Power Delhi Distribution Limited Ganesh Srinivasan warned on Saturday that the national capital might witness intermittent and rotational load shedding in the coming days as coal-based power stations are left with coal stocks that will last one-two days.The warnings came after the Central Electricity Authority released a report claiming that of the 135 power plants it monitors across the country, 64 non-pithead power plants (plants located 1,500km away from coal mines) are left with coal stocks for less than four days of supply.Delhi’s power minister Satyendar Jain had warned residents of an acute coal shortage in thermal power plants across the country and cautioned that the national capital had enough coal stocks to last one more day. "There is an acute shortage of coal in coal-fired power plants across the country. There is only one day's stock left in the plants from which Delhi gets electricity, there is no coal at all," Jain told reporters on Saturday.However, Union minister RK Singh refuted these claims insisting that the demand for coal is actually a sign of the economy recovering after the brutal second wave brought things to a standstill.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday over on the "power crisis"and said that he is "personally keeping a close watch over the situation. Meanwhile, a Tata Power spokesperson said that they have stopped generation in Mundra as the high cost of imported coal is “making it impossible to supply under present PPA terms”.ALSO READ | These states may soon face a 'blackout' as coal demands surgeMeanwhile, Karnataka's leader of opposition Siddaramaiah remarked on shortage of coal for power plants in the state earlier on Monday and said, “we have to first understand if the scarcity of coal is artificially created or not. Karnataka had never faced power crisis till now — we had excess production compared to demand.”"As our thermal plants are closed, the requirement of coal is not very high. I condemn if this is an attempt to weaken government owned production plants and privatise them," Siddaramaiah said.Earlier in the day, Kerala government's minister for power and electricity K Krishnankutty said the state government will decide on imposing loadshedding after October 19 while raising alarm that Kerala is facing a shortage of 100MW currently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-shortage-of-coal-but-power-plants-are-shutting-baghel-says-centre-lying-101633969818826.html
11-10-2021||India||IPS officer VC Sajjanar appears before SC appointed probe panel||Senior IPS officer VC Sajjanar on Monday appeared before the three-member Inquiry Commission, constituted by the Supreme Court to inquire into the incidents leading to the death of four persons accused in the rape and murder of a woman veterinarian in an alleged encounter with police near here on December 6, 2019. Sajjanar, now the Managing Director of Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC), and the then Cyberabad Police Commissioner were examined for the first time by the Commission, headed by former Supreme Court judge VS Sirpurkar. The Commission recorded the statements of Sajjanar and he will again appear before it on Tuesday. The Commission, which has completed the collection of records, has been examining witnesses and accordingly, some police officials, families of the accused, government officials, among others, have deposed before the panel so far at the commission's office in the Telangana High Court premises here.The Inquiry Panel's proceedings are currently going on in a hybrid form (physical and virtual appearence).On August 3, 2021, the Supreme Court gave another six months to the commission to file final report on the encounter killing of four accused in the case of gang-rape and murder of the young veterinarian. The Sirpurkar panel was set up on December 12, 2019 to inquire into the circumstances leading to the encounter and was to submit the report in six months. According to the Cyberabad Police here, the accused kidnapped the woman veterinarian on the night of November 27 2019 and killed her after sexually assaulting her, and then took the body in a lorry to Chattanpalli near Hyderabad, where it was burnt under a culvert. The four were arrested on November 29. They were killed in police firing on December 6, 2019 at Chattanpalli when they were taken to the scene of crime near the culvert, under which the charred remains of the 25-year-old veterinarian were found on November 28, to recover her phone, wrist-watch and others pertaining to the case. The Cyberabad police had said its personnel resorted to "retaliatory" firing when two of the accused opened fire at police after snatching their weapons, besides attacking the latter with stones and sticks, resulting in injuries to two policemen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ips-officer-vc-sajjanar-appears-before-sc-appointed-probe-panel-101633964989712.html
11-10-2021||India||Send digital records of prisoners who filed jail petitions in top court: SC||New Delhi: The Supreme Court has directed high court legal services committee and state legal services authority across the country to prepare digital records of cases of prisoners whose jail appeals are pending before the top court due to incomplete records.In an order on Friday, a bench of justices UU Lalit and S Ravindra Bhat directed the two bodies to supply all case records including deposition of witnesses concerned in digital format for smooth hearing of jail petitions. Jail petitions are requests, appeals or applications of any kind, filed by convicts who cannot afford a lawyer. These pleas are forwarded by jail authorities to the state legal services authority concerned. The Supreme Court Legal Services Authority assigns the case to a lawyer on its panel who arranges the necessary documents and gets it ready for hearing. The panel’s lawyer assists the court as amicus curiae to argue the appeal.The bench said such petitions often reached the lawyer from the panel of amicus curiae or those engaged by the Supreme Court Legal Services Committee (SCLSC) with incomplete documents and ordered that the state legal services authority or the high court legal services committee should send “complete record of the case in digital form”.Apart from the high court and trial court judgments, the top court said relevant material such as deposition of relevant witnesses and other documents such as custody certificate disclosing the length of custody undergone by the accused should also be shared with the Supreme Court’s registry or SCLSC in digital format.The directions came on a jail petition filed by a life convict lodged in a Rajasthan jail.The Supreme Court received a jail petition on behalf of the convict, Kailash Thakan challenging the Rajasthan high court’s August 6, 2019 verdict confirming his conviction and life sentence. The case was assigned to advocate Karan Bharihoke as amicus curiae on August 17, 2021. The lawyer was given two weeks to prepare the appeal.Bharihoke told the court on October 8 that he could not prepare the appeal since the case record including the depositions of the relevant witnesses was yet to be provided.The bench felt that orders were required to be passed in the matter as similar problems arose while dealing with other jail petitions.The court directed that its order to make digital records available to the lawyer should be sent to all state legal services authorities, high court legal services committees, SCLSC and the National Legal Services Authority (NALSA).Bharihoke described the court’s directions a “welcome step”, adding that it will go a long way in ensuring just and adequate representation to the accused in jail petitions.”On October 6, another bench of the Supreme Court led by justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul also took note of 300 cases where convicts in judicial custody have approached the Supreme Court court directly against conviction through jail petitions. In this case, the court directed the Supreme Court registry to ensure records from trial courts and high courts are received by end of next month.The order came pursuant to a report prepared by three lawyers – Gaurav Agrawal, Liz Mathew and Devansh Mohta who examined the 300 jail petitions (including four death convicts) and suggested that in many cases, it was not known whether the convicts had been released or died. In two cases, the team of lawyers found out that the convicts had been released while in one case, the convict died.The court ordered that a mechanism be put in place and directed NALSA to get the documents ready for hearing after receiving the records from the registry. Friday’s order implies that the high court’s legal service authorities concerned will have to supply the records to the registry in digital format.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/send-digital-records-of-prisoners-who-filed-jail-petitions-in-top-court-sc-101633968126975.html
11-10-2021||India||‘You must’ve taken free vaccine’: Union minister justifies fuel price hike||Union minister of state for petroleum and natural gas Rameswar Teli on Saturday said that the price for the vaccines is being collected by levying taxes on diesel and petrol. He also said that the price of fuel is not that high when the taxes levied is factored in.Fuel prices aren't high but include the tax levied. You must've taken a free vaccine, where will the money come from? You haven't paid the money, this is how it was collected: Union MoS (Petroleum & Natural Gas) Rameswar Teli in Assam on Oct 9 pic.twitter.com/uZZCpXdUCj“Fuel prices aren't high but include the tax levied. You must've taken a free vaccine, where will the money come from,” Teli was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. “You haven't paid the money, this is how it was collected,” Teli said.Soaring fuel prices across the country have dampened the mood ahead of the festive season. Petrol prices recorded on Monday across the country remained above ₹100. Monday was the seventh straight day of price hike which pushed the fuel prices to a new record high.Delhi saw petrol prices soar to a record high of ₹104.44 a litre while the fuel cost ₹110.41 per litre in Mumbai. Diesel prices soared above ₹100 in Mumbai, Kerala and Karnataka. According to a report by PTI, petrol prices rose by 30 paise a litre and diesel by 35 paise for six days in a row.Diesel rates have gone up by ₹4.35 per litre since September 24 while petrol prices rose by ₹3.25 per litre from September 28 onwards.The opposition parties slammed the government for fuel price hike amid the festive season. Daily commuters also voiced their concerns about the price rise and asked the government to consider the situations pertaining to Covid-19 and decreased incomes.“Prices of fuel should be reasonable. It should not take a toll on people's pockets. This move bothers the general public. Both the central and state government should reduce the taxes imposed on petrol and diesel,” a daily commuter, Yogendra, who hails from Delhi, told news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/you-must-ve-taken-free-vaccine-union-minister-justifies-fuel-price-hike-101633967121278.html
11-10-2021||India||Telangana BJP leader likens Priyanka Gandhi to ‘chameleon’||Bharatiya Janata Party leader from Telangana NV Subhash on Monday said that Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi is changing her colors like a ‘chameleon’ to woo voters ahead of the Uttar Pradesh legislative assembly polls.Subhash’s comments came after the Congress leader offered prayers at the Kashi Vishwanath Temple and Ma Durga Temple in Uttar Pradesh's Varanasi. He also said that the Congress lawmaker is gaining political mileage out of the Lakhimpur Kheri incident.“Priyanka Gandhi has started praising Hindu religion. The Gandhi family never thought of Hindu families. Priyanka Gandhi married a Christian, her mother is a Christian and her grandfather is a Muslim,” Subhash was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.“She played it all keeping the 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections in mind. It showed how the Congress party was using farmers' stirs for their political advantage. All of a sudden, Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi started becoming Hindu by visiting temples in Uttar Pradesh,” Subhash further added, claiming that Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi’s recent visits to Uttar Pradesh were a electoral gimmick.Subhash said that the BJP will return to power with a ‘thumping’ majority. The Telangana BJP leader also said that the recent actions of Priyanka Gandhi comes out of fear as her party lacks alliance partners.Priyanka Gandhi after visiting both temples also addressed a rally in Rohania, an area which is a part of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s parliamentary constituency. She earlier said that she will remain in Uttar Pradesh for five days every month ahead of the upcoming elections in order to zero in on her campaigning agenda, according to a report by news agency ANI.Priyanka Gandhi was also detained by the Uttar Pradesh police as she tried to meet the kin of the deceased farmers. She met the family of the deceased later and assured them justice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-bjp-leader-likens-priyanka-gandhi-to-chameleon-101633966854499.html
11-10-2021||India||Maneka Gandhi says BJP not naming her in national panel doesn't reduce her stature||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP and former Union minister Maneka Gandhi said on Monday she was satisfied with her two-decade old association with the saffron camp and not being included in the all-important national executive committee did not reduce her stature in any way.Gandhi and her MP son Varun’s names were missing when BJP president JP Nadda released the 80-member national executive committee of the party last week.The non-inclusion seemed to have been a repercussion of Varun’s strong criticism of the Yogi Adityanath-led BJP government’s handling of the violent clashes in Lakhimpur Kheri district last week in which at least eight persons, including four farmers and a journalist, were killed. The Pilibhit MP has been vocal about seeking justice for the victims.Also read | Varun Gandhi warns against ‘Hindu vs Sikh’ narrative in Lakhimpur violenceHe had posted a purported video of the incident and said the protesters could be silenced through murder. He also wrote to Adityanath, demanding immediate identification of suspects of the incident and registration of murder case and investigation by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) under the supervision of the Supreme Court.Gandhi, who represents the Sultanpur contingency in the Lok Sabha, said her first religion was to serve and it was important that she made a place in the hearts of people."I am satisfied to be in the BJP for 20 years. Not being in the executive does not reduce one's stature. My first religion is to serve. It is more important that I get a place in the hearts of people,” the animal rights activist was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Maneka Gandhi is on a two-day visit to her parliamentary constituency.“There are other senior leaders who also have not got a place in the executive committee. New people should also get an opportunity. I am aware of my duties and serving the people of my constituency is my first duty,” she added.Besides the mother-son duo, the BJP has also left out Birender Singh, another sympathiser of the farmers’ cause, and Subramanian Swamy and replaced them with a new crop of leaders.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maneka-gandhi-bjp-not-naming-me-in-national-panel-doesn-t-reduce-my-stature-101633966258413.html
11-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: Rahul says Lakhimpur case probe faces hurdle as MoS still in office and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'Lakhimpur Kheri violence probe faces obstruction as minister in office': RahulCongress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday claimed the probe into the Lakhimpur Kheri incident "faces obstruction" as Union minister of state for home affairs Ajay Kumar Mishra remains in office while his son, Ashish, was sent to police custody for his alleged role in the violence that claimed eight lives. Read more.Based on survey: Karnataka minister defends statement on ‘modern women’Karnataka health minister K Sudhakar on Monday defended his statement on modern women desiring to stay single and unwilling to become pregnant even after marriage saying it was based on a survey. Read more.Amit Shah meets with power, coal ministers amid coal shortage concernsUnion home minister Amit Shah on Monday held a meeting with his cabinet colleagues RK Singh and Pralhad Joshi amid reports of the ongoing shortage of coal supply to power plants and several states warning of a possible power crisis. According to news agency PTI, Amit Shah, Singh, who holds the power ministry, and Joshi, who is the coal minister, discussed the availability of coal to power plants and the current power demands during the hour-long meeting. Top officials of the power and coal ministries as well as those from NTPC also attended the meeting. Read more.‘If Kohli bats till 17th or 18th over then…’: Gambhir suggests what RCB skipper can do against KKR to win the EliminatorRoyal Challengers Bangalore on Monday will take another step in the quest for their maiden Indian Premier League (IPL) title victory as they face 2-time champion Kolkata Knight Riders in the Eliminator. All eyes will be on Virat Kohli who has decided to step down as the RCB captain following the conclusion of this season. Read more.Dharmendra shares video with first car, he once said he could ‘convert it into a taxi’ if he had nothing left. WatchVeteran actor Dharmendra shared a video of the first-ever car he bought, a black Fiat. He bought it several decades ago for ₹18,000. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-rahul-says-probe-into-lakhimpur-kheri-case-faces-hurdle-101633964266813.html
11-10-2021||India||82% adults in state have Covid-19 antibodies, says latest serosurvey in Kerala||At least 82 per cent of people above 18 years have antibodies against Covid-19 and over 40 per cent of children in the 5-17 age group are exposed to the virus in Kerala, said the latest seroprevalence survey conducted by the state government. The survey report was tabled in the state assembly by health minister Veena Goerge on Monday. Since the Covid-19 vaccine was not given to children below 18 years, the presence of antibodies may be due to recovery from infection, said experts. The survey was conducted in the first week of July and August wherein 13,000 samples were collected from different parts of the state. Since 60 per cent of children are not exposed to the virus, it is likely to affect the government’s decision to open schools on November 1. The health minister, however, said the government had formulated a “back to school” programme anticipating such a situation. “It is not mandatory for all children to attend school. Children can come only with the full consent of parents,” she said, adding that online classes will be available for students who do not want to attend school in person. The pandemic hub of the country, Kerala, for the last four months, has been reporting more than 60-70 per cent of total cases.In the last serosurvey conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research in July, Kerala’s seropositivity was the lowest in the country at 44.4 per cent while the latest is pegged at 82.6%. The immunity has been achieved either through vaccination or natural infection, said experts. Over 95 per cent of the eligible population got at least one vaccine in the state and 60 per cent received both the jabs, statistics show.Meanwhile, the state reported 6,996 new Covid-19 cases on Monday after testing 66,702 samples for the infection with a test positivity rate of 10.49%. It also reported 84 deaths in past 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/82-adults-in-state-have-covid-19-antibodies-says-latest-serosurvey-in-kerala-101633964468707.html
11-10-2021||India||Let’s unite against BJP, Goa’s Sardesai reaches out to TMC. Cong may be target||PANAJI: Goa Forward Party’s (GPF) Vijay Sardesai on Monday continued his search for an alliance partner for next year’s assembly elections after the Congress rebuffed his initial offer, declaring that parties opposed to the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party cannot sit idle and should get into action.“We Goemkars (Goans) have to awaken the Durga in each of us, draw from the positivity of the orange colour, symbolic of Day four where Goddess Kushmanda is worshipped, and surge forward,” Sardesai said on Monday.The emphasis on Goddess Durga in his appeal for a possible alliance on Monday was seen to be aimed at the West Bengal-headquartered Trinamool Congress led by Mamata Banerjee which renewed efforts to expand its base in Goa and last week inducted former chief minister Luizinho Faleiro.“It’s a shame. But we cannot sit idle forever and waste time because of the inefficiency and indecision of others. To save Goa from complete ruin, we have to act!” he added.“Our fundamental objective must be to defeat the BJP at any cost, and we have to become street fighters on every Goan street to achieve that. Narakasura (the mythical demon king) has to be destroyed and we need all the help we can get,” Sardesai said.The 51-year-old politician, who started out with the Congress but branched out after being denied a ticket in 2012, also took a swipe at the Goa Congress.“For the last 2 years, we have been rooting forcefully for a united Team Goa to challenge and defeat the corrupt anti-Goan BJP before it destroys Goa completely. Unfortunately, it has fallen on deaf ears with the principal opposition party (Congress) abdicating its duty and responsibility to heed the call or at least come halfway to fulfil this strong desire of the people to throw out the BJP,” Sardesai said.In recent weeks, Congress leaders have rejected his offers more than once, underlining that he should have displayed the same enthusiasm to block the BJP in 2017.Sardesai, who set up the GFP in 2016 ahead of the 2017 state assembly elections, led a sharp campaign against the BJP on the four seats contested by his freshly-minted party. GFP candidates won three of them. But after the results were out, he negotiated a deal with the BJP that enabled Manohar Parrikar to form the government. In exchange, Sardesai became Goa’s deputy chief minister; his two MLAs also got ministerial berths.But the three GFP lawmakers were unceremoniously evicted from the Goa cabinet in July 2019 by chief minister Pramod Sawant after 10 Congress MLAs en masse switched to the BJP.Sardesai withdrew support from the Sawant-led government but stayed put in the NDA till April this year.Prepping for the assembly elections in January-February next year, Sardesai has lately sharpened his attacks on the BJP.A Trinamool Congress leader in Goa insisted that the Mamata Banerjee-led party wasn’t in talks with Sardesai but stressed that the party was looking to unite parties opposed to the BJP.In principle, it was a point that was articulated by the Congress Goa in-charge Dinesh Gundu Rao as well. “We are willing to come together with like-minded people and parties who hold secular principles, who have been in Goa for a long time. We are willing to talk and have been talking. In the interest of Goa, we are ready for this,” Rao said last week.Former Union finance minister P Chidambaram, the Congress’ election observer for the state, said the party’s priority, for now, is to strengthen itself rather than enter into negotiations over alliances.It is also being pointed out that Vijai Sardesai and leader of the TMC’s Goa unit, Luizinho Faleiro, don’t get along. Faleiro, who led the Congress unit and hoped to become chief minister in 2017, was one of the reasons cited by the Vijay Sardesai camp to explain why its three MLAs backed the BJP rather than the CongressPolitical analyst Cleofato Almeida Coutinho said Sardesai’s overtures to the TMC could be aimed at the Congress. “It appears that this is more of a threat to the Congress that if you do not align with me, I am willing to explore other alliance partners and even with the TMC,” Coutinho, a lawyer, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lets-unite-against-bjp-goa-s-sardesai-reaches-out-to-tmc-cong-may-be-target-101633963986818.html
11-10-2021||India||Rakesh Jhunjhunwala-backed Akasa Air gets Centre's nod to operate in India||The Ministry of Civil Aviation has given a no-objection certificate (NOC) for the operation of Rakesh Jhunjhunwala-backed new airline 'Akasa Air' in India, a company statement said on Monday.The new airline aims to start operations by the summer of 2022, the holding company, SNV Aviation Private Limited, said.Akasa Air is backed by ace investor Rakesh Jhunjhunwala and ex-Jet Airways CEO Vinay Dube“We are extremely happy and grateful to the Ministry of Civil Aviation for their support and for the grant of the NOC," Dube, who is now the CEO of Akasa Air, was quoted as saying in the statement."We will continue to work with the regulatory authorities on all additional compliances required to successfully launch Akasa Air," he added.Akasa Air also has former IndiGo president Aditya Ghosh on its board.The airline plans to operate approximately 70 planes in the next four years.Airbus is in conversation with Akasa for an aircraft procurement deal, Airbus' Chief Commercial Officer Christian Scherer told PTI last week.Akasa has been in discussions with US plane manufacturer Boeing to procure its B737 Max planes, multiple media reports had said two months back. Airbus' A320 series of aircraft competes with Boeing's B737 series of planes in the aviation market.Dube said on Monday: “At Akasa Air, we believe having a robust air transportation system is critical for our nation's progress. It is this belief that has motivated us to create a modern, efficient, quality-conscious airline."Akasa Air will serve all Indians regardless of their socio-economic or cultural backgrounds with warmth, inclusiveness and respect, he stated."Because at the end of the day, it is these qualities that connect people and cultures and help Indians realise their dreams,” he added.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on October 5 met Jhunjhunwala, noting that he is very bullish about the Indian economy."Delighted to meet the one and only Rakesh Jhunjhunwala... lively, insightful and very bullish on India," Modi had tweeted.When asked on October 8 at the 'India Today Conclave 2021' about his meeting with the PM, Jhunjhunwala, without divulging much, had said they talked about the economy."I told the prime minister that the economy is going to take off," he ​had noted​.When asked about his entry into the aviation sector when some companies have gone bust, Jhunjhunwala​ had​ ​replied​​​ he cannot say much but he is prepared for any outcome."We will see what happens. If it becomes successful, I will tell you about it and if it fails, I will simply say I didn't do anything much about it. I am taking a conscious risk...I am hopeful and prepared for failure," he ​​​​had added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rakesh-jhunjhunwala-backed-akasa-air-gets-centre-s-nod-to-operate-in-india-101633961792540.html
11-10-2021||India||'Lakhimpur Kheri violence probe faces obstruction as minister in office': Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday claimed the probe into the Lakhimpur Kheri incident "faces obstruction" as Union minister of state for home affairs Ajay Kumar Mishra remains in office while his son, Ashish, was sent to police custody for his alleged role in the violence that claimed eight lives.इस मंत्री को बर्खास्त ना करके भाजपा न्याय की प्रक्रिया में बाधा डाल रही है।केंद्र सरकार ना तो किसानों की परवाह करती है, ना ही हत्या के शिकार भाजपा कार्यकर्ताओं की।#KisanKoNyayDoTaking to Twitter, Rahul Gandhi said the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government is not concerned with the death of farmers or even its own party workers. “BJP is obstructing the process of justice by not sacking the minister. The central government neither cares about the farmers nor the BJP workers who were killed,” Rahul Gandhi said in a tweet.Eight people were killed when violence erupted at a farmers’ protest in Lakhimpur Kheri after a SUV allegedly carrying the minister Ajay Mishra’s son, Ashish, mowed down four protesting farmers. While the four farmers died after they were reportedly run over by the SUV, two BJP party members and the driver of the SUV were lynched to death. A local journalist also died but the reason behind his death remains unclear.The parliamentarian from Wayanad has been critical of the Uttar Pradesh government’s handling of the incident. Rahul Gandhi and Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra met the kin of the victims despite what they alleged were "repeated attempts" by the Yogi Adityanath-led government to stop them.Rahul Gandhi, who spoke about the deceased Bharatiya Janata Party workers in his tweet, claimed earlier this week that he wanted to visit the kin of the deceased BJP party workers but was told by police officials present that the families were not "keen" on meeting him.Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was earlier detained by the Uttar Pradesh police when she attempted to meet the kin of the deceased farmers.Congress’ criticism of the Yogi Adityanath government continues to grow as the state goes into legislative polls next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-probe-faces-obstruction-as-minister-in-office-rahul-101633961942550.html
11-10-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: October 12, 1981 — Prakash Padukone claims Han Jian and title||Kuala Lumpur: India’s Prakash Padukone checked the threatened Chinese stranglehold on international badminton here tonight with a superb straight-games 15-0, 18-16 win over Han Jian (China) in the inaugural World Cup championships.Prakash today was at his artistic, stylish best. This was the second successive victory by the 27-year-old Bangalore based Bank officer, over the top ranked Chinese within a fortnight. Prakash had beaten Jian in the semi-final of the Masters Badminton tourney on Sept. 25. But his today’s victory was certainly more impressive than the previous, where Prakash had won 11-15, 15-3, 15-8.Prakash was in his elements today and wrapped up the first game without dropping a point.The aggressive Han was never given a chance to dictate play as Prakash took points with some beautiful cross-court shots and net-play.The graceful Prakash had to fight in a thrilling second game as Han’s smashes began to win points but his greater array of shots proved the telling factor and he took the game 18-16 on fourth match point.Prakash, the 1979 Masters and 1980 All-England champion, had earlier crushed Han’s compatriot Chen Chang Jie, who beat him earlier this year to win the Santa Clara World Games title.China’s Chen Ruizhen claimed the women’s singles title with a shaky 12-10, 2-11, 11-7 victory over her 17-year-old compatriot Li Liangwei.Chen, the firm favorite after her strong showing in the Masters tournament last month was never in her top form, and her agile young opponent let slip a chance to win.Li opened up a 10-3 lead in the first game with the 20-year-old Chen completely out of touch hitting into the sidelines and netting easy returns.China’s Chen Chang Jie, who lost to Prakash in the semi-final yesterday, defeated Hadiyanto (Indonesia) in straight game to take the third place. Chang Jie won 15-12, 15-10. In an earlier match in the women’s section Ivanna Lie (Indonesia) took the third place when she defeated Wendy Carter (Canada) in straight 11-0, 11-8.The Canadian girl finished fourth. But the more experienced Chen rallied and the nervous Li made a series of unforced errors to go down 12-10. Li again opened up a huge lead in, the second game with some superb whiplash overhead smashes and this time keeping her lead won through 11-2. But Li seemed to run out of energy in the third game and then, using her superior net craft, anticipation and, positional sense, quickly built up a 10-3 lead. Li fought back gamely, saving four match points in the best rallies of the game, but Chen finally took the game and the title 11-7 when Li netted an easy shot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-october-12-1981-prakash-padukone-claims-han-jian-and-title-101633962126983.html
11-10-2021||India||‘Air India privatisation will boost confidence in govt’s capacity to close transactions’: CII||The sale of state-run Air India will help to “embolden confidence” in the government’s capacity to close transactions and encourage bidding in future sales at a time when the government is lagging in its disinvestment plans as only around 5% of its annual target has been met so far, the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) said on Monday.The government on Friday announced that Tata Sons is the highest bidder to win back the country’s flagship carrier Air India (AI) for ₹18,000 crore. This marked an end to its five years of struggle to privatise the debt-laden airline. The transaction is expected to be completed by the end of this year.According to the department of investment and public asset management (Dipam), the government has received ₹9,110.56 through disinvestment so far against a target of ₹1.75 lakh crore.“Air India’s successful sell-off, albeit after multiple efforts, will infuse a fresh vigour to the ambitious plan of disinvestment and privatisation of public sector enterprises,” CII director general Chandrajit Banerjee said.Friday’s decision of finally selling off the national carrier indeed marked “a watershed event for the policy discourse on disinvestment and privatization” in India, he said in a statement.“The successful privatization of Air India marks a momentous event and sends out a clear message to the markets and global investors that the present government has the political will to bite the reform bullet,” said Banerjee.“The move also amply demonstrates the trust which the government reposes in the private sector by bringing them at centre stage with its bold privatization program,” he added. With taxpayers contributing over ₹1.1 lakh crore to support the loss-making behemoth since 2009-10, Air India’s privatization is expected to release funds to support the government’s spending efforts in sectors that require concerted hand-holding, he said.“Air India’s successful sell-off, albeit after multiple efforts, will infuse a fresh vigour to the ambitious plan of disinvestment and privatisation of public sector enterprises,” he added.After Air India, the government has lined up other PSEs for strategic sale, including Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL), CONCOR and Shipping Corporation of India.The recent announcement on asset monetisation will further bolster the government’s resource raising ability, Banerjee said.“In order to capitalize on the optimism and positive buzz created by Air India sale, the government could now look at fast-tracking its efforts of privatization in the banking space, which would set the direction in an area where reforms have been long overdue,” he said. This is much needed for greater efficiency and scale in banking and the time is right for moving ahead with the privatization of two identified public sector banks, he added. One of the critical building blocks which set up the template for a successful privatization policy was the move to delineate public sector enterprises (PSEs) into strategic and non-strategic sectors in the Union Budget 2021-22, he said. Apart from this, another important aspect of the government’s disinvestment policy includes setting up a special purpose vehicle (SPV) for monetising land and giving incentives to states for carrying out similar disinvestment of state PSEs, he said. In this regard it may be useful for the government to “monitor and publish the sales that are taking place through SPVs” to ensure “transparency in deals” and “generating greater interest” from bidders, said Banerjee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-privatisation-will-boost-confidence-in-govt-s-capacity-to-close-transactions-cii-101633961947313.html
11-10-2021||India||Based on survey: Karnataka minister defends statement on ‘modern women’||Karnataka health minister K Sudhakar on Monday defended his statement on modern women desiring to stay single and unwilling to become pregnant even after marriage saying it was based on a survey.While stating that he was a proud father of a daughter and as a trained doctor himself, he understood the sensitivities around women and mental health issues, he said, “My statement about the younger generation shying away from marriage and reproduction is also based on a survey. The findings of YouGov-Mint-CPR Millennial Survey shows that, among millennials, 19 per cent are not interested in either children or marriage.”The only point I was trying to convey was that our youth can find solution&solace to mental health issues in our traditional family&its value system which offers a wonderful support system. I had no intention to single out women nor did my words mean so: Karnataka Health Minister“Another 8 per cent want children, but are not interested in marriage. Among post-millennials (or Gen Z adults), 23 per cent are not interested in either children or marriage. As in the case of millennials, 8 per cent want children but are not interested in marriage,” Sudhkar was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also read | ‘Mindset of educated, working women have broadened too much’: BJP's CT Ravi on Karnataka minister’s remarkHaving received massive backlash over his statements made during an addressing a programme on World Mental Health Day at the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurological Sciences (NIMHANS), Sudhakar said that he had no intention of singling out women or his words did not mean so. “The only point I was trying to convey was that our youth can find solution and solace to mental health issues in our traditional family and its value system which offers a wonderful support system,” he added.Sudhkar said it was widely established through research and studies that, in a situation where the mental health resource was a scarcity, families can form a valuable support system, which could be helpful in management of various stressful situations.“The Indian society is collectivistic and promotes social cohesion and interdependence. The traditional Indian joint family, which follows the same principles of collectivism, has proved itself to be an excellent resource for the care of the mentally ill,” he further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/based-on-survey-karnataka-minister-defends-statement-on-modern-women-101633961103981.html
11-10-2021||India||Amit Shah meets with power, coal ministers amid coal shortage concerns||Union home minister Amit Shah on Monday held a meeting with his cabinet colleagues RK Singh and Pralhad Joshi amid reports of the ongoing shortage of coal supply to power plants and several states warning of a possible power crisis. According to news agency PTI, Amit Shah, Singh, who holds the power ministry, and Joshi, who is the coal minister, discussed the availability of coal to power plants and the current power demands during the hour-long meeting. Top officials of the power and coal ministries as well as those from NTPC also attended the meeting.Meanwhile, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said many of his counterparts have written to the Centre about the critical situation at power plants due to the coal shortage. "We all are working together to improve the situation," he said. Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar also flagged the issue of probable coal shortage. "It is true there is a problem. As per our requirement, either we get it from NTPC or from private companies," Kumar told reporters. “But the supply is affected now. There are some reasons due to which such a situation has arisen. It is not only in Bihar but also everywhere,” he added.Also read | Decision on power cuts after Oct 19, says Kerala ministerThe power consumption of 3,900 MU on October 8 was the highest this month so far—from October 1 to 9—which also became a cause of concern during the ongoing coal shortage, according to data. The peak power demand met or the highest electricity supply in day touched 172.41 GW on October 8, data also showed. The data also showed that peak power demand met slowed to 170.03 GW on Saturday, indicating that the power demand is moderating with the onset of autumn.This was the fallout of coal shortage at power plants in a year when the country produced record coal, but rains hit movement of the fuel from mines to power generation units, impacting electricity production in several states, including Gujarat, Punjab, Rajasthan, Delhi and Tamil Nadu. Power plants, which used imported coal to generate electricity, have either curtailed generation or completely stopped as a spurt in international energy prices has made it difficult for them to meet the commitments to states at a particular rate.Also read | Power minister slams opposition for ‘unnecessary panic’ over coal shortageThe ministry of coal and Coal Indian Limited (CIL) have assured that they are making best efforts to increase dispatch to the power sector to 1.6 MT per day in the next three days and thereafter, try to touch 1.7 MT per day. It is likely to help in a gradual build-up of coal stocks at power plants in the near future. The coal supply as well as the consequent power situation is likely to improve. "It was noted that on 7th October 2021 total dispatch of coal by Coal India Limited (CIL) touched 1.501 MT, thereby reducing the gap between consumption and actual supply,” the ministry of power said in a statement on Saturday.  The latest data of the Central Electricity Authority (CEA) showed that coal stocks at power plants on October 7 were not adequate as 16 plants with a cumulative capacity of 16,880MW had the dry fuel for zero days. As many as 30 plants with 37,345MW capacity had coal for just one day and 18 plants with 23,450MW capacity had coal for two days as of October 7. There were 19 plants with 29,160MW capacity which had coal for three days and nine plants with 7,864MW capacity had coal for four days. Six plants with 6,730MW capacity had coal stock for five days and 10 plants with 11,540MW capacity had coal for six days.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-meets-with-power-coal-ministers-amid-coal-shortage-concerns-101633960241044.html
11-10-2021||India||Adityanath won’t come back to power, says Bhupesh Baghel. Lists these reasons||A day after coming down heavily on his Uttar Pradesh counterpart over Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s detention in Sitapur, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Monday mounted yet another attack on Yogi Adityanath. Baghel said there is anti-incumbency against Adityanath's government and he will not be able to come back to power for the second time in Uttar Pradesh. “There is anti-incumbency in the state. From farmers, youth, Scheduled community to traders, everyone is upset with the chief minister... The Yogi government will not retain power,” news agency ANI quoted the Chhattisgarh chief minister as saying during his visit to Uttar Pradesh.On Sunday, Bhupesh Baghel called Adityanath a "coward" for not letting Priyanka Gandhi visit Lakhimpur Kheri following the violence last Sunday and keeping her in custody, reported PTI. Priyanka Gandhi was detained in Sitapur last Monday following her attempt to visit the violence-hit district where eight people, including four farmers, were killed. Baghel made the remarks while addressing the party’s "Kisan Nyay Rally" in Varanasi.Also read: BJP sought votes in cows’ name but did not serve them well: BaghelHe also slammed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), claiming that the ruling party in the state divides people in the name of religion, which he said they "learnt from the British". Training guns at Adityanath, Baghel said he had never known seers to fear anyone but Adityanath proved to be an exception who, he said, was a “big coward”.Elections for 403 assembly constituencies in Uttar Pradesh are scheduled to be held early next year. The BJP came back to power in the state in the 2017 assembly polls bagging 309 seats. The Samajwadi Party got 49 seats, the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) 18, and Congress managed 7 seats in the last assembly polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/adityanath-won-t-come-back-to-power-says-bhupesh-baghel-lists-these-reasons-101633955975701.html
11-10-2021||India||Slack, recovery and overheating: Indian economy has it all||What is the state of the Indian economy? That depends on which part of the economy we are looking at. It also depends on the lag in the availability of relevant data. On the basis of the latest statistics, there is no unambiguous answer.There are parts which show that things, and more importantly, sentiment, are still worse than what they were before the Covid-19 pandemic struck. But there are also indicators that are in the green and stakeholders who are extremely bullish. There are sectors showing a sustained recovery, almost in sync with the dropping trajectory of active Covid-19 cases in the country. These diametrically opposite situations and sentiments face a common problem – cost-push inflation and shortages in international value chains, both of which can generate strong headwinds to growth.A wide gap between consumer confidence and investor confidenceResults of the September round of the Consumer Confidence Survey (CCS) of the Reserve Bank of India were published on October 8. The Current Situation Index (CSI) was at 57.7. CSI is calculated by adding 100 to the average of net responses (difference between share of respondents who reported an improvement and deterioration) of general economic situation, employment scenario, price level, household income and overall spending.A CSI value below 100 implies the share of respondents who reported an improvement was less than those who reported a worsening. To be sure, the September CSI value is the highest since the July 2020 round of CCS. However, it is still lower than the May 2020 reading of 63.7. CSI has not been above 100 since March 2019, which was a one-off spike after consecutive below 100 readings since June 2017. These numbers highlight the underlying, perhaps entrenched weakness, on the demand front in the Indian, or urban Indian, economy. CCS is only carried out in 13 major cities.Not everyone is bearish about the Indian economy. Take stock markets, for instance. While the Indian economy is not expected to regain pre-pandemic levels in the first half of the current fiscal year, stock markets remain at a record high. The bull run in stock markets is not just about the formal part of the economy – whose shares are listed in such markets – doing better. There is also a large degree of optimism about the future, which is evident when one compares the price to earnings (PE) multiple for major stock markets in the world. The PE multiple captures the price of a share as a multiple of earnings; the higher the value, the greater is the belief that it will generate higher earnings in the future.The divergence in investor confidence in stock markets and consumer confidence is a good indicator of the class divide in the perception of the Indian economy.The divergence in blue-collar and white-collar incomesNot all the optimism in stock markets is exuberance. The formal sector, especially its white-collared component, has made an impressive recovery. This is best seen in the latest direct tax numbers, not just corporation tax (levied on profits) but also income tax (levied on salaries).Data from the Controller General of Accounts (CGA), which gives tax numbers until August, shows that direct tax collections have recovered strongly and are significantly above pre-pandemic levels in nominal terms. On the other hand, data on rural wages – the best proxy for wages of unskilled labour in India – until July, the latest available, shows growth compared to pre-pandemic levels has been much lower.This comparison shows that the trajectory of white-collar and blue-collar incomes is very different in the Indian economy. It is important to understand that most high-frequency indicators of the economy are driven by formal sector indicators, whereas the stress in the informal sector takes time to reflect in economic statistics.Double-digit inflation expectations and hardening supply side constraintsIndia’s carmakers are facing a unique problem. While orders are showing an improvement, they are actually having to trim production. According to an ICICI Securities research note dated October 10, “The auto industry witnessed ~32% QoQ improvement in wholesale despatches in Q2FY22” even as “an increasing number of Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEM) declared production cuts (20-40% demand) despite strong demand.” The note mentions shortages of semiconductor chips and elevated logistics costs as major factors holding back supplies.The shortage in production and rising costs comes at a time when inflation expectations are close to their all-time high in India. While headline retail inflation, as measured by the Consumer Price Index (CPI), fell to 5.3% from 6.3% between June and August, median inflation expectations remained elevated. All three measures – current, three months ahead and one year ahead – were in double digits. These are very high levels historically.With prices of crucial commodities such as crude oil continuing to rise – Brent crude was at $84.23 on October 11 – there is unlikely to be any relief on inflation.A note by Nomura Global markets research suggests that the disruption in global value chains and price pressures might compromise potential gains from exports for Asian economies. “Asian exporters are currently dealing with a problem of plenty. Too strong demand and rolling global supply chain bottlenecks have hobbled their orders and sent freight rates soaring. While supply bottlenecks are a short-term hurdle and tech demand still looks strong, we see storm clouds on the horizon, due to spill over effects from a slowing China and a normalization of goods demand in Western economies, especially the US. In our view, the export cycle has peaked, and a slowdown is likely to materialize next year,” the note said.India’s policy choices during the pandemic prioritised ensuring that the formal sector did not run into problems (by ensuring credit guarantees and liquidity infusion) rather than boosting demand directly (by supporting incomes in the informal sector). The bet could have paid off had the disruption in global value chains and commodity price inflation not emerged as a big disruptor for formal sector activity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/slack-recovery-and-overheating-indian-economy-has-it-all-101633958046170.html
11-10-2021||India||India announces $200 million line of credit for Kyrgyzstan||India on Monday announced a $200-million line of credit for Kyrgyzstan and signed an agreement to carry out small but high impact projects for community development in the Central Asian state.The two initiatives were among several measures announced by external affairs minister S Jaishankar at the end of a two-day visit to Kyrgyzstan. Jaishankar is currently on a three-nation tour that will also take him to Kazakhstan and Armenia.Jaishankar said the Kyrgyz government accepted India’s formal offer of the $200-million line of credit, while the memorandum of understanding (MoU) on high impact community development projects will enable the speedy implementation of ventures in different sectors with full grant funding. The two initiatives will take the “development partnership to the next level”, he said.Kyrgyz foreign minister Ruslan Kazakbaev and Jaishankar discussed recent developments, particularly the situation in Afghanistan and its implications for the peace and security of the region. “We are closely following the developments in Afghanistan. It concerns all of us. Any instability in Afghanistan will have an impact on the region. There are expectations of the international community from the current regime in Afghanistan, which are adequately elaborated in the UN Security Council resolution 2593,” Jaishankar said.The resolution, adopted during India’s presidency of the Security Council in August, includes provisions for preventing the use of Afghan soil for terrorism and negotiations to create an inclusive government in Kabul.Jaishankar said defence and security cooperation has an important place in India-Kyrgyzstan relations because of a common interest in peace and security. “We evaluated our defence exchanges and personnel training very positively. We agreed to continue cooperation in the fields of high-altitude training and biomedical research,” he said. He announced several other initiatives in fields as diverse as telemedicine and culture. Telemedicine centres established by India have helped people in rural areas connect with medical facilities in cities, and the provision of a Bhabhatron or external beam radiation therapy machine has helped in the treatment of cancers, he said.The Bhabhatron, a computer-controlled system used for radiation therapy, is based in Bishkek, and India is committed to providing another Bhabhatron for a hospital in Osh. India will also support the establishment of three more telemedicine centres in Batken, Jalal-Abad and Chui regions of Kyrgyzstan.Jaishankar said the two countries had agreed to explore joint development projects in eco-tourism, jewellery design, pharmaceuticals, medicines, medical education, IT parks and data banks as part of their growing development partnership.He said both countries need to make a concerted push to boost trade and investments. “The signing of the new bilateral investment treaty in 2019 and the mutual agreement on the date of entry into force of the Amended Protocol of the India-Kyrgyz Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement are important steps in that regard,” he added. Kazakbaev and Jaishankar also agreed on steps to preserve and promote cultural links. Noting that the Indian side has organised several events as part of the Year of India-Kyrgyz Cultural Exchanges, Jaishankar said the picturesque lakes and peaks of Kyrgyzstan “offer excellent destinations for Bollywood productions”.India was one of the first countries to recognise the independence of Kyrgyzstan after the break-up of the erstwhile Soviet Union and establish diplomatic relations in 1992.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-announces-200-million-line-of-credit-for-kyrgyzstan-101633956906934.html
11-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri incident: No politician will be on stage during final prayers, says farmers' group||The Bharatiya Kisan Union-Tikait (BKU-Tikait) on Monday announced that no politician will be on stage when the final prayers for the farmers killed in Lakhimpur Kheri violence is performed on Tuesday.Preparations for the final prayers, or the antim ardas, are underway at a field, away from the spot where an SUV, allegedly carrying BJP workers and Union minister Ashish Mishra’s son, ran over four protesting farmers.“The 'antim ardas' for all the deceased farmers will be held on Tuesday at Tikonia,” BKU-Tikait's district president Amandeep Singh Sandhu was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. The group's district vice-president Balkar Singh outlined that except the leaders of Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), the umbrella group of protesting farmers' unions, no other politicians will be allowed to be present on stage.“No political leader will be allowed to share the stage where only Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) leaders will be present,” Balkar Singh said.District president Sandhu said that farmers and their leaders from various states as well as from several districts of Uttar Pradesh will be present during the ‘ardas’ and ‘bhog’ programme in Tikonia. He said no other programme barring ‘antim ardas’ and ‘bhog’ has been communicated till now.Eight people were killed on October 3, including four farmers, a local journalist, two BJP workers and the driver of the SUV, were among the others who died that day.Farmers claim that Union minister Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra was in one of the vehicles. Ashish Mishra was sent to three-day custody of the Uttar Pradesh police on Monday. The UP police got Ashish Mishra’s custody between October 12 and October 15. He was arrested on Saturday by the Uttar Pradesh police.The death of the farmers have turned Lakhimpur Kheri into a battleground ahead of the Uttar Pradesh legislative assembly elections slated to take place next year. Several politicians like Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Akhilesh Yadav and Sushmita Dev have visited the kin of the deceased farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-politician-will-be-on-stage-during-final-prayers-says-farmers-group-101633955823477.html
11-10-2021||India||Decision on power cuts after Oct 19, says Kerala minister||Kerala government's minister for power and electricity K Krishnankutty on Monday said that the government will decide on imposing loadshedding after October 19. Krishnankutty also said that Kerala is facing a shortage of 100MW currently.“The state is trying to meet the demand-supply gap through an automated management system and also by purchasing electricity at higher prices. The government will take a decision on imposing power cuts on October 19,” Krishnankutty was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The state power minister on Sunday said that the government will have to resort to loadshedding in case shortage of power from the Central pool continues. He said that on Sunday Kerala received only 30% of its daily quota from Koondankulam.Coal shortage, which could have been caused due to excess rainfall hitting coal movement and imported coal-based power plants generating less than half of their capacity due to record high rates, sparked fears in few states and Union Territories of blackouts.The Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) officials last week said that a shortage of 15% was manageable but once the shortage exceeds beyond 20% then the department will have to think about load-shedding.“We are experiencing a shortage of 120 MW to 900 MW on certain days. Today, the estimated shortage is around 200 MW,” the officials said on Sunday where they assured that the state will not resort to load- shedding right away.“Currently, it's manageable. Due to rains these days, the power consumption during the peak hour has come down,” a KSEB official was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Meanwhile in Delhi, power minister Satyendar Jain said the National Thermal Power Corporation(NTPC) plants halved power supply to the Capital. “NTPC which supplies us 4000 MW power has reduced it to half currently. This has led us to generation of power through gas that costs ₹17.25 per unit,” Jain said.Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi vowed not to let power cuts affect his state and said that he has asked Centre to ensure adequate supply of coal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/decision-on-power-cuts-after-oct-19-says-kerala-minister-101633954426555.html
11-10-2021||India||Delhi's Genestrings appointed sole testing facility for Canada-bound passengers||Genestrings Diagnostic Centre's lab at the Delhi international airport has been appointed by the Canadian government as the sole COVID-19 testing facility in India for Canada-bound passengers, a statement said on Monday.As per the latest guidelines by the Canadian authorities, travellers eligible to enter Canada and travelling on direct flights from India must obtain a pre-departure negative COVID-19 molecular test result from the Genestrings' lab, the statement said.The facility -- which is located above the metro station in the Airport Connect Building (ACB) at the Delhi international airport -- will perform this test within 18 hours before the scheduled departure of the passengers and a test report with a QR code will be given to them, it said.The QR code given by the lab has to be shown to the airline just before boarding, it added.Canada lifted the flight ban on passenger flights from India on September 27. Air Canada is currently operating two-four flights every day from the Delhi airport, the statement said.Currently, flights to Canada are being operated from only Delhi in India.“The confidence shown by Canadian Health Agency in our lab is testimony to our near obsessed focus on ensuring highest standards of quality testing, and we are really proud of the team that works 24/7 365 days a year to deliver this,” said Dr Gauri Agarwal, founder-director, Genestrings Diagnostic Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhis-genestrings-appointed-sole-testing-facility-for-canada-bound-passengers-101633953469327.html
11-10-2021||India||Hours after 5 army personnel die, another encounter breaks out in J-K’s Poonch||Hours after a junior commissioned officer (JCO) and four soldiers of the Indian Army were killed in an exchange of fire with heavily armed terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch district on Monday, another encounter started nearby, according to news agency ANI. The news agency reported that an army personnel was injured in the latest encounter around 2km from the site of the earlier gunfight.The JCO and the four soldiers were killed in a forested area in Surankote during an anti-insurgency operation. According to defence spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Devender Anand, the operation was launched early on Monday in a village in Dehra Ki Gali (DKG) area after the army received intelligence input about the presence of terrorists. Also watch | 5 Indian Army soldiers martyred in gunfight with terrorists amid crackdown over civilian deaths
11-10-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Priyanka demands MoS Ajay Mishra's dismissal, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday joined her party functionaries in ‘maun vrat’ (silent protest) demanding the removal of Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case in which at least eight persons, including farmers and a journalist, were killed on October 3. Read moreReferring to Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar’s controversial remarks on modern Indian women, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national general secretary CT Ravi said that Western influence and the culture of micro families are why women nowadays want to remain single and are unwilling to have children. However, Ravi clarified that not “every Indian woman is like this.” Read moreMS Dhoni's match-winning cameo for Chennai Super Kings (CSK) against Delhi Capitals (DC) in Qualifier 1 of IPL 2021 has gotten everybody talking again. And rightfully; after all the CSK skipper, who has been grossly out of form this season, produced the good with the bat to take the franchise into their 9th final. DC head coach Ricky Ponting, despite being on the wrong side of the result, heaped praise on the legendary cricketer. Read moreSkoda has teased the upcoming Slavia mid-size sedan and offered a first glimpse at the car, albeit wrapped in a camouflage. The Czech carmaker released an image of the car in orange wraparound camouflage, testing on Indian roads ahead of its possible launch later this year. Read moreActor Neena Gupta spoke about the chapter on Vivian Richards in her recently-released autobiography, Sach Kahun Toh, and how she decided to write about certain things and leave some details out. Read moreVivo Y20T has been launched in India with a Qualcomm Snapdragon 662 chipset, 13MP triple camera setup and an Extended RAM feature. Vivo Y20T priced on launch is ₹15,490. Read moreIf you are a regular here, you would be well versed by now about Bollywood diva Sunny Leone's millennial fashion love for mini skirts and her latest set of pictures are enough to back our claim. Stepping out for a “good” date night with hubby Daniel Weber, Sunny was seen twinning in black hoodie and serving another mini skirt look as the whimsical and sexy trend makes a comeback to ooze hotness. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-priyanka-demands-mos-ajay-mishra-s-dismissal-and-all-the-latest-news-101633949906940.html
11-10-2021||India||Ashish Mishra remanded in 3-day police custody in Lakhimpur Kheri violence case||The Uttar Pradesh police on Monday got three-day custody of Ashish Mishra, the son of Union minister of state for home affairs Ajay Kumar Mishra ‘Teni’, for his alleged role in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence.The court of chief judicial magistrate Chinta Ram allowed Uttar Pradesh the custody of Ashish Mishra between October 12 and October 15.Senior prosecuting officer SP Yadav said that as per Supreme Court guidelines, no coercion or torture would take place and Ashish Mishra may have a lawyer of his choice during interrogation but the lawyer would watch the process from a distance so that no interference is caused.The Uttar Pradesh police arrested Ashish Mishra on Saturday despite his attempts to evade the law enforcement agencies. He was then interrogated for nearly 12 hours following which a local court remanded him to judicial custody for 14 days.However, the Uttar Pradesh police sought Ashish Mishra's police custody and he was produced before the court earlier in the day. Two other accused, Luv Kush and Ashish Pandey, known to be close aides of Ashish Mishra, were arrested on Thursday.The arrests followed hours after the Supreme Court on Thursday asked the Uttar Pradesh government to submit a report within a day on how many arrests have been made so far in connection with the case.Eight people, included four farmers and a local journalist, died during the violence after an SUV belonging to Ashish Mishra and a convoy of cars mowed down a group of protesting farmers from behind at Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3.The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella of farmers' unions, alleged that one of the deceased farmers was shot dead by Ashish Mishra while the rest were allegedly run over by the vehicles of his convoy. The Union minister and his son, however, denied the claims.Refuting the allegations levelled by the SKM, the minister said that his son was not present at the spot, and claimed that he had evidence to prove that Ashish was innocent. The Union minister also said that Ashish was “ready to face any investigation” from the agencies.A 29-second video of the violence that surfaced on social media show an SUV ploughing through protesting farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri. The SUV reportedly belonged to the convoy of Union minister of state Ajay Kumar Mishra who was travelling to receive Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to an event in the area.While four farmers died after the convoy mowed down protesters opposing the deputy chief minister’s visit, the other four people, reportedly BJP members and a local journalist, were allegedly thrashed to death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ashish-mishra-remanded-in-3-day-police-custody-in-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-case-101633949632309.html
11-10-2021||India||Some large states need to ramp up Jal Jeevan Mission, data show||NEW DELHI: A little over 83 million rural households, or 43% of the country’s 192 million rural households, now have access to piped drinking water connections under the flagship Jal Jeevan Mission but some large states with poor health outcomes have been slow to expand coverage, official data shows.A marquee programme of the Modi government, the Jal Jeevan Mission, launched in 2019, aims to connect every rural household with a tapped water facility by 2024. Access to clean water is one of the UN’s 17 Sustainable Development Goals or SDGs.Six states and Union territories have come out on top with 100% coverage so far, the data show. These are Andamans and Nicobar Islands, Dadra And Nagar Haveli, Goa, Telangana, Puducherry and Haryana. Haryana is the latest state to achieve the target ahead of schedule.Although the mission’s deadline is over two years away, some large states have been able to cover less than a quarter of total rural households, the data show. Among them is Uttar Pradesh, which has covered 12.74% of its 26.4 million rural households so far. The state has drawn up a largescale engineering project to extend tap water connections in Bundelkhand, one of the driest parts of the country.However, in terms of overall households covered, Uttar Pradesh has been the slowest in implementing the programme. Uttar Pradesh is key to improving India’s overall health parameters, especially among little children, because it is India’s most populous state.The Bundelkhand leg of the Jal Jeevan Mission comprises 467 piped drinking water schemes under 32 projects. Of these, 43 are surface water-based schemes and 424 are ground water-based. “The UP government has completed about 80% work of water treatment plants in various districts of Bundelkhand including Jhansi and Mahoba. The construction work is almost complete in more than 50% of our plants,” said UP principal secretary Anurag Srivastava in a text message.Bihar, a peer state, however, has been speedily able to expand coverage, currently at 88.23% of ts 17.2 million households.Rajasthan, among the laggards, has been able to reach 20.91% of its 10.1 million rural families. It falls among a handful of states and UTs where coverage has been less than 25%, including Assam (22%), Ladakh (16.62%), Jharkhand (15.16%), West Bengal (13.48%) and Chhattisgarh 13.23%).These states also have some of the poorest health outcomes in the country, according to HT’s analysis.For instance, the six states with less than 25% coverage have shown a seven percentage point increase in the incidence of child malnourishment, data from Phase I of the National Family Health Survey 5 released last year shows, in comparison to the previous National Family Health Survey 4 (2015-16). Some regions have achieved rapid progress. For instance, there has been a four-fold increase in the rate at which functional piped water is being provided to households in India’s 117 so-called aspirational districts, home to some of the poorest Indians -- overtaking the pace at which piped water is bring provided nationally under the Jal Jeevan Mission.The data shows nearly a third of households in these districts have assured tap water supply. The coverage in these districts since the launch of the programme saw a 24% jump, a rate higher than the 22.7% increase in tap water connections provided countrywide under the scheme.“The nature of topography and availability of a sustainable water source are key parameters that could be a reason why some states are ahead. I think it is better to go slow and build more sustainable sources than building unsustainable sources in a hurry,” said Aadil Aqueeb, a coordinator for India Coalition for Water Sustainability, a non-governmental outfit.An official requesting anonymity said the Union government monitors progress closely jointly with states. “Frequent meetings are held. Most states are working to deadlines, while six have achieved the target (100% coverage) well ahead of schedule,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/some-large-states-need-to-ramp-up-jal-jeevan-mission-data-show-101633949886793.html
11-10-2021||India||‘Mindset of educated, working women have broadened too much’: BJP's CT Ravi on Karnataka minister’s remark||Referring to Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar’s controversial remarks on modern Indian women, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national general secretary CT Ravi said that Western influence and the culture of micro families are why women nowadays want to remain single and are unwilling to have children. However, Ravi clarified that not “every Indian woman is like this.”Ravi further elaborated that the “mindset” of educated and working women have “broadened too much” – indirectly citing it as the justification for the statements made by Dr Sudhakar.Also Read | India is, was & will be 'Hindu Rashtra': BJP leader CT Ravi“In India, we still have faith in family unlike countries such as the US and the UK,” Ravi said, adding that such mindsets of modern Indian women need serious attention and must be pondered upon.
11-10-2021||India||India is, was & will be 'Hindu Rashtra': BJP leader CT Ravi||In a statement that could stoke a controversy, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader CT Ravi on Monday called India a 'Hindu Rashtra (nation)'. Ravi said the Congress party was doing "appeasement" politics initially but they have now started performing pujas and visiting temples to appeal to the Hindu community.CT Ravi, who is also the BJP national secretary, then went on to suggest to the Congress party that its leaders should visit temples not just during elections but "regularly."“India is, India was and will be 'Hindu Rashtra'. Earlier the Congress did appeasement of minorities but now they know Hindus are united. Now, they are performing Durga puja & visiting temples. If you are Hindu, then don't do it for just elections, do it regularly,” news agency ANI quoted CT Ravi as saying.Also read: ‘Mindset of educated, working women have broadened too much’: BJP’s CT RaviThis is not the first time that CT Ravi said something which was construed as controversial. He earlier compared the ideologies of All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) and Social Democratic Party of India (SPDI) to the Taliban. "AIMIM is like the Taliban of Karnataka. The ideology of AIMIM and SDPI is the same as the Taliban. People in Kalaburagi will not accept Taliban's ideology," ANI quoted him saying in Karnataka's Kalaburagi on August 31.Ravi's comments will stoke further controversy as leaders of opposition parties have time and again alleged that the BJP is trying to establish a 'Hindu Rashtra'. Last month, JD(S) leader HD Kumaraswamy accused the BJP of "misleading" the youth in the name of Hindutva and Hindu Rashtra, adding that their focus should rather be on creating jobs and providing employment to them. Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has also alleged that the Sangh Parivar wants to destroy the democratic and secular fabric of the country in order to establish a ‘Hindu Rashtra' and the only obstacle before them in attaining it is the history of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-is-was-will-be-hindu-rashtra-bjp-leader-ct-ravi-101633943678896.html
11-10-2021||India||Tripura Left Front convener passes away following Covid-19 related complications||Tripura’s Left Front convener and central committee member of the Communist Party of India - Marxist or CPI(M) Bijan Dhar died after suffering from prolonged Covid-19 related complications at a private hospital in Kolkata on Monday. The 70-year old leader is survived by his wife Ila Dasgupta, daughter Gopa Dhar and other members of his family.His body would be flown to Agartala this evening, people aware of the developments said. Dhar was associated with students’ politics since 1970s and was elected to CPI(M) state committee in 1978 and became a member of the state secretariat in 1995. He remained party secretary between 2008 and 2018 and was later made the convener of the Left Front. The Polit Bureau of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) expressed profound shock and grief at his death. Also Read: Ahead of 2023 assembly polls, TMC forms key committees to expand Tripura footprintTripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb expressed his condolence over Dhar’s demise. “ I am deeply mourned at the demise of former CPI(M) secretary and Left Front convener Bijan Dhar. I pray for the departed soul to rest in peace. I pray to God to give strength to the bereaved family to endure the pain, “ Deb wrote on his Facebook. Last month, Tripura CPI(M) secretary Goutam Das passed away at a private hospital in Kolkata while undergoing treatment for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-left-front-convener-passes-away-following-covid-19-related-complications-101633946765397.html
11-10-2021||India||Cruise drug bust: NDPS Court to hear bail pleas of Aryan Khan, others on Wednesday||A special Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Court on Monday posted the bail applications of Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood actor Shahrukh Khan, and four others, arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in the cruise ship drug bust case, for hearing on Wednesday, officials said. Aryan Khan, his friend Arbaaz Merchant, model and anchor Munmun Dhamecha, and two others arrested with them - Nupur Satija and Mohak Jaswal - approached the Special NDPS Court on Monday after a Metropolitan Magistrate Court rejected their bail application on Friday.Senior counsel Amit Desai and advocate Satish Maneshinde on Monday mentioned Aryan’s bail plea for urgent hearing.“We have already served the bail applications, electronically and physically to the Narcotics Control Bureau on Friday. We request the court to hear the matter at the earliest,” said Maneshinde.“My client has been in their custody since last Saturday. They have recorded only his statement twice and after which they didn’t question him. They can investigate, the matter bail doesn’t stop their investigation. The magistrate court has already sent them to judicial custody. He was not found in possession of anything or any material and is the only person in the first group arrested by the agency from whom they didn’t recover anything. The magistrate court rejected their bail application only on the grounds that it didn’t have any jurisdiction. Justice needs to be done,” said senior counsel Amit Desai who appeared for Aryan Khan.“Admittedly the maximum punishment is a year’s imprisonment,” said Desai.Avadhut Chimalkar, along with Advait Sethna, appeared for the NCB and sought time to file replies to the bail applications.“We need at least seven days to file replies as there are eight accused. Everybody has a different role and a different affidavit needs to be filed for them. The case is the same, there is a conspiracy and therefore all bail applications need to be heard together. They added that the investigation is still going on and Aryan is been sent to judicial custody. Whether his release will affect the investigation is also a question. There is no urgency in this matter,” said Chimalkar.Desai told the court that family members are also not allowed inside the court building due to Covid-19 guidelines. We need them to take instructions.Additional Sessions Judge VV Patil adjourned the matter to Wednesday asking the NCB to file a reply on the bail applications.The NCB arrested Aryan Khan and others on Sunday afternoon. The actor’s son was among the few arrested after an alleged drug bust on a cruise ship headed to Goa from Mumbai.The agency arrested Aryan, Arbaaz Merchant, 26, a resident of Perry Cross Road, Bandra, and Munmun Dhamecha, 39, a resident of Sagar in Madhya Pradesh.The trio was booked under sections 8C, 20B, 27 and 35 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985, related to charges of possession, consumption and sale of illegal substances.The agency in total recovered 13 grams of cocaine, 5 grams of mephedrone, 22 pills of MDMA (ecstasy) - all categorised as intermediate quantities - and 21 grams of charas which falls under small quantity along with ₹1.33 lakhs at International Cruise Terminal, Green Gate, Mumbai.Aryan Khan is the eldest son of actor Shahrukh Khan and Gauri Khan’s three children and has graduated from the University of Southern California with a Bachelors degree in fine arts, cinematic arts, film and television production, from the School of Cinematic Arts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cruise-drug-bust-ndps-court-to-hear-bail-pleas-of-aryan-khan-others-on-wednesday-101633946647972.html
11-10-2021||India||Amur falcons begin to arrive in Manipur||Continuing its annual migration, the Amur falcons (Falcon amurensis),a popular migratory bird that spend their summers at their breeding grounds in southeast Russia and northeast China, have started to arrive in Manipur’s Tamenglong district, villagers said on Monday. Tamenglong borders with Assam’s North Cachar hills district and Nagaland’s Peren district.“We’ve seen the arrival of these birds over our village sky since yesterday (Sunday),” says Ramkhonang Gonmei , chairman of Puching village. “They arrived a bit early compared to last year.But we’re yet to ascertain where they slept last night.”The first batch of Amur falcons have also arrived at Pangti village in Nagaland’s Wokha district a few days back, reports said.Though the residents in Tamenglong,the hill district headquarters, 150km west of Imphal are yet to report sighting the migratory birds in their areas, the divisional forest officer (DFO) Kh Hitler of Tamenglong forest division shared pictures and videos of Amur Falcons hovering in the sky in a WhatsApp group on Monday.The DFO said the conservation related work of village authority on the Amur falcons roosting sites are now recognised by the state government authorities.“We need to continue our work of safeguarding our winged guest, and surely the sacrifice and contribution of the villagers and the local NGO shall get global recognition as well,” he added. “It is our fundamental duties under the Constitution of India to protect forest, wildlife, rivers, lakes etc and to have compassion for living beings.”Two villages of Chiuluan and Puching of Tamenglong district will also be awarded the state government incentive award for wildlife conservation on Monday in a concluding function of 66th wildlife week in Imphal,he said.Also Read: Bihar plans census of Gangetic dolphins in ArariaAmur falcons, locally known as Akhuaipuina, which migrate to their wintering grounds in South Africa, usually arrive in large numbers during October in Nagaland and Manipur besides a few other places in northeast India, undertaking a yearly journey of about 20,000 km.They leave the region in November after having enough food for their non-stop flight to Africa where they spend their winters.Considering the migration period of these pigeon-sized birds in Tamenglong areas as “crucial in the life cycle of Amur falcons,” the then deputy commissioner of Tamenglong had banned hunting,catching,killing and selling of Amur falcons.The radio-tagging programme of Amur falcons was also started in Manipur by Wildlife Institute of India (WII) in collaboration with Manipur forest department in 2018 as part of an initiative to conserve wildlife and also to study their migratory route.In 2019, a five-member WII team had radio-tagged five Amur falcons, including two males.The radio tagged birds were named ‘Chiulon’, ‘Puching’ and ‘Phalong’ after villages in Manipur, and ‘Irang’ and ‘Barak’, rivers of Manipur.In May this year, two radio tagged Amur falcons – Chiulon and Irang were traced to have reached their breeding area in North East China after their annual migration flight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amur-falcons-the-longest-flying-migratory-birds-begin-to-arrive-in-manipur-101633945805487.html
11-10-2021||India||Uttarakhand minister, son quit BJP; join Congress||Yashpal Arya quit the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and as the Uttarakhand transport minister and joined the opposition Congress on Monday along with his lawmaker son, Sanjeev, months before polls are due in the state. A Dalit, Yashpal Arya has a significant support base within the community in the poll-bound state.The father and the son defected from Congress ahead of the 2017 polls. They re-joined the party in presence of former chief minister Harish Rawat and senior party leaders K C Venugopal and Randeep Surjewala.Earlier in the day, the two met former Congress president Rahul Gandhi at his residence. Yashpal Arya headed the Congress’s Uttarakhand unit from 2007 to 2014. He is a former speaker and also served as a minister in Rawat’s government.A Congress leader said the talks for Arya and his son’s induction into the party were going on for two months.Also Read: ‘Homecoming’ for father-son duo, Yashpal and Sanjeev Arya join Congress“He was in direct touch with Rahul Gandhi... Arya was not happy in the BJP as he was not given much importance considering his stature.”Two independent and one Congress lawmaker earlier joined the BJP in Uttarakhand.Speaking about the return of Yashpal Arya to the Congress, Venugopal said, “This is one of the happiest moments for the Congress... Rahul told them they will strengthen the Congress in Uttarakhand and in the country.”Yashpal Arya said he has returned to his family. “There is no better day than today.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-uttarakhand-minister-son-quit-bjp-join-congress-101633944005467.html
11-10-2021||India||PM Modi to virtually take part in G20 summit on Afghanistan tomorrow: MEA||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually participate in the Group of 20 (G20) Extraordinary Leaders’ Summit on Afghanistan on October 12, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said on Monday. The MEA said Modi would be taking part in the summit at the invitation of the Italian presidency.In a statement, the MEA said the agenda of the meeting would include a discussion on response to humanitarian needs and access to basic services and livelihood in the war-torn nation that was taken over by the Taliban in August this year.At the invitation of the Italian Presidency of the G20, PM @narendramodi will participate in the G20 Extraordinary Leaders’ Summit on Afghanistan on 12 October 2021, in virtual format.Press Release ➡️ https://t.co/wJ81z4lswMThe agenda would also include talks on security and the fight against terrorism, and mobility, migration and human rights, the MEA said.The ministry said the PM had earlier participated in the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation- Collective Security Treaty Organization (SCO – CSTO) outreach Summit on Afghanistan. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar had participated in the meeting of G20 Foreign Ministers on Afghanistan on the margins of the UN General Assembly in New York.The announcement on the extraordinary meeting of leaders of the 20 major economies of world was initially made by Italy's prime minister Mario Draghi on September 29. The meeting would be held a few weeks ahead of the summit of the G20 leaders scheduled in Rome for October 30 and 31.The MEA further said the G20 comprises 20 of the world’s major economies and “is an important platform to help build international consensus and facilitate a coordinated approach between multilateral organisations, including the UN and its agencies, and global and regional actors to address the worsening humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan”.According to a report by global news agency Reuters, Draghi had recently spoken to other world leaders, including Russia's Vladimir Putin and China Xi Jinping, about the need to organise a special meeting to lay down strategies to confront the crisis that was unfolding in the war-ravaged nation.  Concerns over human rights, especially that of women and minorities, under the Islamic militant group have been a major concern globally.European nations have also expressed their apprehensions of the crisis leading to the risk of a massive inflow of migrants. "We have to see whether there are shared objectives among the G20 nations...we have reached a point where we only need to worry about saving lives," Draghi had told reporters. The international community must also lay down a strategy to prevent Afghanistan becoming a haven for militants, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-virtually-take-part-in-g20-summit-on-afghanistan-tomorrow-mea-101633943321811.html
11-10-2021||India||‘Homecoming’ for father-son duo, Yashpal and Sanjeev Arya join Congress||Uttarakhand’s transport minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Yashpal Arya rejoined the Congress party along with his MLA son Sanjeev Arya in Delhi on Monday, dealing a blow to the BJP ahead of the assembly elections in the state early next year. Arya, a six time MLA and a prominent Dalit leader, was welcomed back to the party in the presence of senior leaders Harish Rawat and KC Venugopal. Arya and his son quit the Congress in 2017 before the state assembly elections. Their rejoining ceremony took place at the All India Congress Committee headquarters at Akbar Road.“He (Yashpal) has just tendered his resignation from the post of Uttarakhand cabinet minister,” Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala said . Surjewala also recalled that in his previous stint in the Congress, Arya had served as the chief of Uttarakhand Congress for a fairly long time. KC Venugopal described Arya’s joining as “the happiest moments for the Congress party”. Also Read: Uttarakhand mulls to make anti-conversion law more stringent. What to expect“Today morning, they met honourable Rahul Gandhi and said they were very happy to rejoin their old family. Rahul ji told them in the coming days, they will help strengthen the Congress party in Uttarakhand and in the country,” Venugopal said, describing the meeting the duo had with the former Congress president.Yashpal Arya said he was very happy to return to the Congress and wanted to serve the party without conditions .“Today I am coming back to my family and returning home. There can’t be a day better than this. In my political life of 40 years, I have continued to work as district president, speaker, state president. I will serve Congress without any condition and will cooperate in the formation of the Congress government in the state,” Arya was quoted as saying by PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/homecoming-for-father-son-duo-yashpal-and-sanjeev-arya-join-congress-101633943405397.html
11-10-2021||India||NCRB says over 99% crimes registered in 2020 under POCSO Act were against girls||More than 99 per cent of crimes registered under the POCSO Act in 2020 were against girls, according to NCRB data which showed that girl child continues to be part of one of the most vulnerable sections of the society.An analysis of the latest NCRB data by NGO Child Rights and You (CRY) revealed that among 28,327 children who were victims of crimes reported under the POCSO Act, 28,058 were girls.A deeper analysis of the cases reported under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act showed that crimes against adolescent girls within the 16 to 18 age group were the highest at 14,092, followed by 10,949 crimes against girls within the 12 to 16 age group.Though both boys and girls are almost equally prone to abuse, the NRCB data revealed that girls irrespective of all age-groups are more vulnerable to sexual offences than boys.On the occasion of International Day of the Girl Child on Monday, CRY said girls are being celebrated all across the world and much being talked about their rights but they continue to be one of the most vulnerable sections of the society as shown by the NCRB data.According to the latest data released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) last month, more than 99 per cent of crimes committed in 2020 under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act were against girls.Priti Mahara, the director of policy research and advocacy at CRY, said recent trends of girls bearing the brunt of crimes against children should not be seen in isolation."It is vital to understand that along with the protection-related challenges, aspects linked to education, social protection, poverty, etc. also play a significant role in the empowerment of the girl child; and assessing impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on these parameters is equally crucial,” she said."During the crises, girls face multiple vulnerabilities – their access to education is further restricted and they become more exposed to the risks of child marriage. They are also more likely to experience violence and sexual exploitation in multiple forms and degrees," said Mahara.Emphasising on the emerging need of a strong child protection mechanism, Mahara said over the past few years, some progress has indeed been made in terms of girls' education and strengthening child protection systems, but the pandemic has derailed the growth.Since the vulnerability has now increased multifold, chances of girls dropping out of the education system and falling from the protection safety-net has correspondingly increased, she added.Mahara said girls, particularly the ones in their adolescence, face many protection risks during and after any humanitarian crisis."Given the immediate and long-term risks arising from the COVID-19 pandemic, the need of the hour is therefore to reinforce gender responsive protection interventions and ensure that these are implemented to the fullest,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncrb-says-over-99-crimes-registered-in-2020-under-pocso-act-were-against-girls-101633941706256.html
11-10-2021||India||National Conference leaders Devendra Singh Rana, Surjeet Salathia join BJP||Former National Conference leaders from Jammu and Kashmir, Devendra Singh Rana and Surjeet Singh Salathia joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in New Delhi on Monday in the presence of Union ministers Hardeep Puri, Dharmendra Pradhan and Jitendra Singh. Rana and Singh are brothers.Rana, who was a key aide of former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister and National Conference leader Omar Abdulla, said he joined the BJP because of the party’s positive response to his efforts to set a “Jammu narrative” through “Jammu Declaration” . Rana has been trying to bring Jammu region’s intellectuals, civil societies, leaders and members of trade & commerce together to further the interests of the region.“ I pitched for the Jammu Declaration, which will be a voice of Jammu by Jammu for inclusive Jammu and Kashmir. It will defeat the votaries of the Dixon Plan who want to divide Jammu region on the basis of religion,” Rana said. The Dixon Plan was proposed by Sir Owen Dixon, a United Nations’ representative who proposed assigning Ladakh to India, the northern areas and the Pakistan-Occupied Kashmir (POK) to Pakistan, splitting Jammu between the two, and recommended a plebiscite in the Kashmir Valley.Also Read: Indian Army’s JCO, 4 soldiers killed in encounter with terrorists in JammuRana said he spoke to all political parties on the need for a political narrative emerging from Jammu and strengthening the ethos of Jammu and Kashmir and the country. “Time has come to have a Jammu narrative, a political narrative, after all it was the Dogras, it was maharaja Gulab Singh, who carved out the state,” he said.Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan said the BJP has always ensured development of Jammu and Kashmir. “Their joining will give a fillip to the development works that began two years ago,” Pradhan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-conference-leaders-devendra-singh-rana-surjeet-salathia-join-bjp-101633941665332.html
11-10-2021||India||Army officer, 4 soldiers killed in gunfight with terrorists in J-K's Poonch||A junior commissioned officer (JCO) and four soldiers of the Indian Army were killed in a gunfight during an anti-insurgency operation with terrorists in the Surankote area of Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch district on Monday, officials said. Defence spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Devender Anand told reporters that the anti-insurgency operation was launched early on Monday morning in a village in Dehra Ki Gali (DKG) area in Surankote after the army received intelligence input about the presence of terrorists.Anand said during the cordon-and-search operation initiated by the army the insurgents opened fire on its personnel inflicting critical injuries to the four soldiers and the JCO. An encounter was launched after that and which is currently underway, he added. All the five army personnel succumbed to their injuries later. "Based on intelligence inputs, the Indian Army launched a cordon and search operation in villages close to DKG in Surankote jurisdiction of the Poonch district of J-K today morning. The encounter with terrorists is going on," Anand said earlier.Also Read: 2 terrorists killed in separate ops in Jammu and Kashmir's Bandipora, AnantnagArmy officials also told reporters that they have received information about the presence of a group of heavily armed terrorists in Chamrer forest after they managed to sneak in from across the Line of Control (LoC). The army rushed reinforcements to the area to plug all escape routes so the terrorists could be apprehended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-officer-4-soldiers-killed-in-gunfight-with-terrorists-in-j-k-s-poonch-101633939770276.html
11-10-2021||India||Devender Rana, Surjit Salathia join BJP day after quitting National Conference||Former National Conference (NC) leaders Devender Rana and Surjit Singh Salathia join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in New Delhi on Monday. Both the leaders had resigned from the membership of NC on Sunday.The induction ceremony was held in the presence of Union ministers Hardeep Singh Puri, Dharmendra Pradhan, and Jitendra Singh.For the past few days, speculations were rife that Rana, the younger brother of Union minister Jitendra Singh, will leave the NC. That finally came true on Sunday.NC president Dr Farooq Abdullah accepted the resignations of both the leaders."Dr Farooq Abdullah has received and accepted the resignations of Salathia and Mr Rana. No further action or comment is deemed necessary," the party tweeted on Sunday.Rana was the most prominent Hindu face of the NC and had won the Nagrota assembly seat on an NC ticket in 2014, despite the massive Modi wave. Salathia too won the Vijaypur constituency in the same year.Rana has been advocating for the Jammu declaration - a joint declaration of several political, social and business organisations - primarily demanding restoration of statehood for the Jammu region and not for the whole Jammu and Kashmir.Talking about the recent killings of civilians in the Kashmir Valley, Rana reiterated the need for Jammu Declaration to defeat such forces."Jammu Declaration will make a narrative to defeat all these forces, those forces who want to run a diction plan in Jammu and Kashmir and who want to hurt the customary brotherhood there, which is mutual love. We will stand and strengthen Jammu and Kashmir, strengthen the brotherhood," he said on Sunday.In 2019, the Centre had revoked the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and bifurcated it into union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/devender-rana-surjit-silothia-who-resigned-from-national-conference-join-bjp-101633937173695.html
11-10-2021||India||UP police to seek Ashish Mishra's custody, tight security around Lakhimpur court||The Uttar Pradesh police on Monday tightened security outside Lakhimpur Kheri sessions court where Union minister of state (MoS) for home Ajay Kumar Mishra's son Ashish will be produced today for the October 3 incident in Lakhimpur Kheri where eight people lost their lives.Scores of uniformed policemen were seen outside the court premises on Monday in a video uploaded by news agency ANI.Mishra was arrested by UP police on Saturday in connection with the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3. The farmers had claimed that SUVs from his convoy mowed down four farmers who were coming back from a protest.Farmer unions also alleged that Mishra was present in one of the two vehicles, but the Union minister has denied the allegation. A First Information Report (FIR) was registered by the police based on the complaint from farmer unions.He was arrested on Saturday after 12 hours of interrogation following which a local court remanded him to judicial custody for 14 days. UP police will be producing Mishra in court once again on Monday to seek his police custody.Lakhimpur Kheri district jail superintendent P P Singh said Mishra was being housed in quarantine barrack number 21 designated for new jail inmates.UP police have also arrested two other individuals named LuvKush and Ashish Pandey on October 7 in connection with the case, claiming that they are close aides of the minister’s son. All three arrests were made as the Supreme Court asked for a status report from the UP government on the progress made in its investigation into the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-police-to-seek-ashish-mishra-s-custody-tight-security-around-lakhimpur-court-101633936603594.html
11-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi launches Indian Space Association via video-conferencing and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘A single-window for matters of space technology’: PM Modi launches Indian Space AssociationPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday launched the Indian Space Association (ISpA) via video-conferencing, and, on the occasion, also interacted with representatives of the space industry. Read More'When there was no money...': Thief breaks into MP officer's house, leaves noteA government officer in Madhya Pradesh received an angry note from a burglar, who couldn't find enough cash at his home. Read MoreSingapore to allow quarantine free travel for 11 countries; India not included for nowSingapore will be reopening its border to vaccinated visitors from 11 countries from October 19, however, India has not been included in the list of countries allowed quarantine free entry. Read MoreMS Dhoni gifts autographed ball to young kid who was crying after CSK captain hit winning runs, video goes viral - WatchMS Dhoni is 40, far from his peak and almost done with cricket entirely. And yet, if one is to get a sense of what he means to his fans. Read MoreWhy drinking warm water with honey can be harmful for you as per AyurvedaMany people start their day with a glass of warm water and honey on empty stomach to lose weight. Read MoreHum Do Humare Do trailer: Rajkummar Rao brings fake parents for sake of love, messes it up. WatchRajkummar Rao and Kriti Sanon are once again back together after sharing screen space in Bareilly Ki Barfi. Read MoreMG Astor SUV launched at ₹9.78 lakh, backs AI tech to power its caseMG Astor was officially launched in India on Monday at a starting price of ₹9.78 lakh (ex showroom, introductory). Read MoreFact check: Did Indian Army side with farmers during protest in viral video?Amid the ongoing farmers’ protest, a video has been circulating on social media. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-modi-launches-indian-space-association-via-video-conferencing-and-all-the-latest-news-101633935323287.html
11-10-2021||India||‘A single-window for matters of space technology’: PM Modi launches Indian Space Association||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday launched the Indian Space Association (ISpA) via video-conferencing, and, on the occasion, also interacted with representatives of the space industry. ISpA, Prime Minister Modi observed, will act as a single-window and independent agency on matters related to space technology.Also Read | PM Modi to launch Indian Space Association todayPM Modi laid out what he described as “four pillars” of space technology: freedom for innovation in private sector, a government which plays the role of enabler and not handler, preparing youngsters for future, and treating the space sector as a resource for the progress of the common man. “This the time for exponential, and not linear innovation. This is possible only when the government plays the role of an enabler, and not the handler. Today, the government is sharing its expertise, and providing launch pads for the private sector. The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) is being opened for the private sector,” he said.He also emphasised how the space sector earlier used to be synonymous with the ruling dispensation, adding that it was his government which changed this mindset. “We introduced innovation to this field. We also gave the mantra of cooperation between between the Centre and start-ups,” Prime Minister Modi said. The Prime Minister also noted that ISpA's launch was taking place on a day when the world celebrates the International Day of the Girl Child. Recalling the celebrations of women scientists involved with India's Mars mission, he said he was hopeful that reforms in space sector would encourage more women participation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-single-window-for-matters-of-space-technology-pm-modi-at-launch-of-ispa-101633931789447.html
11-10-2021||India||Maharashtra bandh impact: Low turnout at vaccination centres, OPDs||The Maharashtra bandh on Monday impacted turnout at vaccination centres negatively and also resulted in fewer people visiting outpatient departments (OPDs) in hospitals across the city even when the ruling coalition behind the shutdown had assured of essential services not getting affected. Hospital authorities said patients and vaccine seekers may have stayed home fearing disruptions and difficulty in travelling. “Monday is the busiest day of the week in OPDs but the footfall was down by nearly 50% due to the bandh,” said Dr Sarika Chapane from BYL Nair Hospital, where approximately 1000 patients showed up on Monday. Chapane said that routine surgeries were not postponed. Similarly, KEM Hospital and Sion Hospital too saw a drop in the footfall at their OPDs. Also Read | ‘If someone is against this…’: Sanjay Raut questions people opposing Maha bandhWhile the civic body kept all the Covid vaccination centres open, the turnout was low. “The real impact on vaccination numbers will be known only at the end of the day when figures from all centres are collated,” said Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health officer of BMC. “From our end, we kept all the centres operational,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-bandh-impact-low-turnout-at-vaccination-centres-opds-101633934464574.html
11-10-2021||India||'When there was no money...': Thief breaks into MP officer's house, leaves note||A government officer in Madhya Pradesh received an angry note from a burglar, who couldn't find enough cash at his home. The incident took place in Dewas, about 150 kilometres from state capital Bhopal.The note left by the burglar at sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Trilochan Singh Gaur's residence has gone viral on social media. "Jab paise nahi they toh lock nahi karna tha collector (when there was no money, it should not have been locked, collector)," the note posted on Twitter read.The police said that the SDM was not at home for the past 15 days, according to news agency PTI. He filed a police complaint after finding his belongings scattered across the house and some cash and jewellery missing when he returned on Saturday.Kotwali police station in-charge Umrao Singh said ₹30,000 cash and some jewellery items were stolen from Gaur's house, PTI reported.The SDM's official residence is located in the high-profile area of Dewas where top district police officials also live.According to the police, the thief apparently used the government officer's notepad and pen to write the note, PTI reported. The police have launched an investigation into the incident and registered an FIR against unidentified persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-there-was-no-money-thief-breaks-into-mp-official-s-house-leaves-note-101633932839679.html
11-10-2021||India||'A success': NCP spokesperson says on Maharashtra bandh, demands Union minister be sacked||The Maharashtra bandh, called by the state’s ruling alliance of the Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party and the Congress in solidarity with farmers, has been a success, said NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik on Monday. Nawab Malik claimed that the complete shutdown has been supported by "all major political parties, organisations and labour unions."Shops and other commercial establishments were closed in Maharashtra on Monday as the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) observed a complete shutdown to mark their solidarity with the farmers who are agitating against the Centre's three farm laws. It also comes in the backdrop of Lakhimpur Kheri violence in Uttar Pradesh, in which eight people, including four farmers and a journalist, were killed on October 3.Speaking to the media at Hutatma Chowk in Mumbai, Malik also demanded the resignation of Union minister of state for home affairs Ajay Mishra Teni, whose son Ashish Mishra is the main accused in the violence case. Ashish Mishra has been arrested in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. “The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi demands that Union minister Ajay Misha be sacked," Malik, a Maharashtra minister, said.Amid the shutdown, Malik and other NCP leaders, including Supriya Sule and Jayant Patil, are at Hutatma Chowk to stage a demonstration against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and to extend their support to violence-hit farmers. "The major reason behind the bandh is that the BJP government neglected the farmers' protest at the borders of Delhi, but the Lakhimpur incident is a clear murder," said Patil, adding, "They were killed by a BJP minister's son."He further alleged that the BJP is attempting to "crush the farmers' agitation, which is ongoing since the enactment of the farm laws last year in September. "To condemn the incident we have called this bandh. I am sure the Lakhimpur Kheri incident will be condemned by each and every family," he also said. “The BJP has unfortunately opposed it. It means they are supporting those who have murdered the farmers by mowing them down," he added.On October 3, an SUV ran over farmers who were returning from a protest. The incident led to widespread condemnation in the country as it involved the Union minister's son. The opposition parties have attacked the BJP government in UP and said that it is trying to protect the culprits. The matter has also reached the Supreme Court and a suo-moto hearing is being held.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-success-ncp-spokesperson-says-on-maharashtra-bandh-demands-union-minister-be-sacked-101633932783578.html
11-10-2021||India||Outer reaches of Jammu and Kashmir receive season’s first snowfall||Outer reaches of Jammu and Kashmir received the season’s first snowfall while rains lashed other parts of the region on Monday and plunged the mercury. India Meteorological Department said a western disturbance and winds laden with moisture from the Mediterranean on Sunday led to the rains in the plains and snow in the mountains of the region.Mohammad Hussain Mir, a meteorologist, said all the districts of the region received rainfall since Sunday evening while light snowfall was reported from mountainous areas. “There was snowfall in Affarwat in upper Gulmarg...”The highest--26 mm of rain--was recorded in Kashmir’s Gulmarg and 23.8 mm in Jammu’s Katra till 8:30 am on Monday. “It is a feeble western disturbance. The system is moving forward towards the northwest and by noon, it is expected to leave the region,” said Mir. “The day temperatures in Kashmir will go down to around 20 while the night by around 8 degrees Celsius.”Also Read | Bandipora killing: Police unearth conspiracy, arrest 4 terror associatesSrinagar recorded a maximum temperature of 24.4 and Jammu 33 degrees Celsius on Sunday.Another western disturbance was expected in the region next Sunday. “(It) is also expected not to sustain for more than 24 hours,” Mir said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/outer-reaches-of-jammu-and-kashmir-receive-season-s-first-snowfall-101633930506789.html
11-10-2021||India||Bandipora killing: Police unearth conspiracy, arrest 4 terror associates||The Jammu and Kashmir police have busted a Lashkar-e-Taiba (TRF) module and arrested four terror associates involved in the conspiracy behind the killing of a president of a taxi drivers' union in Bandipora on October 5.The arrested terrorist associates have been identified as Tariq Ahmad Dar alias Tariq Khoucha, Mohammad Shafi Dar, Mudasir Hassan Lone and Bilal Dar alias Sahb Khoucha, according to the police.A spokesman of the Jammu and Kashmir Police said that Mohammad Shafi Lone, a resident of Naidkhai, was killed at the behest and instruction of LeT (TRF) handler Lala Umar, a resident of Pakistan.The module that was active in Shahgund of Hajin area had planned the attack by carrying out reconnaissance of the target and surveilling him. All his movements were closely watched, the spokesman said.The police said that the day Lone was killed, he was called by one of the overground workers (OGWs) who was known to him for a meeting at Gundboon. There, other members of the module had laid an ambush. Once Lone reached the spot, he was swiftly assassinated, said the police.A special team of Bandipora Police was entrusted with the investigation of the case and after thorough human and technical corroboration, the module was busted and four OGWs arrested.An FIR was registered under sections 304, 34, 124-B of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and 7/27 of the Arms Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bandipora-killing-police-unearth-conspiracy-arrest-4-terror-associates-101633927965084.html
11-10-2021||India||Monsoon likely to withdraw from some parts of Maharashtra, Odisha, Bengal||Conditions are becoming favourable for further withdrawal of the southwest monsoon from more parts of Gujarat, Chhattisgarh, most parts of Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand, Bihar, some parts of Maharashtra, Odisha, and West Bengal during the next two days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The withdrawal line is passing through Motihari, Gaya, Daltonganj, Ambikapur, Mandla, Indore, Gandhinagar, Rajkot and Porbandar.A cyclonic circulation is lying over the north Andaman Sea and neighbourhood. Under its influence, a low-pressure area is likely to form over the same region during the next 36 hours. It is likely to become more marked and move west north-westwards towards south Odisha-north Andhra Pradesh coasts during subsequent four to five days. Under its influence, moderate rainfall is likely at most places with isolated thunderstorms (wind speed 40-50 kmph gusting to 60 kmph). Heavy to very heavy rainfall is very likely in Andaman and Nicobar Islands during the next five days. Also Read: Delhi’s air quality to slip into poor category as farm fires pick upA cyclonic circulation is lying over the East-central Arabian Sea. It is very likely to persist during the next three to four days. Widespread to moderate rain with isolated heavy showers are also likely over southern peninsular India during the next five days and over Maharashtra during the next two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-likely-to-withdraw-from-some-parts-of-maharashtra-odisha-bengal-101633925524465.html
11-10-2021||India||20 thermal power stations shut, Centre says no coal scarcity: 10 points||The Centre has assured that there are sufficient coal reserves in the country to produce electricity, but that hasn't stopped state governments to flag concerns about shutting down of thermal power stations due to scarcity of coal. According to Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan, three thermal power plants in Punjab, four in Kerala and 13 in Maharashtra have been shut.The chief ministers of Karnataka and Punjab have urged the Centre to increase coal supply.The Congress has blamed the central government for the coal shortage in the country and expressed fear that power rates may be increased now after the hike in petrol prices.Also Watch | 'Unnecessary panic': Centre assures Delhi of uninterrupted power supply after CM Kejriwal's SOSHere are the key developments in this big story:1. The Union power ministry said in a statement on Sunday that fears of a power crisis in India are overblown. The ministry of coal said "ample coal is available in the country to meet the demand".2. Union power minister RK Singh reviewed the coal stock position at all thermal power plants on Sunday. Reports earlier said that over half of 135 coal-fired utilities, which supply more than half of India's electricity, have fuel inventory to last just under three days.3. The Centre's rebuttal came after concerns were raised by Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said Delhi could face power outages if the central government did not quickly resolve the coal shortage at power plants. He sought the intervention of the Prime Minister to resolve the crisis.4. After the Union power ministry's statement, Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said that the Centre was not ready to accept there was a coal crisis. Its policy to “turn a blind eye” to every problem could prove to be bad for the country, he added.5. Former Union minister and Congress leader Jairam Ramesh demanded an investigation into the coal shortage.6. Meanwhile, Madhya Pradesh energy minister Pradhuman Singh Tomar on Sunday claimed that the state stood at a better position. The minister also said that the state government has floated tenders to purchase eight metric tonnes of coal for its power stations.7. In Punjab, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal slammed the Congress-led government, alleging that the current crisis was entirely “man-made” and a direct consequence of the ruling dispensation’s “utter neglect and absence of advance planning and preparedness”.8. Power supply situation continued to remain grim in Punjab with the state-owned utility PSPCL on Sunday saying up to three-hour daily power cut will remain in the state till October 13.9. In a year when the country produced record coal, excessive rains in coal producing belt hit movement of the fuel from mines to power generation units, impacting power generation in many states including Punjab, Rajasthan, Delhi and Andhra Pradesh.10. Another factor that has contributed to the present crisis is power plants that used imported coal to generate electricity, have either curtailed generation or completely stopped as a spurt in international energy prices has made it difficult for them to meet the commitments to states at a particular rate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/20-thermal-power-stations-shut-centre-says-no-coal-scarcity-10-points-101633923917479.html
11-10-2021||India||India-China military dialogue on East Ladakh stalled, PLA refuses to budge||The India-China senior military commanders' marathon dialogue on Sunday did not yield any result with the Chinese Army not willing to address de-escalation in three remaining friction points on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in East Ladakh. The remaining friction points are Hot Springs, Depsang Bulge and Charding Nullah Junction.It appears from the statements issued by two armies that the Chinese PLA was not inclined to go beyond the de-escalation agreed in the 12th round of dialogue. The Chinese statement is sanctimonious and asks India to cherish the past resolutions.“Instead of misjudging the situation, the Indian side should cherish the hard-won situation in China-India border areas,” Senior Colonel Long Shaohua, spokesperson for the Western Theater Command of the People's Liberation Army (PLA), said in a statement on Monday.The Indian side pointed out during the talks that the situation along the LAC had been caused by unilateral attempts of Chinese side to alter the status quo and in violation of the bilateral agreements. It is, therefore, necessary that the Chinese side take appropriate steps in the remaining areas so as to restore peace and tranquillity along the LAC in the Western Sector, India further said.The Indian statement added that this would also be in accord with the guidance provided by the two foreign ministers in their recent meeting in Dushanbe where they had agreed that the two sides should resolve the remaining issues at the earliest.The Indian side emphasised such resolution of the remaining areas would facilitate progress in the bilateral relations.The 13th round of parley began at 10.30am on Sunday at Moldo on the Chinese side of LAC, according to officials. It came more than two months after the last round of talks that led to disengagement in early August of deployed troops at Gogra, or Patrol Point-17A, which was one of the flashpoints of the border skirmishes.Officials had earlier said that disengagement of rival soldiers deployed at Hot Springs was on the agenda for the latest round of talks.The parley comes at a time of massive military buildup and infrastructure development by the People’s Liberation Army across the LAC, with the Indian Army matching Chinese moves.In February, the two sides pulled back troops and weaponry from Pangong Tso in Ladakh. Despite two rounds of disengagement at friction points this year, the two armies still have 50,000 to 60,000 troops each and advanced weaponry in eastern Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indiachina-military-dialogue-on-east-ladakh-stalled-pla-adamant-on-progress-101633922540954.html
11-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi to launch Indian Space Association today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi to launch Indian Space Association todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will launch the Indian Space Association (ISpA) on Monday. The virtual inauguration ceremony will be held at 11am, according to a tweet from PM Modi's official handle. Read MoreLakhimpur Kheri incident: Congress silent protests in Karnataka, Goa todayThe Congress party in Karnataka will hold a silent protest in Bengaluru demanding the arrest of all the accused in Lakhimpur Kheri violence. Read MoreUK to drop 10-day quarantine for Indians from today: Details hereThe United Kingdom is easing its travel restrictions starting Monday, allowing travellers from more nations to enter the country. Read More'Made me jump out of my seat again tonight': Kohli hails 'greatest finisher ever' Dhoni, tweets 'the king is back'MS Dhoni sent his legion of fans in total euphoria as his cameo of 18 not out of six balls, helped Chennai Super Kings overhaul Delhi Capitals' 172 and reach the final of the IPL for a record ninth time. Read MoreKareena Kapoor walks the ramp at LFW, says ‘If I had my way, I would be in a kaftan'Kareena Kapoor was oozing with confidence as she walked the ramp in a white shimmery gown at the Lakme Fashion Week on Sunday, months after giving birth to son Jehangir. Read MoreMalaika Arora is the most gorgeous bride ever in red lehenga set as she walks the ramp at LFWThe exquisite Malaika Arora became the showstopper for designer label Annu's Creation on the final day of Lakme Fashion Week. Read MoreWatch | J&K civilian killings: 500 detained, say reports; Amit Shah's pick heads probe||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-modi-to-launch-indian-space-association-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101633921483621.html
11-10-2021||India||Chief of US naval operations admiral Mike Gilday to begin 5-day visit to India||The United States' chief of naval operations admiral Michael M Gilday will arrive in India on a five-day visit on Monday to reaffirm the growing level of naval cooperation between the two countries. The visit will conclude on October 15, during which Gilday is scheduled to meet India's Chief of Naval Staff Admiral Karambir Singh and other officials."This visit is a great opportunity for me to meet with my counterpart in India and discuss areas for continued mutual cooperation. No doubt, there are many areas where we can partner and collaborate," Gilday said on Friday while announcing the visit.In a statement, Gilday also described India as "one of the closest strategic partners" and said, the relationship between New Delhi and Washington "is a stronghold of a free and open Indo-Pacific." "I am grateful for our navies’ continued cooperation in the Indo-Pacific to create an inclusive, free and open rules-based order," the senior official also said, adding, "And by continuing to work closely with the Indian Navy, we will increase our interoperability for decades to come as well as maintain security, stability, and prosperity."The visit coincides with the second phase of the Malabar exercise, which is set to begin from Tuesday. The mega wargame in the Bay of Bengal will continue till October 15 and it will feature the navies of all four Quad countries - India, the US, Australia and Japan.According to the Indian Navy officials, the second phase of the Malabar exercise will feature a number of complex drills involving several frontline warships and other assets of the four navies.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chief-of-us-naval-operations-admiral-mike-gilday-to-begin-5-day-visit-to-india-101633920872244.html
11-10-2021||India||Centre permits export of 4 million doses of Sputnik Light Covid-19 vaccine to Russia||The central government has given permission for the export of India-made jabs of Sputnik Light, the vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) originally developed by Russia, to that country. According to reports, this decision was taken because Sputnik Light, which is the single-dose formulation of the double-dose Sputnik V, is yet to be given emergency use authorisation (EUA) by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI).Hyderabad-based Hetero Biopharma, one of several firms in India that the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) has partnered with for manufacturing the jab domestically, will produce 4 million doses for export. The development comes after the Russian ambassador, Nikolay Kudashev, wrote to the Centre, urging that till the time Sputnik Light receive EUA in India, its doses be sent to his country, to prevent their wastage.The decision to permit the export was taken last week following “detailed” deliberations, reports said.Sputnik V, which Russia claims is the world's first registered vaccine against Covid-19, received clearance from the DCGI in April at a time when the nation was in the middle of a devastating second wave of the pandemic. However, the drug regulator is yet to approve Sputnik Light, though, in September, it granted permission to Dr Reddy's Laboratories, also based in Hyderabad, to conduct phase 3 bridging trials of Light in the country.The single-dose vaccine demonstrated an efficacy of 79.4 per cent during trials in Russia, from December 5 last year to April 15 this year. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-permits-export-of-4-million-doses-of-sputnik-light-covid-19-vaccine-to-russia-101633918245775.html
11-10-2021||India||Power minister slams opposition for ‘unnecessary panic’ over coal shortage||Union minister of power RK Singh has reassured that there were no threats to power supply and coal dispatches will increase in the coming days amid fears that some states including national capital Delhi may be hit by energy crisis. “We have an average coal reserve (at power stations) that can last for more than four days. The stock is replenished every day. I am in touch with (Union minister for Coal and Mines) Pralhad Joshi,” RK Singh said following his meeting with the power distribution companies in Delh and stressed that there was no “crisis” of power supply in Delhi.On Sunday afternoon, Congress Member of Parliament Jairam Ramesh tweeted, “Suddenly we are hearing of a crisis in coal supply to power plants. Is one particular private company making a fortune out of this crisis? But who will investigate?”RK Singh hit out at the Congress saying the party had run out of ideas. “They are running out of votes and therefore are running out of ideas as well,” Singh was reported as saying by news agency ANI.He also dismissed Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s concerns over a potential power crisis in the union territory, which had led the CM to seek Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s intervention.Also Read | Power crisis in Punjab a result of administrative paralysis: Sukhbir BadalThe power minister met officials from Delhi’s power ministry, Bombay Suburban Electric Supply (BSES) company, and Tata power on Sunday to discuss the issue of coal shortage in power plants. Minister of Coal and Mines, Pralhad Joshi also tweeted to say that Coal India Limited currently has 43 million tonnes of coal stock which is sufficient to meet the demands of the next 24 days. “Assuring everyone that there is absolutely no threat of disruption in power supply. There is sufficient coal stock of 43 million tonnes with @CoalIndiaHQ equivalent to 24 days of coal demand,” he tweeted.Singh refuted all opposing claims and insisted that the demand for coal is actually a sign of the economy recovering after the brutal second Covid wave brought economic activity to a standstill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/power-minister-slams-opposition-for-unnecessary-panic-over-coal-shortage-101633919163598.html
11-10-2021||India||2 terrorists killed in separate ops in Jammu and Kashmir's Bandipora, Anantnag||One terrorist has been killed by the security forces in an encounter in Bandipora district of Jammu and Kashmir, according to the police. The encounter started early on Monday, a tweet from Kashmir Zone Police said."#BandiporaEncounterUpdate: 01 unidentified #terrorist killed. #Search going on. Further details shall follow," the tweet said. The killed terrorist has been identified as Imtiyaz Ahmad Dar affiliated with proscribed terror outfit LeT (TRF). “He was involved in recent civilian #killing at Shahgund #Bandipora,” the Kashmir Police said further on Twitter, quoting the Inspector General of Police.Killed #terrorist has been identified as Imtiyaz Ahmad Dar affiliated with proscribed #terror outfit LeT (TRF). He was involved in recent civilian #killing at Shahgund #Bandipora: IGP KashmirThe encounter is still going on at Gundjahangir, in Hajin area of Bandipora, the police said.Earlier, a terrorist was neutralised by the security forces in Verinag encounter in Anantnag district of Jammu and Kashmir. The gunbattle started at around 2.30am, according to a tweet from Kashmri Zone Police.A policeman has been injured in the Anantnag encounter, the police informed through Twitter, adding that the encounter is still going on.On Saturday, an encounter broke out between terrorists and security forces during a cordon and search operation in Chanapora area of Srinagar.The operation was launched after a terrorist managed to escape from an encounter in nearby Natipora area. One Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorist was killed in firing on Friday.The valley has witnessed a series of civilian killings this month, due to which there is high security in the entire region. The security forces have detained at least 500 people as part of their investigation. Suspected members of banned terrorist groups such as Jamaat-e-Islami have been interrogated to trace their roles in the murders.Seven people, including three from the minority communities, have been killed in the Union Territory since October 3. Among them are two teachers - Satinder Kour and Deepak Chand - who were shot dead on Thursday. Before them, Makhan Lal Bindroo, a 68-year-old chemist, street vendor Virender Paswan from Bihar’s Bhagalpur, and Mohammad Shafi Lone, president of a local taxi union, were shot dead in Srinagar and Bandipora districts on Tuesday.As many as 28 civilians have been killed by terrorists this year, according to Vijay Kumar, inspector general of police, Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/encounter-going-on-in-bandipora-anantnag-2-terrorist-killed-say-police-101633917951132.html
11-10-2021||India||Covid-19 cases rise slightly in Mumbai, deaths under control||While Maharashtra as a whole has been witnessing a steady drop in the daily Covid-19 caseload, infections in Mumbai have seen a slight rise with the metropolis recording 445 new cases on Sunday, taking this month’s tally to 4,733, which means an average of 473 infections per day. There were six Covid related deaths in the city on Sunday, taking the number of fatalities in the past 10 days to 48. Experts attribute the slight rise in cases in Mumbai to the reopening of activities including local trains, schools, commercial establishments and also increasing volume of passengers in trains.Since last week, active Covid cases in Mumbai have overtaken Thane, which earlier had the second highest number of active Covid cases in the state after Pune.State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate said although cases have gone up slightly in Mumbai, deaths are under control.Also Read: Maharashtra bandh today over Lakhimpur Kheri violence“Covid-19 cases have risen slightly in Mumbai, but their intensity has been very less due to vaccination,” said Dr Awate.“We have also been able to bring down the number of Covid deaths significantly,” he added.Dr Ameet Mandot, director, Gut Clinic, said this is normal phenomenon in any pandemic. “Any pandemic will have a plateau phase and there will be minor fluctuations in numbers for some weeks before it settles down completely. This is still the second wave going on and citizens need to take precautions,” said Dr Mandot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-cases-rise-slightly-in-mumbai-deaths-under-controlexpert-101633917903931.html
11-10-2021||India||Maharashtra bandh today over Lakhimpur Kheri violence||The three-party Maharashtra Vikas Agadi (MVA) alliance - comprising NCP, Congress and Shiv Sena - has given a call for a statewide bandh on Monday (October 11) to protest the killing of four farmers in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri. Eight people were killed in the violence at Tikunia, nearly 70km from Lakhimpur Kheri district headquarters. Four of them were farmers, who the locals claim died after an SUV, allegedly part of the convoy of Union minister's son, ran over them on October 3.Click here for live updates on Maharashtra bandhIn view of the bandh, security arrangements have been heightened in the state's capital Mumbai. The police on Sunday said that strict patrolling will be held to ensure no untoward incident takes place. Striking reserves will also be deployed at strategic points, with three companies of Maharashtra state reserve police force (SRPF), 500 Home Guards and 700 men from Local Arms units, news agencies reported quoting police.The Chhatrapati Shivaji Market Yard traders’ association has also announced that all the fruit, vegetable, onion, potato markets will remain closed on Monday. The traders’ union has also appealed to all the members to support the shutdown by keeping their trade closed on Monday. They have appealed to the farmers not to bring their agricultural produce to the market on Monday.Essential services will continue to operate during the shutdown.Meanwhile, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has criticised the call for a shutdown. The ruling parties are politicising the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, said the leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis on Sunday.
11-10-2021||India||Himachal Pradesh to reopen schools for Class 8 from today||The Himachal Pradesh government has allowed reopening of schools for students of Class 8 from Monday (October 11) but in accordance with all coronavirus disease (Covid-19) related protocols.“Education Department is allowed to open the Schools from class 8th onwards w.e.f. 11-10-2021 on all working days subject to SOPs issued by Education Department adhering to the safety guidelines and appropriate behavior as per Covid-19 protocol,” a state government notification issued on October 8 read.The notification added that all schools in Himachal Pradesh will have to ensure mandatory wearing of masks, hand sanitisation and maintain social distancing.“To ensure staggering of students and to follow all the SOPs and Covid-19 guidelines, all the principals and headmasters are authorized to implement the micro plan already prepared for their respective school, as per availability of the accommodation,” the notification further read.Students will also continue to access online study material through the government’s ‘Har Ghar Pathshala’ initiative.Schools for classes 9 to 12 had reopened in Himachal Pradesh in September. According to arrangement put in place by the state government, students of classes 10 and 12 attend school on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, whereas those of classes 9 and 11 on Thursday, Friday and Saturday.More than 220,000 cases of the coronavirus disease have been reported in Himachal Pradesh so far. These include 1,371 active cases, 215,322 recoveries and 3,699 deaths. Authorities have administered nearly 8.6 million vaccine doses to eligible beneficiaries till now of which 5,679,15 have received the first dose and the remaining 2,920,370 are fully vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/himachal-pradesh-to-reopen-schools-for-class-8-from-today-101633911888537.html
11-10-2021||India||PM Modi to launch Indian Space Association today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch the Indian Space Association (ISpA) on Monday. The virtual inauguration ceremony will be held at 11am, according to a tweet from PM Modi's official handle.He will also interact with representatives of the space industry on the occasion."At 11 AM tomorrow, 11th October, I will join the programme to launch the Indian Space Association. I am glad to be getting the opportunity to interact with leading stakeholders of the sector. Those interested in the world of space and innovation must-watch tomorrow's programme," PM Modi tweeted.In a release, the Prime Minister's Office said that ISpA is a premier industry association of space and satellite companies, which aspires to be the collective voice of the Indian space industry.“It will undertake policy advocacy and engage with all stakeholders in the Indian space domain, including the government and its agencies,” it added.The ISpA's founding members include Larson & Toubro, Nelco (Tata Group), OneWeb, Bharti Airtel, Mapmyindia, Walchandnagar Industries and Ananth Technology Limited. Other core members include Godrej, Hughes India, Azista-BST Aerospace Private Limited, BEL, Centum Electronics and Maxar India, the release added.India has made great strides in the field of space research in the last few years. The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) has also undertaken a number of launches, though Covid-19 has impacted the schedule of some of these space missions.According to senior ISRO officials, the country's first solar mission, which was pushed from early 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic, is likely to be launched in the third quarter of 2022. The agency will also launch Xposat, India's second space observatory, next year.Before the pandemic, the space agency had planned for 20 launches in the financial year 2020-21, including the first unmanned flight under the Gaganyaan mission. The Gaganyaan mission is also likely to be undertaken by the end of 2022 or in early 2023.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-launch-indian-space-association-today-101633911095296.html
11-10-2021||NA||Maha bandh highlights: Govt misusing police, GST administrations, says BJP||Maharashtra Bandh LIVE updates: The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) -- a ruling alliance of the NCP, Congress and Shiv Sena -- has called for a statewide bandh on Monday to protest against the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, in which at least eight were killed including four farmers. The bandh is being observed in solidarity with farmers of the country, who are protesting since last year against the Centre's three farm legislation."The BJP-led central government has allowed the loot of agriculture produce through the three newly-enacted farm laws and now the kin of its minister is killing farmers. We have to show solidarity with the cultivators," said NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik on Sunday as he urged the state residents to support the bandh.Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha lawmaker Sanjay Raut also said that it is necessary to wake people up against the Centre’s anti-farmer policies, adding that farmers are not alone in their fight and the process of showing solidarity with them must begin from Maharashtra.Follow all the updates here:Mumbai's Pali Naka area shops remain open for business Shops in Pali Naka area of Bandra remained open for business on Monday despite the Maharashtra bandh called by Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA). Jagdish Jain, a stationery shop owner from the area told Hindustan Times shopkeepers have decided to keep shops open, adding that “No-one has forced us or asked us to keep shops shut and we have also decided to not keep it shut. We respect the cause of farmers but at the same time it is all poltics. We are asked to remain shut but e-commerce website continue to sell goods. So, we are losing out business. If it is bandh, it should be for both online and offline businesses.”Maharashtra govt ‘misusing police, GST administrations': Fadnavis on shutdown“This is the state sponsored bandh imposed and implemented with the help of administration. The traders and businessmen and their unions are being threatened to participate in it. The ruling parties are misusing police and GST administrations to impose bandh," says Maharashtra's leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis.‘Instead of observing Maharashtra bandh…’: BJP leader lashes out at state govtBharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Chandrakant Patil on Monday said the ruling parties in the state—the Shiv Sena, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress—are “trying to reap political mileage” by giving the call for the Maharashtra bandh as the shutdown was observed to protest the killing of four farmers in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri district. Read MoreFarmers' union throw paddy at Mini SecretariatMembers of Kirti Kisan Union threw paddy stubble at the Mini Secretariat today and protested against Punjab and central government on Monday.Petrol pumps deserted in Worly amid shutdownPetrol pumps in Worli, Dadar and Matunga that usually see long lines of commuters and cabs for CNG, are empty today. Natraj market which is one of the biggest retail shopping centre in Mumbai's western suburbs is also shut. Maharashtra bandh supported by all major political parties, unions: NCP"All the major political parties, organizations and labour unions have supported the Maharashtra bandh. Our bandh is successful. We have been making appeals to avoid any sort of violence," says NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik.MVA holds protests in NagpurWorkers from all the three ruling parties — Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress — holding a joint protest at Sanvidhan Chowk at Nagpur.Shops closed at DadarShop closed at Dadar during the strike called by Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi in Mumbai. APMC markets closed in Navi Mumbai, NashikHindmata market, one of the biggest cloth market fully closed. Similarly all shops at Lalbaug, Parel and Dadar closed. In Navi Mumbai and Nashik, APMC markets are completely shut. Local train services unaffected: OfficialsLocal train services in Mumbai were unaffected till now, informs officials amid the complete shutdown call.Eight buses vandalised in Mumbai since last night: BEST spokespersonEight BEST buses vandalised since last night in Mumbai. We have sought police protection for operating services and currently very few buses have been operated since morning, says BEST Spokesperson.Congress leaders to sit on ‘maun vrat’ outside Raj BhavanCongress to do maun vrat andolan outside Raj Bhavan at 11 am to protest killing of farmers in Lakhimkheri Kheri. Maharashtra state unit chief Nana Patole to lead the agitation.BJP opposes shutdown, called by ruling Maharashtra govtBJP has opposed the Maharashtra bandh announced by the ruling parties. BJP leader Ashish Shelar said, "Sena has always opposed the development. They had indirectly supported the mill workers strike in 1980s, opposed key development projects including airports in Navi Mumbai, Sindhudurg, coastal road and now observing bandh when people are distressed because of Covid lockdown," he said.Shiv Sena workers stage ‘rasta roko' at Pune -Bengluru highwayShiv Sena workers staged ‘rasta roko' (block the road) on Pune -Bengluru national highway in Kolhapur as part of the Maharashtra bandh call given by three ruling parties. Sena workers were detained by the police.Deserted streets of Bandra Streets were deserted as the shutdown came into effect on Monday. Some traders' union extend support to shutdownThe Chhatrapati Shivaji Market Yard traders’ association has also announced that all the fruit, vegetable, onion, potato markets will remain closed on Monday. The traders’ union has also appealed to all the members to support the shutdown by keeping their trade closed on Monday. They have appealed to the farmers not to bring their agricultural produce to the market on Monday.Security heightened at Mumbai ahead of shutdownIn view of the bandh, security arrangements have been heightened in the state's capital city of Mumbai. The police on Sunday said that strict patrolling will be held to ensure no untoward incident takes place. Striking reserves will also be deployed at strategic points, with three companies of Maharashtra state reserve police force (SRPF), 500 Home Guards and 700 men from Local Arms units, news agencies reported quoting police.Maharashtra bandh today: What you need to knowThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has condemned the Maharashtra bandh decision and the leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said that the ruling parties are politicising the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. Read MoreTraders body objects to Maharashtra bandh callThe Federation of Retail Traders Welfare Association (FRTWA) in Maharashtra has objected to the bandh on Monday. The traders' union in a statement on Sunday said they were limping back to business after eighteen months of lockdowns amid the Covid-19 pandemic and the bandh would hit their earnings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-bandh-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-live-october-11-2021-101633909987596.html
11-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri incident: Congress silent protests in Karnataka, Goa today||The Congress party in Karnataka will hold a silent protest in Bengaluru demanding the arrest of all the accused in Lakhimpur Kheri violence. The party is also pushing for dismissal of Ajay Mishra from the post of Union Minister of State for Home Affairs."A vehicle belonging to the Minister and their family members has brutally assassinated farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh. No action has been taken against the Union Minister of State and the culprits responsible for this act. That's why we demand justice for the farmers", said Karnataka Congress president DK Shivakumar.Along with Shivakumar, former chief minister Siddaramaiah along with other senior leaders of the Karnataka Congress are scheduled to participate in the protest.Thw protest was announced on a day when Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said in Varanasi that her party "will keep fighting till the minister resigns".She also lashed out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi for not visiting Lakhimpur Kheri when he came to Lucknow for Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav event. The Congress party has made Lakhimpur Kheri a major issue, especially in Uttar Pradesh where assembly elections are due next year.A similar silent protest is also taking place in Goa, in which former Union minister P Chidambaram will participate. The "Maun Vrat" will begin at Goa's Azad Maidan at 11.30am and many Congress leaders will participate in that.As a mark of protest, all the office bearers will use the black masks to mark the protest, according to a release issued by the party.Eight people, including four farmers, were killed in the violence at Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3. The Uttar Pradesh Police have arrested Ashish Mishra, the son of Union minister Ajay Mishra on charges of murder.Farmers allege that Ashish Mishra was in the lead car that ran over protesters who were returning from a demonstration in Tikunia village. The junior home minister and his son deny the allegation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-incident-congress-silent-protest-in-karnataka-goa-today-101633910265141.html
11-10-2021||India||50 fall sick due to food poisoning after feast in village in MP's Gwalior||In a case of food poisoning, at least 50 people, including women and children, fell sick after eating food served at a feast in a village in Madhya Pradesh's Gwalior district, an official said on Sunday. The condition of five of them is serious and they are shifted to the Gajra Raja Medical College (GRMC) and Hospital here after receiving initial treatment at the Morar Hospital in the Gwalior district, he said. The incident occurred in Damora village on Saturday evening. “They fell sick due to food poisoning. Of them, five people are serious and referred to the GRMC. The doctor and paramedical staff were also sent to the village along with an ambulance,” said Dr Alok Purohit, in charge of Morar Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/50-fall-sick-due-to-food-poisoning-after-feast-in-village-in-mp-s-gwalior-101633909268729.html
11-10-2021||India||What does SAS tell us about India’s animal farms?||Have tractors finally replaced bullock carts and private dairies the milk-animal in the Indian farmer’s house? Vigilante groups (“gau rakshaks”) claiming to be protecting cows have been making news (for the wrong reasons) in the past few years in India. But how many “gau palaks” — those who keep cows at home — are there in India? How big are animal farms and animal farming in the business of farming in India?HT has analysed unit-level data from the latest Situation Assessment of Agricultural Households and Land and Livestock Holdings of Households in Rural India (SAS) to answer some of these questions. The SAS was conducted in the calendar year 2019 and gives data for the July 2018-June 2019 period on animal farming.A Rajasthan farmer is about thrice as likely to have an animal as his Telangana counterpartThe SAS only looks at households which meet the criterion set for agricultural households. This requires at least one member to be self-employed in agriculture and an output in specified agricultural activities of ₹4,000 (in 2018-19) in the past 365 days.Just as not all farmers are counted as agricultural households, not all agricultural households which have an animal at home – this excludes pets – qualify for the animal farming household (AFH) category in the SAS. Only those agricultural households are considered in AFH category that received some value of output – such as milk, wool, live animals, or even manure -- from animal farming.An estimated 60.2 million out of the total 92.5 million agricultural households or 65% qualify for the AFH category in the entire July 2018-June 2019 period. Data on ownership of animals was, however, only collected when data on agricultural households was being collected with reference to July-December 2018. During this period, 58% households were engaged in animal farming, but 71% owned some kind of livestock (excluding pets).However, there are significant state-wise differences in whether or not an agricultural household qualifies for the AFH category. Among major states, the share of AFHs among agricultural households was 90% in Rajasthan. This number was just 34% in Telangana. Cows and hens, not buffaloes and goatsWhat are the most common animals in India’s animal farms? 45% of India’s agricultural households own cattle, 27% own buffaloes and 14% have poultry birds. Ovine and other mammals (sheep, goat, pig, rabbits, etc) are owned by only 19% of agricultural households. In terms of estimated numbers, cattle and poultry birds outnumber other animals. An average agricultural household owned 1.35 cattle and 1.34 poultry birds compared to 0.90 ovine and other mammals and 0.71 buffaloes.Nearly a third of Other Backward Classes (OBC) agricultural households (32%) own buffaloes, much higher than the 15%, 23% and 32% share for Scheduled Tribe (ST), Scheduled Caste (SC) and agricultural households not belonging to SC, ST or OBC groups. The share of agricultural households owning buffaloes is 2.3 times the share owning cattle in Haryana. Poultry ownership is nil in Haryana compared to 60% in Assam. Size of land-ownership is an important factor in deciding cattle and buffalo ownership though not in case of poultry. Is there a problem of stray cattle in Indian villages?Anecdotal accounts suggest that it is a huge problem. Does the SAS offer any clues on this question? Deductive reasoning suggests that it does. 73% of cattle and 85% of buffaloes owned by agricultural households are female. This means that cattle and buffaloes are largely kept as milk animals and not for working on farms.Such a skewed gender ratio is unlikely to be the result of natural causes. This leaves disposal – either by selling or abandoning -- of male cattle and buffaloes by agricultural households.The SAS shows there is a compelling economic case for doing so. Animal ownership, especially cattle and buffalo ownership, is strongly correlated with land ownership. Intuitively, this makes sense. Animals, like humans, need space to live. Also, cattle feed entails a financial burden. It was 84.4% of a typical AFH’s total expenditure on animal farming in 2018-19. To be sure, not all female cattle and buffalo generates income for the AFH. The SAS found that only 27% of cattle and 37% of buffaloes were giving milk at the time of the survey. Even among female cattle and buffaloes, this figure was 37% and 43%, respectively. This is bound to hurt the net income of such a household. The ownership of in-milk female cattle among OBC and non-SC-ST-OBC households was more than twice that of SC households.Animal farmers are more likely to use poultry than milk for self-consumptionCommercial farming is not the driving force behind India’s animal farmers or AFHs. 49% of the value of total value of output is consumed by the household itself. To be sure, the SAS definition of own consumption includes retention for future sale or for use as animal ‘seed’. Also, share of animal output used for self-consumption varies significantly across products. It is around 45% in the case of cattle and buffalo milk, 60% case of poultry, but just 9.9% for fish and nil for live sheep or goat. The regional divide in India’s dairy economyIn Gujarat, the home of Amul, which pioneered the cooperative revolution in India’s dairy economy, 64% of the milk produced by AFHs is sold to cooperatives. Gujarat is not the only state where cooperatives have a strong presence in the dairy sector. In Kerala and Karnataka too, around 50% milk is sold to cooperatives. Then there are states such as Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra, where private processors buy more than 40% of the total milk produced. At the other extreme are states like Himachal Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, and Jharkhand, where neither cooperatives nor private businesses have a strong footprint in the milk economy and 3/4th or more of milk production is consumed within the household.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-does-sas-tell-us-about-india-s-animal-farms-101633906804471.html
11-10-2021||India||India chasing new Tuberculosis vaccines after 100 years||Chasing India’s target of eliminating tuberculosis by 2025, scientists at the Indian Council of Medical Research have recruited about 12,000 participants for a phase III study of two potential vaccines.The researchers want to see how effective the vaccines are in preventing the disease in adult household members of a person newly diagnosed with TB. The participants from across seven sites in India will be monitored for three years before the potential vaccines are approved for use commercially or under the national TB programme.“Recruitment in the middle of a pandemic was a huge challenge for us because we had to motivate healthy people in a household where TB was detected to come to the DOTS centres for vaccination,” one of the scientists said on condition of anonymity. DOTS, or directly observed treatment, is the name given to the TB control strategy recommended by the World Health Organization.“For Covid-19 vaccines and therapeutics, the initial results can start coming in within months,” the researhcer said. “But TB is a long-term illness, and we will have to observe the participants for a longer duration to arrive at any result.”One of the vaccines being tested to prevent tuberculosis of the lungs is Immuvac, which was developed to prevent leprosy. Immuvac, also known as mycobacterium indicus pranii, displays antigens similar to both the leprosy bacterium and the TB bacterium.The other vaccine candidate is VPM1002, a recombinant BCG that is the most widely used vaccine in the world. The new vaccine developed in Germany has the genetic code of the BCG edited in a way that leads to better availability of the TB antigens, thus training the immune system to better fight tuberculosis.Another trial of the same candidate is underway to prevent recurrence of TB in adults. VPM1002 is also being tested to see whether it can offer protection against Covid-19.The BCG vaccine currently in use is a live, weakened form of the bacteria to train the immune system. It is only for use in children. Although it offers protection against the most severe forms of tuberculosis such as TB in the brain, it is not very effective against getting an infection, reactivation of a latent infection, and against the most common form of TB in the lungs. Yet, in the 100 years since the vaccine was developed, there have been no alternatives.Experts say the government’s push towards eliminating tuberculosis and the formation of a research consortium are the reasons for the focus on TB vaccines.“Unlike Covid-19 that affected the rich and the poor countries alike, tuberculosis disproportionately affects those in poorer countries and from poorer neighbourhoods,” said Dr DJ Christopher, professor of pulmonary medicine at Christian Medical College in Vellore, and former chair of RePORT India, a consortium for Indo-US collaborative TB research. “There is not enough interest or funding for research of a TB vaccine.”India’s strategy to eliminate TB hinges on funding 3-4 vaccine candidates for phase I or II trials and have at least one final product co-owned by the government by 2025.“Studying TB is not very popular. The government’s focus on elimination has certainly helped,” said Dr Pradeep D’Costa, intensivist and head of ICU care at KEM hospital in Pune, where he is heads the trial of VPM1002. “Vaccines will be an important contribution to the programme, but there is still ways to go,”Even though research into TB vaccines is a step in the right direction, for now the mainstay of the elimination programme is early detection of new cases, testing for drug resistance and treating the disease completely, experts say.“We don’t yet have effective vaccines. The vaccines currently being developed are also for specific populations, such as those at high risk of TB. And even then they are likely to take years to reach the market,” said Dr Christopher.Vaccines are unlikely to be an important tool in the fight against TB in the foreseeable future, he said. “What we need to focus on instead is point of care testing. Tests such as CBNAAT and TrueNat are more sensitive than microscopy. They can also detect whether the TB is drug resistant,” the professor of pulmonary medicine said. “We need to make these tests the first line of diagnosis across the country.”India is unlikely to achieve its 2025 target, Dr Christopher said. “We would not have made the 2025 target even without the pandemic,” he said. “With the pandemic, the timeline has been pushed further by probably five years.”There was a 25 percent decline in the number of TB cases reported in 2020, government data show. It was mainly due to the lockdown and fear of going to health care facilities due to pandemic, experts said.In addition, there have been challenges such as several centres in India reporting a shortage or stock-outs of CBNAAT cartridges. “There were some issues with the procurement of the CBNAAT cartridges,” an official from one of the biggest TB centres in Delhi said on condition of anonymity. “Because of the shortage of the reagents, many of the centres under the TB programme could not perform the test.”“With Covid-19, TB has definitely taken a back seat, but we are slowly moving in the right direction,” Dr D’Costa said. “Our national programme is fairly widespread and the MDR (multi-drug resistant) detection kits are now available even in rural centres. There is also a need to ramp up counselling of patients and their family members because the stigma is still high.”“Focus group discussions with our own staff showed that there was still significant stigma about TB. Many doctors did not notify their cases to the government,” said Dr Dinesh Kumar, former professor of community medicine at Government Medical College in Jammu. “The stigma is the community is likely to be higher. We need to address this in order to detect cases early on.”“In addition, we have seen when we carried out active case finding, we were able to detect several latent TB cases that otherwise would not have reached a health centre,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-chasing-new-tuberculosis-vaccines-after-100-years-101633905903593.html
11-10-2021||India||Suspected KLNA militants killed in Manipur gunfight: Army||Four suspected members of the insurgent group Kuki National Liberation Army (KLNA) were killed during an encounter with the security forces, in Manipur’s Kangpokpi district on Sunday, officials familiar with the matter said.The encounter occurred near Hingojang village when the Assam Rifles and Indian Army’s 3 Corps were conducting a joint cordon and search operation, said an official. “SecurityForces of @official_dgar under @SpearCorps launched an joint operation on 09 Oct in Hingojang,#Manipur. Area cordoned & firefight started in the morning of 10 Oct. Four insurgents neutralised. Operation in progress,” PRO Defence, Imphal, said in a Twitter post.A police team from Maphou Dam have reportedly rushed to the site where the operation is going on, people familiar with the development said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suspected-klna-militants-killed-in-manipur-gunfight-army-101633901835911.html
11-10-2021||India||Bombs hurled at car of Odisha opposition chief whip, minister condemns attack||Senior BJP leader and opposition chief whip Mohan Majhi on Sunday had a close shave when two bike-borne men allegedly hurled two country-made bombs at his car in Keonjhar district while he was returning from a public meeting.The Keonjhar MLA was returning from a labour union meeting at about 1 pm, when two bike-borne miscreants came and hurled bombs at his vehicle near Mandua under Town Police station area. The front panel of the vehicle was partially damaged in the attack, but Majhi and his driver sustained no injuries.“I had gone to the office of the Utkal Sambad of the Siksha Vikash Samiti near Mandua to attend the executive meeting of the Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh. After attending the meeting, I was on the way to my house at Mandua when two young men intercepted my vehicle. One of them in a black shirt got off the bike and hurled two bombs at my vehicle. He also tried to take out a pistol but was chased away by my PSO. They then fled towards the railway station,” Majhi said.Majhi alleged that local BJD leader Raja Chakra was behind the attack as three weeks ago he had issued a threat to him while addressing a party meeting in the Keonjhar Sadar block. However, Chakra said the allegations of his involvement in the attack on Majhi were false and baseless.Later Majhi lodged a complaint with the Keonjhar Town police. Following the incident, tension ran high in Keonjhar town as hundreds of BJP activists staged a road blockade on National Highway-49 at Gandhi Chhak by burning tyres.“During my 20 years of career in politics, I might have developed political enmity. But I don’t have any enemies at a personal level,” said Majhi.Later Union education minister and senior BJP leader Dharmendra Pradhan tweeted that the attack on Majhi showed how the law and order in the state was deteriorating. “There will always be a difference of opinion in a democracy, but attacking a public representative is a matter of concern. As the minister for home department, the chief minister should take strong action,” tweeted Pradhan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombs-hurled-at-car-of-odisha-opposition-chief-whip-minister-condemns-attack-101633897981131.html
11-10-2021||India||Temple located in no-man’s land between India and Bangladesh preps to celebrate Durga Puja||A 150-year-old Durga Temple located in no-man’s land between India and Bangladesh near Assam’s Karimganj district is all set to host the Durga Puja festival. The temple was a part of Narendra Malakar’s property. He was a landlord during the British period. In a demarcation drive, a border was drawn between the house and the Durga Temple of Narendra Malakar. The area came under fencing in 2008 and a year later BSF jawans discovered the temple. With the help of locals they started Durga Puja celebrations there which attract thousands of devotees during the festival every year.During Pujas, the BSF opens the border gate from 5:00 am to 10:00 pm every day where only devotees are allowed to enter. An on-duty BSF official said, “Not only locals, our jawans celebrate Navratri by offering puja in this temple. We have people from various parts of India in our force and this temple beyond fencing unites everyone. We only allow devotees to go beyond the fencing gate during the festival.”Apu Malakar, a local resident informed that the Durga Temple was established by Narendra Malakar’s forefathers almost 150 years back. They were landlords during the British period and Durga Puja used to be a week-long celebration.“We have heard stories that artists from Kolkata and Dhaka used to attend this Durga Puja during the British period. Narendra Malakar died a few years after Independence and the family reduced the size of the celebration. When the last decedent of the family, Hriday Ranjan Malakar died in 1994, the puja was officially stopped,” he said. About the reopening of the Durga Temple he said, “In 2008, the area came under Border Fencing and BSF camps were made. One day an on-duty BSF official called us and said that he saw something in that area. A year later one official of BSF called the villegers and asked to reopen the temple. The temple was half broken and BSF officials helped us to reconstruct this. Since then we are conducting Durga Puja where BSF officials also take part spontaneously. Last year more than 10 thousand devotees visited the temple, this year the number may climb higher.”Locals made a committee to take care of the temple and BSF officials helped them. The area near the temple has started getting basic facilities like electricity and better mobile network with the help of BSF officials. Champak Malakar, president of the Manikpur Durga Puja committee said, “This puja helps us to get united. The officials from various parts of India join us as fellow devotees. They helped us to improve the common lifestyle here. Maa Durga is blessing us from beyond the fencing.”President of Manikpur Durga Puja committee, Parimal Malakar informed that people from entire Karimganj district extend their support to conduct this Durga Puja. He said, “Initially the puja started with the help of BSF but later a lot of people started visiting the temple. We needed money to arrange prasad. Now a family pays the amount for making the idol. Some other families give groceries for cooking khichdi (which is distributed as prasad during puja). Last year, we didn’t distribute khichdi due to Covid-19 but this year things are better.”Karimganj shares a 92 km-long border with Bangladesh, mostly with Sylhet district of that country. Manikpur Durga Mandir is the only temple located on no-man’s land in the district. Apart from that, there are nine Indian villages located beyond the fencing. But only in one such village, Durga Puja is celebrated. The village named Gobindapur has 44 Indian families, 42 of them are Hindu houses and they used to conduct Durga Puja before the pandemic. Local resident Titu Namasusra said, “Till 2019 we organised Durga Puja but due to Covid-19, we stopped it temporarily. We don’t take support from outsiders; it’s our own Durga Puja. If the situation allows, the puja will be conducted next year.”The other villages beyond fencing in Karimganj are, Lafashail, Jarapata, Latukandi, Kuorbag, Mahisaahan, Tesua, Barmagul and Deo Tuli. The BSF allows residents of those villages to enter into Indian land for various purposes. They conduct monthly Covid-19 tests for each villager. But according to the BSF officials, no person has been found positive till now.Champa Rani Namasusra, a 50-year-old resident of Gobindapur informed that they went through a tough time during lockdown but things have started normalising. “BSF officials closed the gate permanently during lockdown. But they supplied food and also allowed NGOs to send us essentials. Our children are now going to school after crossing the fencing gate. We all have taken the vaccine for Covid-19 and we were allowed to go to government hospitals for that. It’s sad that we cannot conduct Durga Puja this year but it’ll happen once the situation normalises.”Several organisations like Ram Krishna Mission Seva Samiti, Lions Club have distributed new clothes amongst residents of these villages before Durga Puja.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/temple-located-in-no-man-s-land-between-india-and-bangladesh-preps-to-celebrate-durga-puja-101633896541015.html
11-10-2021||India||Monsoon withdraws from NW India, says IMD||Monsoon has withdrawn from most parts of northwest India and conditions are becoming favourable for further withdrawal from some more parts of Gujarat, Chhattisgarh; most parts of Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand, Bihar; Maharashtra, Odisha and West Bengal during next 2 days said the India Meteorological Department on Sunday.Monsoon commenced withdrawal on October 6 compared to the normal date of September 17 but in the past four days it has almost withdrawn from half of the country, including Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, and parts of Gujarat, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh.“Even in years when monsoon onset is slow, monsoon withdrawal can be quick. It’s because no low pressure system has formed that can bring further rain. So after cyclone Gulab and associated low pressure system crossed there was no other system bringing rain. However, we are expecting a low pressure area to form north Andaman Sea which is likely to cross the Odisha coast. This system may slightly delay complete withdrawal of monsoon and bring rains up to Maharashtra,” said DS Pai, scientist and head of climate research and services, IMD, Pune.“Withdrawal of monsoon is very fast this time. We expect monsoon to withdraw from most parts of the country during the next 3 to 4 days but there is a slight chance that the low pressure area over Andaman Sea could intensify in to a cyclone or a depression which can bring a lot of rain,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president, Skymet Weather. There is no cyclogenesis warning from IMD yet.According to the IMD bulletin, a cyclonic circulation is lying over north Andaman Sea and neighbourhood. Under its influence, a low pressure area is likely to form over the same region during next 36 hours. It is likely to become more marked and move westnorthwestwards towards south Odisha-north Andhra Pradesh coasts during subsequent 4-5 days. Under its influence, light to moderate rainfall is likely at most places with isolated thunderstorm (wind speed 40-50 kmph gusting to 60 kmph) and heavy to very heavy rain likely over Andaman & Nicobar Islands during next 5 days, .A cyclonic circulation is also lying over east-central Arabian Sea and is likely to persist during next 3-4 days and an east-west trough (area of low pressure) is at lower levels running from the cyclonic circulation over north Andaman Sea to cyclonic circulation over eastcentral Arabian Sea, said the IMD in its bulletin. Widespread and moderate rain with isolated heavy rain is very likely over southern peninsular India during next 5 days and over Maharashtra during next 2 days. Very heavy rain is very likely over Kerala and Mahe till October 14, said the IMD.The country received “normal” rainfall during the four-month Southwest Monsoon season from June to September. All India monsoon rainfall from June 1 to September 30 has been 87 cm against the Long Period Average of 88 cm of 1961-2010 (99 percent of its LPA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-withdraws-from-nw-india-says-imd-101633892483980.html
11-10-2021||India||Don’t let guard down against Covid, warns Mansukh Mandaviya||Union Health and Family Welfare Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Sunday asked people not to let the guard down against Covid-19 as the disease is under control but it has not gone away completely.“The fight against Covid-19 will go on in future because coronavirus is still amongst us. Coronavirus is certainly under control but it has not gone away,” Mandaviya said at the launch of Covid-19 field hospital here.He appreciated the Karnataka government for its preparedness to deal with any health emergency caused by Covid-19 in future.“Dealing with an outbreak of disease depends on the thinking of the government. The Karnataka government has decided to set up dedicated field hospitals in remote areas, which shows how prepared it is to deal with the outbreak in future,” Mandaviya said.He also hailed the state government for taking vaccines to the household level and achieved its vaccination target in a remarkable way. “I congratulate the Chief Minister that 83 per cent of eligible population got the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine administered in the state,” the Union Minister said.According to him, the Indian Council for Medical Research panel has said that those who took first dose of the vaccine become 97 per cent safe, Mandaviya said. He also lauded Karnataka for the maximum Covid-19 vaccinations on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday. “The way the vaccination drive took place in Karnataka and the vaccine was taken to every village are remarkable. A large state like Karnataka has carried out its fight against Covid-19 in an exemplary way,” Mandaviya said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-let-guard-down-against-covid-warns-mansukh-mandaviya-101633893720667.html
11-10-2021||India||Four held in two cases of moral policing in Karnataka: Cops||Four people have been arrested in two separate cases of moral policing in Karnataka’s Dakshina Kannada Shivamogga districts, police said on Sunday.Two people have been arrested in Dakshina Kannada after they stopped a car on Saturday and questioned travellers as to why they got into a vehicle driven by a person of another faith, police said.According to Moodbidri police officials, a Muslim couple travelling in a car saw two friends and offered them a lift since they were heading towards the same area.After the four travelled a short distance, two people on a motorcycle intercepted them and questioned the women as to why they need to sit in the car of a Muslim person. Though police arrived at the scene, the two people, Samithraj and Sandeep Poojary, continued to abuse the two women and the Muslim couple.“The two persons have been booked in a case of rioting and public nuisance based on a woman’s complaint,” a police official said, requesting not to be named. “Both were produced before the court and are currently in judicial custody.”In Shivamogga, two people were held on Saturday on charges of moral policing after they allegedly assaulted a Hindu man for dropping off a Muslim woman on his two-wheeler on Saturday, police said.Karnataka has reported many cases of moral policing and hate crime recently. In a case of hate crime, a 24-year-old Muslim, who was in a relationship with a Hindu woman, was found decapitated on railway tracks in Khanapur in Belagavi district, about 505 kms from Bengaluru, on September 28.While police had initially registered a case of unnatural death, they later filed a murder case after a post-mortem report revealed injuries on the head. The woman’s parents had hired contract killers. Police arrested 10 people, including the parents of the woman, on Friday.In June this year, a 19-year-old interfaith couple was found with their heads smashed in Vijayapura district. The woman’s parents did not approve of her relationship with the man from a minority community. On September 18, Bengaluru police arrested two people in a case of moral policing, where a biker was assaulted for riding with a woman of a different faith.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-held-in-two-cases-of-moral-policing-in-karnataka-cops-101633893422464.html
11-10-2021||India||Faction-ridden Congress sees uneasy calm in Kerala as PCC list is prepared||An uneasy calm is prevailing in the faction-ridden Congress in Kerala as the party high command is expected to clear the state office bearers’ list soon. The party has made it clear that the list will be lean, not a jumbo one, and many leaders are anxious about their positions and group equations. There were enough fireworks when the District Congress Committee (DCC) presidents were announced in August. There was a spate of resignations and disciplinary action taken. Sulking former state president VM Sudheeran had resigned from all party posts including the membership of the All India Congress Committee. And senior leaders like Oommen Chandy and Ramesh Chennithala aired their displeasure in public. “The new list will be lean and mean. It will be a mix of both, young and experienced. After the new DCC presidents’ elevation, changes are visible on the ground. We will transform the party as a well-oiled machine and make it battle- ready,” said state party chief K Sudhakaran denying chances of another revolt in the party. He said he had extensive talks with senior leaders before finalizing the list. Now the party has 100-odd secretaries, many vice-presidents and other office-bearers. But the new PCC committee will have only 50 members and their work will be monitored closely, said Sudhakaran. He said he’s planning to transform the party a semi-cadre outfit and hard work and organising capacity will be main criteria for leaders. Recently the party had conducted a workshop for the new DCC presidents in the state capital. Earlier factions were supreme in the party and leaders filled maximum posts with their cronies to maintain group equations and often the party took a backseat. Leaders who were not part of these powerful blocs were either ignored or side-lined. But the party was forced to carry out major changes after the humiliating defeat in the April assembly elections. It decided to clip the wings of powerful groups by installing a new crop of leaders. It appointed K Sudhakaran, a tough leader from the Communist heartland Kannur as the PCC president and another grassroot leader V D Satheesan as the opposition leader side-lining two powerful blocs led by former CM Oommen Chandy and senior leader Ramesh Chennithala who ruled the party for more than one and a half decade. Many see it as a major generational shift but group leaders refuse to buy it saying it is difficult for the party to surge ahead by side-lining senior leaders like Chandy and Chennithala. But the party has rallied behind the new leadership and supported its moves to impose discipline in the party. Two days back, the party had issued show-cause notices to 97 leaders for their alleged lapses during the assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/factionridden-congress-sees-uneasy-calm-in-kerala-as-pcc-list-is-prepared-101633893301972.html
11-10-2021||India||Uneasy calm in faction-ridden Cong in Kerala as PCC list is ready||Unsettling silence prevails over faction-ridden Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee as the party high command is expected to clear the state’s office bearers list soon. Unlike the announcement of the District Congress Committee (DCC) presidents’ list, which created a rift between the senior leaders and many quitting Congress in the aftermath, president K Sudhakaran said the list will be prepared after much deliberation.“The new list will be lean and mean. It will be a mix of young and experienced. After the new DCC presidents’ elevation, changes are visible on the ground. We will transform the party as a well-oiled machine and make it battle-ready,” said Sudhakaran, denying chances of another revolt in the party. He said he had extensive talks with senior leaders before finalising the list. Currently, the party has 100-odd secretaries, vice presidents, and other office-bearers in Kerala Congress. However, Sudhkaran said the new PCC committee will have only 50 members and their work will be monitored closely. He also said he’s planning to transform the party into a semi-cadre outfit, and hard work and organising capacity would be the main criteria for leaders. Recently, the party had conducted a workshop for the new DCC presidents in the state capital. There were enough fireworks when the DCC presidents were announced in August. There was a spate of resignations and disciplinary actions. Sulking former state president V M Sudheeran had resigned from all party posts, including the membership of the All India Congress Committee. And senior leaders like Oommen Chandy and Ramesh Chennithala aired their displeasure in public. The party was forced to undergo a major revamp after the humiliating defeat in the April assembly elections. It decided to clip the wings of powerful groups by installing a new crop of leaders. It appointed K Sudhakaran, a tough leader from Communist heartland Kannur as the PCC president and another grassroots’ leader V D Satheesan as the opposition leader, sidelining two powerful blocs led by former Kerala chief minister Oommen Chandy and senior leader Ramesh Chennithala, who ruled the party for more than one and a half-decade. Many see it as a major generational shift, but faction leaders refuse to buy it, saying it is difficult for the party to surge ahead by sidelining senior leaders like Chandy and Chennithala. The party has rallied behind the new leadership and supported its moves to impose discipline in the party. Two days back, the party had issued show-cause notices to 97 leaders for their alleged lapses during the assembly elections. EXPERTS QUOTE IF AVAILABLE||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uneasy-calm-in-faction-ridden-cong-in-kerala-as-pcc-list-is-ready-101633892520406.html
11-10-2021||India||Congress dares RJD to form government in Bihar without its support||The rift between the grand alliance partners Rashtriya Janata Dal and Congress widened on Sunday after All India Congress Committee in-charge for Bihar Bhakta Charan Das dared the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) for form government without the Congress’s supportin the state and said that the impact of split in the coalition would be visible in the upcoming by-elections. Talking to media persons at the Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) office on the sidelines of a crucial meeting of party seniors for by-elections in Kusheshwar Asthan and Tarapur assembly seats, Das said, “RJD would need the support of 19 Congress legislators if it wants to form the government...We are still in the alliance. But the breakup of the Grand Alliance (GA) would have its perceptible bearing on the by-elections’ result.”The bypolls to the two assembly seats are scheduled to be held on October 30 and the two parties have fielded their own candidates for the two seats..The Congress has fielded Atirek Kumar, the son of the party’s stalwart Ashok Kumar from Kusheshwarsthan (reserved for the scheduled caste) in Darbhanga and Rajesh Kumar Mishra from Tarapur seat in Munger. They are pitted against the JDU’s Aman Bhushan Hazari and Rajiv Singh and RJD’s Ganesh Bharti and Arun Kumar Sah. A senior AICC member Kishore Kumar Jha said that the RJD’s strength in the Lok Sabha dipped to 4 against 22 in 2009, when it parted ways with the Congress and teamed up with Ram Vilas Paswan-led LJP in the parliamentary polls. “Likewise, RJD’s tally in the assembly dipped to 22 in 2010 against 54 in 2005, when it rejected the Congress’s tie-up proposal and continued its alliance with the LJP,” said Jha. Chairman of the election campaign committee of the BPCC Akhilesh Prasad Singh claimed that the party was sure to wrest both the seats, as both the NDA and the RJD was grappling with internal crises. “We are working with renewed vigour in the wake of break up in the coalition,” said Singh. RJD spokesman Shakti Singh Yadav said that they (RJD) had to go alone, as its repeated pleas to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi to strengthen the alternative at regional levels failed to yield any result.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-dares-rjd-to-form-government-in-bihar-without-its-support-101633892280502.html
11-10-2021||India||Asked not to drive rashly, Haryana man runs over 6 of family; 2 dead: Cops||A man allegedly ran over six members of a family, killing two of them, in Haryana’s Karnal district after he was asked not to drive rashly, police said on Sunday.According to officials, the family of the deceased asked the accused Aman Singh, 27, to drive responsibly in their neighbourhood as they had organised a wedding function. This resulted in an argument, after which Aman drove his Ford Endeavour SUV over six people, killing two of them — 42-year-old Raj Rani and 55-year-old Subhash Chand. The other four have been hospitalized, officials said.Raju, a nephew of the deceased Subhash, said the accused would often drive at high speed in their locality in Karnal’s Nilokheri area. He said they had raised the issue with Aman’s father but no action was taken. “Aman was angry after we asked him to drive responsibly as he used to drive very fast in the neighborhood. We had earlier raised the issue of rash driving with his father but he did not take it seriously,” Chand’s nephew Raju (who goes by one name) said. Butana police station in-charge Kanwar Singh said a case has been registered against Aman and his father Balvinder Singh under the Indian Penal Code’s Section 302 (punishment for murder) “Police teams have been formed to arrest the accused,” Karnal SP Ganga Ram Punia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/asked-not-to-drive-rashly-haryana-man-runs-over-6-of-family-2-dead-cops-101633891440308.html
11-10-2021||India||At least 500 detained and questioned in J&K over killing of civilians||Police in Kashmir have detained and questioned at least five hundred people and many in the past few days to investigate the series of civilian killings in valley since October 3.Suspected members of banned terrorist groups such as Jamaat-e-Islami have been interrogated to trace their roles in the murders. “It is true that we have called some people and we are verifying the involvement of locals,” said Udaybhaskar Billa, deputy inspector general of police, north Kashmir. Local residents said police have detained many people in Hajin, a town in Kashmir, after family members of deceased Mohammad Shafi Lone, president of a local taxi union, identified some people who had attacked him. “Right now it is not appropriate to talk about the case,” Billa said. Dilbag Singh, director general of police, Jammu and Kashmir, and Vijay Kumar, inspector general of police, Kashmir, did not take calls from Hindustan Times. Kashmir has been restive since October 3 after the murder of seven persons, including three belonging to minority communities in the Union Territory.Suspected terrorists on Thursday killed two teachers – Satinder Kour and Deepak Chand – of a government school in Srinagar’s old city. They were killed two days after Makhan Lal Bindroo, a 68-year-old chemist, street vendor Virender Paswan from Bihar’s Bhagalpur, and Lone were shot dead in Srinagar and Bandipora districts on Tuesday. On Saturday evening, gunmen opened fire at Majid Ahmad Gojri, a resident of Chattabal Srinagar, and Mohammad Shafi Dar, a resident of SD Colony Batamaloo, killing them both. The central government has sent the Intelligence Bureau’s counter-terror chief Tapan Deka to the valley to oversee the fight against terrorism after the recent killings. Counter-terror teams of other national security agencies have also been sent to Kashmir.As many as 28 civilians have been killed by terrorists this year, Kumar said on Thursday. “Out of the 28, five persons belong to local Hindu and Sikh communities and two non-local Hindu labourers,” he said, without mentioning that the remaining 21 slain people were Muslims.“These acts are committed by newly recruited terrorists, or those who are about to join the terrorists’ ranks. In some cases, OGWs (over the ground workers of terrorist organisations) have been found directly involved,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-least-500-detained-and-questioned-in-j-k-over-killing-of-civilians-101633891201497.html
11-10-2021||India||Recent killings an attempt to divide Kashmiri society, says GOC of Chinar Corps||Condemning the recent killings of civilians in Jammu and Kashmir, General Officer Commanding of Chinar Corps Lieutenant General DP Pandey on Sunday said that some elements are trying to divide the society on communal lines and the people will expose those elements.He further said that such elements are jealous of the positive developments that have taken place in the country and the Union Territory over the last year. “These killings are condemnable. I believe that Kashmiris will expose the elements who are trying to divide Kashmiri society on communal lines,” he said while speaking to reporters on the sidelines of an event in Baramulla. “I also have full confidence that people will stand together irrespective of their religion to pull out the anti-national elements,” he said. The officer reiterated that the Line of Control (LoC) is absolutely secure and there is no need to worry about it.In the recent past, several targeted killings have taken place in Jammu and Kashmir by terrorists over the last five days. Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) backed new Kashmiri terror group ‘The Resistance Front (TRF)’ is suspected as the prime terror outfit behind targeted killings in Jammu and Kashmir in the past few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/recent-killings-an-attempt-to-divide-kashmiri-society-says-goc-of-chinar-corps-101633891140336.html
11-10-2021||India||EC plans to do away with in-person verification for voter registration||Voters will find it easier to register themselves as the Election Commission of India is planning to make changes in the process, eliminating the need for in-person verifications, said people familiar with the development.Electors will be allowed to file documents online, which will be then verified by the electoral watchdog. “Five or six core documents will be declared, and if voters agree to share those online, then there will be no need for booth-level worker verification,” one of the people said.The Commission is also planning changes to several forms that are used to register voters, including form six, seven and eight. “There is a form 8A, which may be discarded completely,” the person said, requesting anonymity. Form 8A is used for electors who want to transfer their voter ID card from one location to another. The Commission is planing a separate process to shift voter ID card to a different state.The Commission is also working on a remote voting system, where people will be allowed to vote from a different state in case they can’t make it in time for the polls. A prototype of the system has already been seen by the Commission, but a final call on its viability will be taken only after consultation with political parties.The move to remove booth-level verification would be revolutionary, according to former chief election commissioner VS Sampath. “It will be a good move, as it will streamline the process more,” he said. “There are many times when one person is at home and the other isn’t. That makes it difficult for people to verify their identity in-person.”The Commission will continue its usual voter registration process, but an alternative will be provided for people to hasten the process. “It’s voluntary for people who want to get their voter ID cards sooner,” the person said.Addressing concerns regarding the storing of data, a second person said that the Commission has been handling personal data for sometime now. “The data will be secure,” the person said, declining to be named.Elections in Goa, Manipur, Uttarakhand, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh are due next year.The changes are a part of a slew of electoral reforms. The Commission met law minister Kiren Rijiju in August to discuss the reforms, which include linking Aadhaar unique identity numbers to voter ID cards, and providing multiple registration dates for voters.“The law minister was briefed on several of the reforms that are pending with the ministry,” a person said on the condition of anonymity. “Once the amendments are drafted, they will hopefully be introduced in the winter session of Parliament,” HT reported in August.The Commission, comprising of chief election commissioner Sushil Chandra and election commissioners Rajiv Kumar and Anup Chandra Pandey, has been pushing for the reforms. Chandra wrote to the law ministry in May to “expedite them”.The Election Commission of India is pushing for at least five key electoral reforms, including making paid news an electoral offence, linking Aadhaar numbers to the electoral roll , and increasing the punishment for filing a false affidavit to two years of imprisonment, and has written to the government in this regard, HT reported on June 8.There are nearly 40 proposals pending with the law ministry.The Commission has been considering a wide range of electoral reforms to usher in digitisation, removing duplication of voters, and enabling remote voting for non-resident Indians (NRIs) and even migrant workers within the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-plans-to-do-away-with-in-person-verification-for-voter-registration-101633891022147.html
11-10-2021||India||5 years on, IIT-Goa awaits allotment of land for permanent campus||New Delhi Five years since it was opened through a bill amendment, the Indian Institute of Technology in Goa (IIT-Goa), which functions from Farmagudi, is awaiting land allotment for the construction of a permanent campus, officials familiar with the developments said.Between 2015-2016, six new IITs were established in Tirupati, Palakkad, Dharwad, Bhilai, Goa and Jammu through the Institutes of Technology (Amendment) Bill, 2016, to provide more opportunities to students who aspire to join the country’s premier engineering institutes. While the other five IITs have either already shifted to their permanent campuses or are in the process, IIT-Goa continues to share the campus with a state-run engineering college in Farmagudi.The delay has not only affected the day-to-day functioning of the institution but also created uncertainty among faculty members and students, the officials cited above said.“It has become a long wait for the institute now. The delay has created a sense of uncertainty among faculty members. In the last two years, we have seen that students with lower all-India ranking are opting for IIT-Goa. It was not the case initially,” director BK Mishra said.Initially, officials said, the land was identified in Lolium part of south Goa in 2016 but the plan failed to materialise after residents protested against it.Later in 2019, a land in Sanguem was identified but not finalised “in view of various difficulties encountered in procuring/acquiring and transferring the land to IIT-Goa”.In 2020, a third site was identified in Shel-Melalui and Guleli villages. The state government, however, in January this year scrapped the project at the location following continuous protests, which turned violent on one occasion after villagers hurled stones and police responded with lathi-charge. The villagers claimed that their cultivation would be affected by the project.Several faculty members told HT that the absence of a permanent campus was depriving the Goa unit of several opportunities.“There are a number of research and funding schemes of the central government but for that, you need space to apply for it. Because we have no permanent campus, we are not getting any such project,” associate professor Sharad Sinha said.“Besides, we are not able to get sponsored-research projects because to get such projects, one should have the necessary resources in terms of lab infrastructure to carry out the consultancy work. Some of these have visited us but when they visited our temporary campus, they did not offer anything,” Sinha added.The faculty also said that due to limited space, the institute has not been able to introduce additional courses.“We were thinking of starting programmes in civil engineering and materials engineering but they need large laboratories. We have set up just the most-needed labs in our curriculum in the space we borrowed from the college we are sharing the campus with.We are not being able to recruit people despite having enough faculty-sanctioned strength,” a faculty member said, preferring anonymity.Currently, the institute offers four courses at the undergraduate level, three courses at the postgraduate level and PhD programmes in several disciplines.“Due to limited space, the institute is not able to buy and install elaborate technical equipment. We are mostly working with tabletop equipment with limited capability just to hold demonstrations for our students,” the faculty member added.Students at the institute also complained along similar lines. While IIT-Goa has built accommodation on the shared campus for undergraduate and postgraduate students, there is no residential space for PhD scholars.“The PhD scholars in other IITs are given quarters to live with their family. But here I am, living with my 4-year-old daughter at a distance of 7-8 km. It’s not only affecting my research work but also becomes difficult to continue at the personal level since I had to pursue my family a lot to use this opportunity. Other IIT campuses have creches for kids but here, we don’t have that due to the paucity of space,” Prachi Kashikar, 31, a research scholar at the institute, said.The faculty said it has sent multiple requests to the education ministry over the years and in July, a representative also visited the Prime Minister Office, in this regard. The institute hopes to get a land ahead of the new academic session scheduled to begin in November.When contacted, a senior official at the ministry who did not wish to be named said, “We had been regularly sending reminders to the state government to expedite the process of allotting the land.”Goa revenue secretary Sanjay Kumar, a member of a committee that was constituted by the state to allocate land for the project, said, “We are searching for suitable land for the project. We expect something to come up in the next few months.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-years-on-iit-goa-awaits-allotment-of-land-for-permanent-campus-101633890961400.html
11-10-2021||India||Will keep fighting till MoS Mishra resigns over Lakhimpur violence: Priyanka||VARANASI: Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday said her party workers were not afraid of anyone and asserted, “we will keep fighting until the (Union) minister of state for home resigns”, in a reference to the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in which eight people, including four farmers, were killed on October 3.The Uttar Pradesh police on Saturday arrested Ashish Mishra, son of junior home minister Ajay Kumar Mishra, on charges of murder in connection with the October 3 Lakhimpur Kheri violence, where a vehicle, reportedly owned by Ajay Kumar Mishra, mowed down protesters while they were returning from a demonstration in Tikunia village. Farmers allege that Ashish Mishra was in the lead car that ran over people. The junior home minister and his son deny the allegation. Addressing her party’s Kisan Nyay Rally in Varanasi, she also lashed out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi and said he visited Lucknow for the Azadi Ki Amrit Mahotsav event marking 75 years of Independence but could not go to Lakhimpur Kheri to meet the families of the farmers who were allegedly mowed down by the minister’s son.“PM Modi visited Lucknow but could not go to the farmers’ homes to wipe the tears of aggrieved families and share their miseries. You are celebrating freedom, but who gave freedom? Freedom has been given by the sons of farmers. What is the meaning of this festival?” she asked.The Congress general secretary also said that she will not stop until she throws “this government” out of power in order to bring a positive change and development in Uttar Pradesh. The state assembly election is due early next year.Priyanka said, “The whole country has seen what happened in Lakhimpur Kheri. The son of the minister of state for home brutally trampled farmers under his vehicle. When I met the aggrieved families of the farmers, they told me that they don’t want money, they want justice.” Priyanka alleged that instead of taking action against the accused, the entire state government was engaged in protecting the son of the minister.The entire administration was busy stopping the opposition, she said, alleging that the families of the victims were also placed under house arrest and a huge police force was deployed outside their houses.“But not even a single person took a step to ensure the arrest of the minister of state’s son. Have you seen in any country or in this country that invitation was sent to the person, who trampled farmers, for interrogation? Such a thing never happened in the history of this country,” she said in reference to the police sending summons to Ashish Mishra twice before he finally appeared for questioning and was arrested. She alleged that the state chief minister was defending the minister’s son. “This country is a faith. This country is hope. The country got independence in the hope of justice. When Mahatma Gandhi went to fight for freedom, it was in his heart that the poor, downtrodden and all should get justice. Our Constitution is based on justice. But in this country, everyone has lost hope of justice,” she said and alleged that the government was not taking action against criminals.She also mentioned the past incidents of Sonbhadra, Hathras and Unnao in Uttar Pradesh.In all three incidents, people associated with the Bharatiya Janata Party were involved, she alleged, adding that instead of taking action, the BJP government in the state tried to protect the accused. Priyanka also said farmers were agitating for 300 days against the Centre’s three new agri laws and once these laws were implemented, the “billionaire friends” of the government will capture their agricultural lands. “Our Prime Minister may go to every corner of the world. He may go to America. But he could not go to meet the farmers at Delhi border, just 10km from his residence in Delhi,” she said. Stating that while two planes were bought for the PM for ₹16,000 crore last year, the Congress general secretary alleged that the government sold the national carrier Air India to “billionaire friends” for just ₹18,000 crore.“Our Prime Minister, who calls himself Gangaputra, has insulted the Gangaputras. Farmers are deeply troubled. Stray animals are destroying their crops. Is he aware of this problem? But I have seen it,” she said. Priyanka tried to connect with the people by raising issues like rising electricity bills and said farmers are not getting the price of paddy and wheat.“GST (goods and services tax) has been imposed on farming equipment. Petrol, diesel and cooking gas prices are skyrocketing. Coal is running out. Unemployment is at its peak,” she said.She also said only BJP leaders and their billionaire friends were safe in the country.“This country is your country. Who will save this country? If you do not become aware, you will not become wise. If you remain entangled in their politics, you will not be able to save this country and yourself. You are a farmer. Your hard work has made this country. Those who call you agitators, those who call you terrorists, force them to give justice, ” she said.“We, the workers of the Congress are not afraid of anyone. Whether you beat us, whether you put us behind bars, we will keep fighting until the minister of state for home resigns,” she asserted. Before addressing the rally, Priyanka offered prayers at the Kashi Vishwanath, Annapurna and Durga temples in Varanasi.She started her speech with a prayer to the goddess Durga.“It is the fourth day of Navratri today. I am fasting today. So I want to start with the stuti (prayer) of Maa,” she said and chanted a prayer.She also said “Jai Mata Di” thrice and the crowd followed.Hitting back at Priyanka Gandhi, Uttar Pradesh Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson Anila Singh on Sunday said she should first gather knowledge and give advice to her brother Rahul Gandhi. “Priyanka Gandhi Vadra does online politics. Just like work from home, she does politics from home... Priyanka ji should first fix all the issues of her party... And, instead of giving advice to the Prime Minister, she should first gather knowledge. She should give advice to her brother. She should go and see what is happening with Dalits and farmers in Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh,” Singh was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-keep-fighting-till-ajay-kumar-mishra-resigns-over-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-priyanka-gandhi-vadra-in-varanasi-101633890783666.html
11-10-2021||India||Varun Gandhi warns against ‘Hindu vs Sikh’ narrative in Lakhimpur violence||New Delhi BJP MP Varun Gandhi on Sunday warned against attempts to turn the Lakhimapur Kheri incident into a “Hindu vs Sikh battle”, saying it is dangerous to create these fault lines and reopen wounds that have taken a generation to heal. The Pilibhit MP, who was recently dropped from the BJP national executive, said the struggle for justice in Lakhimpur Kheri is about the “cruel massacre of poor farmers in the face of an arrogant local power elite”, and the issue has no religious connotations. “To use the word ‘Khalistani’ liberally to describe the protesting farmers is not only an insult to the generations of these proud sons of the Tarai who have fought and shed blood on our borders, it is also extremely dangerous for our national unity if this provokes the wrong kind of reaction,” he said. In a tweet, he said, “An attempt to turn Lakhimpur Kheri into a Hindu vs Sikh battle is being made. Not only is this an immoral & false narrative, it is dangerous to create these fault-lines & reopen wounds that have taken a generation to heal. We must not put petty political gains above national unity.” Police had arrested Ashish Mishra, son of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra, in connection with the October 3 Lakhimpur violence. Farmer organisations have blamed the father-son duo for the incident and are alleging that the minister had made a provocative speech while his son was inside a vehicle that hit farmers. Both have denied the allegations. Ashish Mishra was named in an FIR following allegations that he was in one of the vehicles that mowed down four farmers protesting over Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya’s visit last Sunday. Two BJP workers and their driver were allegedly lynched by angry farmers in retaliation. Local journalist Raman Kashyap also died in the violence, which has triggered a political storm and put the BJP government on the back foot in poll-bound UP. Gandhi has been sympathetic to the farmers’ cause over their protests against three agricultural laws and often tweeted in their support, a stand which is said to have not gone down well with the BJP leadership. PTI KR HDA HDA||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/varun-gandhi-warns-against-hindu-vs-sikh-narrative-in-lakhimpur-violence-101633890781509.html
11-10-2021||India||Bombs hurled at BJP MLA Mohan Majhi’s vehicle in Odisha: Police||Bhubaneswar
11-10-2021||India||SC should strike down sedition law, portions of UAPA: Justice Nariman||The Supreme Court should strike down the colonial-era sedition law so that citizens of India can breathe more freely, said former Supreme Court judge Rohinton F Nariman on Sunday. The retired judge, who in 2015 quashed Section 66A of the Information Technology Act in 2015 for having the “chilling effect” on the right to freedom of speech, also called the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act a “draconian legislation” that requires to be scrutinised by the apex court.“I would exhort the Supreme Court to not send sedition law cases pending before it back to the Centre. Governments will come and go (but) it is important for the court to use its power and strike down Section 124A and offensive portion of UAPA. Then citizens here would breathe more freely,” said the retired judge, speaking at a function organised by Viswanath Pasayat Memorial Committee. Justice Nariman was emphatic that the top court should not refer the clutch of petitions pending before it on the sedition law to the central government and that it should assert its power of judicial review to strike down the contentious Section 124A (sedition) in the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The penal provision is punishable with a jail term ranging between three years and life term, with or without a fine.Justice Nariman also explained how UAPA came into the statute book after India’s wars with Pakistan and China. “We had China and Pakistan wars. Thereafter, we introduced the draconian legislation, Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. UAPA is a draconian Act as it has no anticipatory bail and has minimum 5 years imprisonment. This Act is not under scanner yet. This too has to be looked into along with the sedition law,” he said.During his address, the former judge, who retired in August after seven-year tenure in the top court, narrated the history of the sedition law, pointing out that sedition was not there in the original draft of the IPC. “Sedition provision was there in draft but not in final book. But it was later discovered and redrafted. It was said that this section was left out by oversight. The wordings were also vague. Sentence under 124A was enormous as it was transportation for life and imprisonment for three years,” he said.Justice Nariman then recounted how the British used the law against Indians including prominent freedom fighters. “There was the Bangobasi case. In that, an editor of newspaper Bangobasi was charged for publishing an article that spoke against the age of consent act in relation to child marriages. The author (of the article) said that child marriage was inherent to Indian culture. British judge was not charmed and therefore, held that editor was liable under Section 124A,” he added.The judge also mentioned how freedom fighters such as Bal Gangadhar Tilak, Mahatma Gandhi and Jawaharlal Nehru were convicted for sedition for speaking against the colonial government.“Gandhiji said affection (towards government) cannot be measured by law. He said disaffection should be given full hand unless it leads to violence. He said he considered it a privilege to be charged under Section 124A,” said justice Nariman, adding that Gandhi was sentenced to six years and he served two years behind bars while Jawaharlal Nehru too served jail terms in 1932 and 1934.He also spoke at length about how Tilak was tried for sedition on more than one occasion, with Mohammad Ali Jinnah acting as Tilak’s defence counsel on one occasion.The former judge also described how sedition was initially part of the exception to free speech under draft Article 19 of the Constitution. It was debated extensively before being dropped from the Constitution. But it, however, continued to remain in the Indian Penal Code.“Then Supreme Court in Kedarnath Case (1962) ultimately said if we can read a particular provision in a particular way so long as disaffection was coupled with call for violence, only then it would be sedition,” said the former judge. Justice Nariman also pointed out that RSS-backed Organiser magazine had to undergo pre-censorship in 1950 by the Nehru administration for speaking against the government. Sedition law and UAPA have a chilling effect on journalists, said justice Nariman.On July 15, a Supreme Court bench headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana rued the “enormous power of misuse” of the sedition law in India and asked the Union government why it should not scrap a colonial law that was once used by the British government to oppress the freedom movements and leaders such as Mahatma Gandhi and Bal Gangadhar Tilak. The court observed that indiscriminate use of Section 124A (sedition) in the Indian Penal Code is like a saw in the hands of a carpenter who cuts the entire forest instead of a tree.The government’s top law officer, attorney general (AG) KK Venugopal, on his part, submitted that the entire section need not be struck down, and the court could lay down strict guidelines so that the provision meets its legal purpose. The court then sought a response from the central government on the bunch of petitions that pressed for striking down Section 124A. The case is yet to be heard next.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-should-strike-down-sedition-law-portions-of-uapa-justice-nariman-101633890720494.html
11-10-2021||India||PM Modi most democratic leader of India: Union home minister Amit Shah||New Delhi: Narendra Modi is the most democratic leader India has ever seen, as he is a good listener and takes every decision only after consulting everyone, Union home minister Amit Shah said on Sunday, refuting assertions that the Prime Minister takes unilateral decisions on important matters. This incorrect perception of Modi taking unilateral decisions and not listening to anyone has been deliberately created by some people from rival ideologies to damage his image, Shah said. “Yes, he takes some risks and insists on discipline, but he never imposes his will while taking important decisions related to governance and policy,” Shah said in an interview to state-run Sansad TV on the occasion of Modi completing 20 years in public service on October 7. “Modi believes, and he has said this multiple times, that we have not come to just run a government, but to build India.” Those who have worked with Modi, including his critics, will agree that the cabinet of ministers has never been run in such a democratic manner, Shah said. “I have never seen a good listener as Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He listens to everyone, gives importance to the quality of the suggestion(s) rather than the person who has suggested it, and then takes a decision,” the home minister said. “The final decision rests with him, but of course, he is the Prime Minister.” Several opposition leaders have over the years called the functioning of Modi as ‘dictatorial’ over decisions like demonetization, announcement of nationwide lockdown to contain the Covid-19 pandemic in March last year, abrogation of Article 370 that conferred special status to Jammu and Kashmir, on farmer protests or alleged attacks on free speech. Demonetization, annulling Article 370 and the law banning triple talaq were some of the bold decisions of Modi, Shah said in the interview. He said that the surgical strikes on Pakistan in response to terror attacks “was out of the question” before Modi came to power. Modi has changed the dimensions of politics in the country, said the closest aide of the Prime Minister, and that is why there are personal attacks on him. Modi gets his confidence “from the fact that citizens of India know he has no personal interests and that he only works for the country”, the home minister said. “Modi gets stronger every time he is attacked.” Shah took a swipe at the Congress party, saying some parties considered it their right to rule the country and cannot digest the fact that Modi is successfully running the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-most-democratic-leader-of-india-union-home-minister-amit-shah-101633890661957.html
11-10-2021||India||Cong seeks appointment with Kovind over Lakhimpur violence, later deletes tweet||The Congress party on Sunday tweeted that it has sought an appointment to meet President Ram Nath Kovind to present to him a “memorandum of facts” regarding the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri district of Uttar Pradesh, where eight people were killed, including four farmers and a journalist. The party deleted the post shortly after.Ashish Mishra, son of junior home minister Ajay Kumar Mishra, was arrested by Uttar Pradesh police on Saturday after he was accused of being part of the convoy that ran over the farmers when they were returning after a demonstration. He is in judicial custody and a local court will decide on Monday whether he should be sent to police custody.“The shocking incident of broad daylight massacre of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri has shaken the conscience of the entire nation. A delegation of the Congress party headed by Shri Rahul Gandhi seeks an appointment with the honourable President, on priority, to present to him a detailed memorandum of facts,” the Congress party had posted on its Twitter handle, sharing an image of its letter addressed to the Rashtrapati Bhavan.The delegation will include leaders such as KC Venugopal, AK Antony, Mallikarjun Kharge, Ghulam Nabi Azad and Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, as well as Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, according to the letter dated 9 October.The social media team of the party did not immediately respond to a query on the deletion. A Congress leader on the condition of anonymity said there are still discussions over meeting the President.The Congress has attacked the government for not acting on the killings that took place on October 3 when farmers returning from a demonstration against Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya were run over, killing four of them. Two workers of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), a driver of minister Mishra and a local journalist were killed in the resulting melee, taking to toll to eight.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Congress Rajya Sabha parliamentarian Deepender Hooda tried to reach the spot, but were detained in Sitapur before they could reach the violence-hit district. They were arrested shortly after.A day later, Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, along with Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, met the families of the slain farmers. The chief ministers announced financial compensations for the families, and the kin of the journalist, Raman Kashyap.The Supreme Court has expressed dissatisfaction at the way in which investigations into the violence were being conducted. A bench headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana asked the Uttar Pradesh government to direct its state police chief to ensure evidence in the case is protected till the time another investigative agency takes over.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-tweets-seeking-appointment-with-president-ram-nath-kovind-over-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-later-deletes-101633890601499.html
11-10-2021||India||Ashish Mishra in judicial custody, cops scan CCTV in Lakhimpur violence probe||The Uttar Pradesh Police team investigating the October 3 violence at Lakhimpur Kheri visited a fuel pump on Sunday on the Tikunia-Banbirpur Road, close to the violence site, to see if CCTV cameras installed there captured the incident, said officers aware of the development.The main accused in the case, Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni’s son Ashish Mishra, was arrested on Saturday after which a local court remanded him in 14 days’ judicial custody. But the police will produce him before the court again on Monday and seek his police remand.A police officer privy to the investigation said the nine-member team headed by deputy inspector general (DIG) Upendra Agarwal tried to establish the sequence of events based on the CCTV feed.He said the probe team also visited Banbirpur, the village of the minister, and recorded the statements of several people there.Additional director general (law and order) of police Prashant Kumar said on Sunday that Lakhimpur police have applied for the custody remand of Mishra to interrogate him further about the incident and that he was arrested after he could not give satisfactory answers during interrogation.Another police officer said on condition of anonymity that Mishra submitted multiple videos about his presence in the village but could not produce an alibi for 64 minutes—2.36pm to 3.40pm on October 3. He said Mishra’s cellphone was seized and a video recording of the entire process was done by the probe team.Meanwhile, Lakhimpur Kheri district jail superintendent P P Singh said Mishra was kept in quarantine barrack number 21 designated for new jail inmates. He was being provided with all facilities permissible to every prisoner.Earlier on Thursday, ADG Kumar had said the police identified six people as accused—three of them died in the violence, two others named Luv Kush and Ashish Pandey who was arrested on Thursday, and Ashish Mishra. Another accused remains to be identified.But people familiar with the case said the names of two more people have surfaced — former Union minister Akhilesh Das’ nephew Ankit Das and one Sumit Jaiswal. They were alleged with Mishra in his SUV at the time of the incident. Police are looking for them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-mp-ajay-mishra-s-son-ashish-mishra-in-judicial-custody-cops-scan-cctv-in-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-probe-101633890540833.html
11-10-2021||India||Power situation fine, no scarcity: Minister||Fears of a power crisis in India are overblown as there are sufficient coal reserves to produce electricity, the central government assured on Sunday, a day after Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, voicing concern that there could be outages in the national capital.“Any fear of disruption in power supply is entirely misplaced,” the power ministry said in a statement. “The coal stock at power plant is sufficient for more than 4 days’ requirement and as the coal supply is being ramped up by CIL (Coal India Ltd), the coal stock at power plants would gradually improve.”Reports earlier said that over half of 135 coal-fired utilities, which supply more than half of India’s electricity, have fuel inventory to last just under three days.“This panic was unnecessarily created without any reason,” power minister RK Singh told ANI news agency.On Saturday, Kejriwal said Delhi could face power outages if the central government did not quickly resolve the coal shortage at power plants. He sought the intervention of the Prime Minister to resolve the crisis.Power minister Singh has directed that distribution companies in Delhi will get as much power as they require, his ministry said on Sunday.“The ministry of coal reassures that ample coal is available in the country to meet the demand of power plants,” the coal ministry said in a statement. “The coal stock at power plants end is about 72 lakh tonne, sufficient for 4 days’ requirement, and that the Coal India Limited end is more than 400 lakh tonnes, which is being supplied to the power plants.”The Centre was not ready to accept there was a coal crisis, Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said. Its policy to “turn a blind eye” to every problem could prove to be bad for the country, he said.“Union power minister RK Singh said there isn’t any coal crisis and that chief minister Arvind Kejriwal should not have written a letter to the prime minister on the issue. It is sad that a Union cabinet minister has adopted such irresponsible approach,” Sisodia said at a news briefing.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader said that it clearly showed that the central government was making excuses to “run away” from the crisis and compared the present situation with the shortage of oxygen during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in April-May this year.Singh reviewed the coal stock position at all thermal power plants, including those utilities that supply electricity to distribution companies in Delhi.In a year when India produced record amounts of coal, excessive rain in the coal-producing areas hit movement of the fuel from mines to utilities, impacting generation in many states, including Punjab, Rajasthan, Delhi and Andhra Pradesh. Another factor that contributed to the present situation was power plants that used imported coal to generate electricity either curtailed generation or stopped production as a spurt in international coal prices made it difficult for them to meet commitments to states at a particular rate.Despite heavy rainfall in September, steep hike in power demand due to the economic recovery and increase in the prices of imported coal, domestic coal supply has sustained operations of power plants and efforts are being made to ensure full power supply to the distribution companies, the power ministry said.“It may be noted that the comfortable coal position in the country is reflected by the fact that the CIL has been supplying more than 2.5 lakh tonnes (approx) daily to meet the demand of non-power industries like Aluminium, Cement, Steel etc. along with supply of coal to thermal plants of the country,” the coal ministry said.There are a number of reasons for the current situation. International prices of coal have surged, increasing the demand for local coal. Power demand, and therefore the derived demand for coal, has increased sharply in the past couple of months, perhaps a reflection of pent-up demand on account of the disruption from the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in April-May, HT reported earlier.Heavy rainfall, especially in the coal-producing regions of Jharkhand, Odisha and West Bengal, have added to the problems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/power-situation-fine-no-scarcity-minister-101633889759567.html
11-10-2021||India||50% instant claim reimbursement on anvil for PM-JAY listed hospitals||Hospitals with clean records will be instantly reimbursed 50 percent of the bill for any treatment under India’s public health insurance scheme through a green channel, a top official said. The National Health Authority is creating the priority channel for empanelled hospitals under the Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PM-JAY) to attract more of these health care facilities to get empanelled under the government’s flagship health insurance scheme. There are some 24,000 hospitals currently empaneled under PM-JAY.“For more hospitals to get attracted to the Ayushman Bharat scheme, we are doing things such as reducing the turnaround time for reimbursement. For that to happen, we are creating something called a green channel, which will be applicable to those hospitals that have not forwarded any fraudulent claims so far and who have a clear record,” said RS Sharma, chief executive of the National Health Authority that implements PM-JAY. “The moment they submit their claim, we will release 50% of the amount instantly to them.” It now takes at least two weeks to reimburse the treatment cost to a hospital under the scheme.“Fifteen days is our norm, but at some places it was going beyond that, so we are making changes as early as possible. More hospitals are going to be empanelled so that people have access to nearby hospitals,” Sharma said. “Apart from releasing the claim amount, we are also rationalizing the rates of the packages.” The authority on Tuesday revised beneficiary packages of around 400 procedures under the public health scheme, and included surgical treatment for mucormycosis. Mucormycosis is a rare fungal infection that is being reported from across India as a common post-Covid-19 complication during the second wave of the pandemic. By the end of June, close to 30,000 cases of mucormycosis were reported nation wide, government data show. In the revised benefits package, rates of some treatments have been increased by 20 to 400 percent. The revised rates will be rolled out from November.The revisions have been done in the fields of radiation oncology; medical management procedures such as procedures for dengue, acute febrile illness, etc.; and other procedures such as right and left heart catheterization, PDA (patent ductus arteriosus) closure, arthrodesis, cholecystectomy, appendicectomy, etc.Currently, PM-JAY covers 1,669 procedures, out of which 1,080 are surgical, 588 medical and one unspecified package.The public health insurance scheme was launched in 2018 with 1,393 packages. It provides free and cashless health care services up to ₹500,000 per family a year to at least 107.4 million poor and vulnerable families. Total beneficiaries number over 530 million, according to the Socio-Economic Caste Census 2011 database. More initiatives are planned, Sharma said. “First of all, everybody who is a beneficiary should be aware of Ayushman Bharat,” he said. “We are distributing about 4 crore (40 million) cards this year, and the process is being accelerated so that people can just walk in with a card and can claim benefit under the scheme.”The move to create a green channel will help drawing in more partners to offer treatment under the government scheme. “These are two important aspects that any hospital willing to be a part of any public health insurance schemes will look at — reasonably priced treatment packages and quick reimbursement of claims. Most of the time, reimbursement claims are stuck with the government for months. We have seen this with CGHS (central government health scheme) claims,” a senior administrator at a prominent hospital in New Delhi said, requesting anonymity. “If this issue is taken care of, then many hospitals would come forward to offer treatment under Ayushman Bharat.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/50-instant-claim-reimbursement-on-anvil-for-pm-jay-listed-hospitals-with-clean-records-101633889703748.html
11-10-2021||India||India, China conclude 13th round of LAC talks||Corps commanders of Indian and Chinese armies held talks on Sunday to resolve problems at friction points on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, where the countries have been locked in a border standoff for over 17 months, officials familiar with the development said.The 13th round of parley began at 10.30am at Moldo on the Chinese side of LAC, the officials said, requesting anonymity. It came more than two months after the last round of talks that led to disengagement in early August of deployed troops at Gogra, or Patrol Point-17A, which was one of the flashpoints of the border skirmishes.The focus of the talks was to cool tensions at Hot Springs and Depsang, Hindustan Times reported on Sunday. Officials earlier said disengagement of rival soldiers deployed at Hot Springs was on the agenda for the 13th round of talks.The parley comes at a time of massive military buildup and infrastructure development by the People’s Liberation Army across the LAC, with the Indian Army matching Chinese moves.In February, the two sides pulled back troops and weaponry from Pangong Tso in Ladakh. Despite two rounds of disengagement at friction points this year, the two armies still have 50,000 to 60,000 troops each and advanced weaponry in eastern Ladakh.If the Chinese army is to stay in Ladakh, so is the Indian army, General Manoj Mukund Naravane, chief of the army staff, said on Saturday, flagging concerns about the continuing Chinese buildup in the area.The latest round of military dialogue follows a face-off between Indian and Chinese soldiers along the border last week in Tawang in northeast India’s Arunachal Pradesh and another incursion by Chinese soldiers on August 30 in Uttarakhand in northern India.Top Indian and Chinese commanders had agreed to a speedy resolution of outstanding issues on LAC at the 12th round of talks. The dialogue had focussed on disengagement of troops from the remaining flashpoints on the contested border.A joint statement issued after the 12th round described the talks as “a candid and in-depth exchange of views on resolution of remaining areas related to disengagement along LAC in the Western Sector of India-China border areas.”Talking about the LAC situation, Naravane on Saturday said in Delhi: “It is a matter of concern that the large-scale buildup that occurred last year (when the border row erupted) continues to be in place.”“To sustain that kind of buildup, there has been an equal amount of infrastructure development on the Chinese side. It means that they (PLA) are there to stay. We are keeping a close watch on the developments. But if they are there to stay, we are there to stay too,” he said.“If they continue to stay there for the second winter, it will definitely mean we will be in Line of Control (LoC) kind of situation (referring to the Indian and Pakistani deployments on the LoC), though not an active LoC as is there on the western front. We will have to keep a close eye on PLA troop buildup and deployments to ensure they don’t get into any misadventure once again,” Naravane said.On PLA’s intentions, he said: “I wish I knew. The most difficult thing is to get into your adversary’s mind…But whatever those reasons may have been, I don’t think they have been able to achieve their aims because of the rapid response by the Indian armed forces.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-conclude-13th-round-of-lac-talks-101633889699537.html
11-10-2021||India||‘Mission 100 Days’ launched to curb Covid during festivals||The central government has started a campaign dubbed Mission 100 Days to control the spread of Covid-19 infections during the festive season, said people familiar with the matter.There were 230,971 active Covid-19 cases as on Sunday, according to government data, with 34 districts in nine states and Union territories still reporting a weekly positivity rate of at least 10 percent. A weekly rate of five percent or less indicates the spread of infections is somewhat under control, according to the World Health Organization. There are fears that the three-month festive season that started in October could see a resurgence of Covid-19.Also Read| Durga Puja celebration a low-key affair in Noida amid Covid pandemic“This year should be about Covid-safe festivities, which in effect means people celebrate festivals largely online to avoid spreading Covid-19,” a central government official said on condition of anonymity. “We are asking states to be extra vigilant during the next 100 days, and ensure that Covid-appropriate behaviour is observed. Only then we will be able to save the country from an expected surge in cases.”A “prevention fatigue has set in among the masses, which is why it is more important to make extra efforts to make people understand the importance of not giving up right now”, the official said. “It is important to keep on doing what we are doing to prevent the disease spread with greater intensity, and look for ways to improve on existing measures for better effect.”The Centre has been regularly issuing guidelines to states, asking them to intensify containment measures in areas or districts that continue to report high caseloads, such as aggressive testing and strictly marking containment zones. States have also been asked to generate awareness among people so that it becomes a collective effort, especially during the festive season, as new cases have always seen a surge after festivals.The Centre has asked states to not allow mass gatherings in containment zones and districts reporting at least 5 percent case positivity. Even when gatherings are allowed in such districts, they should need permissions and there has to be caps on the number of attendees. Physical visits or meetings are to be discouraged in favour of online darshans and virtual celebrations. All rituals such as effigy burning, pandal hopping during the Durga Puja, Dandiya and Garba, and Chhath Puja should be symbolic, the guidelines said.“Crowded spaces are fertile ground for disease transmission. Therefore, it is important to not allow crowding, especially in closed spaces, as it has been well-established that the disease is airborne,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head, pulmonology department, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi. “This is not the time to drop your guard as an infectious disease can always flare up if there is laxity in Covid-appropriate behaviour.”Also Read| India's daily Covid-19 tally drops nearly 8% to 18,166Twenty-eight districts across 12 states and Union territories are reporting a weekly positivity rate between 5 and 10 percent. Five states — Mizoram, Kerala, Sikkim, Manipur and Meghalaya — are reporting a weekly positivity rate of at least 5 percent.“It has to be a collective effort if we want to stop experiencing more waves. Since it is people’s behaviour that will eventually determine whether we see any more waves or not and if we do then how intense those are going to be, it is pertinent for the people to adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour and for the governments to ensure it is strictly implemented,” said another official, also requesting anonymity.Health ministry officials on Thursday urged people to be careful during the festive season as the pandemic is far from over.“We cannot afford to take the current stable situation for granted. We have to be mindful of the fact that the pandemic is still going on and can take an untoward turn if we are not careful. People need to avoid crowded places and unnecessary travel; stay home as far as possible and celebrate festivals virtually with shopping online,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, ministry of health and family welfare.Intensifying measures during the festival season does not mean we can relax at other times, said the first official cited earlier. “We have to be careful throughout because we are dealing with a highly infectious disease. However, these three months require extra caution, and that is what all states and Union territories have been explained,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mission-100-days-launched-to-curb-covid-during-festivals-101633889700153.html
11-10-2021||India||PM Narendra Modi most democratic leader of India, says Amit Shah||Narendra Modi is the most democratic leader India has ever seen, as he is a good listener and takes every decision only after consulting everyone, home minister Amit Shah said on Sunday, refuting assertions that the Prime Minister takes unilateral decisions on important matters.This incorrect perception of Modi taking unilateral decisions and not listening to anyone has been deliberately created by some people from rival ideologies to damage his image, Shah said.“Yes, he takes some risks and insists on discipline, but he never imposes his will while taking important decisions related to governance and policy,” Shah said in an interview to state-run Sansad TV on the occasion of Modi completing 20 years in public service on October 7.“Modi believes, and he has said this multiple times, that we have not come to just run a government, but to build India.”Those who have worked with Modi, including his critics, will agree that the cabinet of ministers has never been run in such a democratic manner, Shah said.“I have never seen a good listener as Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He listens to everyone, gives importance to the quality of the suggestion(s) rather than the person who has suggested it, and then takes a decision,” the home minister said.“The final decision rests with him, but of course, he is the Prime Minister.”Several opposition leaders have over the years called the functioning of Modi as ‘dictatorial’ over decisions like demonetization, announcement of nationwide lockdown to contain the Covid-19 pandemic in March last year, abrogation of Article 370 that conferred special status to Jammu and Kashmir, on farmer protests or alleged attacks on free speech.Demonetization, annulling Article 370 and the law banning triple talaq were some of the bold decisions of Modi, Shah said in the interview. He said that the surgical strikes on Pakistan in response to terror attacks “was out of the question” before Modi came to power.Modi has changed the dimensions of politics in the country, said the closest aide of the Prime Minister, and that is why there are personal attacks on him.Modi gets his confidence “from the fact that citizens of India know he has no personal interests and that he only works for the country”, the home minister said.“Modi gets stronger every time he is attacked.”Shah took a swipe at the Congress party, saying some parties considered it their right to rule the country and cannot digest the fact that Modi is successfully running the country.(This report has been updated to accurately reflect Union home minister Amit Shah's remarks on PM Modi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-no-dictator-but-most-democratic-leader-india-has-seen-amit-shah-101633857717130.html
11-10-2021||India||Chief secretary who helped Meghalaya tide over Covid crisis, retires||When MS Rao took charge as the chief secretary of Meghalaya on the first day of 2020, the state government had been in power for less than two years, the economy was growing and there was a general sense of optimism in the air, except over the contentious Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), which had engendered protests in capital Shillong.However, within months the Covid-19 pandemic plunged Meghalaya into its greatest ever crisis. Rao had to draw on decades of experience to help the state tide over it by making quick and exceedingly complex decisions. Rao says his mantra has been to understand a challenge first before one starts tackling it.“The uniqueness of the IAS [Indian Administrative Service] is that one gets to do a wide variety of assignments. Every new assignment brings its own set of challenges, but it is important that in the initial days of every assignment an extra effort is made to grasp the subject as quickly and as thoroughly as possible,” Rao said.Echoing his senior, principal secretary of health Sampath Kumar said the former CS stewarded state officials brilliantly in implementing the three-prong approach towards handling the pandemic.“Though right from the very start, we collaborated together as a team and since the pandemic was such a dynamic situation where people wanted quick solutions and answers, certain tough decisions keeping the overall interests of the people had to be taken and he (Rao) was there always egging us on,” Kumar said, and added, “He was an integral interface between the chief minister, Group of Ministers and the department at all times and was always available.”Rao left the post of chief secretary when he reached superannuation at the end of September but by then the pandemic had been contained to a degree of satisfaction in the state. He is now the first chief commissioner of the Public Service Delivery Commission, tasked with the delivery of notified public services to the state’s citizens within a stipulated time frame as per the Meghalaya Right to Public Services Act 2020, which also provides for liabilities for government servants in case of default.“It is a very progressive law which demands direct accountability of the administration to the citizens,” Rao said as he took charge. “My role would be to facilitate and enforce this law which will benefit the citizens immensely. Since I am the first incumbent, I will have to set up the office and get things moving fast. I intend to bring the whole framework under e-governance to make it prompt and efficient.”Rao has served as a civil servant for 34 years and first came to work in Meghalaya in 2000 when he was made the secretary in the state’s agriculture department.Also Read: HNLC cadre arrested for planting IED outside NPP office in MeghalayaUnder his watch, the government launched some “high-impact initiatives” other than the Right to Public Services Act, such as the Meghalaya Enterprise Architecture, Health Policy, Youth Policy, Public-Private Partnership Policy, direct flights to New Delhi and postgraduate diploma courses to address the shortage of specialist doctors in the state.“On the overall state performance during my tenure, I would like to specifically mention three sectors - immunisation, NREGA (National Rural Employment Guarantee Act) and Jal Jeevan Mission - in which we were among the best performing states in the country,” he said.A keen bridge player and an Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Kharagpur and Indian Institute of Management (IIM)Kolkata alumnus, Rao spent two decades in Meghalaya. He said that while coalition governments have a tendency to be unstable, he enjoyed good working relationships with all the chief ministers he served. Outside the government, Rao feels the quality of local labour must be improved to bridge the gap in skill set compared to migrant labourers.Talking about Mehgalaya’s culture, he said It was very important to understand and respect the local culture and customs while making decisions that impact the community. “Community bonding beyond family systems is unique to the society here, which impressed me immensely. People are warm, friendly and cheerful, which made it easy for me to forge many good friendships.”Rao also offered some parting advice for those to follow him through the ranks.“The key thing is to maintain high levels of motivation and be conscious of their accountability to the citizens. It is also important to keep oneself abreast of the latest developments in the relevant sectors and cultivate the habit of continuous learning,” he said. “I strongly believe that technology is a great enabler, and we must make full use of it to improve the quality of governance and, in turn, the quality of life of the citizens,” he said, before signing off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chief-secretary-who-helped-meghalaya-tide-over-covid-crisis-retires-101633855676799.html
11-10-2021||NA||Breaking news: Mumbai police to increase patrolling as MVA calls for bandh||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:Noida: Drive against vehicles without HSRP begins, offenders to pay ₹5,000 fineDays after the Uttar Pradesh government set a deadline on September 30 to ensure vehicles in the state have installed high security registration plates (HSRP), the transport department has planned to launch an enforcement drive against all such vehicles found without the device from Monday and fine them up to ₹5,000. Read moreMumbai police to increase patrolling on Oct 11 following call for statewide bandh by Maha Vikas AghadiMaharashtra | Strict patrolling to be held in view of statewide bandh called by Maha Vikas Aghadi on Oct 11, over Lakhimpur Kheri violence. Striking reserves to be deployed at strategic points, with 3 companies of SRPF, 500 Home Guards&700 men from Local Arms units: Mumbai Police pic.twitter.com/44bIVhH1PdFollowing calls for a statewide bandh by the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi on October 11 protesting the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, the Mumbai police said that there would be strict patrolling, reports ANI. “Striking reserves to be deployed at strategic points, with 3 companies of SRPF, 500 Home Guards and 700 men from Local Arms units,” the police said.Indian Navy to participate in 2nd phase of Multilateral Maritime Exercise Malabar Indian Navy to participating in 2nd Phase of Multilateral Maritime Exercise Malabar along with the Japan Maritime Self Defence Force (JMSDF), Royal Australian Navy (RAN) & the United States Navy (USN). The exercise will be conducted in the Bay of Bengal on 12-15 Oct: Indian NavyIndian Navy would participate in the second phase of Multilateral Maritime Exercise Malabar exercise to be conducted in the Bay of Bengal between October 12 and 15, with the navies of Japan, Australia and the US, reports ANI.Watch | Waterlogging in Puducherry following rainfall today#WATCH | Several parts of Puducherry face severe waterlogging following incessant rainfall here today. pic.twitter.com/jXMFVV5XmMFollowing incessant rainfalls, waterlogging was reported from several parts of Puducherry, reports ANI. Tamil Nadu reports 1,329 new Covid-19 cases, 15 deathsTamil Nadu reported 1,329 new Covid-19 cases and 15 deaths, as the state's tally reached 2,678, 265 and the death toll climbed to 35,783, a bulletin fromt the state health department showed.PM Modi to join programme to launch Indian Space Association at 11am tomorrowAt 11 AM tomorrow, 11th October, I will join the programme to launch the Indian Space Association. I am glad to be getting the opportunity to interact with leading stakeholders of the sector. Those interested in the world of space and innovation must watch tomorrow’s programme.Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that the would join the programme to launch Indian Space Association at 11am on October 11. “Those interested in the world of space and innovation must watch tomorrow’s programme,” he tweeted.External affairs minister S Jaishankar arrives in KyrgyztanDelighted to arrive in Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan at the invitation of FM Ruslan Kazakbaev. Looking forward to a productive visit. pic.twitter.com/IR57CkXqasExternal affairs minister S Jaishankar has arrived at Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan, at the invitation of the country's foreign minister Ruslan Kazakbaev.“Looking forward to a productive visit,” Jaishankar tweeted.‘Made first call over Indian 4G network of BSNL’: Union ministerMade first call over Indian 4G network of BSNL (Designed and Made in India). PM @narendramodi Ji’s vision of Aatmanirbhar Bharat taking shape.Union telecommunications minister Ashwini Vaishnaw said that PM Modi's vision of Aatmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India) is taking shape after he made first call over BSNL 4G network.Operations underway as security forces neutralise 4 militants in Hingorani, ManipurSecurity forces incl troops of Assam Rifles, Indian Army’s 3 Corps neutralised 4 militants during jt op in Hingorani, Manipur. Operation was launched y'day&exchange of fire started today morning. Ops underway. Militants belonged to Kuki group. Details awaited: PRO Defence,ManipurA joint operation by the security forces including the troops of Assam Rifles, India Army's 3 Corps neutralised four militants in Hingorani, Manipur, reports ANI citing PRO Defence, Manipur.The operation was launched yesterday and the exchange of fire started today morning.Kerala reports 10,691 new Covid-19 vases, 85 deaths in last 24 hoursKerala reports 10,691 new #COVID19 cases, 12,655 recoveries and 85 deaths in the last 24 hours. Total recoveries 46,56,866Death toll 26,258Active cases 1,11,083A total of 81,914 samples tested in the last 24 hours.Kerala reported 10,691 new Covid-19 cases and 85 deaths in the last 24 hours. The death toll in the state stood at 26,258 and the active caseload at 111,083, reports ANI. Magnitude 4.4 earthquake hits 110km southeast of AfghanistanAn earthquake with a magnitude of 4.4 on the Richter Scale hit 110km SE of Fayzabad, Afghanistan today at 5:09 pm: National Center for SeismologyAn earthquake of magnitude 4.4 on the Richter Scale hit 110km southeast of Fayzabad in Afghanistan at 5.09pm, reports ANI citing the National Center for Seismology.Devender Singh Rana quits NC, will join BJP tomorrow in DelhiDevender Singh Rana quits National Conference (NC), and will join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) tomorrow at the party's Delhi headquarters. Rana has removed his designation of Provincial President of NC from Twitter. He along with Surjeet Singh Salathia will join the saffron party tomorrow.‘Irresponsible apporach, Centre trying to run away’: Delhi deputy CM Sisodia on coal crisisDelhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said that the Centre is trying to “run away” from the coal crisis by making excuses, reports PTI. “They are unable to run the country,” he added. “Union power minister said there is no possibility of coal crisis. Sad that he has adopted such irresponsible approach,” he also said.950 million vaccine doses administered in India, health minister Mandaviya says ‘marching towards 100 crore doses’World's largest successful vaccination drive in full swing! 💉✅ India completes administration of 95 crore #COVID19 vaccine doses.💯 Marching rapidly towards administering 100 crore vaccine doses.Get vaccinated quickly and encourage your friends & family to do the same! pic.twitter.com/yp2MLLQMuo950 million (95 crore) vaccine doses have been administered in India, union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya tweeted.Watch | Farmers in Ludhiana, Punjab, burn stubble in fields#WATCH | Punjab: Farmers burn stubble in their fields, visuals from Ludhiana this afternoon. pic.twitter.com/AscK4KSeNsFarmers in Ludhiana, Punjab, burnt stubble in their fields this afternoon, reports ANI. ‘I will not stop until I bring change here’: Priyanka GandhiPriyanka Gandhi said that she would not stop her efforts until the government in UP is changed.“If you want to bring a change, come with me, struggle with shoulder to shoulder, and change this government. I will not stop until I bring change here,” she said.Priyanka Gandhi says ‘fight for justice’ will continue until Ajay Mishra is suspendedPriyanka Gandhi said that the Congress will continue its fight until minister of state Ajay Mishra is suspended following the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. “We are the workers of the Congress. We are not afraid of anyone. Put us in jail, beat us, but we will fight for the justice,” she said.Priyanka Gandhi targets PM Modi on growing inflation, rising fuel pricesPriyanka Gandhi targeted PM Modi on the growing inflation and the rising prices of fuel such as petrol, diesel and cooking gas. She also said that unemployment is at its peak and the people were angry and upset with the government.“When people are losing their jobs and small business are shutting, billionaire friends of PM Modi are making billions,” she added.'Modi doesn't have time to speak to farmers': Priyanka GandhiPriyanka Gandhi said that farmers have been protesting against the three farm laws but Narendra Modi has no time to speak to them. “The farmers are protesting against the three laws because they know their land will be snatched, if the three farm laws were implemented, by Modi's corporate friends,” she added.'Victims' families have lost hope for justice': Priyanka GandhiPriyanka Gandhi said that the families of the victims killed in Lakhimpur Kheri have lost their hope for justice. “Because PM Modi could come to UP to see celebrations, but he didn't have time to visit the aggrieved families of the farmers,” she said. Priyanka Gandhi says UP CM protecting MoS Ajay Mishra's son instead of taking actionPriyanka Gandhi in her address said that the UP chief minister is protecting Ashish Mishra, son of minister of state Ajay Mishra, instead of arresting him in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. Bhupesh Baghel says UP CM was scared of Priyanka Gandhi, didn't allow her to meet victims of Lakhimpur Kheri incidentChhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel said that UP CM Yogi Adityanath was scared of Priyanka Gandhi and didn't allow her to meet the families of the victims of the Lakhimpuri Kheri incident.“Priyanka fought for the justice for the daughter of Haathras and fought for the rights of Sonbhadra, now she is fighting for the rights of the farmers,” Baghel said.‘Nation is looking towards UP’ says Chhatisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel said that there were questions about farmers, youth and women and the country is looking towards UP to answer these questions. “Will UP give answers to all these queries in coming Assembly elections,” he asked. ‘Priyanka Gandhi is with farmers’: Congress leader Deependra Hooda Congress leader Depeendra Hooda addressed the crowd and said that party leader Priyanka Gandhi is with “truth, farmers, poor and the youth.” “I want to ask, whom will you support, the people who were trampled or those who trampled the farmers and tried to suppress the voice of farmers,” he said.Priyanka Gandhi arrives at Varanasi rally venue, UPCC chief addresses crowdCongress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra arrived at the rally venue in Varanasi. Uttar Pradesh Congress chief Ajay Singh Lallu addressed the crowd. He alleged that the law and order has ended in UP and said there “is a jungle raj”.Aircraft crashes in Russia, 7 people rescuedAn aircraft carrying 23 people, including 21 parachute divers, crashes in Menzelinsk region of Russia. 7 out of 23 people who were onboard rescued.‘I congratulate Karnataka on 83% first dose vaccination’: Union health minister Mandaviya“I congratulate the Karnataka CM and his team for achieving 83% first dose vaccination coverage and for starting door-to-door vaccination programme. Central govt will continue supporting the state in its fight against pandemic,” says Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya in Bengaluru.‘Delhi getting continuous supply of power’: Union minister RK SinghDelhi is being supplied the required amount of electricity and it will continue, says Union Power Minister RK Singh after chairing a meeting with Ministry of Power and discoms.Lakhimpur Kheri case: Congress seeks appointment with PresidentCongress seeks appointment with President Ram Nath Kovind to present a ‘memorandum of facts’ on Lakhimpur Kheri violence case.Cruise raid case: NCB records statement of Shah Rukh Khan's driverNCB records statement of Shah Rukh Khan's driver in connection with cruise drugs raid case.Lakhimpur Kheri case: UP Police to seek Ashish Mishra's custodyUttar Pradesh Police to file an application before a court in Lakhimpur Kheri on Monday, seeking custody of prime accused Ashish Mishra in connection with October 3 violence. 13th round of India-China Corps Commander level talks underway13th round of Corps Commander level talks between India and China started at 10:30 am today to resolve the ongoing military stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, reports ANI citing Army sources.Pakistan: Top nuclear scientist AQ Khan passes away at 85Abdul Qadeer Khan, known as the Father of Pakistan's nuclear programme, passes away at 85.Priyanka Gandhi Vadra leaves for ‘Kisan Nyay’ rally in Varanasi#WATCH | Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Chhattisgarh CM & senior party observer for upcoming UP polls Bhupesh Baghel, and party MP Deepender Singh Hooda leave from Delhi airport for Varanasi to address 'Kisan Nyay' rally pic.twitter.com/BjdLV2cFmaCongress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra leaves Delhi for Varanasi, where she will address ‘Kisan Nyay’ rally later today.NIA raids 16 places in Jammu and KashmirRaids being conducted at 16 places in Jammu and Kashmir in connection with cases of the publication of 'Voice of Hind' magazine which aims to incite and radicalize impressionable youth, and for recovery of IED: National Investigation Agency (NIA)India records 18,166 new Covid-19 cases and 214 deathsIndia records 18,166 new Covid-19 cases, 23,624 recoveries and 214 deaths, as tally mounts to 33,953,475.Austria's chancellor Sebastian Kurz quits over corruption probeAustrian chancellor Sebastian Kurz announces he is stepping down from his post following pressure on him to resign after he was implicated in a corruption scandal.Petrol, diesel prices hiked again1 litre of petrol and diesel retailing in Delhi at ₹104.14 and ₹92.82 respectively, today. This is a hike of 0.30 and 0.35 paise per litre, respectively, from Saturday.Deputy RS chairman Harivansh meets Russia's KosachevRajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh met Konstantin Kosachev, deputy speaker of the Council of Federation, Russia on the sidelines of the G20 Speakers' Summit in Rome on Saturday.Earthquake of magnitude 3.4 in Karnataka's GulbargaAn earthquake of 3.4 magnitude occurred in Gulbarga, Karnataka at around 6 this morning: National Center for SeismologyAustralia's Victoria province sees 1860 fresh Covid-19 infectionsAustralia's Victoria records 1860 new Covid-19 cases, down from record 1965 on Saturday, as authorities say crowds will be allowed to attend sporting events.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-october-10-2021-101633827012230.html
