13-10-2021||India||Pawar takes dig at Fadnavis over ‘i still feel like CM’ statement||In a dig at senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis, who had said that he still feels as chief minister of Maharashtra, NCP president Sharad Pawar on Wednesday said he lacked this trait even though he had served as CM for four times.  Fadnavis on Tuesday said that because of the people’s love, he did not feel that he had ceased to be the chief minister. “It’s good that the BJP leader still considers himself as the chief minister. I congratulate him. After being the chief minister for five years, Fadnavis still feels he is holding the post. I lacked this trait. I had served as chief minister (of Maharashtra) four times. But I don’t even remember,” Pawar said.He also referred to Fadnavis’ famous “Me Punha Yein” (I will return) slogan which had become popular before the 2019 Maharashtra assembly elections. The slogan had become a subject of ridicule and inspired many mock-filled messages and WhatsApp memes taking a dig at the BJP leader. Fadnavis, while speaking at an event in Navi Mumbai, had said that the people of Maharashtra never made me feel that I am not the chief minister. “I still feel that I am chief minister as I have been roaming in the state over the last two years. The love and affection of people have not receded,” he had said.Fadnavis became the chief minister of Maharashtra after the 2014 elections and went on to complete a full term, something which no chief minister of the state had managed in the previous three decades. After the Shiv Sena walked out of the alliance with the BJP after the 2019 polls, he forged a tie-up with a breakaway group of NCP MLAs led by Ajit Pawar and was sworn in as chief minister with Pawar as his deputy. But this government lasted only for three days for want of the numbers and was replaced by an alliance of the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress, headed by Uddhav Thackeray.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pawar-takes-dig-at-fadnavis-over-i-still-feel-like-cm-statement-101634149542750.html
13-10-2021||India||Many countries have legalised these drugs: 5 things Aryan Khan's lawyer said||Arguing for Aryan Khan's bail plea, his counsel, senior advocate Amit Desai on Wednesday cited many verdicts related to the seizure of a small quantity of drugs. As he claimed that his client was not even on the cruise and was apprehended as he was going to attend the party, Desai highlighted a few points regarding the motive of laws, international practices etc.> Aryan Khan's lawyer said many countries have made these substances. Cannabis has been removed by many countries from the schedule of dangerous drugs, he said.> Citing how India has moved towards reforming through penalising and that is why the punishment for consumption of drugs has been brought down from five years to one year in 2001, Desai said let the legal system not penalise in bail.> They are some young kids, Amit Desai said, adding that they should not be considered drug peddlers, racketeers or traffickers.Aryan Khan used to procure drugs from Arbaaz Merchant, quantity recovered immaterial: NCB in court> They have suffered enough, they have learnt their lesson if at all, Aryan Khan's lawyer said.> Aryan's lawyer said the term 'illicit drug trafficking is very serious and imposing this charge on Aryan Khan is absurd. He was not found in possession of any drug.Aryan Khan's bail application hearing adjourned for tomorrow. Here's whyIn all the previous hearings, Aryan Khan was represented by Satish Maneshinde who on Wednesday said he will add if anything is required but the main argument will be carried out by Amit Desai. The hearing will continue on Thursday as NCB counsel ASG Anil Singh has not finished his argument and will continue on Thursday.Aryan Khan's bail plea has been rejected thrice after he was arrested by the NCB on October 2. On October 7, he along with seven others were sent to 1-day judicial custody. A special NDPS court is now hearing the bail plea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/many-countries-have-legalised-this-substance-5-things-aryan-khan-s-lawyer-said-101634144803568.html
13-10-2021||India||Four charts which sum up India’s inflation story||Retail inflation, as measured by the Consumer Price Index (CPI) grew at 4.35% in September 2021. Between May and September, inflation has come down by 195 basis points. One basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point. While that’s a reason for cheer, a disaggregated analysis shows that the actual inflation picture is slightly more complicated than what the headline numbers suggest. Here are four charts which explain this.Food inflation has crashed, but non-food prices are still elevated39% of India’s CPI basket is food items. This means that food prices play a major role in driving the headline inflation number. The latest deceleration in prices is primarily on account of food prices. Food inflation has come down from 5.15% in June 2021 to 0.68% in September 2021. The latest food inflation figure is the lowest since March 2019, when it grew at 0.3%. Non-food inflation has been hovering around the 7% mark during this period.Food prices are not decelerating across the boardJust two sub-categories of food, cereals and vegetables, account for 40% of the CPI food-basket. These two items also account for almost half of India’s agricultural production. Recent inflationary trends display an unprecedented trend of disinflation in cereal prices, which has been happening every month since February. To be sure, disinflation in vegetable prices has been underway since December 2020, but vegetable prices have fallen even earlier. Inflation in edible oil category continues to be very high. If one were to exclude cereal and vegetable prices from the food category, India is at a unique phase as far as the current CPI series is concerned, as prices of other food items have remained sticky at high levels.What is the impact of petrol-diesel prices on inflation?Petrol-diesel prices are at a record high in India. This is not because crude oil prices are at their highest ever levels, but on account of taxes. What is the role of fuel inflation in the current inflationary situation? The answer is slightly complicated. Anecdotal accounts suggest that at least some businesses have been finding it difficult to pass on the higher fuel costs to consumers, as weak demand conditions continue to persist. For example, a Bloomberg Quint story published on October 8 says that freight prices (trucks) have been lagging despite an increase in the price of diesel. A look at inflation data lends support to the hypothesis of weak demand conditions muting a cascading effect of fuel prices. While fuel inflation is at an all-time high in India, the headline CPI number is significantly lower and the gap between the two is very high by historical standards.But cost pressures could increase going forwardThis is likely on account of two reasons. One, international prices, especially for energy-related commodities have shown a renewed momentum. The Bloomberg Commodity Index crossed 100 in the last week of September 2021, the first time it has done this since 2015, and continues to stay at those levels. Prices of crucial inputs such as coal and crude oil have risen and are expected to rise further as energy consumption in many developed countries soars in the winters.Also, the favourable base effect – higher inflation a year ago – will dissipate from the October-December quarter. This is one of the reasons RBI’s Monetary Policy Committee expects inflation to start increasing from the December quarter onwards. In its latest forecast (October 8) MPC projected inflation to be 5.1% in the September quarter, 4.5% in the December quarter and 5.8% in the quarter ending March 2022.In her research note dated October 5, Pranjul Bhandari, Chief India Economist at HSBC Securities and Capital Markets India Pvt Limited underlined this possibility.“The fall in inflation over the next three months will be base effects-driven. We worry about high energy prices and cost-push inflation. We also worry about inequality-driven inflation as large companies gain pricing power. Cost adjustments around the world are leading to unpredictable inflationary pressures, which need to be monitored, especially in the face of already elevated core inflation”, the note said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-charts-which-sum-up-india-s-inflation-story-101634144261159.html
13-10-2021||India||Chhattisgarh march against Hasdeo mines reaches Raipur, gets Singhdeo support||RAIPUR: Ten days after they began their 300-kilometre march from Madanpur village in north Chhattisgarh, more than 200 tribals and villagers from the Hasdeo Aranya area in Korba reached state capital Raipur on Wednesday to demand cancellation of coal mining projects in the ecologically sensitive region, and land acquisition orders that do not have the legitimate gram sabha’s consent. The protesters are scheduled to meet governor Anusuya Uike on Thursday and have sought an appointment with chief minister Bhupesh Baghel as well. There was no word till late Wednesday evening if the chief minister’s office has scheduled a meeting with the protesters. Chief minister Baghel has said he is open for talks.On Wednesday evening, they, however, met health minister TS Singh Deo who extended his support.“Coal mining is deadly in the wake of environmental conditions and it is the need of the hour to switch to renewable energy… Hasdeo was a no-go zone in the UPA era and its status should be reinstated,” Deo said.“We are demanding immediate cancellation of all coal mining projects in Hasdeo Aranya region and all land acquisition proceedings carried under Coal Bearing-Areas Act 1957 without taking prior consent from the gram sabhas be immediately withdrawn,” said Chhattisgarh Bachao Andolan convenor Alok Shukla, who also was part of the march.Shukla said that the villagers also want environment and forest clearance granted to Parsa coal block to be cancelled and a case is registered against company officials for allegedly forging the gram sabha’s consent.The villagers also demanded the implementation of “free prior informed consent” from gram sabhas before land acquisition and allocation of any mining or other projects in the Hasdeo area, and restoration of the community forest rights title of Ghatbarra village in Surguja district which was cancelled in 2016. “We are here to meet the chief minister and will put our demands in front of him. We don’t want to lose our forests and the Constitution has given us the right to protect them... We will not leave the capital until our demands are met… Till now chief minister has not given us time but we hope we will meet him tomorrow or the day after,” said Muneshwar Porte, a resident of Fatehpur village. Chief minister Bhupesh Baghel said: “Those who want to talk… we are doing it with them. But so far, they have not offered to meet us. You (media persons) are asking this. Doors are open for everyone who wants to meet. Talks only can resolve the problems”, the chief minister said.Hasdeo Arand is one of the largest contiguous stretches of very dense forest in central India spanning 170,000 hectares. It also has 23 coal blocks.In 2009, the Union environment ministry proposed to categorize Hasdeo Arand to be a “No-Go” zone for mining because of its rich forest cover but opened it again to mining because the policy hadn’t been finalized.Elephants have a significant presence in forests of this region throughout the year and is an important part of a large migratory corridor. The Hasdeo Aranya forest is also the catchment of Hasdeo River, Mahanadi’s largest tributary, which is critical for perennial river flow. It is also the watershed of Hasdeo Bango reservoir and thus critical for irrigation of 3 lakh hectare double-cropped land in the “rice-bowl” state of Chhattisgarh. Multiple Government and independent scientific reports have documented the ecological importance of the region and underlined the urgent need to conserve it.According to a statement by Chhattisgarh Bachao Andolan, around 20 village bodies have been regularly passing resolutions under Panchayat Extension to Scheduled Areas (PESA) Act 1996 and Forest Right Act 2006 (FRA), since 2014 articulating their opposition to any mining in the region.These laws, PESA Act 1996 and FRA 2006, not only ensure that the gram sabha’s consent is necessary for any forest diversion but also places the onus of resource conservation on them.“Given the strong resistance from gram sabhas, the government is now circumventing the need for “gram sabha consent” before the start of mining. The government has argued that consent is not required under Coal Bearing Areas Act and has thus issued notifications for the acquisition of land for Madanpur South, Gidhmudi Paturiya, Kete Extension and Parsa even before any clearance or consultations. For the Parsa coal block, the forest clearance has been issued based on some forged consent/letter based on wide collusion of district administration with the company,” the non-profit alleged in the statement.The Chhattisgarh forest ministry on Wednesday said the forest department notified 1,995 sq km area as Lemru Elephant Reserve which includes 15 coal blocks of Hasdeo Arrand Area. “Moreover, the Biodiversity Assessment Study report for the whole Hasdeo Arrand region has been sent to the state government for consideration which if accepted, would completely prohibit mining in 14 coal blocks of the Hasdeo Arrand Area,” the department said in a written response to HT on the demand of Hasdeo residents for cancellation of mining projects said.On the demand for cancellation of environmental and forest clearances of Parsa coal block, the forest department clarified that stage I forest clearance of the coal block has been granted by the central government but the stage II clearance is still under consideration which shall be decided once the Biodiversity Assessment Study report is finalised.The biodiversity study for the Hasdeo Arand coalfield, conducted by the Indian Council of Forestry Research and Education in consultation with the Wildlife Institute of India to assess the floral and faunal biodiversity of coalfield has proposed to recommend against clearing 14 of the 23 coal blocks to conserve the relatively dense moist-dry deciduous sal dominated forest tracts that provide home forest for elephants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarhs-300km-march-against-hasdeo-mines-reaches-raipur-gets-singhdeo-support-101634143601380.html
13-10-2021||India||TN health minister says state set to become first in country to administer Covid-19 vaccines to children above 2 years||Tamil Nadu health minister Ma Subramanian on Wednesday said that the state is set to become the first in the country to administer Covid-19 vaccines to children aged two years and above.Subramanian said that once the Tamil Nadu state government gets the nod from the Centre regarding the inoculation of the vaccine, the state would be the first to do so, news agency PTI reported. He highlighted that TN was the first state to inoculate pregnant women after the Centre said they were eligible for vaccinations. More than 500,000 pregnant women have been administered the vaccine, he also said.Also read | 5th Covid-19 vaccine camp underway in Tamil Nadu as state aims to achieve 70% first dose inoculation by OctoberThe minister’s remarks came a day after the subject experts committee (SEC) on Tuesday, recommended the use of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin on those in the two to 18 age group, HT had previously reported. However, an approval from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) is required for the vaccine to be administered in children.If approved by the DCGI, Covaxin would become the first vaccine for children under 12 years of age. Earlier, Zydus Cadila’s ZyCoV-D was given approval for people aged 12 and above, but the vaccine is yet to be included in the country’s immunisation drive.Meanwhile, Subramanian lauded the Coimbatore district in the state for immunising 93% of its population with at least one dose and 37% of its population fully. The minister also said that five mobile vans were launched on the day, in five zones in the Coimbatore city, to help reach 100% vaccinations by door-to-door service.Recently on Sunday (October 10), TN concluded its fifth mega vaccination camp, a method the state has adopted to boost Covid-19 vaccination rate in the state and also to create awareness about the vaccine. In the preceding four Sundays, four such camps were conducted in the state.On Wednesday, 1,280 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Tamil Nadu as the total confirmed infections reached 2,682,137 while 19 more people lost their lives as the death toll climbed to 35,833, a bulletin from the state health department showed. As many as 52,379,870 doses of the vaccine have been administered in the state till 7am on the day, the Union health ministry’s data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-health-minister-says-state-set-to-become-first-in-country-to-administer-covid-19-vaccines-to-children-above-2-years-101634142661223.html
13-10-2021||India||Centre intensifies CT ops in Kashmir, 9 terrorists killed in six days||As many as nine terrorists have been killed in six encounters in the last six days after security forces intensified counterterrorism operations in the aftermath of targeted killings of minority civilians in Kashmir. Apart from the major success in the form of top Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) commander Shamim Ahmed Sofi’ killing, eight other terrorists: Aqib Bashir Kumar; Imtiyaz Ahmad Dar; Yawar Gani Dar; Danish Hussain Dar; Yawar Hassan Naikoo; Mukhtar Ahmad Shah; Khubaib Ahmad Nengroo; and Ubaid Ahmad Dar have been neutralised so far.The intensification of counter-terrorist operations comes after Union home minister Amit Shah on October 7 directed the security forces and intelligence agencies to neutralise the threat from Pakistan-based terrorist groups in Kashmir. Shah pitched for firm action as the Hindu and Sikh killings in Kashmir were designed to spread terror within minority communities who wanted to come back to the Valley after the abrogation of Article 370 and 35 A.The security agencies have identified their affiliations either with Pakistan-based JeM, Lashkar-e-Taiba, or local terror modules like Hizbul Mujahideen and The Resistance Front, both backed by Pakistani terror groups.Also Read | With Shameen Sofi killing, Pulwama massacre heads for closureDanish Hussain Dar, who was a close friend of active militants Afaq Sikander Lone and Ubaid Ahmad Dar, disappeared on June 20, 2021, weeks before the targeted killings started in the Valley. He was affiliated with LeT. Dar had fired upon a civilian at Chatergam Shopian in which the person got critically injured.Aqib Bashir Kumar, a local terrorist affiliated with Hizbul Mujahideen, was killed in Srinagar’s Natipora locality last week. Aqib Bashir Kumar left his home in November 2020 and didn’t return back, prompting his parents to lodge a missing report two days later. The Hizbul terrorist was involved in a grenade attack on a CRPF party at Chanpora in which personnel and one civilian were critically injured. He was also involved in motivating the Kashmiri youth to join ranks in the terror outfit.Initially a stone pelter, Yawar Hassan Naikoo was arrested in 2015 and was released after 15 days in detention. He went missing in December 2020 after which his father lodged a report with Shopian police. Reports suggest that Naikoo was motivated by local terrorists and managed his induction in Hizbul Mujahideen. He was killed in Shopian on Tuesday.Ubaid Ahmad Dar, a TRF recruit, was said to be a close friend of Aafaq Sikander Lone who took the path of militancy in December last year. He disappeared in February this year and joined the LeT offshoot. Accused of attacking a police party at Manzgam area of Kulgam in which two police personnel got critically injured, Dar was also neutralised on Tuesday in at Ferripora Shopian.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-intensifies-ct-ops-in-kashmir-9-terrorists-killed-in-six-days-101634142173627.html
13-10-2021||India||Three more Rafale fighters arriving from France, to land in Gujarat's Jamnagar tonight||The Indian Air Force (IAF) will be further strengthened amid the ongoing military standoff with China as three more Rafale jetss took off from France and will touch down in Jamnagar, Gujarat on Wednesday. The three new fighter jets will increase the count of Rafale jets to 29 out of the total 36 India had ordered as part of the ₹60,000 crore deal inked in 2016.Three Rafale jets were provided mid-air refueling over the Middle East by a friendly Air Force. They will be landing at the Jamnagar air base, government sources told ANI. These Rafales are the first to be coming from France since Air Chief Marshal VR Chaudhari took over as the Chief of Air Staff earlier this month.The planes coming from France would be distributed between the Golden Arrows squadron in Ambala and the 101 squadron in Hashimara, West Bengal.The Centre had signed an inter-governmental agreement with France in September 2016 for the procurement of 36 Rafale fighter jets at a cost of around ₹58,000 crore. The first batch of five Rafale jets arrived in India on July 29 last year.The next three Rafale jets are set to reach India by the first half of December and they would be joining the operational squadrons by January 26. The 36th and final Rafale would, according to the plan, include special enhancements that would make it more lethal and capable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-more-rafale-fighters-arriving-from-france-to-land-in-gujarat-s-jamnagar-tonight-101634138299572.html
13-10-2021||India||Centre raises BSF's area of jurisdiction, Punjab CM wants decision rolled back||The Centre has empowered the Border Security Force (BSF) to conduct searches, arrest suspects and make seizures up to an area of 50 km inside the Indian territory from the International Border with Pakistan and Bangladesh.The government has said the move was aimed at ensuring "zero tolerance" against terrorism and cross border crimes, but the same could trigger administrative and politicals issues in the border states of Punjab, West Bengal and Assam with the first two of them having non-BJP parties at the helm.Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi has already condemned the move calling it a direct attack on federalism, while urging Union home minister Amit Shah to immediately roll back the decision.“I strongly condemn the GoI's unilateral decision to give additional powers to BSF within 50 KM belt running along the international borders, which is a direct attack on the federalism. I urge the Union Home Minister @AmitShah to immediately rollback this irrational decision," the CM wrote on Twitter on Wednesday.I strongly condemn the GoI's unilateral decision to give additional powers to BSF within 50 KM belt running along the international borders, which is a direct attack on the federalism. I urge the Union Home Minister @AmitShah to immediately rollback this irrational decision.However, Amarinder Singh, who had to resign as the Punjab CM amid heightened tension within the Congress and led to Channi’s elevation as the chief minister, said the BSF’s enhanced presence “will only make us stronger”."Our soldiers are being killed in Kashmir. We're seeing more and more weapons and drugs being pushed by Pakistan-backed terrorists into Punjab. BSF's enhanced presence and powers will only make us stronger. Let's not drag central armed forces into politics," the captain tweeted.According to an ANI report, a fresh order issued earlier this week which authorised the BSF that could take action only upto 15km inside Punjab, Bengal and Assam, to spread its jurisdiction up to 50 km without any hurdle or further permission either from central or state governments.Its jurisdiction has, however, been cut short by 20km in the five northeastern states of Manipur, Mizoram, Tripura, Nagaland and Meghalaya -- where it had jurisdiction up to 80 km. In Gujarat, the BSF can freely take action till only 50 km within the state from its earlier jurisdiction of 80km. In Rajasthan, the BSF's area of jurisdiction will remain the same at 50 km.An officer of the rank corresponding to that of the lowest rank of member of the BSF is now empowered under the CrPC to exercise and discharge the powers and duties without an order from a magistrate and without a warrant.A News18 report said the BSF issued a statement hours later saying the step had been taken to “give uniformity to jurisdiction". “The amendment effected on October 11, 2021, establishes uniformity in defining the area within which Border Security Force can operate as per its charter of duties and execution of its role and task of border guarding in its areas of deployment."“This will also enable improved operational effectiveness in curbing trans-border crime and to an extent of 50 km from the international boundary within the states of Gujarat, Rajasthan, Punjab, West Bengal and Assam, running along the borders of India. Earlier, the limit was fixed to 80 km in case of Gujarat and 15 km in case of Rajasthan, Punjab, West Bengal and Assam," the force said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-raises-bsf-s-area-of-jurisdiction-punjab-cm-wants-decision-rolled-back-101634139410246.html
13-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: Top cop orders inquiry into NCB zonal director allegations, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Mumbai cruise drug case: Top cop orders inquiry into Sameer Wankhede’s allegationsMumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale has ordered an inquiry into the allegations made by Sameer Wankhede, Mumbai zonal director of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) that some people have been following him regularly. [Read more…]What is the row over Rajnath Singh's Savarkar comment? Who said what?Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday released a book on Veer Savarkar and said there was a deliberate conspiracy to defame Savarkar. It was Mahatma Gandhi who asked him to file the mercy petitions, he said, drawing reactions from politicians and historians. [Read more…]Poonch encounter: Huge turnout for last rites of slain soldiersMortal remains of soldiers who were killed in an encounter in Jammu & Kashmir’s Poonch reached their respective homes. Villages in Punjab bid a tearful adieu to its martyrs. A large number of people gathered as the father of Naib Subedar Jaswinder Singh’s lit his pyre. [Watch]'These conditions are difficult for anyone' - Ajit Agarkar on Marcus Stoinis' return to Delhi Capitals XIDelhi Capitals fans received a piece of good news on Wednesday as DC captain Rishabh Pant announced at the toss that Marcus Stoinis is returning to the playing XI, replacing Tom Curran. Stoinis was injured in DC's first game of the UAE leg - and his absence has affected the balance of theDelhi team. [Read more…]Anushka Sharma treats fans to a new pic of 'little' Vamika on AshtamiAnushka Sharma has shared a new picture of her daughter Vamika on the occasion of Durga Ashtami. The actor, who welcomed her daughter with Indian cricketer Virat Kohli, named Vamika, which is the Sanskrit name for Goddess Durga. [Read more…]‘Honest Interview’ posts on Twitter turn into source of laughter“Why should we hire you?” - this is a common question asked during job interviews. People usually come up with rehearsed answers for this question that are mostly about one’s abilities, as opposed to a line many may want to say, which is, “Because my wallet is empty.” Probably that is why people are now taking to Twitter to share their ‘untold’ answers to such job interview questions under the Honest Interview trend. [Read more…]Sidharth Malhotra rekindles our crush with his ethnic look in red kurta, pantsWe are not Kajol from Kabhi Khushi Kabhie Gham but we truly agree that men look dapper in kurta pyjama “warna lagey bekaar” and backing our claim this festive week is Bollywood heartthrob Sidharth Malhotra whose ethnic look in red kurta, pants have rekindled our crush. Laying ethnic fashion cues for men in a red kurta and a pair of black jeans this Navratri, Sid left us with hearts in our eyes as men bookmark this sizzling look for Durga Puja and Dussehra festivities. [Read more…]||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-top-cop-orders-inquiry-into-ncb-zonal-director-allegations-and-all-the-latest-news-101634135974743.html
13-10-2021||India||What is the row over Rajnath Singh's Savarkar comment? Who said what?||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday released a book on Veer Savarkar and said there was a deliberate conspiracy to defame Savarkar. It was Mahatma Gandhi who asked him to file the mercy petitions, he said, drawing reactions from politicians and historians.What Rajnath Singh said"He was an icon of Indian history and will remain so. There can be a difference of opinion about him, but to look down on him as inferior is not appropriate and justifiable. He was a freedom fighter and a staunch nationalist, but people who follow the Marxist and Leninist ideology are the ones who accuse Savarkar of being a fascist...Lies are spread about Savarkar repeatedly. It was spread that he filed many mercy petitions seeking his release from jails.... It was Mahatma Gandhi who asked him to file the mercy petitions..." the defence minister said.What historians said"Some needless brouhaha about statement by Rajnath Singh. In my Vol 1 & in countless interviews, I had stated already that in 1920 Gandhiji advised Savarkar brothers to file a petition & even made a case for his release through an essay in Young India 26 May 1920. So what's noise about?" historian Vikram Sampath tweeted. Some needless brouhaha abt statement by @rajnathsingh In my Vol 1 & in countless interviews I had stated already that in 1920 Gandhiji advised Savarkar brothers to file a petition & even made a case for his release through an essay in Young India 26 May 1920. So what's noise abt? pic.twitter.com/FWfAHoG0MX "Yes, monochromatic history writing is really changing, led by the minister who claims Gandhi asked Savarkar to write mercy petitions. At least it is accepted now that he did write. No documentary evidence needed when the minister makes a claim. New history for New India," historian S Irgan Habib wrote on Twitter.
13-10-2021||India||Growing realisation in US on India’s compulsions for S-400 air defence deal||With Russia on course to supply the first batch ofS-400 air defence systems to India within the next two months, the Indian side believes there is greater understanding in Washington about New Delhi’s compulsions for the $5.4-billion deal. Despite US deputy secretary of state Wendy Sherman describing the S-400 as “dangerous” and saying during her recent visit to New Delhi that the deal is not in India’s security interest, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that there is growing realisation on the American side about why India opted for the weapon system to complete an air defence shield for key cities and installations. The people said recent contacts between the Indian and American sides had indicated that India couldn’t be put in the same category as Turkey, which has been slapped with secondary sanctions for buying the S-400 under the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA). “The American side has shown understanding of India’s compulsions for acquiring the S-400, including the threat emanating from China,” said a person who declined to be named so that he could discuss sensitive issues. “If the aim of the US is to work with partners such as India to counter China’s aggressive behaviour across the region, slapping sanctions on a key system needed for the country’s defence is not the best way to about things,” the person added. The Indian side also believes too much US pressure on Russia at this juncture would only force Moscow into a tighter embrace with Beijing. The people noted that Sherman, in her public remarks in New Delhi, had held out the possibility of resolving problems related to the S-400 deal through discussions. She told reporters that the US wants to “be very thoughtful about the ways ahead, and discussions between our countries try to solve problems”. The external affairs ministry said last week the Indian side had explained its perspective to the US during recent discussions on the S-400 deal. Russia has described possible sanctions under CAATSA as an “illegal tool of unfair competition”. People familiar with the latest developments on the Russian side said Moscow is on course to deliver the first batch of S-400 systems within the next two months. “The issue is very much decided and the deal is progressing according to schedule. It is in the national interests of both India and Russia. This is part of the strategic cooperation between the two countries and there will be no change in the schedule,” a second person said. The people said several teams of Indian Air Force personnel had already been trained in Russia to operate the S-400, and pointed out that the system is a defensive and not an offensive weapon. India and Russia signed the deal for five S-400 systems in October 2018, and all deliveries were to be completed in a five-year period. Sameer Patil, fellow for international security studies at Gateway House, noted it would be difficult for the US to put India and Turkey in the same category when it came to the S-400 system. “The reasons for Turkey buying the S-400 were different – it is a NATO all that was seeking to diversify defence imports away from the US. On the other hand, India has become much closer to the US in terms of defence purchases over the last 10 years and the S-400 contract was the only big ticket deal with Russia in that period,” he said. “The US has to take a strategic view of the Indian deal and not see it from the narrow view of countering Russia. At this juncture, if the US penalises India for the S-400 deal, it will be seen as an unreliable partner, especially after the chaotic withdrawal from Afghanistan and the AUKUS deal, which riled France, another NATO ally,” Patil added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/growing-realisation-in-us-on-india-s-compulsions-for-s-400-air-defence-deal-101634136280468.html
13-10-2021||India||Watch: Bengaluru building razed after foundation started to collapse last night||A four-storey building in Bengaluru's Mahalakshmi Layout limits was demolished by the city's civic authorities on Wednesday after the foundation of the building started tiling on Tuesday night following the heavy rains. This is the fourth building collapse incident in Bengaluru in a little over two weeks. #WATCH | Karnataka: Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) demolished building in Vrushabhavathi ward near Shankar Nag bus stand in Bengaluru, earlier today. pic.twitter.com/bTk8dRKuliThere has been no casualty as the municipality was put on an alert on Tuesday night and the residents were evacuated to safety. Reports said this was one of the buildings which the authorities identified as a vulnerable one and a notice was also served on them. Following the notice, two families of the eight evacuated while six continued to stay demanding the return of their lease and an amount of ₹1 to 1.5 lakh by the owner. On Tuesday night, the families were moved to a government school. Some families went to their relatives' places and the evacuation operation went on till 2am.Then on Wednesday, the building was razed  while the authorities are looking for the owner of the building. The owner and contractors are being booked and FIR will also be registered, reports said quoting a minister.On October 7 a five-storey apartment in Kasturi Nagar collapsed only a day after seven died in Belagavi following building collapse. On September 27, a 70-year-old building in Bengaluru's Lakkasandra area caved in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-bengaluru-building-razed-after-foundation-started-to-collapse-last-night-101634133365231.html
13-10-2021||India||India set to achieve administration of 100 crore vaccine doses by October end||Before the end of the third week of October, India would have achieved the target of administering 100 crore doses of the Covid-19 vaccine; and will take stock of the pending population to cover, before embarking on export of stocks to other countries, a senior government official said on Wednesday. The pace of vaccination has picked up as the country prepares for a possible third wave. The government is also keen on speeding up the vaccination drive ahead of the upcoming assembly elections in seven states as it wants to showcase the inoculation programme against Covid-19 as an achievement of the Narendra Modi government. On Tuesday, the emergency use of Bharat Biotech’s Covid-19 vaccine for the 2 to 18 age-group was also approved.“As on date, 73% of the total population has been given at least a single dose of the vaccine; close to 30% have received both doses and we are following up with states to increase the vaccine administration. There are 8 crore doses kept ready for use by the states,” said the official quoted above. As per Union government data, India has administered over 95.89 crore doses of the Covid-19 vaccine. To a question on whether the Union government has identified any state that is still lagging in vaccination, the official said more or less all the states have inoculated about 60% of their population, but without citing numbers said the percentage of vaccinated people is lower in the tribal areas. “There is no shortage of vaccines, it has however been noticed worldwide that there tends to be a saturation once 70% of the population is covered. So efforts are on to cover the remaining the population and counter any vaccine hesitancy. As for the availability of vaccines, the production for October alone is about 28 crore doses. Of this 22 crore doses are of Covishield, 6 crore of Covaxin and 60 lakh of the DNA vaccine (ZyCov-D),” the official said. To a separate question on how the government plans to counter the bar on travellers inoculated with Covaxin which is awaiting clearances from the World Health Organisation and is not recognised by countries such as Canada, Australia and the U.K., the official said, “While we are awaiting clearances (from the World Health Organisation) we are also working on country-to-country mutual agreements for waiving the restrictions. So far about 15-16 counties including Italy, are allowing travellers vaccinated with Covaxin.” Most countries, including Australia most recently, have begun considering Covishield, the Indian variant of the AstraZeneca Covid-19 shot, as a “recognised vaccine” for international travellers. India is also yet to take a call on administering booster doses to senior citizens healthcare workers and those with comorbidities even though the WHO recommends booster doses for the immunocompromised. “There is no expert opinion yet in India on the booster doses. The sero survey that was conducted shows a pan India prevalence of antibodies in 67% of the population and we will also be conducting a survey to study breakthrough cases,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-set-to-achieve-administration-of-100-crore-vaccine-doses-by-october-end-101634133220782.html
13-10-2021||India||Former PM Manmohan Singh admitted to AIIMS, Cong leaders wish speedy recovery||Former Prime Minister and veteran Congress leader Manmohan Singh was admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi on Wednesday. AIIMS officials later said the senior Congress functionary was being checked for fever, adding that condition was stable.Former Prime Minister Dr. Manmohan Singh admitted to All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi for evaluation of fever; his condition is stable: AIIMS officialsIn a tweet from its official handle, the Congress said, “The nation collectively prays for the speedy recovery & good health of our dear former Prime Minister, Dr. Manmohan Singh.”An NDTV report said Singh had been complaining of fever since Tuesday, adding that his condition was stable at the moment and he was being administered vital fluids.Earlier, a Congress spokesperson wrote on Twitter that he was only undergoing routine treatment and his condition was stable.    Also read | On Manmohan Singh's birthday, PM Modi, others wish former prime ministerPranav Jha, All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary, said, “There are some unsubstantiated rumours with regards to former PM, Dr Manmohan Singh ji’s health. His condition is stable. He is undergoing routine treatment. We will share any updates as needed. We thank our friends in media for their concern.”The 89-year-old leader had earlier been admitted to the premier hospital after testing positive for coronavirus in April this year. The two-time Prime Minister marked his birthday on September 26.Last year too, the widely renowned economist had received treatment at AIIMS after complaining of uneasiness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-pm-manmohan-singh-admitted-to-aiims-cong-says-routine-checkup-101634132424369.html
13-10-2021||India||Have approached MEA to trace foreign drug peddler in Aryan Khan's chats: NCB||Additional Solicitor General of India, representing the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in the Mumbai drug bust case on Wednesday told the Special Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) court that they had to approach the ministry of external affairs to trace the foreign drug peddler who was found in Aryan Khan’s WhatsApp conversations.The statement comes in connection with NCB’s earlier statement that Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan, “has a role in so far as illicit procurement and distribution of contraband is concerned”. Meanwhile, the Special NDPS court in Mumbai has adjourned the hearing till tomorrow for further arguments."Hard drugs, bulk. Can't be for personal consumption. We have approached the MEA to find how we can find this foreign national,” Additional Solicitor General told the court.At the same time, senior advocate Amit Desai, who represented Aryan Khan in favour of the bail plea claimed that the star kid was apprehended before he even got to the cruise. "Nothing was recovered from Aryan Khan," Desai told the court.The NCB has strongly opposed Aryan Khan's bail plea saying that notwithstanding the quantity of recovery, Aryan Khan can not be given bail as the primary investigation of the agency reveals that he is part of the nexus. Aryan Khan used to procure drugs through Arbaaz Merchant and Arbaaz's sources, the NCB said terming it as an "illegal drug chain".A total of 20 people, including two Nigerian nationals, have been arrested so far in the case related to the seizure of drugs following a raid at a party on the Cordelia cruise ship off the Mumbai coast on October 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/have-approached-mea-to-trace-foreign-drug-peddler-in-aryan-khan-s-chats-ncb-101634126835686.html
13-10-2021||India||Union minister Pralhad Joshi says there will be no shortage of coal for power production||Amid the rising concerns about the shortage in coal supply and power disruptions, Union coal minister Pralhad Joshi on Wednesday assured that there would be no shortage of coal for electricity production and said that two million tonnes of coal were supplied on the day, which he claimed was higher than the daily demand.“As far as the requirement is concerned, the power ministry had put forth the demand for supply of 1.9 million tonnes (for power generation units) and after October 20, two million tonnes. Today only, we have supplied two million tonnes and rest of the things I will discuss after the review (of mines),” news agency PTI quoted Joshi as saying.The minister is on a two-day visit to the coal-rich states of Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh starting Wednesday and is scheduled to review the Gevra, Dipka and Kusmunda mines in Chhattisgarh. He is also expected to hold a meeting with Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren, according to news agencies.Also read | Monsoon, shooting import bills: Big reasons why India is facing coal crisisFurther, Joshi said that the coal requirement on Wednesday was 1.1 million tonnes for power generation and the supply has already been 2 million tonnes for the day. “Today, the requirement is 1.1 million tonnes of coal for power generation and we have already supplied two million tonnes. The stock is also rising because of it. I assure that there will be no problem in meeting the supply for power generation in the country,” Joshi said.Meanwhile, Union minister of state for coal and mines Raosaheb Danve responded to reports about power plants being shut in Maharashtra due to coal shortage and said that the state government was claiming coal shortage despite having “sufficient stock".“According to their demand, states write to the Centre for the purchase of coal. Despite having sufficient coal stock, they (Maharashtra govt) are saying that they do not have coal. We have 40 million tonnes coal and 7 million tonnes coal is in power houses,” news agency ANI quoted Danve as saying.Earlier on Tuesday, Maharashtra energy minister Nitin Raut said that the state was facing a shortage of 3,000MW to 4,000MW of power supply, which he claimed was due to Coal India’s “unorganised functioning and lack of planning.” He also said that many power generation plants in the state were found to have “supercritical stock” with less than four days of fuel as of October 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-minister-pralhad-joshi-says-there-will-be-no-shortage-of-coal-for-power-production-101634128868376.html
13-10-2021||India||'The way Naxals…': Baghel's remark on local RSS workers after Kawardha violence||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Wednesday made a controversial remark while criticising local workers of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). Baghel said the RSS workers are controlled from Nagpur the same way the Maoists in Chhattisgarh are being controlled by their senior cadres in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana.“The way Naxals here are controlled by their leaders from Andhra Pradesh/Telangana, in the same way, RSS people here are guided from Nagpur,” ANI quoted Baghel as saying.Answering questions on Kawardha violence which took place last week, Baghel assured that there will be an “impartial investigation”. He said that RSS workers continue to work as bonded labourers. “Even now, they are not heard as everything is being controlled from Nagpur. Like the Maoist leaders are in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and other states and their cadres (in Chhattisgarh) do the job of firing bullets and getting hit,” he said.The state unit of Congress had alleged the BJP and other right-wing groups were behind the violence.Earlier today, Baghel reacted to the comment by defence minister Rajnath Singh in which he had claimed that it was Mahatma Gandhi who had asked the RSS ideologue to write mercy petitions to the British.Baghel claimed Gandhi couldn’t have communicated with Savarkar since the RSS ideologue was in jail. The Chhattisgarh CM also said that Savarkar sided with Britishers after coming out of jail and propagated the two-nation theory.“Where was Mahatma Gandhi and where was Savarkar at that time? Savarkar was in jail. How could they've communicated? He filed mercy petitions from jail and continued being with Britishers. He was the first to speak of two-nation theory after coming out of jail in 1925,” he said.On Tuesday, Rajnath Singh said there had been “deliberate attempts” to defame Savarkar by spreading lies about him."Time and again, it was said that he filed mercy petitions before the British government seeking his release from jail," the Union minister said at the launch of a book titled 'Veer Savarkar: The Man Who Could Have Prevented Partition’."It was Mahatma Gandhi who asked him to file mercy petitions," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/-the-way-naxals-baghel-s-remark-on-local-rss-workers-after-kawardha-violence-101634128242827.html
13-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan's bail application hearing adjourned for tomorrow. Here's why||The hearing of the bail plea of Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan has been adjourned on Wednesday and the court will resume the hearing on Thursday as ASG Anil Kumar Singh, NCB counsel, could not finish his argument by 5.30pm on Wednesday and sought to resume his argument on Thursday 12 pm.In its reply to Aryan Khan's bail application, the Narcotics Control Bureau said its primary interrogation has revealed that Aryan Khan is part of a bigger chain notwithstanding the fact that he was not in possession of any drug at the time of the raid.  The NCB said the agency is not concerned over one person but the bail of one person can hamper the investigation. Not even on the cruise: What Aryan Khan's lawyer Amit Desai saidInstead of Satish Maneshinde, senior advocate Amit Desai argued for Aryan Khan on Wednesday. He said Aryan Khan was not even on the cruise when the agency raided the rave party. He was apprehended on his way to the party and he and Arbaaz Merchant were stopped at the gate of the party by NCB officials and were asked whether they were carrying drugs. No drug was found from Aryan Khan while Arbaaz Khan was in possession of 6 gram charas. Aryan Khan's lawyer also said that they are not peddlers, racketeers or traffickers. India as a country has moved into considering punishments as an opportunity for reforms, he said adding that the punishment for consumption was brought down from five years to one year in 2001.“They are some young kids. In many countries these substances are legal. Let us not penalise in bail. Let us not make it worse for them. They have suffered enough, they have learnt their lesson, if at all. They are not peddlers, racketeers or traffickers. We as a country have moved into a reformative state. Where earlier the punishment for consumption was five years has been brought down to one year in 2001,” Desai said. 'The argument is I was invited': says ASG Anil Singh opposing Aryan Khan's bailAppearing for the NCB, ASG Anil Singh said the quantity of the drugs recovered is immaterial as they, including Aryan Khan, are a part of a bigger nexus. Singh said Aryan and Arbaaz know each other for eight to 10 years. On that day, they met before and went to the party together. The 6 gram charas recovered from Arbaaz Merchant was for their consumption. Though Aryan Khan was not found with drugs, he was aware of the possession and he was invited to the party, ASG Singh said. The NCB in its reply to Aryan Khan's bail plea said its investigation has revealed that Aryan Khan used to procure drugs from Arbaaz and his dealers. Referring to the WhatsApp chats, ASG Singh said there was mention of ‘bulk quantity’ which must not be for personal consumption and might be for sourcing for others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aryan-khan-s-bail-application-hearing-adjourned-for-tomorrow-here-s-why-101634126607063.html
13-10-2021||India||Independent MLA Prasad Gaonkar extends support to TMC in Goa||An independent MLA, Prasad Gaonkar, announced that he would extend support to the Trinamool Congress, the latest entrant in Goa’s political sphere and claimed that it was only Mamata Banerjee who could ensure the defeat of the BJP in the 2024 assembly elections. Gaonkar, who is a first-time MLA representing the Sanguem constituency had begun this term by supporting the BJP, but later withdrew his support after former Goa CM Manohar Parrikar fell ill and remained an independent MLA largely supporting opposition causes during his tenure. Goankar had earlier briefly been with the Congress and a bunch of his supporters had joined the Congress largely due to the patronage of Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat. On Wednesday, however, he announced he was supporting the TMC but was not formally joining the party at least for now. “I am here to support Didi’s leadership and to strengthen it. I wish to announce that I will support her to take her leadership forward,” Gaonkar declared at a press conference in the presence of TMC MP Derek O’Brien and local unit head Luizinho Faleiro. “In 2017, I entered the assembly, but I haven’t been able to bring about change. I had supported Parrikar but the last five years have been wasted. You see what is going on around the country and in Goa, the way things are moving. We have to change this. This can only come through Didi in 2024,” Gaonkar said. Though Gaonkar didn’t formally join the party, a few of his supporters including his brother Sandesh Gaonkar joined and was welcomed into the Trinamool Congress. Prasad Gaonkar is expected to join the party closer to the elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/independent-mla-prasad-gaonkar-extends-support-to-tmc-in-goa-101634126559710.html
13-10-2021||India||‘Union minister Ajay Mishra should step down taking responsibility of Lakhimpur Kheri incident’: NCP chief Sharad Pawar||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) president Sharad Pawar on Wednesday said that Ajay Mishra, Union minister of state for home affairs, should resign from his post, taking responsibility for the October 3 Lakhimpur Kheri incident in which eight people, including four farmers, were killed.Ajay Mishra’s son Ashish Mishra, who was allegedly present in one of the cars that had hit protesting farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri, was arrested by the Uttar Pradesh police earlier on October 9 and was sent to a three-day police remand on Monday. However, the minister and his son have both denied the claim that he was present at the spot during the incident.“Minister of state Ajay Mishra should resign taking the responsibility of the Lakhimpur Kheri incident of killing of farmers,” Pawar said during a press conference at the NCP office in Mumbai. Further, he also insisted that the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party should “take a stand” regarding the incident and said, “neither UP CM [Yogi Adityanath] nor MoS Home [Ajay Mishra] can escape,” news agency ANI reported.Also read | Congress delegation meets President Kovind, submits memorandum on LakhimpurFurther, the NCP chief also said that the ‘Maharashtra bandh’ called by the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition in Maharashtra on Monday was “successful.”“I received telephones from Uttar Pradesh to express gratitude for the support Maharashtra extended towards the farmers and their families in UP,” Pawar said.Earlier on October 11, the MVA consisting of the Shiv Sena, the NCP and the Congress, called for a statewide bandh over the Lakhimpur incident. While there were some incidents of violence reported, the transport services remained largely operational barring occasional disturbances.The remarks came on the same day as a Congress delegation, led by party leader Rahul Gandhi, met President Ram Nath Kovind and submitted a memorandum regarding the violence. The party demanded for the resignation of Ajay Mishra and also an independent judicial probe into the matter by sitting judges of the Supreme Court or the High Court.Meanwhile, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, who is currently on an official visit to the US, said that the incident was “absolutely condemnable” but said that such incidents are happening elsewhere in the country too. When asked about the violence during an event, the minister said that such incidents should be raised whenever they happen and not just from states where the BJP is in power.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-minister-ajay-mishra-should-step-down-taking-responsibility-of-lakhimpur-kheri-incident-ncp-chief-sharad-pawar-101634124551151.html
13-10-2021||India||Pawar hits out at govt over ‘misuse’ of central agencies, violence in Lakhimpur||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Wednesday hit out at the Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre over the alleged “misuse of central agencies” and the violence in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri that left eight people dead. He demanded the resignation of Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni, whose son Ashish Mishra has been arrested in connection with the violence.“Despite the gruesome killing, the ruling party (Bharatiya Janata Party) in Uttar Pradesh and at the Centre government tried to shrug off the responsibility. ... Ashish Mishra... was arrested only after the Supreme Court pulled up the government,” Pawar said at a press conference. He linked the income tax department’s raids on the premises of his nieces in Pune since last week with a political vendetta and said they were carried out as he likened the Lakhimpur Kheri violence to the Jallianwala Bagh massacre during India’s freedom movement. He quoted unnamed central ministers telling him that their leadership has taken the comparison seriously.Also read: Cong delegation meets President Kovind, submits memorandum on Lakhimpur Pawar called the action against his nieces unprecedented. “The raids on my three nieces are on for the sixth day. The income tax teams have not found anything in the raids and the officers want to wind up the operation. But their bosses from Delhi have instructed them to continue the raids. My nieces are apolitical and have nothing to do with the sugar mills or other businesses facing action. Teams of up to 18 members are raiding the houses of my nieces who live in small houses. We are not against the action, but it should not cross the limit,” he said.Pawar questioned Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) actions during the raids on a cruise in Mumbai and the agency’s association with the people facing criminal charges. “I have heard many stories about the zonal chief of NCB during his tenure at the Mumbai airport, but I would not speak about it as I have no specific information,” said Pawar. He added questions were being raised over the agency’s association with the people like Kiran Gosavi, who is facing criminal cases and is absconding as per police records. “He is NCB’s independent witness in the drug raid case. It raises questions over the integrity of the central agency. The agency appears to take action only for the sake of publicity and to show to their bosses in Delhi and to oblige them.”Pawar said the NCP will stand with the government on the India-China border standoff, which appears to be intensifying. “We will not do any politics on the issue...”There were no immediate responses to Pawar’s comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pawar-hits-out-at-govt-over-misuse-of-central-agencies-violence-in-lakhimpur-kheri-101634125000976.html
13-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: MEA speaks out on China's objection to Vice President's Arunachal visit and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and, opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.MEA says China objecting to Naidu's visit to Arunachal does not stand to reasonThe ministry of external affairs (MEA) on Wednesday strongly criticised China’s objections to the recent visit of Vice President Venkaiah Naidu to Arunachal Pradesh saying it did not stand to reason and understanding of Indian people. Read MoreElgar Parishad case: NIA says accused trying to delay trialThe National Investigation Agency (NIA) has accused Sudha Bharadwaj and Gautam Navlakha. Read MoreIndia, Armenia discuss using Chabahar port to boost connectivityIndia and Armenia have discussed the possibility of using Iran’s Chabahar port to enhance connectivity between the two countries to boost trade and commerce, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Wednesday. Read More'Billion Cheers jersey': BCCI unveils Team India's new kit for T20 World CupThe BCCI on Wednesday unveiled a brand new jersey which the Indian cricket team will be sporting at the T20 World Cup. Read MoreCovaxin gets emergency use nod for kids: Here's what experts have to sayAs national drugs regulator’s subject expert committee approves the use of Bharat Biotech's Covaxin in children between the age-group of 2-18. Read MoreKBC 13: Amitabh Bachchan is shocked as contestant says ‘zeher lagrae ho’, wonders if it's a 'gaali'Actor Amitabh Bachchan also learnt something new on the latest episode of his quiz show, Kaun Banega Crorepati season 13. Read MoreMahindra XUV700 breaks new record, clocks over 4k km at 24 hrs speed challengeMahindra XUV700 has set a new national record at the 24 hours Speed Endurance Challenge that took place at the carmaker's new SUV Proving Track (MSPT) near Chennai. Read MoreDo you know how to earn money on YouTube? Make online videos payBeing a content creator on YouTube is no easy task, as many have discovered over the years. Read MoreN Korea’s ‘Captain America’ steals Kim Jong-Un’s thunder at military exhibitionDuring an exhibition of weapons system, a North Korean soldier went viral on social media for his outfit. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-mea-speaks-out-on-china-s-objection-to-vice-president-s-arunachal-visit-and-all-the-latest-news-101634122364650.html
13-10-2021||India||Colleges in Maharashtra to reopen from October 20, students must be fully vaccinated||Amid sustained declines in daily new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, the Maharashtra government on Tuesday announced that colleges in the state will reopen from October 20. Uday Samant, Maharashtra's higher and technical education minister, said that students must be fully vaccinated to attend the physical classes, adding that colleges and universities should also discuss setting up vaccination camps with the local administration. Samant further stated that universities and colleges must offer online classes for those students who are unable to attend physical classes from October 20.The Maharashtra government has been easing Covid-related restrictions in a phased manner. The schools and junior colleges reopened from October 4 as per the government directives as the vaccination drive in the state gained momentum. On Tuesday, the state government also issued guidelines for the reopening of cinema halls and auditoriums from October 22. According to the standard operating procedure, cinema halls, theatres, and auditoriums will operate at not more than 50 per cent of their seating capacity.The religious places of all faiths have also been allowed to reopen from October 7, the first day of Navratri, a Hindu festival that spans nine nights. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had said the government is allowing relaxations in various activities with all precautions as it has prepared itself for the third wave of Covid-19.Earlier, the state government had imposed several restrictions during the Ganesh Chaturthi festival fearing another Covid wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/colleges-in-maharashtra-to-reopen-from-october-20-students-must-be-fully-vaccinated-101634122062464.html
13-10-2021||India||MEA says China objecting to Naidu's visit to Arunachal does not stand to reason||The ministry of external affairs (MEA) on Wednesday strongly criticised China’s objections to the recent visit of Vice President Venkaiah Naidu to Arunachal Pradesh saying it did not stand to reason and understanding of Indian people.The MEA said Arunachal Pradesh was an integral and inalienable part of India and Indian leaders routinely visited the state as they did in other parts of the country.“Objecting to the visit of Indian leaders to an Indian state does not stand to reason and understanding of Indian people. We reject such comments. Arunachal Pradesh is an integral and inalienable part of India. Indian leaders routinely travel to the State as they do to any other state of India,” the MEA spokesperson was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.A day ago, Beijing said it was firmly opposed to Naidu’s visit to Arunachal as it had never recognised it.Naidu visited the border state in the northeast on October 9 and addressed a special session of the Assembly during which he said the visible transformation of the northeast was a clear evidence of resurgence in the region's pace of development which remained neglected for decades.China routinely objects to Indian leaders' visits to Arunachal Pradesh to buttress its stand. The India-China boundary dispute covers 3,488 km along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). China claims Arunachal Pradesh as part of South Tibet.Replying to a question from the official media about Naidu's visit to Arunachal Pradesh at a media briefing here, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian said China had never recognised the state. “China’s position on the boundary issue is consistent and clear. The Chinese government has never recognised the so-called Arunachal Pradesh established unilaterally and illegally by the Indian side and is firmly opposed to the Indian leader's visit to the area concerned,” Zhao said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mea-says-china-objecting-to-naidu-s-visit-to-arunachal-does-not-stand-to-reason-101634122976382.html
13-10-2021||India||Kerala assembly violence: Court rejects ministers’ plea for discharge||Thiruvananthapuram: Kerala’s ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF), which has been trying to end a criminal case filed against lawmakers accused of violence in the assembly in 2015, suffered another setback on Wednesday when a Thiruvananthapuram judge rejected a plea. The six lawmakers include Kerala’s education minister V Sivankutty.Thiruvananthapuram’s chief judicial magistrate R Rekha on Wednesday told the accused to appear before her on November 22 when the court will frame charges against them to start the trial.In their discharge request, the six legislators claimed that they only intended to disrupt the budget speech, and sought to pin the blame for the damaged assembly furniture on the security personnel tasked to bring the situation under control.In 2015, the six were among those accused of creating ruckus in the assembly on March 13, breaking chairs, throwing microphones and standing on tables to prevent then finance minister KM Mani from presenting the budget.Education minister V Sivankutty and Left Front legislator KT Jaleel are among the six legislators to face charges in this case. The other four, CK Sadasivan, EP Jayarajan, K Ajith and Kunjammadu Master, are former members of the legislative assembly (MLAs).When the LDF government led by Pinarayi Vijayan came to power in the 2016 state elections, it started efforts to withdraw the case registered against the legislators. But the courts didn’t play along.The group of six faced charges under sections 447 (criminal trespass) and 427 (causing mischief) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 3(1) of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, 1984 which is punishable with a maximum sentence of five years.In 2019, the public prosecutor filed a formal request in the local court to close the case but the judge didn’t accept the request. The request, also rejected by the high court, eventually reached the Supreme Court earlier this year which described the state’s request as “incomprehensible”.The top court said the prosecutor’s request was based on a “misconception that elected members of the legislature stand above the general application of criminal law”, and stressed that “acts of destruction of public property” are not covered under the privileges accorded to legislators in the assembly. “Consequently, acts of vandalism cannot be said to be manifestations of the freedom of speech and be termed as ‘proceedings’ of the assembly,” it added.The opposition renewed its demand that Pinarayi Vijayan drops Sivankutty from his cabinet but the ruling party has refused to replace him, insisting that the minister was yet to be held guilty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-assembly-violence-court-rejects-ministers-plea-for-discharge-101634122299410.html
13-10-2021||India||India, Armenia discuss using Chabahar port to boost connectivity||India and Armenia have discussed the possibility of using Iran’s Chabahar port to enhance connectivity between the two countries to boost trade and commerce, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Wednesday. Jaishankar is the first Indian foreign minister to visit Armenia since the two countries established diplomatic relations in 1992. Armenia was the final stop on his three-nation tour that has also taken him to Kyrgyzstan and Kazakhstan. India and Armenia are members of the International North-South Transport Corridor (INSTC), which has the potential to bridge the connectivity barrier between the two sides, and Armenia’s interest in using Chabahar port figured in Jaishankar’s talks with his Armenian counterpart Ararat Mirzoyan. “Minister Mirzoyan and I discussed the interest which Armenia has shown in the utilisation of the Chabahar port in Iran, which is being developed by India,” he told a media briefing in Yerevan. “We have also proposed that Chabahar port be included in the INSTC. We would definitely like to welcome the use of Chabahar port and any other initiatives that will increase the connectivity between our countries,” he said, adding the two sides also discussed the possibility of direct flights under an air services agreement. Jaishankar reiterated India’s consistent position regarding the peaceful resolution of the conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan through diplomatic means. He also expressed India’s support for resolving the dispute under the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and for the trilateral ceasefire mechanism brokered by Russia in November 2020. “Regarding the regional security situation in light of developments in the Caucasus region since last year, India’s position has been very consistent... India has always been in favour of peace and stability in this region,” he said. Armenia and Azerbaijan signed the Russia-brokered ceasefire on November 10 last year to end six weeks of heavy fighting that killed some 7,000 military troops and civilians on both sides. Noting that India was one of the first countries to recognise the independence of Armenia and establish diplomatic ties in 1992, Jaishankar said his visit marked the beginning of a new phase of cooperation between the two sides. However, relations between India and Armenia go back several centuries, including the presence of an Armenian diaspora in India and its contribution to the country’s progress, he said. Jaishankar said he and Mirzoyan carried out a comprehensive review of bilateral relations and agreed on a roadmap for future cooperation at various levels. They also agreed on strengthening economic and commercial cooperation, especially in tourism, hospitality, infrastructure and investment. Armenia is a member of the Eurasian Economic Union, with which India is currently negotiating a trade agreement. The pact is expected to boost trade relations, he said. The two governments will also facilitate more contacts between trade bodies and chambers of the two sides, he added. Jaishankar also conveyed India’s gratitude to Armenia for looking after the welfare of some 3,000 Indian students during the pandemic and facilitating their return home. Most of these students are pursuing medical education.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-armenia-discuss-using-chabahar-port-to-boost-connectivity-101634122121648.html
13-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan was not even on the cruise, false allegation: What lawyer says||Senior advocate Amit Desai, who argued for the bail plea of Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan on Wednesday in the special NDPS court said Aryan Khan was not on the cruise which was raided by the Narcotics Control Bureau on October 2. His client Aryan was apprehended before he got to the cruise, his lawyer said on Wednesday. When Aryan Khan and Arbaaz Merchant reached the entry gate, the NCB raid was already going on and they were asked whether they had contraband and Arbaaz Merchant admitted. "Nothing was recovered from Aryan Khan," Desai said, as reported by LiveLaw.To this ASG Anil Singh for the NCB said, Aryan Khan knew of the possession and therefore this would amount to conscious possession. He also said Aryan and Arbaaz know each other for the last eight to 10 years. The drug that Arbaaz was carrying was for their consumption. NCB is not concerned about one or two persons. It is concerned with the entire chain. "The argument is, I was invited for the party, no more details," Anil Singh said."Their maximum case against Aryan Khan is no possession, admission of consumption," Aryan Khan's lawyer said. "If he did not have cash, he had no plans to purchase. If he had no substance, he wasn't going to sell or consume. There is no connection between Aryan Khan and any of the recoveries and yet we have the words 'in connection with' in the remand. They are doing a good job by arresting many, but that doesn't give them the right to hold on to those who are entitled to be set at liberty," Amit Desai said.Aryan Khan used to procure drugs from Arbaaz Merchant, quantity recovered immaterial: NCB in courtThe NCB on Wednesday strongly opposed Aryan Khan's bail plea saying that notwithstanding the quantity of recovery, Aryan Khan can not be given bail as the primary investigation of the agency reveals that he is part of the nexus. Aryan Khan used to procure drugs through Arbaaz Merchant and Arbaaz's sources, the NCB said terming it as an "illegal drug chain"."This is a very serious term that they have dumped on Aryan Khan. I have no doubt that my friends know what is illicit trafficking according to the NDPS Act means," Aryan Khan's lawyer said."The allegation of illicit trafficking is inherently absurd. This boy who has nothing, he was not even on the vessel. It is an absurd and false allegation," Desai added.“They are some young kids. In many countries these substances are legal. Let us not penalise in bail. Let us not make it worse for them. They have suffered enough, they have learnt their lesson, if at all. They are not peddlers, racketeers or traffickers. We as a country have moved into a reformative state. Where earlier the punishment for consumption was five years has been brought down to one year in 2001,” Aryan Khan's lawyer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aryan-khan-was-not-even-on-the-cruise-detained-on-his-way-aryan-khan-s-lawyer-101634116760087.html
13-10-2021||India||Cong delegation meets President Kovind, submits memorandum on Lakhimpur||A delegation of senior Congress party leaders met with President Ram Nath Kovind regarding the violence that ensued upon Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri and demanded the immediate dismissal of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra Teni.In the memorandum submitted by the Congress delegation led by Rahul Gandhi, they demanded two actions -“immediately dismiss Union MoS Home Affairs, Sh. Ajay Mishra Teni” and “to direct an independent judicial investigation by a Commission comprising of two sitting judges of the Supreme Court of India or the High Court.”The opposition party has urged for the dismissal of the accused, Ashish Mishra’s father, who publicly made violent remarks and threatened the farmers who have been protesting against the three farm laws. This was also included in the memorandum, “Shri Ajay Mishra Teni, MoS, Home Affairs, in a public function openly threatened the agitating farmers and even boasted about his dubious antecedents.” They further questioned, “How can justice be done when the original provocation came from Union MoS Home Affairs himself?”The seven-member delegation included former party chief Rahul Gandhi, general secretary Priyanka Gandhi, Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, Congress leader in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, and senior party leaders KC Venugopal, AK Antony and Ghulam Nabi Azad. They deemed the incident as “one of the most gruesome and premeditated acts of bone-chilling murder ever seen and caught on camera.”After the meeting with the President, the delegation briefly interacted with the press and Gandhi reiterated, “We want justice… The person who has committed the crime must be punished.”Accused Ashish Mishra was arrested on Saturday by the Uttar Pradesh police in relation to the violence where eight people, including four farmers, were killed. So far, there has been no response from the senior BJP leaders over the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-delegation-meets-president-kovind-submits-memorandum-on-lakhimpur-kheri-101634120381088.html
13-10-2021||India||Navratri 2021: Women perform garba in PPE to raise awareness about Covid-19||Gujarat witnessed a unique Navratri celebration with a group performing the Indian folk dance ‘garba’ in personal protective equipment (PPE) to raise awareness about the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.A video shared by news agency ANI showed a group of girls dancing to a folk song in full protective gear. Hindustan Times has not independently verified the authenticity of the video.The organisers said it was an attempt to caution the general public about the dangers of Covid-19 "This Garba aims to spread awareness among the public about Covid-19," Rakshaben Boriya, an organiser, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.
13-10-2021||India||Kerala snake bite case: Man gets double life sentence for murdering wife||A court in Kerala’s Kollam on Wednesday awarded a double life sentence to a man two days after convicting him of murdering his wife by letting loose a cobra on her when she was sleeping and forcing it to bite her. This is the first such conviction for the use of a poisonous snake for murder. The court relied on the findings of a test with a snake that showed the difference between natural and induced bite marks.The prosecution sought capital punishment for P Sooraj, 30. Uthra, Sooraj’s 25-year-old wife, suffered a fatal bite at her home while she was undergoing treatment for another snake bite she suffered. It emerged during the investigation that the incident, involving a viper, was also orchestrated by the husband. She managed to recover from the first bite but could not survive the second.The case surfaced in May last year after Uthra’s parents filed a police complaint two days after her death alleging Sooraj and his family members harassed their daughter for dowry. There was no eyewitness or direct circumstantial evidence in the case. The Special Investigation Team (SIT), which probed the case, relied on scientific and technical evidence to nail the culprit. It conducted the test with a snake to show the difference between natural and induced bite marks.Uthra’s parents said they were unhappy as they expected a death sentence. They plan to move the high court for capital punishment. “Capital punishment would have given a clear message to people who have such criminal minds,” said her mother, Manimekhala.The court called the murder a rarest of the rare cases but awarded Sooraj double life imprisonment considering his age and that he has no criminal past. The prosecution insisted on a death sentence saying Sooraj committed four out of five acts listed by the Supreme Court as a reasonable ground for awarding a death sentence.Sooraj was found guilty under the Indian Penal Code’s Sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 328 (causing hurt by means of poison), and 202 (destruction of evidence).Double life term was awarded in the first two and 17 years in jail under the last two sections. He was also asked to pay ₹five lakh fine as well.Prosecutor G Mohanraj said he is happy with the verdict and congratulated the SIT.S Harishankar, the SIT chief, said he is satisfied with the verdict. He added they examined four such snake bite cases reported in the country which later ended with the acquittal of the accused. “We studied four such reported cases in the country in detail. Two took place in the family and two outside and examined major flaws so we prepared a well-researched charge sheet without any loopholes,” said Harishankar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-snake-bite-case-man-gets-double-life-sentence-for-murdering-wife-101634119240012.html
13-10-2021||India||Elgar Parishad case: NIA says accused trying to delay trial||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has accused Sudha Bharadwaj and Gautam Navlakha, who are among those arrested for alleged inflammatory speeches at the Elgar Parishad conclave in Pune in December 2017, of trying to delay the trial in the case. In an affidavit filed in the Bombay high court on Tuesday, NIA said the two were filing pleas on one ground or the other. NIA urged the court against entertaining the pleas.The affidavit was filed in response to Bharadwaj and Navlakha’s plea for clone copies of the electronic devices such as hard disks seized from them. It added they will be provided once they are received from a Forensic Science Laboratory. NIA said all the accused in the case have been provided with the certified hard copies of the documents the agency has relied upon in its charge sheet. It added some of the clone copies to the devices have been recently received and will be submitted before a special court hearing the case.The affidavit said five final reports related to the devices of Bharadwaj and Navlakha are yet to be received. It added once they are received, they would be submitted to the special court and thereafter to the two accused after following due process of law.The affidavit rejected the allegation of the accused of tampering with the clone copies as a “fanciful submission”. It opposed the plea of the two to stay the framing of charges till they receive them. The affidavit called it just an attempt to delay the process as the incriminating documents and other electronic evidence NIA relied upon have been given to the accused. It maintained the agency has clinching evidence against the accused. NIA said it thus filed the charge sheet. It added the high court has rejected a plea of the accused on the admissibility of the evidence. NIA said the appeal seeking a stay on the commencement of the trial should not be entertained.Bharadwaj and Gautam Navlakha are among over a dozen activists and academics arrested in connection with the conclave that was held a day before the violence at Bhima Koregaon near Pune. The Pune Police claimed people linked to Maoists backed the conclave. The NIA later took over the probe into the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elgar-parishad-case-nia-says-accused-trying-to-delay-trial-101634118520999.html
13-10-2021||India||No 10-day mandatory quarantine for UK tourists in India, earlier order withdrawn||The travel guideline the Centre issued on October 1 in a tit-for-tat move to the United Kingdom now stands withdrawn, the Union health ministry has now written to all states and Union territories, lifting the mandatory 10-day quarantine for passengers coming from the United Kingdom. "Based on the evolving scenario, it has been decided that the revised guidelines...stand withdrawn and the earlier guidelines on international arrival dated 17th February 2021 shall be applicable to all travellers arriving in India from the United Kingdom," joint secretary Lav Agarwal wrote.Following a wide range of discussions between the India and the UK governments, the UK from October 11 exempted fully vaccinated Indians from mandatory quarantine in the UK.  The move was long-pending as the UK recognised India's Covishield vaccine, which is a formulation of the Oxford-Astrazeneca vaccine but raised some doubts over India's vaccine certificate. Hence, between October 4 and October 11, Indians administered with both doses of Covishield had to undergo mandatory quarantine in the UK like non-vaccinated travellers.India has not made quarantine mandatory for vaccinated travellers coming from any country. The move for UK passengers was in reciprocation to UK's discrimination against Covishield and the Indian vaccine certificate. India had earlier warned that countries that will not recognise India's vaccines will face similar action in India."I'm absolutely delighted that the UK government cooperated very well with the Indian government. Now, this enables Indian visitors, vaccinated with recognised vaccines, which include Covishield, to enter the United Kingdom without quarantine. We now have to get people moving between the two countries. People are desperate to come here (India),” British high commissioner to India Alex Ellis said earlier.After the UK agreed to recognise Covishield and its certificate, the Centre said it will issue similar relaxation for UK travellers and the health ministry will issue the guideline. With the mandatory quarantining now lifted, vaccinated people coming from the UK to India will require a negative RT-PCR test report and a self-declaration form.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-10-day-mandatory-quarantine-for-vaccinated-uk-tourists-in-india-101634117864982.html
13-10-2021||India||BJP will declare Savarkar ‘father of the nation’, says Owaisi after Rajnath Singh's remark on Gandhi||All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Wednesday said that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will soon declare Vinayak Damodar Savarkar as 'the father of the nation' after defence minister Rajnath Singh claimed it was Mahatma Gandhi who had asked the RSS ideologue to write mercy petitions to the British. Owaisi accused the BJP of distorting the history and on Twitter, he also posted a copy of a letter to Savarkar from Gandhi."They (BJP) are presenting distorted history. If this continues, they will remove Mahatma Gandhi and make Savarkar, who was accused of the murder of Mahatma Gandhi and was pronounced complicit in the inquiry of Justice Jeevan Lal Kapur, as the father of the nation," Owaisi told news agency ANI.Speaking at the launch of a book titled 'Veer Savarkar: The Man Who Could Have Prevented Partition’, Rajnath Singh claimed that there had been “deliberate attempts” to defame Savarkar by spreading lies about him."Lies were spread about Savarkar. Time and again, it was said that he filed mercy petitions before the British government seeking his release from jail," the Union minister said."It was Mahatma Gandhi who asked him to file mercy petitions," he added.In a series of tweets, Owaisi said that Savarkar wrote the first mercy petition in 1911, followed by another one around 1913-1914 when Mahatma Gandhi was in South Africa. The AIMIM leader opined that the defence minister’s speechwriter should be fired.“It’s not good to have advisers who have a Savarkarite relationship to truth,” he said,Senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh also objected to Rajnath Singh’s remark, the BJP leader has given a twist to what Gandhi actually wrote.“Rajnath Singh-ji is amongst the few sober & dignified voices in Modi Sarkar. But he doesnt seem to be free of RSS habit of rewriting history. He has given a twist to what Gandhi actually wrote on Jan 25 1920. Here is that letter to Savarkar’s brother,” the Rajya Sabha MP wrote on Twitter, sharing the letter to Savarkar written by Gandhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-will-make-savarkar-father-of-nation-says-owaisi-after-rajnath-singh-s-remark-on-gandhi-101634116523495.html
13-10-2021||India||New Pragati Maidan will host G-20 summit in 2023: Union minister||The new Pragati Maidan in the national capital will host the G-20 summit in 2023, Union minister Piyush Goyal announced at the launch of the new exhibition complex (Exhibition Halls 2 to 5) in Delhi on Wednesday."PM GatiShakti-National Master Plan will give a push and direction to various development plans and will also encourage investments. Under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the G20 summit will be held here in 2023 for the first time," said Goyal who is the minister of textiles, minister of commerce and industry, as well as minister of consumer affairs, food and public distribution.Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched PM GatiShakti-National Master Plan today for multi-modal connectivity at Pragati Maidan.The 100-crore master plan is a step in the direction of the Prime Minister's larger agenda to build Next Generation Infrastructure to improve Ease of Living and Ease of Doing Business. The multi-modal connectivity will provide integrated and seamless connectivity for the movement of people, goods, and services from one mode of transport to another. It will facilitate the last mile connectivity of infrastructure and also reduce travel time for people.PM GatiShakti aims to keep the public and business community aware of the upcoming connectivity projects, other business hubs, industrial areas, and the surrounding environment.It will incorporate the infrastructure schemes of various ministries and state governments like Bharatmala, Sagarmala, inland waterways, dry/land ports and UDAN as well as economic zones like textile clusters, pharmaceutical clusters, defence corridors, electronic parks, industrial corridors, fishing clusters, agricultural zones to improve connectivity to make Indian businesses more competitive.PM-GatiShakti will also leverage technology extensively including spatial planning tools with ISRO imagery developed by BiSAG-N (Bhaskaracharya National Institute for Space Applications and Geoinformatics).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-pragati-maidan-will-host-g-20-summit-in-2023-union-minister-101634115455616.html
13-10-2021||India||Karnataka CM to decide on easing curbs after consulting experts||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday said that the decision for more relaxations in Covid-19 pandemic-induced restrictions and reopening of primary schools would be taken after consulting experts.“Experts are assessing the situation in the districts of Karnataka bordering Kerala and Maharashtra. A meeting would be held with the covid expert committee soon after Dasara to discuss the situation and a decision on relaxing the restrictions in border districts would be taken,” Bommai said on Wednesday in Mangaluru.The statements come at a time when Karnataka has actively relaxed restrictions across the state to kickstart economic activity around the festive period.The state government has already relaxed restrictions to allow physical classes for students above 6th grade, 100% occupancy in cinema halls, pubs and other places since October 1. There is a demand to reopen classes for students between 1-5th grades.“Decision will also be taken regarding reopening of primary schools,” Bommai said.The proposal to reopen classes for young students comes even as trials of Covid-19 vaccination for children aged between 2-18 years old is underway.“Children and adolescents will be vaccinated soon. Karnataka is in the forefront of vaccination,” Bommai said.The Covid-19 infection numbers in Karnataka appear to have stabilised, as per the government data. The Bommai-led administration continues easing restrictions after nearly two years of lockdowns. The chief minister also said that he would decide on the withdrawal of cases filed against the public for violation of any Covid-19 norms during the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-cm-to-decide-on-easing-curbs-reopening-primary-school-after-consulting-experts-101634117260766.html
13-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan used to procure drugs from Arbaaz Merchant, quantity recovered immaterial: NCB in court||The Narcotics Control Bureau on Wednesday said to the court that the agency's initial probe revealed that Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan used to procure contraband from Arbaaz Merchant, another accused in the case. "The material collated during the investigation has primarily revealed the Aryan Khan has a role in so far as illicit procurement and distribution of contraband is concerned," the agency said replying to Aryan Khan's bail plea.Aryan Khan was not even on the cruise, false allegation: What lawyer saysThe agency said Aryan Khan's case can not be considered in isolation as all these persons are an integral part of a common threat which "cannot be separated or dissected from each other". The quantum of recovery, from an individual, becomes inconsequential, the agency said. No drug was found from Aryan Khan while from Arbaaz, the agency recovered 6 gram charas. The NCB said all persons form a part of a larger chain, nexus and their involvement in a conspiracy to commit illegal acts and violations under Section 29 can not be ruled out.'Because it's a Khan?': What politicians say on Aryan Khan's arrest in drugs caseSo far, it is apparent that Achit Kumar and Shivraj Harijan used to supply charas to both Aryan Khan and Arbaaz Merchant. "The material collated during the investigation has primarily revealed the Aryan Khan (A1) has a role in so far as illicit procurement and distribution of contraband is concerned," the NCB said in its reply to Aryan Khan's bail application.Earlier, the agency opposed Aryan Khan's bail plea by saying that Aryan Khan belongs to an influential family and he may tamper with the evidence. In its reply tothe special NDPS court, the agency reiterated the point and said, considering his influential background, it is plausible that the applicant tampers with evidence and influence other witnesses whom he personally knows. "Also the possibility of the applicant fleeing justice cannot be ruled out," the agency said.After his bail plea was rejected by the metropolitan magistrate court on October 8, the case on Wednesday has come to a special NDPS court.Aryan Khan was arrested on October 3 along with seven others including Arbaaz Merchant after the NCB raided a goa-bound cruise acting on a tip-off that a rave party was going on there.  Till October 7, Aryan Khan was at the NCB custody but in the last hearing the agency lost the custody and all of them including Aryan Khan was sent to 14-day judicial custody. Since October 8, Aryan is lodged at the Arthur Road prison.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aryan-khan-used-to-procure-drugs-from-arbaaz-merchant-his-sources-ncb-in-court-101634114442492.html
13-10-2021||India||‘All new coal power plants should be halted to achieve net-zero emissions’||Construction of all new coal-fired power plants will have to be halted as of this year and 40% of the existing global coal power fleet retired by 2030 if the world has to keep global warming under 1.5 degrees C, the International Energy Agency (IEA) has said. The IEA’s first World Energy Outlook released on Wednesday includes a scenario for the global transition to net-zero emissions by 2050. To achieve the scenario, approval of new oil and gas fields, coal mines, or mine extensions will also have to be stopped. Additionally, no new LNG export projects are to be developed, said Oil Change International, an advocacy organisation on the impact of fossil fuels, in an analysis of the IEA report.The report said the energy intensity of the global economy needs to decrease by 4% annually this decade. It added global clean energy investment needs to more than triple by 2030, with 85% of total energy investment directed towards clean technologies. IEA said getting the world on track for 1.5 degrees C requires a surge in annual investment in clean energy projects and infrastructure to nearly $4 trillion by 2030. It added fossil fuel-related methane emissions need to be reduced by 75% by 2030. The report said the electricity sector needs to almost decarbonise by 2035 in developed nations and by 2040 in all countries. The sales of new internal combustion engine cars need to end by 2035 globally, it added.The IEA has underlined four measures to help achieve the net-zero emissions scenario--doubling of solar PV and wind deployment relative to what countries have already announced; a major expansion of other low-emission fuels including the use of nuclear power where acceptable; a huge build-out of electricity infrastructure including from hydropower; a rapid phase-out of coal etc. It has called for decreasing the energy intensity of the global economy by more than 4% per year between 2020 and 2030 through energy efficiency measures. The IEA has sought a rapid reduction in methane emissions and clean energy innovation.Most of the emission reduction for net-zero targets come from technologies that are at the demonstration or prototype stage now. These are important to address emissions from iron and steel, cement, and other energy-intensive industrial sectors – and also from long-distance transport. Deployment of hydrogen-based and other low-carbon fuels, as well as carbon capture, utilisation, and storage will be crucial, the IEA said.This transition could lead to unstable energy markets. “The world is not investing enough to meet its future energy needs, and uncertainties over policies and demand trajectories create a strong risk of a volatile period ahead for energy markets. Transition-related spending is gradually picking up but remains far short of what is required to meet the rising demand for energy services in a sustainable way. The deficit is visible across all sectors and regions. At the same time, the amount being spent on oil and natural gas, dragged down by two price collapses in 2014-15 and in 2020, is geared towards a world of stagnant or even falling demand for these fuels,” the report said.The report has come in the middle of an energy price crisis. The IAE explained its causes in a separate blog. “Recent increases in global natural gas prices are the result of multiple factors, and it is inaccurate and misleading to lay the responsibility at the door of the clean energy transition,” said IEA executive director Fatih Birol. “This increase has been driven by the surge in gas, coal, and carbon prices in Europe.” Birol said well-managed clean energy transitions are a solution to the issues in gas and electricity markets – not the cause of them.The IEA has also flagged the large gap in what countries have committed to and the actions needed to achieve net-zero by 2050. It said a lot more needs to be done by governments to fully deliver on their current announced pledges. “Looking sector-by-sector at what measures governments have actually put in place, as well as specific policy initiatives that are under development is captured in IEA’s Stated Policies Scenario (STEPS). Under STEPS, global average temperatures would rise by about 2.6 degrees C compared to pre-industrial levels,” it said. “This despite countries accounting for between 60-70% of global CO2 emissions announcing net-zero emissions pledges.” It said if countries actually deliver on their current pledges captured in the Announced Pledges Scenario, they start to bend the global emissions curve down but that would only limit global temperature rise to 2.1-degree C.The report said an equitable energy transition is a must for achieving net-zero emissions. While advanced economies reach net zero emissions before emerging markets and developing economies like India, the scenario also underlines full energy access and significant reductions in air pollution as set out in the UN Sustainable Development Goals and ensures that energy affordability is maintained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-new-coal-power-plants-should-be-halted-to-achieve-net-zero-emissions-iea-101634113299812.html
13-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: Congress delegation meets President over Lakhimpur violence and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Lakhimpur violence: Rahul Gandhi-led Congress delegation meets President KovindA Rahul Gandhi-led delegation of the Congress party on Wednesday met President Ram Nath Kovind at the Rashtrapati Bhavan in New Delhi and demanded the resignation of Union minister Ajay Mishra in connection with the violent incident at Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri. Read more'Wear mask all the time, even at home': Mizoram launches campaign against CovidThe Mizoram government has launched a campaign to create awareness about wearing masks in the wake of Covid-19 cases rising in the state. The 10-day "all mask campaign" will sensitise people about the importance of wearing masks. Read moreKBC 13 contestant Husain could not crack this ₹1 crore question. Can you?Tuesday's episode of Kaun Banega Crorepati saw another contestant come close to becoming a ‘crorepati’. However, contestant Husain had to quit as he did not know the right answer. Read moreIn first of its kind, Royal Enfield bikes seek to invade and conquer South PoleRoyal Enfield on Tuesday announced that in order to celebrate 120 years of building products for the automotive world, its bikes would embark on a first-of-its-kind journey to the South Pole. Read moreFatty liver disease: Make these lifestyle changes to improve liver functionFatty liver disease is caused due to extra fat in liver. This is common among people who consume alcohol. In the past few decades, even nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) cases too have been on rise in young adults due to poor lifestyle choices. Read moreSmriti Irani’s sweet birthday post for ‘most loving daughter’ Shanelle Irani wins heartsSmriti Irani, just about an hour ago, took to Instagram to share a sweet birthday message for daughter Shanelle Irani. Along with her heartwarming message, she also shared a throwback image. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-rahul-gandhi-led-congress-delegation-meets-president-over-lakhimpur-violence-and-all-the-latest-news-101634109597339.html
13-10-2021||India||Kerala court gives double life term to man in snake bite murder case||A court in Kerala's Kollam on Wednesday gave double life term to the man who was found guilty of killing his wife using a cobra. Though the court had called it one of the rarest of the rare cases, it spared the death sentence considering the age of the husband, P Sooraj. The court said it will give a wrong message to people with such criminal minds.The 32-year-old has to undergo all sentences separately, the court said, adding that life sentence will start only after 17 years, which means he has to spend rest of his life in jail.The court had on Monday convicted Sooraj of murder for letting loose a cobra on his wife while she was sleeping, and forcing it to bite her. The prosecution had sought capital punishment for him.Uthra, his 25-year-old wife, suffered a bite at her home while she was undergoing treatment for another snake bite she suffered. She managed to recover from the first bite, but could not survive the second.The parents of Uthra said they were not satisfied as they expected death sentence. They said they will move the Kerala high court for death sentence.This was Sooraj's second attempt, after having failed in his first with a viper earlier in February last year. Both the snakes were procured through a snake handler Suresh.The case had come to the fore in May last year after Uthra’s parents filed a police complaint two days after her death alleging Sooraj and his family members harassed their daughter for dowry. Uthra’s parents told the investigators that her in-laws frequently harassed her for more dowry. They said they gave 90 sovereigns of gold, ₹5 lakh cash and a car to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-court-gives-double-life-term-to-man-in-snake-bite-murder-case-101634107978271.html
13-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur violence: Rahul Gandhi-led Congress delegation meets President Kovind||A Rahul Gandhi-led delegation of the Congress party on Wednesday met President Ram Nath Kovind at the Rashtrapati Bhavan in New Delhi and demanded the resignation of Union minister Ajay Mishra in connection with the violent incident at Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri where eight people, including four farmers, were allegedly mowed down by the minister's son Ashish Mishra.Following the meet, Rahul Gandhi said that the Congress delegation duly placed before the president its demands, which include the removal of Union minister Mishra and in his absence, a fair probe conducted by two sitting judges of the Supreme Cindiaourt. Congress general secretary in-charge of Uttar Pradesh, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, also said that President Kovind provided the assurance of following up the matter with the government within today, itself.“We told the President that the accused's father, who is the Union minister of state (MoS) for home affairs, should be removed from the post as a fair probe is not possible in his presence,” Rahul Gandhi was quoted by the ANI news agency as saying. “Likewise, we also demanded that inquiry be done by two sitting judges of the Supreme Court.”Speaking to reporters, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said, “The President has given us the assurance that he will discuss the matter with the government today itself.”Besides Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi, others who were part of the Congress delegation to the President on Wednesday include senior leaders such as Mallikarjun Kharge, Ghulam Nabi Azad, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, KC Venugopal, and AK Antony.The delegation presented a detailed memorandum of facts and placed its demands before the President. The party, earlier on October 10, wrote to the Rashtrapati Bhavan seeking an appointment with President Kovind for a seven-member party delegation to meet him.As many as eight people including four farmers had died in the violence that took place on October 3. Uttar Pradesh police have so far arrested three people including the son of Union minister of state Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra. Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), a body of several farmer unions, had issued a statement regarding the incident. Meanwhile, refuting SKM's allegations, the minister said his son was not present at the spot, adding that some miscreants merged with protesting farmers and pelted stones on the car, which lead to the ‘unfortunate incident’. Ashish Mishra also refuted SKM's allegations and reiterated his absence at the spot where the incident took place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-violence-rahul-gandhi-led-congress-delegation-meets-president-kovind-101634107259300.html
13-10-2021||India||'Wear mask all the time, even at home': Mizoram launches campaign against Covid||The Mizoram government has launched a campaign to create awareness about wearing masks in the wake of Covid-19 cases rising in the state. The 10-day "all mask campaign" will sensitise people about the importance of wearing masks."During the campaign, people should were masks even at home all the time except during meals and family members should not dine together," the state government said in an order released on Monday.The campaign was launched by Mizoram health minister Dr R Lalthangliana in Zoram Medical College (ZMC) central library. He said that the daily Covid-19 cases of Mizoram have outnumbered the total number of the seven other Northeastern states taken together several times.The minister said that the "all mask campaign" has been launched on the recommendation of a team of experts on Covid-19 management, and cited some studies to say that wearing masks appropriately can effectively protect people from being infected with coronavirus.Dr R Lalthangliana also inaugurated a 10-bed new ICU ward in ZMC. A 34-bed ICU has been already set up at the medical college.A four-member central team visited Mizoram earlier this month to assess the Covid-19 situation in the state.On Monday, Mizoram reported 307 new Covid-19 cases, the lowest in over a month since August 24, and four related fatalities. The tally now stands at 1,06,136, of which 13,408 are active, according to a government bulletin.Over 6.86 lakh people have been vaccinated till October 9, and 4.71 lakh of them have received both doses.Till the start of October, the state was recording around 1,500 cases daily and the positivity rate stood at 18 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wear-mask-all-the-time-even-at-home-mizoram-launches-campaign-against-covid-101634108203102.html
13-10-2021||India||Deve Gowda trains guns against Congress over BJP ‘B-Team’ remarks||Former prime minister and Janata Dal (Secular) national president HD Deve Gowda on Friday lashed out at the Congress party for allegations that the regional outfit has fielded Muslim candidates in the October 30 bypolls to help the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Gowda said that the Congress acts like it has taken the “contract” of Muslims and their welfare in the state. “A Muslim has won there (Sindgi) before. They (Congress) say that we are brokers helping the BJP win. We will all go and camp there. Go to every house. Tell them what I have done. Tell them (electorate) that I have come to your doorstep at the last stage of my life and ask them to help my candidate win,” Gowda said on Friday in Bengaluru. The statements come even as the Congress continues to allege that the JD(S) is tacitly helping the BJP by fielding a Muslim candidate in both bypoll constituencies in an effort to split the minority vote. “We will put in all our efforts to see if we can swim against this tide (of going against the two national parties),” he said. Sindgi MLA, MC Managuli from the JD(S), died this January. CM Udasi died this June, necessitating the bypolls in Hanagal. However, Managuli’s son has since joined the Congress and has been announced the party candidate from the constituency on October 5, according to the All India Congress Committee. Gowda said that Congress continues to poach its candidates and then speak against a party that gave all of them (referring to Siddaramaiah) political birth. “JD(S)’ target is the Congress and not the BJP,” Siddaramaiah, the leader of the opposition, said on Thursday. He implied that the JD(S) fields minority candidates to help the BJP and that the former is the latter’s B-Team’. “I am not saying that you (JDS) should not field a minority candidate. But they don’t do it where they are supposed to,” Siddaramaiah said. He added that the JD(S) will not field a Muslim candidate in Mandya and Hassan, the stronghold of the regional outfit, since their main support base, the Vokkaligas are found there in large numbers. The bypolls come at a time when the Basavaraj Bommai-led BJP government has been facing increasing pressure from Hindu groups over restrictions on Durga Puja celebrations and temple demolition in Nanjangud. The Bommai government is also under pressure from dominant communities like the Panchamasali, the largest sub-sect within the Lingayats, to change their reservation status and continues to give the administration new deadlines to yield to their demands. The BJP is hoping to win both seats to add to its tally while the Congress is trying to get some momentum to its 2023 assembly election campaign. The JD(S) has seen its numbers dip, first with the defection in 2019 and now with the imminent exit of at least three more legislators before the next elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deve-gowda-trains-guns-against-congress-over-bjp-b-team-remarks-101634108378862.html
13-10-2021||India||'Schools with more women staff see more squabbles': Rajasthan minister makes controversial remark||Rajasthan's education minister Govind Singh Dotasra has created a buzz on the social media as he made a bizarre remark about women staff. Speaking during an event, the minister who is also the president of Pradesh Congress Committee, said, "Where there's female staff, either the Principal or teacher would take saridon (medicine for headache)'' due to their "inner conflicts." "If they overcome this, they will be ahead of men," he can also be heard saying in a video posted on Twitter by news agency ANI.Interestingly, the event in which Dotasra was speaking, was organised to mark international girl child day.The senior Congress leader also emphasised that the state government has made policies that prioritised women. "In the selection process, promotions, women are getting a priority, which has made some people disgruntled. This is injustice... they tell me," he also said while smiling.Speaking further, the minister said, "I will say one thing because I am also the head of the department...You also have a lot of fights among yourself. Sometimes a quarrel of coming late, sometimes a quarrel of coming early. If you successfully overcome this, then you will always be ahead of men."The problematic remark comes just days after Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar created controversy after he targeted women and said, "modern Indian women want to stay single and are unwilling to give birth even after marriage and desire children by surrogacy." He called this a "paradigm shift in thinking" and said, "it is not good."He also lamented the "western influence" on Indian society, and said people don't want their parents to live with them anymore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-with-more-women-staff-see-more-squabbles-rajasthan-minister-makes-controversial-remark-101634106675617.html
13-10-2021||India||Covid: As students return to school, teachers find unprecedented learning loss||With schools reopening across the country after a year-and-a-half, teachers from different states and Union Territories (UTs) said that they are observing “unprecedented” loss in learning levels among students, specifically among those who were not in regular touch with their schools due to the digital divide.
13-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri violence 'absolutely condemnable': Nirmala Sitharaman tells Harvard students||The Lakhimpur Kheri violence, in which four farmers were killed, is “absolutely condemnable,” finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman has said, emphasising that there are issues of such nature happening in other parts of India equally which should be raised "when they happen and not when it suits others" because there is a BJP government in Uttar Pradesh.Sitharaman, who is on an official visit to the US, was responding to a question during a conversation at Harvard Kennedy School on Tuesday about the killing of four farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri and the arrest of Ashish Mishra, son of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra.She was asked why there is no word on this from the prime minister, senior ministers and why there is a “defensive reaction” when somebody asks questions about such things.“No, absolutely not... It's nice of you to have picked up that one incident which is absolutely condemnable, every one of us say that. Equally there are instances happening elsewhere, is my concern."“India has issues of such nature happening in very many different parts of the country equally. I would like you, and many others, including Dr Amartya Sen, who all know India, to raise it at every time when it happens, not just raise it when it suits us because it's a state where BJP is in power, one of my cabinet colleague’s son is in probably trouble, and also assume that it's actually them who did it and not anybody else. Due course of justice will also have a complete inquiry process to establish it,” she said.“And it's not being defensive about my party or my Prime Minister. It's being defensive about India. I will talk for India, I will talk for justice for the poor. I will not be mocked at. And if it is mocking, I will be defensive to stand up and say ‘Sorry, let's talk on facts’. That's my answer for you,” she said.Ashish Mishra was named in an FIR following allegations that he was in one of the vehicles that mowed down four farmers protesting over UP Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya’s visit on October 3.To a question on the farmers’ protests, Sitharaman said that the three acts which the government brought in were discussed by the various parliamentary committees over a decade.She said all the three acts have been discussed variously by the State governments, by the Center after the BJP came into power in 2014."This has been in the making for a decade now. Every stakeholder has been consulted,” she said.“When the farm laws were brought in the Lok Sabha, there was an elaborate discussion and the agriculture minister gave his reply as well. It was only when it came to the Rajya Sabha, there was a lot of noise and disturbance,” she said.Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and several other states have been protesting on various borders of Delhi since November 26 last year, seeking repeal of three farm laws enacted in September.Dubbing these laws as "anti-farmer", these farmers claim that the newly enacted legislations would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations.Sitharaman said the protesters belong to one state and some parts of other states - “Punjab, Haryana and some parts of western Uttar Pradesh."She said the government has been saying that it is willing to talk with the protesters and has been engaging with them.The government has asked pointedly what is that one aspect in any one of the three laws which have been passed to which the protesters object, she said. “We are willing to talk about it, tell us that one particular aspect in any one of the three laws.Till date, we have not had even one particular aspect which is being questioned. And therefore, the protesters are not sure on what score they are protesting, what is it that they are objecting.“Then there's this issue about the minimum support price to be given to farmers,” she said, adding that the MSP are announced well in time and the farmers can decide whether they want to grow a crop or not and they can otherwise choose to grow something else.She said once the farmers choose to grow any of these, for which a minimum support price is announced and procurements are done, through direct benefit transfer using technology, money is deposited as a lump sum into their accounts.“The highest amount of procurement, the largest ever payment per farmer under the minimum support price which is declared has happened in the last seven years after Prime Minister (Narendra) Modi has come. Highest ever.“The number of farmers, the total quantum of money, total quantum of grain procured in each one of them - the highest as has happened season after season in the last seven years," she said.Highlighting that there are recorded conversations “which you can see of farmers even from Punjab, even from Haryana”, she said farmers have got the entire amount into their account.“This is verifiable, not a claim which I'm making. You can go and check it out. Highest amount and the entire amount is given into the account directly the day after procurement is done. No staggering, no delaying,” she said.“So we have not been told what it is that they're protesting against as yet and the minister is willing to talk even today.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-absolutely-condemnable-nirmala-sitharaman-tells-harvard-students-101634104208975.html
13-10-2021||India||$25 for credit card, $80 for Gmail: How much your stolen data costs||Cryptocurrency accounts have a premium attached to them while there has been an overall increase in the sale prices of hacked financial details on the dark web.You may have often wondered how data stolen by hackers is sold online, and how much it eventually costs. There is a marketplace at work for it on the dark web, an underbelly of the internet where anonymity rules and access remain largely untraceable. Data privacy and cybersecurity research firm Privacy Affairs has released the latest Dark Web Price Index 2021. It shows how the average cost of stolen personal information has fluctuated year on year. There is a price tag attached to everything, including your stolen credit card details, digital payment accounts, cryptocurrency wallets, social media accounts, streaming services, forged passports, and potent malware.Financial details and payment tools remain popular. These include credit cards, digital payment services, and cryptocurrency accounts. The latter, in particular, has gained popularity over the past year or so. Cloned credit cards fetch hackers around $25 ( ₹1,883) per card. Within this bucket, some hold a premium. A Mastercard or Visa card with PIN access costs $25 each and that of American Express $35. Credit cards with an account balance of up to $1000 fetch as much as $150. Those with a balance of up to $5000 can get $240 on the dark web.“Notable corporations and organizations like NASA, McDonald’s, Microsoft, T-Mobile, Lockheed Martin, even cybersecurity companies FireEye and SolarWinds have all been victims to serious breaches in 2020 alone,” says security researcher Zachary Ignoffo in the report.The researchers at Privacy Affairs compared the dark web market prices of these stolen details with those of last year. There has been an increase across the board. The most has been a $55 price hike for stolen online banking logins with a minimum of $2000 in the account. The price now is $120 each, compared with $65 last year.Within the credit card category, prices vary according to the country the card has been issued in. A hacked global credit will fetch $35 while that issued in the UK $20. An Israeli credit card will fetch $65. Stolen PayPal accounts fetch between $14 and $340, depending on the balance.Cryptocurrency accounts have a premium attached to them. A hacked Coinbase verified account fetches around $610. The values attached with Kraken verified ($810), Cex.io verified ($710) and Crypto.com verified ($300) are significantly higher. The crypto accounts were not valued last year and have been for the first time included in the Dark Web Price Index.Social media accounts fetch a significant amount of money on the dark web. A hacked Facebook account fetches $65 while that of Instagram $45 and Twitter $35. A Gmail account linked to all Google services and the attached payment methods as well fetches $80 each. There has been a slight reduction in the prices of hacked social media accounts, compared with last year. A Facebook account, for instance, is fetching $10 lesser now. The same is true about online subscriptions. Netflix (a 1-year subscription) costs $44 while that of Adobe Creative Cloud $160. eBay, as a shopping platform, may not be very popular in India, but an account on the website with a good reputation is fetching as much as $1000 each.Certain malware products are fetching higher prices compared with 2020. Malware for Android devices now fetches $900 per 1,000 installs, compared to $300 last year. Premium malware across a variety of computing including Windows computers, and smart devices now costs $5000. “For every 1,000 installs, hackers stand to steal tens of thousands of dollars,” says Ignoffo. The popular methods for sneaking in malware on systems continue to be fake online casino popups, social media networks, and websites that promise free software downloads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/25-for-credit-card-80-for-gmail-how-much-your-stolen-data-costs-101634104958023.html
13-10-2021||India||Gati Shakti: Modi launches 100-lakh crore national master plan for multi-modal connectivity, details here||In a landmark event marking a milestone for the infrastructural landscape of India, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday launched the ‘PM GatiShakti - National Master Plan’ for multi-modal connectivity to economic zones in the country. The plan is an important part of Prime Minister Modi's ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ (self-dependent India) vision and ambitiously aims to lend more power and speed to projects under the $1.5-trillion National Infrastructure Pipeline and boost the goal of achieving a $5-trillion economy, especially in wake of the recent economic impacts of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.PM @narendramodi unveils the #PMGatiShakti - a National Master Plan for multi-modal connectivity at Pragati Maidan in New Delhi today. The project will incorporate infrastructure schemes of various Ministries & State Governments designed & executed with a common vision.The PM GatiShakti launch event took place at 11am at New Delhi's Pragati Maidan. Prime Minister Modi, who was present at the launch event, reviewed the model of the new exhibition complex at Pragati Maidan, before launching the GatiShakti plan with the press of a remote button. The ambitious plan envisages a centralised portal to unite the infrastructural initiatives planned and initiated by as many as 16 central ministries and departments. Speaking at the event, the Prime Minister said that PM GatiShakti targets to cut logistic costs, increase cargo handling capacity and reduce the turnaround time.Union minister for commerce and industry Piyush Goyal, who was also present at the event, said that the PM GatiShakti initiative will give infrastructure creation a new direction and also provide a new pace to existing projects.Also Read | Gati Shakti: A major leap in governanceWhat is PM GatiShakti?The PM Gati Shakti plan, envisioned by the Prime Minister, is a campaign to lend more speed (Gati) and power (Shakti) to projects by connecting all concerned departments on one platform. This way, the infrastructure schemes of various ministries and state governments will be designed and executed with a common vision, Modi said. He added that taxpayers' money in the past was ‘insulted’ through a lethargic approach to development work, with departments working in silos and there was no coordination on projects.As an example, he said the first inter-state natural gas pipeline was commissioned in 1987. From then to 2014, 15,000-km of the natural gas pipeline was built. Currently, more than 16,000-km of the new gas pipeline is being constructed.“What was done in 27 years, we are doing in it in less than half that time,” the Prime Minister said.It is not possible to carry out the development of the country without a holistic approach to quality infrastructure, said Prime Minister Modi, echoing his 15th August Red Fort speech earlier this year on the occasion of the 75th Independence Day. The various government departments which will join hands for coordinated developmental projects include the ministries of road to railways, aviation to agriculture. This will, in turn, reduce logistic cost and turnaround time, and also help India become an attractive investment destination.The six pillars of ‘PM GatiShakti - National Master Plan’:1. Comprehensiveness: It will include all the existing and planned initiatives of various ministries and departments with one centralized portal. Each and every department will now have visibility of each other’s activities providing critical data while planning and executing projects in a comprehensive manner.2. Prioritisation: Through this, different departments will be able to prioritise their projects through cross-sectoral interactions.3. Optimisation: The National Master Plan will assist different ministries in planning for projects after the identification of critical gaps. For the transportation of the goods from one place to another, the plan will help in selecting the most optimum route in terms of time and cost.4. Synchronisation: Individual ministries and departments often work in silos. There is a lack of coordination in the planning and implementation of the project resulting in delays. PM GatiShakti will help in synchronising the activities of each department, as well as of different layers of governance, in a holistic manner by ensuring coordination of work between them.5. Analytical: The plan will provide the entire data at one place with GIS-based spatial planning and analytical tools having 200+ layers, enabling better visibility to the executing agency.6. Dynamic: All ministries and departments will now be able to visualise, review and monitor the progress of cross-sectoral projects, through the GIS platform, as the satellite imagery will give on-ground progress periodically and progress of the projects will be updated on a regular basis on the portal. It will help in identifying the vital interventions for enhancing and updating the master plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gati-shakti-modi-launches-100-lakh-crore-national-master-plan-for-multi-modal-connectivity-details-here-101634103432861.html
13-10-2021||India||Delhi air pollution: 75% of children experience breathlessness, says study||With the onset of winters, Delhi's air quality worsens every year. The climatic change leaves more than 75 per cent of the children feeling suffocated, according to Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan; the report is based on a study conducted by The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI).The health survey was conducted on 413 children, out of which 75.4% complained of breathlessness, 24.2% complained of itchy eyes, 22.3% complained of regular sneezing or runny nose and 20.9% of children complained of coughing in the morning.The children in the survey aged between 14-17 years.The TERI report also stated that air in Delhi has a high concentration of major pollutant PM2.5, which it claimed is pushing Delhiites, especially children, towards respiratory and heart diseases.Researchers also identified heavy metals as a major component of PM 2.5 that may result in potential health effects. In October 2019, the concentration of zinc in the city's PM 2.5 (particles less than 2.5 micrometres in diameter) was 379 ng/m3 (nanograms per cubic meter of air). In September 2020, this increased to 615 ng/m3 (nanograms per cubic meter of air).Similarly, the lead content in Delhi's air was 233 ng/m3 (nanograms per cubic meter of air) in 2019, which increased to 406 ng/m3 (nanograms per cubic meter of air) in 2020, with an arsenic content of 3 ng/m3.According to experts, some of these metals are extremely hazardous to human health and regular exposure to them could lead to some fatal health consequences. The increased amount of cadmium and arsenic in the air also put the locals at higher risk of cancer, kidney problems and high blood pressure, diabetes and heart diseases."PM 2.5 level - less than 60 ug/m3 - is considered an acceptable norm, but if there is a high concentration of toxic metals in the air, then it may lead to Your health is at risk," the Live Hindustan quoted TERI Associate Fellow (Environment and Health), Kanhaiya Lal, as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-air-pollution-75-of-children-experience-breathlessness-says-study-101634100292129.html
13-10-2021||India||Kerala court to announce punishment in snake bite murder case today||A court in Kerala's Kollam will on Wednesday decide the quantum of punishment for man who was found guilty of killing his wife using a cobra. The court on Monday convicted P Sooraj of murder by letting loose a cobra on his wife she was sleeping, and forcing it to bite her, saying the convict did not deserve any sympathy for this heinous crime. The prosecution sought capital punishment for the 32-year-old.Sooraj was found guilty on Monday under IPC sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 328 and 201 after the prosecution had argued that he killed her on May 7, 2020, using a cobra after drugging her.Uthra, his 25-year-old wife, suffered a bite at her home while she was undergoing treatment for another snake bite she suffered. It emerged during the investigation that the incident, involving a viper, was also orchestrated by the husband. She managed to recover from the first bite, but could not survive the second.During the probe, the Special Investigation Team (SIT) found a local snake handler Suresh, who later turned an approver. He admitted to training Sooraj to handle the snake and even providing him with the reptile. On May 6, 2020, after Uthra fell asleep, Sooraj allegedly threw the snake on her. He also provoked it to bite her twice.The case surfaced in May last year after Uthra’s parents filed a police complaint two days after her death alleging Sooraj and his family members harassed their daughter for dowry. The couple had been married for two years at the time of the murder. In an attempt to mislead investigators, Sooraj’s parents filed a counter-complaint against Uthra’s brother saying he wanted to usurp her father’s property. Uthra’s parents told the investigators that her in-laws frequently harassed her for more dowry. They said they gave 90 sovereigns of gold, ₹5 lakh cash and a car to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-court-to-announce-punishment-in-snake-bite-murder-case-today-101634096044398.html
13-10-2021||India||NTA to conduct first-ever aptitude test to map abilities of Indian learners||The National Testing Agency (NTA) has announced the first-ever aptitude test for school students and youth aged between 13 and 25 to assess their conceptual understanding in a scientific manner and help them make better career decisions. The test is part of NTA’s ongoing “exploratory research” to map the “abilities of Indian learners.”The NTA, an autonomous testing organisation under the ministry of education, will conduct the National Aptitude Test as a pilot project. Candidates for the test have been divided into four age brackets: level 1 (13-15 years), level 2 (16-18 years), level 3 (19-21 years), and level 4 (22-25 years). That means students from class sixth to those who have completed their postgraduate programmes can participate in the national-level test.The agency is targeting to cover around 5,200 candidates in the first two categories and 5,000 in the third and fourth categories during the pilot.The NTA has invited online applications from candidates, who would like to take the test. No fees will be charged for participation. The applications will be available on the NTA website till October 18. According to a notification issued on the website, tests for levels one and two will be conducted on October 23 and for level three and level four a day later.Officials said the test is in line with the new National Education Policy 2020 that recommends high-level aptitude assessments of students to help them make the right career choices. The test is likely to be conducted annually.The agency said several concerns have emerged during recent studies. “A) 65% of the jobs our students will be doing in the future do not even exist today. (b) Employers seek abilities like critical thinking, problem solving, innovations and creativity in their human capital but these abilities were deficient in about 70% school pass outs. (C) Considering the skills gap is much evident, including in digital jobs that require graduates with relevant mathematical, science and engineering backgrounds.”NTA said it believes that the right candidates joining the best institutions will give India demographic dividend. “It envisages that besides acquired knowledge and skills, it should include skills for the future that would be expected in them, say after 5 years. These are technical skills, creativity, emotional intelligence (EQ), analytical thinking, growth mind-set, decision making, interpersonal communication, and adaptability, that have been identified as skills for the future,” the agency said in the notification.Defining aptitude as an estimate of “what a person is likely to do”, the agency has developed nine domains to assess the candidates. The domains include critical reading ability, numerical ability, abstract reasoning, analytical reasoning, spatial reasoning, verbal ability, finding irregularities, data interpretation, and physical and mechanical analysis.The test will have 10 multiple-choice questions in each of the domains and candidates will be given two hours to complete it. The language of the examination will be English, and there will be no negative marking.On October 5, the agency, in a communication to the city coordinators of NTA, said it is committed to providing a platform to the students to assess their aptitude and ability in a more scientific and transparent manner. “The agency is engaged in conducting exploratory research to map the abilities of Indian learners....” The city coordinators were asked to identify 10 schools, including two government schools, two Kendriya Vidyalaya, four private schools, and two minorities or aided schools, to carry out the pilot project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nta-to-conduct-first-ever-aptitude-test-to-map-abilities-of-indian-learners-101634095897555.html
13-10-2021||India||Monsoon has withdrawn from most parts of east and northeast India||Monsoon has withdrawn from remaining parts of Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh, some more parts of Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Odisha and West Bengal, most parts of Assam and entire north Arabian Sea, Sikkim, Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Manipur and some parts of Telangana, Mizoram and Tripura, as per the weather department. Conditions are becoming favourable for further withdrawal of southwest monsoon from some more parts of Maharashtra and Telangana and some parts of Karnataka during next 2 days. A cyclonic circulation is lying over north Andaman Sea and neighbourhood extending upto mid tropospheric levels. Under the influence of this cyclonic circulation, a low pressure area is likely to form over the Eastcentral Bay of Bengal and adjoining north Andaman sea during next 48 hours. It is likely to move west-northwestwards and reach south Odisha-north Andhra Pradesh coasts during subsequent 24 hours. Under its influence, moderate rainfall at most places with isolated thunderstorm (wind speed 40-50 kmph) and heavy rain is very likely over Andaman & Nicobar Islands during next 5 days. Rainfall intensity is likely to increase over east India and adjoining Central India from October 15. A cyclonic circulation is lying over eastcentral Arabian Sea and extends upto mid-tropospheric levels tilting southwestwards. It is very likely to persist during the next two days and an east-west trough at lower and mid levels is running from cyclonic circulation over north Andaman Sea to cyclonic circulation over the eastcentral Arabian Sea. Under its influence, widespread light to moderate rainfall very likely over southern peninsular India during next 5 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-has-withdrawn-from-most-parts-of-east-and-northeast-india-101634095357043.html
13-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: Congress delegation to meet President over Lakhimpur Kheri violence and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Rahul Gandhi-led Congress delegation to meet PresidentA Congress delegation led by Rahul Gandhi will meet President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday over the violence in Tikunia village in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri district in which eight people were killed. Read MoreMonsoon, shooting import bills: Big reasons why India is facing coal crisisAmid concerns flagged by various state governments of shortage in supply of coal, which could lead to power crisis, the central government has stepped in. Read MorePakistan: Things tense between Imran Khan and army chief? Govt says no conflictThe Pakistan government on Tuesday maintained that there is no conflict between prime minister Imran Khan and General Qamar Javed Bajwa, the influential chief of the country's armed forces, over the recent appointment of Lt Gen Nadeem Ahmed Anjum as the new director-general of the notorious Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), the top spy agency of Pakistan. Read More'He is not your future': Gambhir on whether RCB should retain Kohli, Maxwell for next IPL; gives verdict on de Villiers13 years and no IPL trophy. The Royal Challengers Bangalore is one of the three teams among the original eight franchises to have not won the IPL title. Read MoreShatrughan Sinha on Aryan Khan’s arrest: ‘Shah Rukh Khan is definitely the reason why he is being targeted’Shatrughan Sinha has come forward in support of Shah Rukh Khan, and criticised the way Aryan Khan is being “used” in the cruise ship case. Read MoreInstagram and TikTok belong to the ‘Walled Garden’ universe, we operate on the open web, says Firework’s Jason HollandFirework gives content creators two main features – Live Streaming Videos and Shoppable Videos – to choose from based on their audience and their products. These videos can be used by e-commerce platforms, brands and publishers to reach out to their audience in a way that best suits their products. Read MorePrince Charles reveals he has created a garden dedicated to his eldest grandson Prince GeorgePrince Charles is a doting grandfather, and in a new interview, the Royal has revealed that he has a garden dedicated to his grandson, Prince George, on the Balmoral estate. Read MoreWatch: Mumbai police email reportedly hacked, trail leads to Pak Punjab||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-rahul-gandhi-led-congress-delegation-to-meet-president-over-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-and-all-the-latest-news-101634093822216.html
13-10-2021||India||Muslims who migrated to Pak have no respect there: Mohan Bhagwat||Noting that ancestors of all Indians are the same, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat on Tuesday said that the Muslims who had migrated to Pakistan "have no respect there" and there is a liberal culture in India.Speaking at the launch of the book 'Veer Savarkar: The Man Who Could Have Prevented Partition' the RSS chief said that the person "who belongs to India will always be like that".The book has been written by Uday Mahurkar and Chirayu Pandit."After partition, the Muslims who migrated to Pakistan have no respect there. There is a liberal culture in India. This is our cultural heritage. This culture binds us together. This is the culture of Hinduism. Savarkar had written that how the saffron flag of Hindu raja and green flag of Nawab stood together against the British rule," he said.Referring to Savarkar, the Sangh chief said "Hindu nationalism" is about unity even as the country has different religious practices."Savarkarji had said that the British had understood they can only rule India by creating divisions. So they worked towards increasing radicalism. After returning from Andamans, Savarkarji wrote in his book that Hindu nationalism is about unity despite different religious practices," Bhagwat said.The Sangh chief said Britishers knew that "they had to divide and rule to survive and loot the nation" and Savarkar experienced this strategy of Britishers in Andaman prisons."Sir Syed Ahmed Khan had said that he is the son of Bharat Maa (in Lahore). It is only that his way of worship was Islam. This was the temperament of Bharat. The wave of radicalism was there in India in the past also. In history, where there was Dara Shikoh and Akbar at one side then there was Aurangzeb also who reversed the narrative. The names like Dara Shikoh, Hakim Khan Sur, Hasan Khan Mewati, Ibrahim Khan Gardi, Ashfaqulla Khan, and others should be commemorated," Bhagwat said."I recently visited Jammu and Kashmir and got to know that an initiative is being taken there to rename schools on these great revolutionaries who believed in 'Bharat'. It is a welcome move. There might be differences in ways of worship but our ancestors are the same. We cannot change the motherland," he added.Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh also spoke on the occasion. Union Ministers Parshottam Rupala, Gen VK Singh (retd), SPS Baghel and Arjun Ram Meghwal were also present at the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/muslims-who-migrated-to-pak-have-no-respect-there-mohan-bhagwat-101634094725018.html
13-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Rahul Gandhi-led Congress delegation to meet President||A Congress delegation led by Rahul Gandhi will meet President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday over the violence in Tikunia village in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri district in which eight people were killed. According to the party, the delegation will submit a memorandum on the facts of the October 3 violence to the President.Also Read | Farmers, politicians pay homage to deceased protesters in LakhimpurThe Congress had, on October 10, sought appointment with the President for a seven-member party delegation to meet him. The request was approved on Tuesday.The seven members of the delegation are Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, AK Antony, Mallikarjun Kharge, KC Venugopal, Ghulam Nabi Azad, and Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury besides Rahul Gandhi.The Congress has been attacking the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) led Uttar Pradesh government over the violence, and also questioning Prime Minister Narendra Modi's silence on the issue. Priyanka and Rahul, who visited the Tikunia village in Lakhimpur Kheri, where the violence took place, took a jibe at PM Modi who visited Lucknow for inaugurating development projects. The Congress leaders said the Prime Minister did not have time to visit Lakhimpur Kheri.The BJP, meanwhile, said that a lot of politics is happening around the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. Naming Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi, BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said that they were trying to project themselves as "champions of Dalits". "Yet, the incident of a young Dalit man in Rajasthan (ruled by the Congress) beaten to death a few days ago has gone uninvestigated and unnoticed," Patra added.Four farmers were among the eight killed in violence on October 3. Uttar Pradesh Police have so far arrested three people, including Ashish Mishra, the son of Union minister Ajay Mishra.Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), a body of several farmer unions, had issued a statement regarding the incident claiming that the farmers died after being run over by the vehicles of Ashish Mishra's convoy.Union minister Ajay Mishra has refuted these allegations, saying that his son was not present at the spot. However, the farmers and opposition parties, including Congress, have been demanding that he should be sacked from the Union Cabinet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-rahul-gandhi-led-congress-delegation-to-meet-president-101634093946404.html
13-10-2021||India||‘Twitter didn’t act against handles posting anti- national posts’: J&K Police||The Jammu and Kashmir Police received no response from Twitter even as letters were written to the company in July and August seeking action against certain handles for posts “glorifying terrorism”, a person aware of the matter said.“The first letter was sent in July, where the handle of businessman Mubeen Shah was mentioned. ...it was mentioned that the handle was spreading terrorist-related data and anti-national material on a daily basis and glorifying terrorism on social media. A second letter was sent in August where five URLs of Twitter profiles were mentioned for taking action, but we got no response from the platform,” said the person, requesting anonymity.The five were reported for “anti-national posts and comments” between July 15 and 31.Among other posts flagged included Shah’s post on Facebook, where he asked Kashmiri not to rent out places to non-locals. Shah, who is based in Malaysia, was booked for sedition on the basis of this post last year.The government and security agencies say such posts tend to aggravate the situation on the ground.In response to a query on what action was taken, a Twitter spokesperson said, “Twitter has dedicated contact channels for law enforcement, and we respond to legal requests issued in compliance with applicable law. We have clear rules in place to address hateful conduct and take action when we identify accounts that violate these rules.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-didn-t-act-against-handles-posting-anti-national-posts-j-k-police-101634094156207.html
13-10-2021||India||Monsoon, shooting import bills: Big reasons why India is facing coal crisis||Amid concerns flagged by various state governments of shortage in supply of coal, which could lead to power crisis, the central government has stepped in. On Tuesday, PK Mishra, principal secretary to the Prime Minister, held a meeting with coal secretary Anil Kumar Jain, power secretary Alok Kumar, and railway board chairman Suneet Sharma to discuss the issue.The plan focuses on ensuring uninterrupted fuel supplies to power plants. The state-run Coal India Ltd (CIL) has been asked to supply an additional 200,000 tonne of coal on a daily basis to ramp up the fossil fuel supplies to 2.1 million tonne per day.Also Read | Will curtail electricity supply to states selling power, says CentreThe meeting comes a day after Union home minister held a similar exercise with coal and power ministers and asked them to maintain the supply of coal to thermal power plants.Delhi, Punjab and Chhattisgarh are among the states which have repeatedly warned of a "critical" situation, urging the Centre to fulfill the coal requirements of power plants to avoid any disruption in service.So, what are the reasons for the current crisis? Why is India facing supply shortage? News agency ANI quoted people aware of the developments to report that there are multiple reasons for the current scenario.• First reason, according to people quoted above, is that state governments have not paid heed to coal ministry's notes (since January) to pick up and stock coal.• Rajasthan, West Bengal and Jharkhand have their own mines but they did little to extract coal, they further said. It is learnt that despite clearances, some of the state governments sat on decision and gave Covid and rains as reasons for not doing enough mining, said the people quoted above.Also Read | As concerns rise over coal shortage, Centre reassures with ‘fact-check’• Heavy rainfall, especially in the coal-producing regions of Jharkhand, Odisha and West Bengal in September, added to the problem.• The shooting prices of imported coal also contributed to the current situation. There is a 12 per cent fall in imports of foreign coal which power companies blend to cut losses. Due to high prices, they also shifted to domestic coal.• There is also the issue of pending dues - some state governments have defaulted on payments to Coal India, said the people aware of developments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-shooting-import-bills-big-reasons-why-india-is-facing-coal-crisis-101634089603536.html
13-10-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccine for children: These four are on the horizon||The expert group looking at vaccine approvals on Tuesday recommended that Bharat Biotech's indigenous Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin should be given emergency use authorisation for children in the age group of two to 18 years.The recommendation is a step further towards launch of a Covid-19 vaccine for children ahead of the festival season and amid concerns over a possible third wave of infection. However, the final approval is yet to be given, which will be done by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI).That step is expected to be completed within days, according to people aware of the matter.Union minister of state for health and family welfare Bharati Pravin Pawar on Tuesday said that evaluation of Covid-19 vaccine for children is under progress. "The process is on and we don't interfere in this matter. Will go ahead after discussions with experts," the minister said.There are so far only four vaccines on the horizon for children. These are:ZvCoV-D by Zydus Cadila: Approved for use in age groups 12 and above, in line with trials. However, it has not been included as part of the vaccination drive. Indigenously developed and needle-free ZyCoV-D has received EUA from the drug regulator, making it the first vaccine to be administered in the age group of 12-18 years in the country.Covaxin by Bharat Biotech: Recommended for use in ages 2 and above. This vaccine has also not yet been included as part of the vaccination drive.Corbevax by Biological E: This vaccine has been cleared for trials in children aged 5-18. The vaccine has been developed with support from the Department of Biotechnology and its PSU Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC) from the preclinical stage to phase 3 studies.Covovax by Serum Institute of India (SII): It has been cleared for trials in children aged 2-18. It is the Indian version of the Novovax vaccine brought in India by the SII for children. The company's chief Adar Poonawalla said last month that he expects Covovax to be approved for those below 18 years in January or February next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccine-for-children-these-four-are-on-the-horizon-101634088280107.html
13-10-2021||India||Savarkar India’s first, biggest defence expert, says Rajnath Singh||Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday said Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) ideologue VD Savarkar presented India with a “robust defence and diplomatic doctrine” and was India’s biggest and first defence and strategic affairs expert in the 20th century.At an event to release a book on Savarkar in Delhi, the minister also said people who followed Marxist and Leninist ideologies accused Savarkar of being a fascist and proponent of Hindutva.“He was very forthright in saying that India’s relations with other countries should depend on how conducive they are to our security and National interests. He was clear that it did not matter what kind of government there was (in the other country) but what mattered was that country will remain a friend as long as it remained conducive to our interests,” Singh said.The minister said a campaign was unleashed to discredit him. “He was a freedom fighter and there are no two ways about it. It is not forgivable to paint him otherwise,” he added.Referring to the controversy about Savarkar’s mercy petitions to the British while he was serving a life sentence in Andaman in the 1910s, the minister said, “It was the right of a prisoner…Gandhi ji told him to do so, and in his appeal he said Savarkar should be released, just as we are peacefully fighting for freedom, he would do so too.”Singh was speaking at the launch of a book, Veer Savarkar – The Man Who Could Have Prevented Partition authored by Uday Mahurkar and Chirayu Pandit.RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat, who also spoke on the occasion, said those who did not understand the multi-dimensional personality of Savarkar discredited him. He said Savarkar’s ideology was congruent to the idea of being able to walk together and speak in one voice even in the face of divergent political ideologies.“We believe that political difference of opinion exist and it is natural. (Mahatma) Gandhi and Savarkar had differences of opinion, no attempts should be made to disprove that…but their feelings towards each other were similar to those of compatriots who work selflessly,” he said.The Sangh has been at the forefront of denouncing the description of Savarkar as a Hindutva proponent and a polarising figure in Indian history. They have also vehemently denied that he colluded with the British or sought leniency when he was imprisoned in the cellular jail in Andaman during India’s freedom struggle.Bhagwat also sought to stress on Savarkar’s idea of inclusivity, which was reflected in his acceptance of ideological differences and following different faiths.“There is absence of correct information about Savarkar. The campaign to discredit him was started soon after Independence,” he said.He went on to say that Savarkar was not a proponent of a school of thought that says unity is not possible without uniformity. He said the attack of Savarkar is symptomatic of the attack on India’s pride. “ I was told that the real reason for the campaign to discredit him that began soon after independence was to attack Swami Vivekananda, Maharishi Aurobindo and Dayanand Saraswati…” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/savarkar-india-s-first-biggest-defence-expert-says-rajnath-singh-101634086863161.html
13-10-2021||India||Drugs case: Aryan Khan's bail plea to be heard by special NDPS court today||A special court, hearing matters related to the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, will hear the bail petition of actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan and others on Wednesday. The case came to the special court after a magistrate's court rejected their plea on the ground that it did not have the jurisdiction to decide on the matter.Khan and eight others were arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on October 3, after a raid on a cruise ship a day before.Also Read | No drugs found on Aryan Khan; what are the accusations against him?The NDPS court had issued orders to the NCB on Monday and asked it to file its reply regarding the matter by October 13.The federal investigative agency claimed to have recovered banned drugs from some persons aboard the cruise ship, hinting at an “international drug trafficking” network which needs to be probed. Khan's legal counsel, however, maintains that he was “falsely implicated” and that the NCB has no grounds to keep him in custody since no psychotropic substances were recovered from his personal possession.But the NCB opposed the bail plea claiming that releasing Khan on bail at this stage could interfere with the ongoing investigation into the narcotics network. On Monday, the agency said that there was “no extreme urgency” to hear the bail application and sought a week to file an affidavit.At the October 8 hearing before the magistrate's court, Aryan Khan's counsel insisted that “no incriminating contraband drugs or any other material were recovered from him” and that there is nothing on record to suggest that he is “in any way connected with the production, manufacture, possession, sale, purchase, transport, import, export or use of any psychotropic substance or the financing, illicit trafficking and/or harbouring of offenders in relation to any narcotic drugs.” It also mentioned that Aryan Khan has “strong roots in the society” and therefore is not going to abscond or flee from justice.Also Read | 20 arrested in cruise rave party case. What does this mean for Aryan Khan?However, the NCB said the investigation in the case was still on and there was quite a lot of material collected by the agency and at this stage, it needs to be seen if releasing Aryan Khan on bail would hamper the probe into the case. The NCB had last Monday claimed before a city court that “shocking and incriminating” material was recovered in WhatsApp chats of Aryan Khan and two others arrested in connection with the case. Apart from Aryan Khan, four other accused in the case - Arbaaz Merchant, Munmun Dhamecha, Nupur Sateja, and Mohak Jaiswal - have also filed bail pleas in the special court.The federal investigative agency has so far arrested 20 individuals in connection with the Mumbai cruise drug raid case. Aryan Khan has been charged with offences under Sections 8(c), 20(b), 27, 28, 29, and 35 of the NDPS Act about the possession, consumption, and purchase of drugs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drugs-case-aryan-khan-s-bail-plea-to-be-heard-by-special-ndps-court-today-101634081722666.html
13-10-2021||India||PM Modi to launch GatiShakti master plan for modal connectivity today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday will launch 'PM GatiShakti', a national master plan for multi-modal connectivity. According to the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), this plan seeks to address the issue of a lack of coordination among various agencies by institutionalising holistic planning.PM Modi will also inaugurate the new exhibition complex (Exhibition Halls 2 to 5) at Pragati Maidan during the event. The India International Trade Fair (IITF), the flagship event of the India Trade Promotion Organisation, will be held in these new exhibition halls from November 14 to 27, the PMO noted.Describing it as a historic event for the nation's infrastructure landscape, the PMO on Tuesday said that the GatiShakti project will break departmental silos and institutionalise holistic planning for the stakeholders across major infrastructure projects.It further said that all departments will have visibility of each other's projects through a centralised portal and the multi-modal connectivity will provide integrated and seamless connectivity for the movement of people, goods and services. "On the auspicious occasion of Maha Ashtami, tomorrow, 13th October at 11 AM, the PM GatiShakti - National Master Plan for multi-modal connectivity will be launched. Here are the details about why this initiative is special," PM Modi tweeted on Tuesday.The PMO said that GatiShakti is based on the six pillars of comprehensiveness, prioritisation, optimisation, synchronisation and being analytical and dynamic. It will generate large-scale employment opportunities, cut down logistics costs, improve supply chains and make local goods competitive globally.Noting that infrastructure creation suffered in the nation for decades from multiple issues, including a lack of coordination between different departments, the PMO cited the example of newly-constructed roads being dug up by other agencies for activities like laying of underground cables, gas pipelines etc. "This not only caused great inconvenience but was also a wasteful expenditure," the PMO said, adding that measures have been put in place to improve coordination.The PMO further said that steps have also been taken to address other issues such as a time-taking approval process and multiplicity of regulatory clearances etc. It asserted that in the last seven years, the government has ensured unprecedented focus on infrastructure through a holistic outlook.Instead of planning and designing separately in silos, the projects will now be designed and executed with a common vision and will incorporate the infrastructure schemes of various ministries and state governments like Bharatmala, Sagarmala and inland waterways, the PMO stated.“Economic zones like textile clusters, pharmaceutical clusters, defence corridors, electronic parks, industrial corridors, fishing clusters and agri zones will be covered to improve connectivity and make Indian businesses more competitive,” the PMO said.According to the PMO, GatiShakti is the result of PM Modi's constant endeavour to build next-generation infrastructure, which improves ease of living as well as ease of doing business. The multi-modal connectivity will provide integrated and seamless connectivity for the movement of people, goods and services from one mode of transport to another and it will facilitate the last-mile connectivity of infrastructure and also reduce travel time for people.GatiShakti will provide the public and the business community information regarding upcoming connectivity projects, other business hubs, industrial areas and the surrounding environment and also enable the investors to plan their businesses at suitable locations, leading to enhanced synergies, the PMO stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-launch-gatishakti-master-plan-for-modal-connectivity-today-101634081675803.html
13-10-2021||NA||Breaking news: Puducherry declares holiday for schools on Oct 15-16 on occasion of Vijayadashami||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:Puducherry declares holiday for schools on October 15-16 on occasion of VijayadasamiGovernment of Puducherry has declared holidays on October 15 and 16 for govt, govt-aided and private schools on account of Vijayadasami in the union territory and Karaikal regions.Air India Unions place 6 demands before Centre amid Tata takeoverAir India Unions in a joint letter to Secretary, Ministry of Civil Aviation raise concerns about cash, leave, medical benefits, accommodation of employees & arrears. pic.twitter.com/5N6i2qYBDxAir India Unions in a joint letter to Secretary, Ministry of Civil Aviation raise concerns about cash, leave, medical benefits, accommodation of employees and arrears. One of the six parameters included that the employees should be allowed to stay in airline flats till monetization or at least for a year as Tatas are giving a one-year employment guarantee.Israel foreign minister says country 'reserves right' to use force on Iran, reports AFP#BREAKING Israel FM Lapid, with Blinken at his side, says his country 'reserves right' to use force on Iran pic.twitter.com/Nej6vzEm7aIsraeli foreign minister Yair Lapid, with US secretary of state Antony Blinken at his side, said that his country "reserves right" to use force on Iran,  reports AFP. POSOCO reports power outage due to low coal stocks reduced to 6GW on Oct 13 from 11GW on Oct 12Power System Operation Corporation Limited (POSOCO) has reported that the total capacity of units under outage due to low coal stocks has reduced from 11 GW on 12th October to 6 GW on 13th October: Ministry of Power pic.twitter.com/jTb7i4S8P9Power System Operation Corporation Limited (POSOCO) has reported that the total capacity of units under outage due to low coal stocks has reduced to 6 GW on October 13 from 11 GW a day earlier, reports ANI. MP BJP leaders ask Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi to visit Rajasthan for atrocities committed against DalitsBJP leaders in Madhya Pradesh's Indore send air tickets to Congress leaders Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Rahul Gandhi, ask them to visit their party-ruled Rajasthan, where atrocities have been allegedly committed on DalitsMadhya Pradesh BJP leaders sent air tickets to Congress' Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi and asked them to visit Rajasthan, where atrocities against Dalits have allegedly been committed, reports PTI.Over 3.2 million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered today, cumulative coverage crosses 967.8-million markMore than 3.2 million (3,236,997 doses) Covid-19 vaccine doses were administered in India until 7pm today and the cumulative number of doses administered so far crossed the 967-million mark (967,808,545 doses), reports ANI. Manmohan Singh's condition stable admitted for evaluation of fever: AIIMS officialsFormer Prime Minister Dr. Manmohan Singh admitted to All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi for evaluation of fever; his condition is stable: AIIMS officialsFormer PM Manmohan Singh's condition is stable and he was admitted in AIIMS for evaluation of fever, reports ANI citing hospital officials.Uttarakhand to give compensation of ₹50,000 to families of Covid victimsChief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami has said that on death due to COVID19, the state government will give a compensation of ₹50,000 to the kin of the deceased: Uttarakhand Chief Minister's OfficeUttarakhand state government would provide a compensation of ₹50,000 to the families of those who lost their lives to Covid-19, reports ANI citing CM Pushkar Singh Dhami's office. Over 2,200 new Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, Mumbai adds 477 to state's daily tallyWith 2,219 new Covid-19 cases and 49 deaths, Maharashtra's cases tally reached 6,583,896 and the death toll climbed to 139,670.Also, 477 new cases pushed Mumbai's tally to 749,936 and with three more fatalities, the death toll rose to 16,167.Former PM Manmohan Singh admitted to AIIMS, Delhi, reports ANIFormer Prime Minister Manmohan Singh has been admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi, reports ANI.Kerala reports 11,079 new Covid-19 cases, 123 deathsKerala reported 11,079 new Covid-19 cases and 123 deaths in the last 24 hours. The active caseload stands at 97,630, reports ANI. Court adjourns Aryan Khan's bail application hearing, further arguments tomorrowThe special NDPS Court hearing Aryan Khan's bail application has adjourned the hearing to tomorrow for further arguments.President Kovind to visit Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh on October 14, 15President Ram Nath Kovind will visit Ladakh and Jammu and Kashmir on October 14 and 15, reports ANI citing the Rashtrapati Bhavan.The President is scheduled to perform perform Sindhu Darshan puja at Sindhu Ghat, Leh and also interact with troops at Udhampur on October 14 and on the next day, he will pay tributes at the Kargil War Memorial in Drass.Union coal minister says daily coal supply target exceeded today, assures of no shortageUnion coal minister Pralhad Joshi said two million tonnes of coal were supplied today while the power ministry had asked for 1.9 million tonnes per day, reports ANI. “I can assure that there'll be no shortage of coal for electricity production,” Joshi said.Colleges to reopen in Maharashtra from October 20, says ministerColleges in Maharashtra will reopen from October 20, said Uday Samant, higher and technical education minister. The minister also said that the students must be fully vaccinated and if not, universities and colleges must discuss with local administration to set up vaccination camps. Also, online classes should be continued for those students who are unable to attend physical classes.Maharashtra announced ₹10,000 crore package for farmers affected by floodsMaharashtra Cabinet announces a package of ₹10,000 cr to the farmers affected by heavy rains& floods. ₹10,000/hectare assistance for agriculture, ₹15,000/hectare for horticulture& ₹25,000/hectare for perennial crops; aid to be provided up to a limit of 2 hectares landThe Maharashtra cabinet announced a package of ₹10,000 crore for farmers affected due to heavy rains and floods. An amount of ₹10,000 per hectare assistance would be given for agriculture while ₹15,000/hectare for horticulture and ₹25,000/hectare for perennial crops would be given, reports ANI.Centre reciprocates after UK drops 10-day quarantine for vaccinated Indians, withdraws Oct 1 travel guidelinesRevised guidelines for UK nationals arriving in India issued on October 1, 2021, stand withdrawn, and earlier guidelines on international arrival dated February 17, 2021, shall be applicable for those arriving in India from the UK: Ministry of Health pic.twitter.com/Q0EgNqy7N9The Centre has withdrawn the revised guidelines issued on October 1 for UK nationals arriving in India and has reverted back to the previous guidelines issued on Februar 17.J&K Police say top terrorist commander killed in Tral encounterTop JeM Commander #terrorist Sham Sofi killed in Tral #Encounter: IGP Kashmir@JmuKmrPoliceThe Jammu and Kashmir police said that a top Jaish-e-Mohammed commander Sham Sofi was killed in Tral Encounter.'Minister Ajay Mishra should resign, MVA's Maharashtra bandh was successful': PawarSharad Pawar said that minister of state Ajay Mishra should resign taking responsibility for the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, in which farmers were dead.Further, the Maharashtra bandh (shutdown) called by the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi in Maharashtra on Monday was successful, he added. “I received telephones from Uttar Pradesh to express gratitude for the support Maharashtra extended towards the farmers and their families in UP,” Pawar said.Centre misusing agencies like CBI, ED, NCB, says NCP chief Sharad PawarNationalist Congress Party leader Sharad Pawar said that the Union government was “misusing” agencies such as the CBI, Income Tax, ED, NCB for political purposes, reports ANI.J&K Police say encounter started in Tral area, Awantipora; More details to followThe Jammu and Kashmir police said that an encounter has started at Tilwani Mohalla in Tral area of Awantipora.“Police and security forces are on the job. Further details shall follow,” reports ANI citing the police.SOPs for Covid-19 protocols for Chhath Puja celebrations will remain same as for other festivalsSOPs for Covid-19 protocols for Chhath Puja celebrations will remain the same as SOPs for all other festivals: Governmentsources, reports ANI.Maharashtra govt moves HC against CBI summons to chief secy, DGP in Anil Deshmukh caseThe Maharashtra government has moved the Bombay High Court, challenging the recent summons issued by the CBI to state Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte and Director General of Police Sanjay Pandey in connection with the FIR registered by the central agency against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh.Mumbai cruise raid: NCB hands over reply opposing bail plea of Aryan Khan, othersThe Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has handed over copies of their reply to the lawyers concerned on bail applications of Aryan Khan and others in connection with drug seizure on a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast.Death toll from tropical storm in Philippines rises to 13, 9 missingThe death toll from the severe tropical storm Kompasu has risen to 13 and that nine people are missing, the Philippine government said Wednesday.New Pragati Maidan to host G-20 summit in 2023: Piyush GoyalUnion Minister Piyush Goyal on Wednesday said that the new Pragati Maidan will host the G-20 summit in 2023.Court sentences husband Sooraj to double life term in Kerala snake bite murder caseKerala snake bite murder case: Court sentences husband Sooraj to double life term, spares death sentence.NIA conducts raids at 2 places in J-K's SrinagarNIA on Wednesday conducted raids at 2 places in J&K's Srinagar in connection with a new case against Pakistan-based LeT's offshoot, The Resistance Front (TRF). It's in continuation of the anti-terror agency's 1st search op conducted at 16 places in J&K on Tuesday against TRF: NIA.Congress leaders meet President Ram Nath Kovind to demand sacking of MoS Home Ajay MishraCongress leaders meet President Ram Nath Kovind to demand sacking of MoS Home Ajay Mishra over Lakhimpur Kheri incident.PM Modi reviews model of new exhibition complex at Pragati MaidanPrime Minister Narendra Modi reviewed the model of the new exhibition complex at Pragati Maidan today. He is unveiling Mega Gatishakti Master Plan today.Lakhimpur Kheri violence 'absolutely condemnable': SitharamanThe Lakhimpur Kheri violence, in which four farmers were killed, is “absolutely condemnable,” Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has said, emphasising that there are issues of such nature happening in other parts of India equally which should be raised "when they happen and not when it suits others" because there is a BJP government in Uttar Pradesh.Rupee rises 26 paise to 75.26Rupee rises 26 paise to 75.26 against US dollar in early trade.Five killed by militants in Manipur's KangpokpiAs many as five people have been killed by militants in Manipur's B Gamnom village in Kangpokpi district after they opened fire at a crowd on Tuesday, said Inspector General of Police (IGP) Lunseih Kipgen.Sensex rallies 200 points to open session at 60,505Sensex rallies 200 points to open session at 60,505; Nifty above 18,000.India reports 15,823 new Covid-19 cases, 226 deaths in last 24 hoursIndia recorded 15,823 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, which pushed the nationwide tally to 34,001,743, while the death toll climbed to 451,189 with 226 daily fatalities, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Wednesday. 13,25,399 samples were tested yesterday: ICMR58,63,63,442 samples tested for Covid-19 up to October 12. Of these, 13,25,399 samples were tested yesterday: Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).20 motorcycles gutted in fire in Mumbai's KurlaA massive fire broke out among around 20 motorcycles parked at a residential society in Mumbai's Nehru Nagar, Kurla on Wednesday morning.Drugs case: Aryan Khan's bail plea to be heard by special NDPS court todayA special court, hearing matters related to the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, will hear the bail petition of actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan and others on Wednesday.US to open border with Canada starting in early NovemberThe United States will open its border with Canada to vaccinated Canadians starting in early November, the Buffalo News reported on Tuesday.Panama approves Pfizer Covid-19 booster for high-risk peoplePanama has approved a booster dose of Pfizer Inc's Covid-19 vaccine for high-risk people, including healthcare workers, bedridden patients, nursing home residents and people over 55, health officials said on Tuesday.3 employees killed in shooting at postal facility in MemphisTwo US Postal Service workers were fatally shot Tuesday at a postal facility in Memphis and a third employee identified as the shooter died from a self-inflicted gunshot, authorities said.Mumbai airport's Terminal 1 to open from todayMumbai's Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) will resume operations from T-1 from Wednesday.PM Modi to launch GatiShakti master plan for modal connectivity todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will launch PM GatiShakti-National Master Plan on Wednesday for multi-modal connectivity.California wildfires destroy mobile homes; 1 man burnedDestructive California wildfires driven by intense winds caused damage at two mobile home parks, destroying some trailers, and one person suffered burns, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-october-13-2021-101634081348586.html
13-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur: Farmers, politicians pay homage to deceased protesters, journalist||Thousandsof farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand and other parts of Uttar Pradesh, farm leaders and political leaders converged in Lakhimpur’s Tikunia village for the ‘antim ardas’ (final prayers) of the four farmers and a journalist killed in the October 3 violence.The ‘antim ardas’ for the four deceased farmers, Daljeet Singh and Gurvinder Singh of Bahraich district, Nachhattar Singh of Dhaurahra (Lakhimpur) and Lovepreet Singh of Pallia (Lakhimpur) and journalist Raman Kashyap of Nighasan (Lakhimpur) was held amidst heavy police presence. The units of the police, Provincial Armed Constabulary and Rapid Action Force were deputed near the venue to ensure law and order and avert any untoward incident.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, UP Congress Committee chief Ajay Kumar Lallu, Rashtriya Lok Dal chief Jayant Chaudhary and Samajwadi Party leaders including its district president Rampal Singh Yadav were among those who paid tribute to the deceased.Samyukta Kisan Morcha and Bharatiya Kisan Union leaders Rakesh Tikait, Darshan Singh Pal, Joginder Singh Ugrahan, Dharmendra Malik besides local farm union leaders also arrived in the village to pay tributes.Paying homage to the deceased, farmer leaders reiterated their demand for the arrest of Union minister of state for home Ajay Kumar Mishra Teni. “Insaf tabhi hoga jab mantri giraftar hoga (Justice will be done only after the minister (junior minister for home Ajay Kumar Mishra Teni) is arrested,” said a local farm leader, Joginder Singh.Notably, farm unions blame Mishra and his son Ashish for the October 3 incident in which a convoy of vehicles belonging to the junior home minister ploughed through farmers returning from a protest. The UP police arrested Ashish Mishra in connection with the case on Saturday.Family members of the deceased farmers also reiterated the same demand. “The police cannot conduct a fair investigation till minister Ajay Mishra resigns from his post and is arrested for criminal conspiracy that resulted in the violence,” said Gurjinder Singh, uncle of deceased farmer Gurvinder Singh.Eight people, including four farmers, were killed in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri district on October 3, in the bloodiest clash since the farmers’ protest over the Centre’s three contentious agricultural laws started last year. The farmers were allegedly knocked down by vehicles driven by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers travelling to welcome deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to the area. The remaining deceased -- two BJP workers, a journalist and a driver -- were allegedly pulled out of the vehicles and then lynched by angry protesters.Meanwhile, the police on Tuesday arrested the fourth accused, Ashish’s accomplice, Ankit Das’ driver Shekhar Bharti, who was allegedly driving the black car behind Mishra’s car that allegedly mowed down four farmers.Last week, the police said names of total six accused surfaced during the course of investigation. Apart from Bharti and Ashish, latter’s two accomplices Luv Kush and Ashish Pandey have also been arrested. The police said that three other accused, including Mishra’s driver and two BJP workers, were killed during the violenceThe police, on Tuesday, also took the main accused, Ashish Mishra into three day custody after the court order on Monday, for further interrogation to crime branch while Ankit Das filed his surrender application in a local court on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-farmers-politicians-pay-homage-to-deceased-protesters-journalist-101634076670135.html
13-10-2021||India||PMO draws up plan to ensure supply of coal to power plants||The Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) has drawn up a plan to ensure uninterrupted fuel supplies to power plants even as the Union power ministry issued a directive that unallocated electricity supply will be snapped to states selling power on exchanges at higher rates instead of supplying to their customers.Two government officials familiar with the matter said that the plan — discussed in a meeting on Tuesday held by PK Mishra, principal secretary to the Prime Minister, and attended by coal secretary Anil Kumar Jain, power secretary Alok Kumar, and railway board chairman Suneet Sharma — involves the state-run Coal India Ltd (CIL) supplying an additional 200,000 tonne of coal on a daily basis to ramp up the fossil fuel supplies to 2.1 million tonne per day.Also Read| ‘No power outage in Delhi, AAP ensuring supply via gas-based electricity’: JainIt was also decided to facilitate operationalising the imported coal fuelled power generation capacity of 17.06 gigawatt (GW) to help ease the pressure on domestic coal fuelled power projects, they added.The meeting at the PMO followed home minister Amit Shah’s meeting with coal minister Pralhad Joshi and power minister Raj Kumar Singh on Monday amid concerns by some states that depleted coal stocks at power plants may lead to blackouts. The power ministry on Sunday said “any fear of disruption in power supply is entirely misplaced”.Officials said that Indian Railways will provide the additional rakes for the transportation of coal. Mint reported on Tuesday that extra supply will be ensured by Coal India Ltd (CIL). India has the world’s fourth largest reserves and is the second-largest producer of coal.“An additional 60 railway rakes carrying coal will be supplied by CIL that will increase supplies by an additional 2 lakh tonnes of coal. The total coal supply at thermal power plants was 1.9 mt on Monday and with this additional supply, it will go up to 2.1 mt. This quantum is expected to be reached by 20 October. With the supplies being increased, the coal depletion at the plants has stopped and will help towards building up stocks,” said one of the two government officials cited above on condition of anonymity.Queries emailed to the spokespersons of the PMO and ministries of power, coal and railway on late Tuesday night remained unanswered till press time.Also Read| As concerns rise over coal shortage, Centre reassures with ‘fact-check’In a letter to all state governments and distribution companies (discoms), the Union ministry of power requested all states and UTs to utilise unallocated power of the central generating stations (CGS) to meet the requirement of their own consumers only. In case of excess power, it asked the states to inform the ministry, so that the electricity can be diverted to needy states. “It has been observed that some states are not supplying power to their consumers and imposing load shedding in some areas. At the same time, they are also selling power in the power exchange at a high price,” read the letter signed by deputy secretary, GoI, Devashis Bose, without naming any state.While CIL’s annual production target is 670 mt for the current fiscal, the coal offtake is expected to be 740 mt. The miner started the year with a 99 mt stock, and the current coal stock available for supply at CIL mines is 40 mt.There are a number of reasons for the current situation. International prices of coal have surged, increasing the demand for local coal. Power demand, and therefore the derived demand for coal, has increased sharply in the past couple of months, perhaps a reflection of pent-up demand on account of the disruption from the second wave of the pandemic in April-May and a surge in activity ahead of the festival season. Heavy rainfall, especially in the coal-producing regions of Jharkhand, Odisha and West Bengal in September, added to the problems. This also comes at a time of China facing crippling power shortages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pmo-draws-up-plan-to-ensure-supply-of-coal-to-power-plants-101634076732237.html
13-10-2021||India||Domestic flights to operate at 100% capacity from Oct 18||The Union ministry of civil aviation (MoCA) on Tuesday allowed domestic flights to fly with 100% capacity from October 18 onwards, coinciding with what is usually the beginning of the peak season for the aviation business in the country.The ministry reduced the permissible capacity to 50% with effect from June 1 due to the second wave of the pandemic. It increased it to 72.5% with effect from August 12, and further to 85.% with effect from September 18. The passenger traffic has increased from around 3.1 million in June to 6.9 million in September. Most airlines say their busier routes are seeing an average occupancy of 70.2%.According to DGCA data, average load factor of six major airlines in August was 70.2%. IndiGo said its current load factor is 75% to 80% and average daily flights is around 1,200.IndiGo said it is happy with government’s decision to allow airlines to operate with full capacity from October 18.“It is a welcome move as we believe that with recent pent-up demand combined with the upcoming festive season, it will be great to operate flights on pre-pandemic levels. We are quite bullish about the overall growth and demand for domestic travel,” IndiGo spokesperson said.The ministry’s announcement comes against the backdrop of business activities returning to normal — the Nomura India Business Resumption Index or NIBRI crossed 100 for the first time in the week ended August 15, 2021 — and with some people even returning to the office, and with the average of cases and deaths falling. The 7-day average of cases was 19,018 on October 11, the lowest since early March and that of deaths, 244, the lowest since late March.Airlines have been lobbying for an increase in capacity for several months and welcome Tuesday’s announcement.“Vistara welcomes the Government’s decision to remove the capacity cap. We believe that it will be helpful in accelerating recovery from the severe impacts of the pandemic as demand continues to grow, especially with the growing confidence in air travel and the much-awaited festive season,” said Vistara spokesperson.Tuesday’s circular read, ‘...it has been decided to restore the scheduled domestic air operations with effect from 18 without any capacity restriction.’However, scheduled international operations continue to remain suspended further till October 31. International operations under the Vande Bharat Mission will however continue.Suprio Banerjee, vice-president and sector head of ratings agency ICRA, said, “In ICRA’s view this is a step in right direction, given on a sequential basis from June 2021 there has been a steady rise in domestic passenger traffic on month-on-month basis, reflecting pick up in leisure and corporate travel to an extent compared to necessary travel when the second wave of Covid-19 hit. With onset of the festive and tourist season... 100% permissible capacity will allow the airlines to serve a wider market and in turn will encourage air travel.”Nishant Pitti, CEO and co-founder of EaseMyTrip, said, “...we believe the lifting of capacity restrictions will have a positive impact on airline partners to rise from the challenges that they have been facing over the past year and a half.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/domestic-flights-to-operate-at-100-capacity-from-oct-18-101634076334390.html
13-10-2021||India||‘It will return to haunt you’: India attacks Pak over terror||Forces of extremism, radicalisation and violence “come back to haunt those who nurture them,” external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Tuesday in a thinly veiled attack on Pakistan’s support for cross-border terrorism.Jaishankar also used his speech at a meeting of foreign ministers of the Conference on Interaction and Confidence-Building Measures in Asia (CICA) in Kazakhstan to target China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI).Respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity of nations must be at the heart of all connectivity projects, he said.His remarks came against the backdrop of mounting concerns in New Delhi over Pakistan’s role in Afghanistan following the Taliban takeover of Kabul on August 15. India has also opposed initiatives under BRI, such as the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), because a key stretch passes through Pakistan-occupied Kashmir.Jaishankar described terrorism as the “biggest enemy” of the common goal of peace and development for members of CICA, a multinational forum for cooperation to promote security and stability in Asia that was established under Kazakhstan’s leadership in 1999.“In this day and age, we cannot countenance its [terrorism’s] use by one state against another. Cross-border terrorism is not statecraft; it is simply another form of terrorism,” Jaishankar said in an apparent reference to Pakistan.“The international community must unite against this menace, as seriously as it does on issues like climate change and pandemics. Any calculation that extremism, radicalisation, violence, and bigotry can be used to advance interests is a very short-sighted one. Such forces will come back to haunt those who nurture them,” he said.Any lack of stability in the region will undermine collective efforts to bring the Covid-19 pandemic under control, and the “situation in Afghanistan is, therefore, of grave concern”, he added.Jaishankar also raised the situation in Afghanistan when the foreign ministers of CICA states collectively called on Kazakh President Kassym-Jomart Tokayev.He said on Twitter that he had underlined CICA’s relevance in addressing challenges such as terrorism, pandemics and protection of global commons, and highlighted that “Afghanistan developments have generated understandable concern”. CICA can be a positive factor in shaping a global response, he said.During his speech at the CICA foreign ministers’ meeting, Jaishankar also said Asia suffers from a “deficit of connectivity”, which is needed to promote economic and social activity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-will-return-to-haunt-you-india-attacks-pak-over-terror-101634067797475.html
13-10-2021||India||NIA raids in Delhi-NCR in Mundra drug haul case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Tuesday carried out raids at five locations in Delhi and Noida in connection with the 3,000 kg Afghan heroin consignment seized from Mundra port last month.The drug haul, worth an estimated ₹21,000 crore, was the largest ever seizure in India. NIA is investigating a narco-terror link as the heroin was sent to India from Kandahar after the Taliban’s takeover of Afghanistan on August 15.The places raided include residential premises of some suspects and godowns at Lajpat Nagar, Alipur, Khera Kalan in New Delhi and Noida, the federal anti-terror agency said in a statement.The premises were linked to individuals, including some Afghan nationals, under investigation in the case, an official said, requesting anonymity.The consignment was intercepted by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) on September 14 and 15 on the basis of specific intelligence that high-quality heroin was being smuggled in two containers from Afghanistan to Gujarat’s Mundra port via Iran’s Bandar Abbas port.The two containers checked by India’s apex anti-smuggling agency had 1,999.58 kg and 988.64 kg heroin packed and layered between talc stones to avoid detection by security and customs officials. HT exclusively reported the seizure on September 20.At least eight people, including Chennai couple Govindaraju Durga Purna Vaishali and Machavaram Sudhakar, who allegedly imported the heroin concealed in semi-processed talc stones through their Vijaywada-registered Aashi Trading Company from a Kandahar-based company; four Afghan nationals; and an Uzbek woman and others have been arrested by the DRI so far.The home ministry transferred the case to NIA last week to probe any Taliban-Pakistan connection.Vaishali and Sudhakar are said to be small players as they got only ₹10 lakh to ₹12 lakh commission for allegedly allowing to use their talc stones containers to smuggle heroin. A larger network of Afghan nationals is suspected to be behind the consignment, an officer said .There are 800 to 900 mid- and high-level drugs traffickers and syndicates in Afghanistan, according to estimates by the United Nations. Kandahar is among the provinces, along with Helmand, Badghis, Uruzgan and Faryab, where the country’s major poppy cultivation takes place. Heroin is processed from poppy.The potential opium production in Afghanistan in 2020 was estimated at 6,300 tonnes and the average opium yield was 28.0 kg per hectare, UN data suggest. The country produces over 85% of the world’s opium.The total area under opium poppy cultivation in Afghanistan was estimated at 224,000 hectares in 2020, which represented an increase of 37%, or 61,000 hectares, compared with 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-raids-in-delhi-ncr-in-mundra-drug-haul-case-101634066239773.html
13-10-2021||India||2023 assembly elections will be my last, says Kumaraswamy||JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy on Tuesday said that the 2023 assembly elections in Karnataka will be his last, and sought an opportunity from the people to independently run a government for five years, so as to implement programmes for the larger public good.“I have been the Chief Minister twice with your blessings. I have decided that the 2023 assembly election will be my last fight. It is not for me to come to power or become the Chief Minister. With the blessings of God, I have already been Chief Minister twice, despite not having a majority,” Kumaraswamy said.Speaking to party workers and the public, he sought their blessings and support in bringing JD(S) to power independently, for implementing ‘Pancharatna’, the five fold programme envisaged by him that include quality education, health, housing, farmer welfare and employment.“I’m marching ahead with a challenge...I request you with folded hands to give us (JDS) an opportunity to run an independent government in this state for five years. I seek your blessings,” the former Chief Minister added.JD(S) has already announced “mission 123” (winning 123 seats in the 224 member assembly) to bring the party to power, after the 2023 assembly polls.Pointing at farm loan waiver announced by him as chief minister of the Congress-JD(S) coalition government and a beneficiary farmer from Hangal inviting him for his housewarming ceremony, Kumaraswamy said... “but our farmers forget Kumaranna (as he is popularly called) while voting, this is the situation we are in.” “Give one opportunity to the party you have nurtured, bless us to form a government on our own strength, believing in me....If I don’t live up to my words on implementing Pancharatna, I will never come to you again, seeking votes for my party. Test us, you have seen both BJP and Congress,” he added.Kumaraswamy had headed a coalition government with both national parties in the past, for 20-months with BJP from February 2006 and with Congress for 14-months after the May 2018 assembly polls.Earlier in the day, speaking to reporters, the JD(S) leader claimed that the recent Income Tax raids specifically on a person who is said to be former CM B S Yediyurappa’s Personal Assistant and Water Resources department related contractors, was an attempt by the BJP to “control” Yediyurappa, following his alleged late night meeting with Congress leader Siddaramaiah. “Anyone with the slightest understanding of politics can understand that the recent IT raids were for what reasons....IT raids were with a political motive...it is to control or checkmate Yediyurappa...as both (Siddaramaiah and Yediyurappa) had a late night meeting about political developments, and the BJP that has government both at Centre and state got to know about it from their sources, and probably have tightened things,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2023-assembly-elections-will-be-my-last-says-kumaraswamy-101634066062631.html
13-10-2021||India||3.5 magnitude quake hits Kalaburagi district in Karnataka||An earthquake measuring 3.5 magnitude in richters scale shook parts of Kalaburagi district on Tuesday, however, no loss of life or damage to property has been reported, the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC) in a statement said. This is the fourth earthquake reported in Kalaburagi in the last few days. On Monday, authorities had recorded a 4.0 magnitude earthquake in the same district around 11.10 am. However, the intensity of Monday’s earthquake was felt in a radial distance of 50-60 kms, authorities said. The first tremor was on October 1.This is the sixth earthquake to hit north Karnataka region around Bidar and Kalaburagi since October 1. While two had occurred in Basavakalyan on October 1 and 5, four were recorded in Kalaburagi on October 9, 11 and 12.In a statement, the KSNDMC said that Tuesday’s earthquake occurred around 8.07 am and measured 3.5 on the richters scale. “As per seismic intensity map of the earthquake from the epicentre, the intensity observed is low and the earthquake might be felt up to a maximum radial distance of 7-12 kms. These type of earthquakes do not create any harm to the community, although some tremors can be felt locally. The community need not panic as the intensity observed is low and not destructive,” the KSNDMC said. The epicentre was 1.6 kms of Kupnoor Grama Panchayat in Chincholi taluk of Kalaburagi, it said. “These are very minor events. They are local adjustments or intra-plate activity or activity within plates. People should be alert, but we cannot say whether this will lead to a higher-intensity earthquake. Earthquakes cannot be predicted,” said JL Gautam, head of operations at National Centre for Seismology (NCS). Manoj Rajan, the commissioner of the KSNDMC said that agency’s scientific personnel have visited the affected areas and have taken up field surveys in and around these regions of Vijayapura & Kalaburagi districts and have created awareness among the people as they were in panic. “We have requested director, National Geophysical Research Institute (NGRI) to depute a team of scientists to conduct a detailed survey on earthquakes in and around Vijayapura & Kalaburagi districts and submit its report,” Rajan told Hindustan Times on Tuesday. Authorities have reached out to the mines and geology department to understand the phenomena and also raise awareness among the people who have been living in constant fear over the recent events. Rajan said that the phenomenon related to the occurence of micro tremors originating from shallow depths is associated with subterranean sounds which was experienced between 2006-2009 at Hasargundgi, Yelakapalli, Yempalli, Chimanchod of Chincholi taluk and Kalaburgi district. “During 2010 to 2014, 25 micro tremors in Vijayapura of magnitude 1.2 to 3.1 have been reported by the Permanent Seismic Monitoring Stations Network established by KSNDMC along with subterranean sounds. In Kalaburgi, during 2016, two micro tremors of magnitude 1.5 and 1.6 respectively has been reported and in Bidar during 2017, 3 micro tremors of magnitude 2.0 to 2.2 have been reported by the KSNDMC Network,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/35-magnitude-quake-hits-kalaburagi-district-in-karnataka-101634066061473.html
13-10-2021||India||Karnataka launches NEP in engineering colleges||Karnataka chief minister Basvaraj Bommai on Tuesday launched the National Education Policy (NEP-2020) in engineering colleges which the former referred to as big reform in technical education in the state.Bommai said that internet technology has broken all shackles and multidisciplinary learning is the need of the hour.“The new NEP-2020 policy to incorporate it in engineering education, curriculum on par to make Karnataka a destination for technical education, four-year BSc honours and engineering education in Kannada medium. Such a big reform has never happened in Karnataka’s technical education,” Bommai said on Tuesday.The ‘Destination Karnataka for Technical Education’ initiative has been done with the aim to produce a better quality of talent pool in the state, the government said.Karnataka has been speeding up the implementation of NEP despite opposition from various quarters over the contentious policy mooted by Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) union government.“The world has already moved from the age of ‘percentage’ to (the) age of ‘percentile. Educational institutes of the state should closely observe this and adapt accordingly,” according to a statement from the higher education minister, attributing the quote to Bommai.Dr CN Ashwath Narayan, Karnataka’s minister for higher education minister said the curriculum of BE and B.Sc. honours has been designed on par with IIT and IISc respectively along the lines of NEP.“Now, 66 engineering colleges have been given approval to commence B.Sc. honours course. As a mark of India completing 75 years of Independence, the government aims to start B.Sc. honours in 75 colleges,” the minister said.Narayan said that the campaign, “Destination Karnataka” for Technical Education, 4 years B.Sc. honours programme in engineering colleges and teaching-learning of engineering in Kannada were also launched on Tuesday.In August this year, the Karnataka government had launched the admission module through the Unified University & College Management System.Narayan had at the time said that all the information regarding major subjects, minor subjects, core electives, open electives, vocational training among others will be provided in this module.Karnataka has made no secret of its goals to be the first to implement the contentious policy among all other states in the country.“In all 32 subject-wise and faculty-wise committees have been constituted to prepare the curriculum as per the NEP principles. For the current year, the curriculum has to be prepared for 1st year of degree courses and 1st year of post-graduation courses before the commencement of classes by the 1st week of October,” Narayan had stated on August 9.The Karnataka government has defended the policy stating that the NEP will bring in flexibility in learning and teaching process by eliminating the rigidities and it will allow students to design their own courses based on their interest.The government has also tried to allay fears that the NEP will further impose Hindi on non-Hindi speaking states. He had earlier stated that regional languages like Kannada will be strengthened by adopting this policy as the language would be mandatory.The Karnataka government on Tuesday also said that it would ensure that there would be no power outages in the state on account of the shortage of coal.Bommai said that he has spoken to all stakeholders, including union ministers and two additional rakes will come to Karnataka to compensate for any shortage.“Now there is no power cut. We will ensure that there is no power cut in the coming days,” he said. The minister said that there was a shortage due to the heavy rains that led to stalling of loading rakes in states like Odisha and the situation was now sorted with rakes headed Karnataka’s way.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-launches-nep-in-engineering-colleges-101634066059805.html
13-10-2021||India||Four killed as heavy rains pound Kerala||Heavy rainfall due to a low pressure system in the Arabian Sea lashed many parts of Kerala on Tuesday, claiming four lives, two of them children. The India Metrological Department has issued high alerts as many rivers and dams were filled to the brim. State authorities have shifted people living along river banks and low-lying areas to relief camps. At Karippur in Malappuram district, two children — eight-month-old Rizawna and seven-year-old Rinsana — died after a wall of their house collapsed due to heavy rain and winds when they were asleep, police said. Though they were taken out immediately by local people, they could not be saved. Their mother escaped with minor injuries. In Kollam, 65-year-old Govindarajan died after he fell into a flooded stream, while a local journalist — 52-year-old K Radhakrishan — died in Pandalam after a tree fell on his bike, police said. The Met department has issued orange alert in six districts and yellow alert in four districts till Thursday. State authorities have advised fishermen not to venture out to sea, while travellers have been asked to avoid travelling at night in hilly areas. In Idukki, the district administration has banned night travel till Thursday. The district had witnessed several landslides in the past two years, including one in August last year when 70 people were killed after a major landslide decimated a colony of plantation workers in Pettimudi. Incidents of waterlogging were reported in many areas in Kollam, Kochi and Kozhikode districts while vehicular traffic was disrupted in many parts of Alapzuha district. Services were suspended on the Kollam-Chengotta rail line after a landslip. The state government was closely monitoring the situation and district collectors have been asked to open relief camps in affected areas, revenue minister K Rajan said. The Met department said multiple weather conditions in the Andaman Bay and Arabian Sea triggered heavy rain, which is expected to continue till Friday. Another low-pressure is likely to form over the Bay of Bengal by Wednesday under its influence. “In some areas, rainfall will be as high as 20 cm. We are separately monitoring the situation in dam-catchment areas. Rainy situation will prevail till Friday,” said K Santhosh, regional Met director in Thiruvananthapuram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-killed-as-heavy-rains-pound-kerala-101634065519679.html
13-10-2021||India||Kerala Cong revamp delayed, senior leaders to be consulted||The organisational revamping in Kerala Congress has been further delayed after senior leaders V M Sudheeran, who recently resigned from the Congress, and former PCC chief Mullapally Ramachandran, among others, expressed reservations over the proposed state office-bearers’ list. Party state president K Sudhakaran, who was in New Delhi last week to finalise the list, returned to the state capital without the list on Tuesday. Sudhakaran said he would be talking to the concerned leaders to avoid a fiasco similar to when the party announced the district Congress committee (DCC) presidents list. All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary KC Venugopal clarified that he was not behind the delay after a section of leaders blamed him. Talking to a news channel on Tuesday, he rejected charges by a section of Kerala Congress that he was cultivating his group in the faction-ridden party. “It is completely wrong. There is a tendency to put everything on me if anything happens in the state unit. Our only aim is to strengthen the party in the state,” he said on Tuesday. The announcement of the new DCC presidents’ list by Sudhakaran sent Kerala Congress into a frenzy, with disciplinary action against several leaders, and some leaders resigned over their disagreement with the list. Senior leaders like former Kerala chief minister Oommen Chandy and Ramesh Chennithala also aired their displeasure in public. After a poor show in the April assembly elections, the party was forced to carry out major surgery in the state unit. It decided to clip the wings of two powerful groups and elevated a new crop of leaders. K Sudhakaran, a tough leader from Kannur, became the PCC president, and another popular leader V D Satheesan was appointed as the opposition leader, sidelining two powerful blocs led by Chandy and Chennithala who ruled the party for more than a decade. Currently, the PCC has 100-odd secretaries, several vice-presidents and other office-bearers. But the new PCC will have only 50 members, said Sudhakaran, adding he’s planning to transform the party into a semi-cadre organisation, and hard work and organising capacity will be only criteria for leaders, not their factional affiliations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cong-revamp-delayed-senior-leaders-to-be-consulted-101634065462291.html
13-10-2021||India||Given nod for withdrawal of Sabarimala cases: Kerala CM Vijayan||The Kerala government has granted permission to withdraw cases of non-criminal nature registered during the Sabarimala agitation in the aftermath of the Supreme Court verdict three years ago, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said in the assembly on Tuesday. He said cases registered during the Citizenship Amendment Act stir in the state in 2019 will also be withdrawn. Responding to a question raised by opposition leader V D Satheesan, the CM said the state has directed the police chief, district police superintendents and district collectors to examine the nature of cases, after which a special committee will evaluate them and recommend suitable cases for withdrawal. A final decision would be taken by the concerned courts, Vijayan said, adding the procedure will be expedited. “The government issued the order in this regard in February itself. But the state has limitations on this since it is falling under the purview of the judiciary. We will do everything possible to expedite this,” he said. Before the assembly elections in April, the government had decided to withdraw 2000-odd cases registered during the 2018-19 Sabarimala agitation, but formalities dragged. The opposition leader sought the attention of the chief minister, saying that many people are forced to frequent courts and it was affecting youngsters badly. Most of the people were booked for just participating in the hymn-chanting sessions during the peak of the stir. “Though the government announced its decision before the assembly election nothing happened on the ground. Many affected are still struggling with cases,” Satheesan said. The state had witnessed large-scale violence, and five shutdowns in 2018 after the Supreme Court allowed women of all ages to the hilltop temple, annulling an age-old bar on women of reproductive age. For the first time in the history of the state, more than 50,000 people were booked in connection with the agitation. After widespread protests in 2019, the SC referred the case to a nine-member bench and a final verdict is pending. The former chief minister and Congress leader Oommen Chandy had recently written a letter to Vijayan asking him to approach the Supreme Court to speed up the verdict, and withdraw its earlier affidavit that favoured entry of women of all ages. He said the Kerala government’s fresh affidavit in the apex court in 2016 created much confusion, which ultimately led to the five-bench verdict in 2018. The Nair Service Society, a socio-cultural organization of upper caste Nairs, which took a proactive role during the agitation, had also asked the chief minister to withdraw cases against those who participated in the agitation. Its secretary G Sukumaran Nair had cited the plight of youngsters and the elderly. But Bindu Ammini, one of only two women who entered Sabarimala three years ago, said she was worried that even some progressive outfits diluted their stance for vote bank politics. The college teacher said she expected a steady stream of women to the temple after her entry, but it never happened.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/given-nod-for-withdrawal-of-sabarimala-cases-kerala-cmvijayan-101634065461089.html
13-10-2021||India||Agencies search, former Mumbai commissioner Param Bir Singh still not traced||Law enforcement agencies in Maharashtra have no clue about the whereabouts of former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh, who has been incommunicado for past two months even as speculation rages that he has left the country.A team from Maharashtra crime investigation department (CID) has visited Singh’s known addresses: his official residence in Mumbai, family home in Chandigarh, and a house in Rohtak, Haryana. It also visited a hospital in Chandigarh to check if Singh was admitted there as he sought extension of his sick leave, claiming he needed surgery.Another team from Mumbai police visited his private residence in Vile Parle and sent him notices on two of his known email accounts.After all this, Singh remains untraced, has chosen not to reply to any of the emails, and dodged a summons to appear before the police on Tuesday.An Indian Police Service (IPS) officer who asked not to be named said that Singh hasn’t opened the emails. His last known location was Chandigarh, the officer said.Some police officers claimed that Singh might have escaped the country even before a so-called lookout notice was issued on August 12. Such a notice effectively prevents anyone from legally leaving the country.“There is a possibility that he might have used the Nepal route to escape the country. There is also a possibility that he might have travelled to Andaman and from there flown to another country. But there is no specific information as such,” said a senior Maharashtra police officer who asked not to be named.Other senior officers insist that an IPS officer as senior as Singh would not flee from the country in such a manner.Maharashtra home minister Dilip Walse Patil said on October 1 that “any civil service officer needs the approval of the central government (for leaving the country). The Union home ministry is also searching for his whereabouts. We have no clue about his whereabouts as of now and we too are searching for him.”Singh was removed from the post of Mumbai police commissioner on March 17 following his handling of the Antilia explosives scare and the murder of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran. He was shifted to Maharashtra home guards on March 22.He subsequently lashed out against then state home minister Anil Deshmukh in a letter to the chief minister, and also sought legal redress over his transfer.On April 7, Singh appeared before the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to record his statement in the two cases. He was subsequently summoned by the federal agency, but did not appear before it.Singh last attended his office on May 4, and went on leave from May 5, citing health issues.Thereafter he communicated with the Maharashtra home department, requesting extension of his leave due to health issues. He claimed to have undergone a surgery. In mid-August, he again requested extension of leave over health grounds.It was the last anyone heard from him, said another senior police officer requesting anonymity||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/agencies-search-former-mumbai-commissioner-param-bir-singh-still-not-traced-101634064920165.html
13-10-2021||India||Modi to launch ‘PM GatiShakti’ infrastructure initiative today||New Delhi: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday will launch ‘PM GatiShakti’ — the national master plan for multi-modal connectivity —which will institutionalise holistic planning of major infrastructure projects, hitherto planned and designed in silos, Union commerce and industry ministry said in a statement on Tuesday. Infrastructure creation in India suffered for decades from multiple issues, including lack of coordination between different departments, the statement said, citing the example of current practice of road construction, which is often dug up by other agencies to lay underground cables and gas pipelines. “In order to address this issue, save time and cost and shield the common man from inconveniences, the government has put in place a coordinated efforts of 16 ministries and departments under the PM GatiShakti,” a senior official of the ministry said requesting anonymity. “Instead of planning and designing separately in silos, the projects will be designed and executed with a common vision,” the official added. The initiative will have coordinated efforts in infrastructure related to airways, highways, waterways, and ports. It will also rope in users such as economic zones such as textile clusters, pharmaceutical clusters, defence corridors, electronic parks, industrial corridors, fishing clusters and agri zones. The effort will make Indian businesses more competitive, the official said. The high-technology online system is developed by Bhaskaracharya National Institute for Space Applications and Geoinformatics (BiSAG-N) and based on six pillars — comprehensiveness, prioritisation, optimisation, synchronisation, analytical and dynamic, said the ministry’s statement. “PM GatiShakti will include all the existing and planned initiatives of various ministries and departments with one centralised portal. Thus, different agencies will be able to prioritise their projects through cross–sectoral interactions and help them in selecting the most optimum route in terms of time and cost,” it added. The system will help in synchronising activities of each department, as well as of different layers of governance in a holistic manner by ensuring coordination of work between them. It will provide the entire data at one place with GIS-based spatial planning and analytical tools having over 200 layers, enabling better visibility to the executing agency, the statement said. It will facilitate ministries and departments to visualise, review and monitor the progress of cross-sectoral projects, through the GIS platform, as the satellite imagery will give on-ground progress periodically and progress of the projects will be updated on a regular basis on the portal. It will help in identifying the vital interventions for enhancing and updating the master plan, the statement added. “PM GatiShakti is the result of Prime Minister’s constant endeavour to build Next Generation Infrastructure which improves Ease of Living as well as Ease of Doing Business,” the commerce minister statement said. The multi-modal connectivity will provide integrated and seamless connectivity for movement of people, goods and services from one mode of transport to another. It will facilitate the last mile connectivity of infrastructure and also reduce travel time for people, it added. PM GatiShakti will provide the public and business community information regarding the upcoming connectivity projects, business hubs, industrial areas and surrounding environment. This will enable the investors to plan their businesses at suitable locations leading to enhanced synergies. “It will create multiple employment opportunities and give a boost to the economy,” the statement said. “It will improve the global competitiveness of local products by cutting down the logistics costs and improving the supply chains, and also ensure proper linkages for local industry and consumers,” it added. PM will also inaugurate the New Exhibition Complex (Exhibition Halls 2 to 5) at Pragati Maidan during the event. India Trade Promotion Organisation’s (ITPO) flagship event, India International Trade Fair (IITF) 2021 will also be held from November 14-27, 2021 in these new exhibition halls. Union ministers for commerce, road transport and highways, railways, civil aviation, shipping, power, and petroleum will also be present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-to-launch-pm-gatishakti-infrastructure-initiative-today-101634064739720.html
13-10-2021||India||PM Narendra Modi calls for unified effort on Afghanistan at G 20 summit||Only a unified response by the world community will ensure the desired change in the situation in Afghanistan, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday against the backdrop of a looming humanitarian crisis and the Taliban’s efforts to gain international acceptance.In his virtual address to a G20 extraordinary summit on Afghanistan, Modi emphasised the need to ensure that Afghan soil doesn’t become a source of terrorism. He also called for an inclusive administration in Kabul to preserve the socioeconomic gains of the past two decades.Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi hosted the special summit of the Group of 20 major economies amid growing concerns about the excesses of the Taliban setup in Kabul, and a worsening humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan, including shortages of food, medicines and other essential goods.Since the Taliban took over after the fall of the Ashraf Ghani government on August 15, Afghanistan’s economy has been under severe stress. A team led by acting foreign minister Amir Khan Muttaqi has been holding talks with US officials and European Union (EU) envoys in Qatar as part of the Taliban’s stepped up efforts to gain international recognition.Modi called on the international community to “forge a unified international response without which it would be difficult to bring about the desired change in Afghanistan’s situation”, the external affairs ministry said.He “underlined the need to ensure that Afghan territory does not become a source of radicalisation and terrorism, regionally or globally”, and called on the world community to enhance the “joint fight against the nexus of radicalisation, terrorism and the smuggling of drugs and arms in the region”.Modi also called for an “inclusive administration in Afghanistan, which includes women and minorities”, to preserve the socioeconomic gains of the past 20 years and to restrict the spread of radical ideology.The Prime Minister backed the UN’s important role in Afghanistan and sought renewed support from the G20 group for UN Security Council resolution 2593.Resolution 2593, adopted when India held the rotating presidency of the Security Council in August, demands that Afghan soil should not be used to threaten or attack any country, or to shelter or train terrorists. It also calls for combating terror in Afghanistan, including UN-designated individuals and entities – a key demand of India, which has strong concerns about the presence of Lashkar-e-Taiba fighters on Afghan territory.The resolution also calls on all parties in Afghanistan to seek an inclusive and negotiated political settlement, with the full participation of women.The international community, Modi said, should ensure that Afghanistan has immediate and unhindered access to humanitarian assistance. Noting that the Afghan people have a “great feeling of friendship” for India, he said that “every Indian feels the pain of Afghan people facing hunger and malnutrition”.Modi also referred to the centuries-old people-to-people ties between India and Afghanistan and said that over the past two decades, India has promoted socio-economic development and capacity-building for Afghan youth and women. He recalled that India had implemented more than 500 development projects in Afghanistan.The summit was convened by Italy, which holds the rotating presidency of the G20. The meeting discussed a response to the humanitarian needs of Afghanistan, security and the fight against terrorism, and mobility and human rights.European Commission president Ursula von der Leyen presented an Afghan support package worth one billion euros during the summit to prevent what she described as “humanitarian and socio-economic collapse”. She said while the EU has been clear about the conditions for any engagement with the setup in Kabul, the Afghan people “should not pay the price of the Taliban’s actions”.Chinese President Xi Jinping did not join the G20 summit and it wasn’t clear if Russian President Vladimir Putin would participate, reflecting the differing approaches to the situation in Afghanistan. While Western countries want to demand accountability from the Taliban, China and Russia have adopted a position of non-interference.In recent weeks, India has cautioned the world community not to rush into recognising the Taliban setup, pointing out that the change of power in Afghanistan was not inclusive and was done without negotiations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-calls-for-unified-effort-on-afghanistan-at-g-20-summit-101634064444115.html
13-10-2021||India||College teacher sentenced to life imprisonment for minor girl’s rape in Raj||New Delhi: A local court in Rajasthan on Tuesday sentenced a college teacher to life imprisonment for raping a 17-year-old Dalit student in 2016 and awarded six years in jail to the principal of the institution and the hostel warden for abetting the girl’s suicide.The victim, the daughter of a primary school teacher in Rajasthan’s Barmer district, was found dead inside a water tank on the roof of her college. Her parents alleged that a teacher raped her, and accused the college authorities of trying to hide the crime by making her sign a statement defending the teacher.The district court in Rajasthan’s Bikaner district convicted Pragya Prateek Shukla, the principal of the college where the victim studied, his wife Priya Shukla, the warden of the hostel where the victim resided, and Vijendra Singh, the physical education teacher who raped the victim.Pragya Prateek Shukla and Priya Shukla were each sentenced to six years in jail for abetment of suicide and fined R 20,000. Vijendra Singh was sentenced to life imprisonment and fined R20,000 each.“Justice has been served after five long years,” said Anwar Ahmed, the victim’s lawyer.Vivek Sharma, who represented the Shuklas, said that they will appeal the judgment in the Rajasthan high court. “We believe there was no hard evidence to convict my clients,” he said.Singh was convicted for abetment to suicide, abduction, rape, and under sections of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act.Pragya Prateek Shukla and Priya Shukla were convicted for abetment of suicide and under the SC/ST and Pocso acts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/college-teacher-sentenced-to-life-imprisonment-for-dalit-minor-girl-s-rape-in-rajasthan-101634064379659.html
13-10-2021||India||Will curtail electricity supply of states, UTs selling power: Centre||The Centre on Tuesday warned states and Union Territories that it will curtain electricity supply if they are found selling power to cash in on surging prices amid rising concern that depleted coal stocks at power generation plants could potentially to blackouts.In a letter to all state governments and distribution companies (discoms), the Union power ministry requested all states and UTs to utilise unallocated power of the central generating stations (CGS) to meet local consumer demand only. In case of excess power, it asked the states to inform the ministry so that the electricity could be diverted to needy states.“It has been observed that some states are not supplying power to their consumers and imposing load shedding in some areas. At the same time, they are also selling power in the power exchange at a high price,” read the letter signed by deputy secretary, GoI, Devashis Bose. HT has seen a copy of the letter.“Further, if any state is found selling power in power exchange or not scheduling this unallocated power, their unallocated power may be temporarily reduced or withdrawn and reallocated to other States which are in need of such power,” the letter added.The letter came on a day the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) reviewed the coal supply and electricity situation as the government looked to defuse the energy crisis in several states that have suffered staggered power cuts since the past one week.We have continued our supply, even continued in the past despite dues. We are requesting them (states) to increase stock...There won’t be a coal shortage,” Union coal minister Pralhad Joshi told reporters.India is the world’s second largest coal producer and has the world’s fourth largest reserves but a steep surge in power demand has outstripped pre-pandemic levels, triggering a shortage.Government reports dated October 11 showed of the 115 plants with critical stock, 107 have coal for five days or less. Usually, any coal based power plant should have stocks OF up to 15 days.In its letter to states and UTs, the Union power ministry also said that at present, the demand from coal based power plants had increased. Central government-controlled power producers sign long-term purchase agreements with distribution companies but 15% of their output is controlled by the federal administration as “unallocated power”, which is given to needy states.Coal-fuelled capacity accounts for 52.41%, or 202.80GW, of India’s installed power generation capacity of 386.88GW.There are a number of reasons for the current situation. International prices of coal have surged, increasing the demand for local coal. Power demand, and therefore the derived demand for coal, has increased sharply in the past couple of months, perhaps a reflection of pent-up demand on account of the disruption from the second wave of the pandemic in April-May and a surge in activity ahead of the festival season. Heavy rainfall, especially in the coal-producing regions of Jharkhand, Odisha and West Bengal, added to the problems.“Due to rains, there was coal shortage, causing an increase in international prices- from ₹60 per ton to ₹190 per ton. Subsequently, imported coal power plants are either shut for 15-20 days or producing very less. This put pressure on domestic coal,” Joshi said on Tuesday.He said the government was making full efforts to meet the coal demand of power producers. “We at the ministry and CIL are making full efforts to meet the coal demand... Yesterday (Monday), we supplied around 1.95 million tonnes of coal. Around 1.6 million tonnes from CIL and the remaining from Singareni Collieries Company Ltd. All put together, 1.95 million tonnes we have supplied.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-curtail-electricity-supply-of-states-uts-selling-powercentre-101634064081109.html
13-10-2021||India||High returns: Farmers in Maoist belt risk jail to grow marijuana||It is early evening and the 45-year-old tribal man is making his third visit of the day to his standing crop. Around him, the forests of Swabhiman Anchal, a region wracked by the state-Maoist conflict in Malkangiri, stand tall and dense. Right next to the plantation is a massive man made lake, along the banks of the Balimela reservoir. The man has been growing the same crop for many years, undeterred, as are most others who do what he does. He has heard whispers that growing the crop is now dangerous, that the police now have access to the area, that there will be raids. But he will only believe it when he sees them. The profits are too high. After all, the crop he grows, is not paddy, but marijuana .“I have been growing Ganja (cannabis sativa and cannabis indica) along the banks of Balimela reservoir for the past several years. Not just me, several people in my village do it. Though I keep on hearing that there could be police raids, I have not seen any police in last several years,” said the tribal farmer in Badapadar grampanchayat. They certainly haven’t come this year.His crop, planted in two acres, stands a foot tall and is a month-old. The season starts in September, just as the monsoon begins to withdraw. He waters the crop thrice a day and has used urea too. Once the plant starts blooming, he will dry the pods in the sun, cure them and pack them in slabs. “The work is more difficult than paddy or millets. But it is easier in this terrain, and earns us more too. There are more risks now, but it is still worth it,” he said.If caught, he could be jailed for up to 10 years and fined up to ₹1 lakh under Section 20 of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act that was enacted in 1985 replacing the Dangerous Drugs Act, 1930. Though cannabis cultivation or intake was not a criminal activity earlier, it was criminalized in 1985 after the NDPS Act came into being.By January, his slabs will be ready for sale and a local aggregator will collect it from the farmer who rattles of the economics of the business: cultivators get ₹700-800 a kg; every plant yields around a kg of the final product; an acre can accommodate 500 plants which means 500 kgs; that’s ₹3,50,000 - ₹4,00,000 an acre for five months of work. “Nothing goes unsold though at times I have been short-changed as the aggregator pays less than what he had promised saying some of his consignments were caught. We don’t complain as the return is far better than what we get growing millets or paddy,” the farmer says.Marijuana costs anything between ₹500 and ₹1,000 for 10 grams, which works out to ₹50,000 to ₹1,00,000 a kg.Even as stories of drug seizures in big ports and raids on rave parties on cruise boats make the headlines, it is states such as Odisha that have emerged the primary source of drugs such as cannabis. And while a broader debate on whether cannabis should be illegal does rage, the story of the tribal farmers of Anchal highlight the difficulties in implementation of existing laws.The growing numbers in OdishaLast week, police and excise officials said that they destroyed around 23,538 acres of cannabis in 10 districts of Odisha in 2020-21, the highest-ever. In 2020, Odisha seized 154,900 kg of cannabis, another highest ever figure, up from 19,800 kg in 2015. This year, it has so far reached around 140,000 kg and police officials estimate will cross last year’s record by the end of this month. In contrast, in Andhra Pradesh, a state that has traditionally been associated with high cannabis cultivation, the police seized 42,300 kg of cannabis last year while this year they have seized over 80,800kg till the end of September. The NCRB Crime in India report 2020 puts the total seizures of “cannabis based drugs” under the NDPS Act at 853,554.414 kg.There is no nationally aggregated figure of cannabis seizure available with NCRB for last two to three years.Senior police officials said there were two reasons for the increase in number of seizures in 2020. The first, the lack of vehicular movement on the road during the lockdown induced by Covid-19. “It was easier to identify and confiscate cannabis-laden vehicles last year due to lockdown as there were less traffic on roads last year,” said Abilash G, sub-divisional police officer of Malkangiri, one of the main centres of the cannabis trade in the state.The second, officials said, was an increased focus on the issue at the highest levels of the state government. Odisha chief secretary Suresh Mohapatra last week asked officials to identify land records of people on whose land cannabis is cultivated and provide poor tribal families making a living from the trade with alternate livelihood opportunities through a convergence of Odisha Livelihood Mission, National Livelihood Mission and MGNREGS.“Odisha has been among the biggest suppliers of cannabis for a long time due to large-scale plantation in the Maoist-affected hilly districts of Malkangiri, Koraput, Kandhamal, Gajapati, Boudh, Rayagada, Bargarh and few others. Now with the DGP focused on striking at the root of cannabis business, we are seeing seizures almost every 2-3 days in huge quantities,” said Jainarayan Pankaj, deputy inspector general of police of Special Task Force, the unit of Odisha police that has been tasked to go after the narcotics trade. The DIG was referring to DGP Abhay, who took over in December 2019. The DGP has, in the past, also held the post of the director general of NCB. The DGP has implemented a rewards system where police officials who conduct record seizures are being given commendation discs.Additional director of enforcement, NCB, Piyush Kumar Singh said that in terms of cultivated area of cannabis, Odisha tops the list. “Over the last couple of years, Odisha has upped its enforcement making a lot of seizures. If you see the cannabis seizures in northern states, invariably those too will be from Odisha,” Singh said.The Smuggling In India report for the year 2019-20 released by Directorate of Revenue Intelligence, identified Odisha as a source state, along with Andhra Pradesh, and flagged a more ominous, but inevitable consequence. “There is a distinct trend emerging from these seizures which indicates a flow of huge quantities of ganja coming from Odisha and Andhra Pradesh, passing through Telangana, Chattisgarh and MP before reaching the consumption centres in northern states of India, mainly UP and Bihar. Ganja not only has narcotics angle but also a national security concern as the illicit proceeds from the trafficking of it are used for feeding the growth of extremist activities,” the report said.How Maoism is inextricably linked with cannabisOfficials say that it is no coincidence that in Odisha, cannabis is largely grown in its deeply forested, hilly, sparsely populated tracks, intersecting with districts that have traditionally seen the highest Maoist influence. “The Maoist hotbed of Swabhiman Anchal where most of the cannabis is grown, remained out of bounds for police till two years ago. It’s only after Maoist activities declined that police are being able to breach these areas. Even now police are not able to venture deep into the entire swathes of Swabhiman Anchal. In other districts such as Kandhamal and Gajapati, the topography is challenging,” said a senior official of the excise department.In 2008, the Justice P K Mohanty Commission of Inquiry which investigated the activities and operation of drug mafia in the state, detailed that the cultivation of cannabis in Maoist-affected districts was supported by Chasi Mulia Samiti, a frontal organisation of CPI(Maoist). “We have information about some Maoist leaders supporting the cultivation in lieu of cuts they receive,” said Malkangiri SP Prahlad Meena.A senior Intelligence official who looks closely at LWE (left wing extremism) affected states such as Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Telangana and Odisha says that there is an inextricable link between the sustenance of Maoism, and the cultivation of a crop that is poorly regulated. “A very common question that is asked is where do Maoists get their funding from? A big source, that is not talked of, is the cut from crop sales of products in these forests that go under the radar. The pattern is the same. In Chhattisgarh, in the districts of Sukma, Bijapur and Dantewada, arguably the worst violence hit districts, the Maoists run on cuts from tendu-patta. The tendu leaves are used for making beedis and are a huge, basically unregulated industry. Cannabis serves the same purpose in Odisha. In Madhya Pradesh for instance, where the Maoists are trying to enter slowly, they have been trying to get bamboo cultivators on their side.”The economics of cannabis cultivation also makes it difficult for the government to checkmate the flourishing trade, and those looking to make money from the process, like Maoists. The money (as evident from the price the Anchal farmer receives for cannabis) is good. It is also quick, and made through digital payment systems. “In most cases, the people sitting in other states invest in the cultivation. The farmers run little risk as the crop is grown in mostly government or community land making it difficult for the police to zero in on the culprits as no one would come to claim ownership,” said Varun Guntapalli, superintendent of police of Koraput.The cat and mouse gameBut even as the police and the administration have increased their vigilance in Odisha, they have come across an ingenious transportation network. Investigators said traders use empty fuel tankers, ambulances, passenger buses, oxygen cylinders, even India Post’s speed post.On September 20 this year, police in Malkangiri district seized 2250 kg of cannabis from a truck that was carrying the contraband concealed under mounds of coal. In August last year, two drug peddlers were caught at Bhubaneswar’s Railway Mail Service booking counter with 411 kg of cannabis, trying to pass it off as cashew nuts. In June this year, 1277 kg of cannabis were seized by Koraput police from a truck transporting oxygen cylinders to Lucknow. “Oxygen cylinders were loaded at Visakhapatnam Port in Andhra Pradesh. On its way to Delhi, ganja was loaded onto the vehicle in Koraput district for scheduled delivery in Lucknow. In Covid times normally no one would stop vehicles carrying oxygen cylinders. But we are also trying to be one up on the smugglers,” said Rajesh Pandit, deputy inspector general of police (south-western) range.Activists in Odisha say it will not be easy to demolish a system that has flourished for long not only with Maoist support, but also the tacit approval of police, revenue and excise officials. This year, one sub-inspector and two constables in Koraput have been dismissed from service because of their involvement in cannabis trafficking.“For every cannabis truck that is seized, there may be two others that were allowed to go in lieu of money,” said Durga Prasad Tripathy, an activist in Malkangiri district. “The government has to not just incentivise alternative farming like turmeric, maize or other crops, but also think of out of box solutions that go beyond MNREGA schemes. Mowing down the cannabis fields will mean nothing, as they will always re-emerge if the market, and the workforce for it exists,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-returns-farmers-in-maoist-belt-risk-jail-to-grow-marijuana-101634063538847.html
13-10-2021||India||Centre holds dialogue with Gorkha delegation, vows all-round growth||The Centre on Tuesday began tripartite talks with the Gorkha representatives from the Darjeeling Hills, Terrai and Dooars region and the West Bengal government to find a solution to the problems related to Gorkhas.Union home minister Amit Shah, who chaired the talks, assured all the stakeholders that the government is sincerely trying to resolve all issues, including the demand for Scheduled Tribe (ST) status to 11 tribe communities and a separate Gorkhaland.The Gorkha delegation, led by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Member of Parliament from Darjeeling, Raju Bista, highlighted various issues concerning the Gorkhas and the region.According to a statement issued by the ministry of home affairs (MHA), Shah said the Centre is constantly making efforts to resolve issues related to the Gorkhas and their region. “The Union home minister listened to all the parties concerned and has decided to call for the second round of talks in the presence of the senior officials of the government of West Bengal in November 2021. The West Bengal Government has been specifically asked to send their senior officials for the next round of talks. The all-around development and prosperity of the Darjeeling hills, Terrai and Dooars region is the topmost priority of the Modi Government,” the statement added.Among the issues particularly discussed during the meeting includes granting Scheduled Tribe (ST) status to 11 hill tribe-communities of the Darjeeling hills, Terai and Dooars region -- a longstanding demand of the indigenous tribal population in the area.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has won the Darjeeling Lok Sabha seat thrice since 2009 by allying with the GJM (Gorkha Janmukti Morcha). In 2019, the BJP had an alliance with the GJM (Gurung faction), the Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF) and other small political parties in the Darjeeling hills.The BJP has promised to find a permanent political solution to the demand for a Gorkhaland, raised by the Nepali-speaking Gorkhas living in the Darjeeling hills and adjoining Siliguri, the Terai and the Dooars region in north Bengal.Earlier, in its election manifestos in 2014 and 2019, the BJP had promised that it would find a permanent solution to the Gorkhaland demand.Officials familiar with the development said Tuesday’s meeting is significant as the government is trying to find a permanent solution to the issue.Following the meeting, Bista told the news agency ANI – “It was a historical day for Indian Gorkhas. For the first time, there was over one hour of talk with the Union home minister without any protest or ‘Bandh’. It was a successful talk. The meeting was better than we expected. We have placed our demands before the home minister, and he has assured us that the government of India will sincerely try and solve our demands.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-holds-dialogue-with-gorkha-delegation-vows-all-round-growth-101634063481234.html
13-10-2021||India||Expert panel clears use of Covaxin for ages 2-18||The expert group looking at vaccine approvals has recommended the use of Covaxin in the 2-18 age group, officials aware of the matter said on Tuesday, raising the possibility that the first of children could soon begin to receive doses since the shot is already being administered in India.The approval by the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) will need to be accepted by the Drugs Controller General of India – which is expected within days – and has to be followed by a formal inclusion in the government’s coronavirus immunisation campaign.“As per the data that the company submitted, the vaccine has been found to be safe and efficacious in children. The experts were of the opinion that it should be allowed for use in children,” said a senior official in the know of things, asking not to be named.However, even as India discusses delivering the dose to children, the company’s phase III clinical trial data is yet to be peer-reviewed. It has released the efficacy data only in press statements and in papers uploaded on pre-print servers.The recognition of Covaxin as a valid vaccine by other countries at large has also been under a cloud — the World Health Organization is likely to take a decision this week on whether to add the shot to its list of approved vaccines.These factors, experts say, could trigger hesitancy among parents — especially since the vaccine’s initial approval in January was rushed through, although data from the press release and the papers uploaded on pre-print servers suggest the vaccine has a high 77.8% efficacy against symptomatic Covid, 93.4% against severe Covid, and 65.2% against the infection caused by the Delta variant.Much will also depend on what data the company and the regulator choose to release over the next few days.“…As a paediatrician, I would go slow; I will see how the data comes in, or when the vaccine is actually is being given to children at different centres in various parts of the country. We need to see how the response is...,” said Dr Manish Mannan, head of paediatrics and neonatology, Paras Hopsital, Gurugram, in a statement.This is the first vaccine to have received clearance for children under the age of 12. Zydus Cadila’s ZyCoV-D, which was tested in volunteers aged 12 and above, received an approval last month. The product is yet to be included in the vaccination campaign.A second official, from the health ministry, said the decision on when to begin administering Covaxin to children will depend on government the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19 (NEGVAC) and the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI).“Whether it will be introduced in the national Covid-19 immunisation programme, and if yes, then how soon, will be for the expert panels on immunisation to decide,” this person said.Bharat Biotech, which makes Covaxin, confirmed the SEC approval. “Bharat Biotech has submitted data from clinical trials in the 2-18 years age group for COVAXIN (BBV152) to CDSCO. The data has been thoroughly reviewed by the CDSCO and Subject Experts Committee (SEC) and have provided their positive recommendations. This represents one of the first approvals worldwide for COVID-19 vaccines for the 2-18 age group. Bharat Biotech sincerely thank the DCGI, Subject Experts Committee, and CDSCO for their expedited review process. We now await further regulatory approvals from the CDSCO prior to product launch and market availability of COVAXIN for Children,” the company said in a statement issued on Tuesday.According to experts involved in the clinical trials, the safety and efficacy of Covaxin in the paediatric age group has been found to be almost similar to that in adults and the level of antibodies that developed in the volunteers was similar to what has been recorded in adults.This data acts as a comparator, and suggests that the efficacy in children is likely to be similar to the 77.8% efficacy recorded in the adult clinical trials.“Paediatric vaccine is the same as the adult vaccine in terms of dosage, safety, immunogenicity and efficacy that has already been established in the adult population. It is equally safe and effective in children and the need for conducting a trial among paediatric age group was to generate evidence for it,” said Dr Sanjay Rai, professor, department of community medicine, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi, who is also the principal investigator for the Covaxin trials at the AIIMS site.Bharat Biotech completed phase 2/3 clinical trials in children in September and submitted the data to the DCGI in October.Experts aware of the matter said the roll-out for children will likely be in stages, with the entire population in the 2-18 age group unlikely to be covered at one go. “Members of expert committees have suggested the idea of introducing it in a phased manner for children, giving priority to those who suffer from specified comorbidities,” said a person aware of the discussions, while adding that it will be done in “the same way as it was done for adults”.Government experts are working on a list of comorbidities that could determine which children are eligible for a vaccine first.“They will have to do it in a phased manner as if you look at the numbers there should be about 400 million children, and 1-2% of them likely to be at higher risk because of their medical condition and the kind of treatment they would be taking such as chemo, transplant medication, etc. It will be a huge challenge logistically; therefore, doing it in phases makes sense,” said Dr Anupam Sibal, senior paediatrician and group medical director, Apollo Hospitals.When introduced in the programme, the vaccination is likely to happen through pre-filled syringes to have better dose accuracy, the first person quoted above said.According to the conditions under which use in paediatric population has been approved, the firm should continue the study as per the approved clinical trial protocol and provide safety data, including the data on AEFI and AESI, with due analysis, every 15 days for the first two months. After that, this data needs to be submitted on a monthly basis.India has so far fully vaccinated around 29% of about 944 million eligible adults, as per government data, which includes administration of more than 110 million doses of Covaxin. Covishield, the India-made version of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, accounts for over 840 million doses that have been delivered.Another 44% has been partly vaccinated.Several countries have been working to authorise vaccines for children, with the United States clearing Pfizer’s shot for children aged 12 and above. According to Oxford University’s Our World in Data project, over 50 countries have allowed children of some age groups to begin receiving doses.In addition to ZyCoV-D and Covaxin, two more vaccines are being tested in children. The Drugs Controller General of India on September 1 granted permission to Hyderabad-based Biological E Limited to conduct phase 2/3 clinical trial of its made in India vaccine, Corbevax, on children and adolescents aged between 5 and 18 years with certain conditions.In July, Serum Institute of India (SII) was given permission to conduct phase 2/3 trials of Covovax (the dose developed by Novavax) on children aged 2 to 18 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expert-panel-clears-use-of-covaxin-for-ages-218-101634063420735.html
13-10-2021||India||Centre clears second phase of Swachh Bharat, AMRUT||The Union cabinet on Tuesday cleared the second phase of the Swachh Bharat Mission (Urban) and the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation 2.0 till 2025-26, aiming to secure garbage-free cities and reliable water supply in urban households. The Swachh Bharat Mission (Urban) targets making all statutory towns open defecation free (ODF), achieving scientific processing of solid waste, and managing wastewater in cities with less than 100,000 people.As per details issued by the government, over the next five years, the Swachh Bharat Mission will focus on achieving garbage-free urban India and ensuring complete access to sanitation facilities to serve additional population migrating from rural to urban areas. “This will be done through the construction of over 3.5 lakh individual, community and public toilets. Complete liquid waste management in city‘s with a population of less than one lakh will ensure that systems and processes are set up in every city so that all waste water is safely contained, collected, transported and treated and no waste water polluted the water bodies”, a government statement said.A financial outlay of ₹141,600 crores was finalised for the mission, including a central share of ₹36,465 crore for the period 2021-22 to 2025-26, which is nearly 2.5 times the financial outlay of ₹62,009 crores in the last phase of the mission.The Swachh Bharat Mission is a flagship scheme of the Narendra Modi government launched in 2014 to eradicate open defecation and ensure management of solid waste in all statutory towns. AMRUT, which was launched in 2015, will focus on providing 26.8 million water connections and 26.4 million sewer and septage connections. As per the data provided by the government, so far 11 million households have been provided tap connections and 8.5 million sewer connections have been given under the scheme.“AMRUT 2.0 will target universal coverage of water supply by providing household tap connections in all 4,378 statutory towns. The mission targets to provide 100% coverage of household sewage management in 500 AMRUT cities. The Total indicative outlay for AMRUT 2.0 is ₹277,000 crore including central share of ₹76760 crore for five years from financial year 2021-22 to 2025-26,” the government statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-clears-second-phase-of-swachh-bharat-amrut-101634063361618.html
13-10-2021||India||Viewing human rights with political lens harmful: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said that some people viewed human rights through a political lens, adding that this selective behaviour is harmful for democracy. Speaking virtually at the 28th foundation day ceremony of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), Modi said: “There is an aspect of human rights which I want to talk about today. In recent years, some people have started interpreting human rights in a way that benefits them. They see violation of human rights in one incident while they don’t see any violation in other, similar incidents. Such mentality also harms the very concept of human rights.” He added that human rights are grossly violated when they are seen through a political lens. “This selective behaviour is equally damaging for the democracy,” he said.Modi also drew an analogy between human rights and India’s independence movement, saying that the respect for human rights in the country is largely due to the long freedom struggle that the nation went through. “We fought for our rights across centuries and, as a country and society, always protested against injustice and tyranny,” PM Modi remarked. India, he said, has always been “committed and sensitive” towards issues concerning human rights. The PM further asserted that human rights should not be seen separately from duties. “Human rights are not just about rights, but our duties as well. Both are linked and are necessary for human development.”Modi’s comments come against the backdrop of domestic and international organisations criticising his government’s human rights record, although both the government and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have maintained that localised crimes are unnecessarily being politicised and that similar instances in states governed by parties other than the BJP are ignored. This view was reinforced at the meeting on Tuesday by the NHRC chief, justice Arun Mishra, who said “it is now a norm to accuse India of human rights violation at the behest of international forces”. Echoing this sentiment, BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra later said that a lot of politics is happening around the Lakhimpur Kheri incident where eight people, including four farmers, died. He specifically named Rahul Gadhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra of the Congress, who, he said, were trying to project themselves as “champions of Dalits”. Yet, the incident of a young Dalit man in Rajasthan (ruled by the Congress) beaten to death a few days ago has gone uninvestigated and unnoticed, he said.“If Priyanka Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi go to Hathras or Lakhimpur Kheri, why have they not gone to Kashmir, they will ask. The question why Modi went neither to Hathras and Lakhimpur nor Kashmir, doesn’t occur to them,” Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said. Talking about the steps taken by the government to eliminate injustice from the society, Modi said that ‘Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas’ works on the basic principle of ensuring human rights for all. Delivering basic needs like toilets, cooking gas, electricity and homes to the poor give rise to their aspirations and make them more aware of their rights, the PM said. Similarly, he said, by bringing the Triple Talaq law, his government ensured rights for Muslim women. “India is committed and sensitive towards ensuring human rights,” he said. Speaking at the NHRC meeting, home minister Amit Shah said his government has been working for the welfare of the poor and underprivileged, thereby ensuring their human rights. Shah said that after the Narendra Modi government came to power, toilets were built in 100 million households, protecting the basic human rights, especially of women. Another 40 million households received electricity connections, and 130 million, cooking gas connections. The home minister also lauded the work NHRC has done. He said the commission has handled 2 million cases and awarded ₹205 crore as compensation to people for violation of human rights in its 28 years of existence.  NHRC is a statutory body that was constituted on October 12, 1993, under the Protection of Human Rights Act. It takes cognisance of human rights violations, conducts enquiries and recommends compensation to victims from public authorities besides other remedial and legal measures against the erring public servants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/viewing-human-rights-with-political-lens-harmful-modi-101634063358828.html
13-10-2021||India||Akhilesh Yadav starts SP's poll campaign with Vijay rath, lashes out at BJP||Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday launched his party’s ‘Mission 2022’ poll campaign with a rath yatra, and lashed out at the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), saying it had “crushed farmers” and on return to power in Uttar Pradesh, would “crush the Constitution” as well.“The Samajwadi Vijay Rath will run from Ganga to Yamuna. We are starting this yatra with the blessings of Netaji (Mulayam Singh Yadav). We have come out to seek the cooperation and support of the public. The people of UP have been cheated by the BJP government…a change is inevitable,” said the former chief minister while kick-starting the rath yatra from Kanpur’s new Ganga bridge. The yatra will cover all 403 assembly segments ahead of the 2022 state polls.In an apparent reference to the October 3 Lakhimpur Kheri violence, in which eight people, including four farmers, were killed, Yadav said: “The BJP has crushed farmers, and if they come back to power, they are all set to crush the Constitution. Therefore, the Samajwadi Vijay Rath will go to the people and throw the BJP out of power.”Stating that Uttar Pradesh is the land of farmers, Yadav attacked the BJP for “oppressing them”.“They were promised double income but their income has been taken away. The farmers are not being given the price of their standing paddy crop,” the SP chief said.Yadav said the state should be rebuilt and put on the path of development. “The BJP government is selling everything – from airports to ports. It won’t be a surprise, if in days to come, the government is outsourced,” he added.The former CM said his party would focus on farmers, youth and their problems during this journey (rath yatra), the first leg of which will end on October 13. In Ghatampur, the former CM said his party would not hesitate in giving free power and water to people, if voted to power.The yatra will pass through Kanpur, Kanpur Dehat, Hamirpur and Jalaun in the first phase. Since 2001, rath yatras have been an important part of the SP’s poll campaigns. Yadav had led the yatra in 2012 as well during the successful poll campaign after which he was sworn in as the CM.Yadav greeted the crowd from his motorised rath (a Mercedes bus, which has been converted into a rath) and was accompanied by Khazanchi Nath, a five-year-old boy who was born in 2016 while his mother Sarvesha Devi was standing in a bank queue in Kanpur Dehat to withdraw cash during demonetisation. Waving the party flag, Khazanchi flagged off the yatra, which halted at Hamirpur where a meeting was held.Rejecting Akhilesh’s allegations, state minister and senior BJP leader Sidharth Nath Singh said: “No vijay yatra will be able to fulfil Akhilesh’s dream of ‘acquiring power’. Those who failed to serve people and handed over the state’s honour and dignity to criminals and goons, have no right to be in power.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akhilesh-yadav-starts-samajwadi-party-s-poll-campaign-with-vijay-rath-lashes-out-at-bjp-101634063239467.html
13-10-2021||India||LG ex-adviser’s premises, 40 others searched by CBI in fake arms licence case||The Central Bureau of Investigation on Tuesday conducted searches at 41 places, including the premises of Baseer Khan, the former adviser to Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha, across states in connection with a case involving fake arms licences, officials familiar with the development said. The agency said its teams conducted raids at Srinagar, Anantnag, Baramulla, Jammu, Doda, Rajouri, Kishtwar and Ramban districts in Jammu & Kashmir and also in Leh, Delhi and Bhind (Madhya Pradesh). “(The searches were conducted) at the official & residential premises of around 14 then public servants including then DMs (IAS/KAS), DIO, Clerks etc; around 05 private persons (middlemen/agents); around 10 Gun houses/dealers in an on-going investigation of a case related to Arms licence racket,” a CBI statement read. Khan’s house is in Baghat in uptown Srinagar. “A team of about six people were in the house of Khan for up to two hours,” said a police officer aware of the details. Khan was a divisional commissioner in Kashmir when he was appointed as advisor to the first J&K LG, G C Murmu, in March 2020. After Manoj Sinha became LG, Khan continued as his advisor. Last week, he was suddenly removed from his post following a communication from the ministry of home affairs to the Union territory administration. The case pertains to a multistate racket first investigated by the Rajasthan ATS in 2017 after it seized weapons bought using fake arms licences which were made in J&K’s Kathua and Kupwara districts. It then decided to refer the case to the CBI as the footprints of the racket went beyond Rajasthan to Madhya Pradesh, J&K and Punjab. MP ATS had also probed the case separately.The CBI took over the case in October 2018 at the then J&K government’s request after the names of a few senior officers emerged in the investigation for issuing arms licences under forged documents. They were accused of issuing weapons licences to outsiders and took favours in return.Khan is also one of the eight accused officials in the 2009 multi-crore Gulmarg (Baramulla) land scam case which dates to the time when he was the deputy commissioner of Baramulla. The accused officials, according to the police chargesheet, had illegally transferred ownership rights of state land in 2008.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lg-ex-adviser-s-premises-40-others-searched-by-cbi-in-fake-arms-licence-case-101634062819485.html
13-10-2021||India||Malabar drill may expand in future: US navy chief||The scope of the multi-nation Malabar exercise in terms of more like-minded navies taking part in the drills could expand in future, Chief of US Naval Operations Admiral Michael Gilday said on Tuesday, adding that it was for the Quad partners to discuss the possibility of an expansion.His comments came on a day India, the US, Japan and Australia kicked off the second phase of this year’s Malabar naval drills in the Bay of Bengal, with the exercise seeking to build on the synergy and interoperability developed during the first phase held in August.Also Read| ‘Scope of Malabar drills could expand in future’: US admiral“In future, that exercise could expand. It is for the partners inside the Quad to discuss that. But remember there are many exercises that go on in the Indo-Pacific and globally which bring like-minded navies and partners together,” Gilday said, in response to a question on the possibility of more navies coming together under the Malabar banner. He is in India on a five-day official visit.The second phase of Malabar exercise is being conducted from October 12 to 15. Gilday said the cyber domain is one area that the Quad navies would continue to refine in terms of working together as well as high-end operations in the air, on the sea and under the sea.“We are committed to operationalizing our #USIndiaDefense partnership, including through enhanced information-sharing, regional security, and exercising at sea together,” he wrote on Twitter.The Quad navies conducted the first phase of the exercise off the Pacific Ocean island of Guam from August 26-29. It involved destroyers, frigates, corvettes, submarines, helicopters, long-range maritime patrol aircraft and elite special forces elements including the US Navy SEALs and the Indian Navy’s marine commandos (MARCOS).The Indian Navy is taking part in the exercise’s second phase with INS Ranvijay, INS Satpura, P-8I long range maritime patrol aircraft and a submarine, the US Navy is represented by the aircraft carrier USS Carl Vinson along with USS Lake Champlain and USS Stockdale, Japan is taking part with JS Kaga and JS Murasame and the Royal Australian Navy has sent HMAS Ballarat and HMAS Sirius for the drills.Malabar began as an annual bilateral naval exercise between India and the US in 1992. It has increased in scope and complexity over the years.It was in the 2005 edition of the drills that the aircraft carriers from the Indian and the US Navy operated together for first time. In 2014, the Japanese Maritime Self Defence Force (JMSDF) became a permanent participant in the drills followed by Australia in 2020.Also Read| Indian, American, Japanese, Australian navies kick off Malabar drillsThe Quad navies had earlier carried out complex naval drills under the Malabar banner in November 2020 in the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal.Wary of the Quad, China has been monitoring its activities closely. The Quad was revived in late 2017 by India, the US, Australia and Japan, and Beijing’s suspicions have increased since the four countries upgraded the forum to the ministerial level in 2019.From carrying out naval drills with like-minded countries to reaching out to states in the Indian Ocean Region (IOR), the Indian Navy is focusing on checking China’s rising ambitions in the region and sending out a strong message that Beijing’s power play in South China Sea cannot be replicated in the Indian Ocean.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/malabar-drill-may-expand-in-future-us-navy-chief-101634062642165.html
13-10-2021||India||NIA raids 16 places in J&K terror crackdown||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Tuesday launched raids at 16 locations in Jammu and Kashmir after filing a fresh case against The Resistance Front (TRF) and overground workers (OGWs) of Pakistan backed terror outfits Jaish-e-Mohammad, Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), Al Badr, Hizbul Mujahideen among others, the agency said. The NIA officials, accompanied by the CRPF and Jammu and Kashmir police, raided parts of north and south Kashmir in terror-related cases, officials familiar with the matter said.An NIA spokesperson in a statement said that searches were conducted at 16 locations in Kashmir valley in connection with a conspiracy for conducting terrorist acts in J&K and other major cities by the cadres of proscribed terrorist organisations LeT, Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM), Hizb-ul-Mujahideen (HM), and their affiliates Al Badr, The Resistance Front (TRF), People Against Fascist Forces (PAFF), Mujahideen Gazwatul Hind (MGH) etc.Officials in the knowing said that no arrests have been made on Tuesday, but the NIA seized documents from several locations during the raid.The NIA, investigating the killing of seven civilians in Kashmir last week, on Sunday called teachers and lecturers to its office in Srinagar, in connection with the killing of two teachers inside the government school at Eidgah last week, an official said. Meanwhile, a 31-year-old terrorist affiliated to Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) was on Tuesday arrested in connection with the recent recovery of an arms consignment dropped by a drone from Pakistan in a Jammu village near the international border, police said. The terrorist has confessed to being in touch with his handlers across the border, police said. He has been identified as Irfan Ahmead Bhat, son of Farooq Ahmead Bhat of Verinag area in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/niaraids-16-places-in-j-k-terror-crackdown-101634062460066.html
13-10-2021||India||PM Modi to launch GatiShakti infra initiative today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch ‘PM GatiShakti’ - the national master plan for multi-modal connectivity – on Wednesday that will institutionalise holistic planning of major infrastructure projects, hitherto planned and designed in silos, commerce and industry ministry said. Infrastructure creation in India suffered for decades from multiple issues, including lack of coordination between different departments, it said in a statement giving an example of the current practice of road construction, which is often dug up by other agencies to lay underground cables and gas pipelines.In order to address this issue, save time and cost and shield the public from inconveniences, the government has put in place the coordinated effort of 16 ministries and departments under PM GatiShakti, a senior official of the ministry said requesting anonymity. “Instead of planning and designing separately in silos, the projects will be designed and executed with a common vision,” he said.The initiative will have coordinated efforts in infrastructure related to airways, highways, waterways, and ports. It will also rope in users such as economic zones, textile clusters, pharmaceutical clusters, defence corridors, electronic parks, industrial corridors, fishing clusters and agri zones. The effort will make Indian businesses more competitive, he said.The high-technology online system is developed by Bhaskaracharya National Institute for Space Applications and Geoinformatics (BiSAG-N) and is based on six pillars – comprehensiveness, prioritisation, optimisation, synchronization, analytical and dynamic, the ministry said in a statement. PM GatiShakti will include all the existing and planned initiatives of various ministries and departments with one centralized portal. Thus, different agencies will be able to prioritise their projects through cross-sectoral interactions and help them in selecting the most optimum route in terms of time and cost, it said. The system will help in synchronising activities of each department, as well as of different layers of governance in a holistic manner by ensuring coordination of work between them. It will provide the entire data at one place with GIS-based spatial planning and analytical tools having over 200 layers, enabling better visibility to the executing agency.It will facilitate ministries and departments to visualise, review and monitor the progress of cross-sectoral projects, through the GIS platform, as the satellite imagery will give on-ground progress periodically and the progress of the projects will be updated regularly on the portal. It will help in identifying the vital interventions for enhancing and updating the master plan, it said. “PM GatiShakti is the result of Prime Minister’s constant endeavour to build Next Generation Infrastructure which improves Ease of Living as well as Ease of Doing Business,” it said.The multi-modal connectivity will provide integrated and seamless connectivity for the movement of people, goods and services from one mode of transport to another. It will facilitate the last mile connectivity of infrastructure and also reduce travel time for people, it added. PM GatiShakti will provide the public and business community information regarding the upcoming connectivity projects, other business hubs, industrial areas and surrounding environment. This will enable the investors to plan their businesses at suitable locations leading to enhanced synergies. It will create multiple employment opportunities and give a boost to the economy, it said.“It will improve the global competitiveness of local products by cutting down the logistics costs and improving the supply chains, and also ensure proper linkages for local industry and consumers,” it added. The PM will also inaugurate the New Exhibition Complex (Exhibition Halls 2 to 5) at Pragati Maidan during the event. India Trade Promotion Organisation’s (ITPO) flagship event, India International Trade Fair (IITF) 2021 will also be held from November 14-27, 2021 in these new exhibition halls. Union ministers for commerce, road transport and highways, railways, civil aviation, shipping, power, and petroleum will also be present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-launch-gatishakti-on-wednesday-for-holistic-planning-of-major-infra-projects-101634060299788.html
13-10-2021||India||Is it time to reduce the waiting time for second dose of Covid-19 vaccines?||India on May 13 increased the waiting period between two doses of the Covishield vaccine from four-eight weeks to 12-16 weeks. The idea back then was to administer the first dose of Covid-19 vaccines to as many people as possible. As of 6 PM on October 12, Covishield accounted for 88% of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country. But with a decline in registrations as well as the number of first doses of the vaccine administered, is it time to reduce the gap between two doses of the Covishield vaccine? An HT analysis shows it is an idea that merits serious consideration.Also Read| Expert panel clears use of Covaxin for ages 2-18Proportion of first doses has started decreasingThe Co-Win dashboard provides data on daily vaccinations by first and second doses. The number of first doses has been falling consistently since September 17. The proportion of the first doses in total doses has been declining since late August. This is the third time since May that this proportion has decreased, but is perhaps the most significant because the number of those vaccinated may be nearing an important milestone.Have vaccinations in India hit a ceiling?India’s projected adult population in March, as per a National Commission on Population report, was 940.2 million. By October 11, 684.1 million have received their first dose of Covid-19 vaccines. The share of the adult population that has received at least one dose is 73%. Comparing the time taken to provide the first dose for each 10% of India’s adult population, the increase in coverage from 50% to 60%, between August 18 and September 13, was the fastest. This pace has slowed since then. The weekly average of first doses administered in the week ending October 9 is the lowest since the week ended July 29. It will likely slow even more.That the slowdown is on account of low demand is evident from data on number of registrations on the Co-WIN dashboard. The dashboard gives a combined number for online and offline registrations. After the week ended September 17, there has been a consistent decline in new registrations. In that week, there were 39.36 million registrations. In the week ended October 8, new registrations were 58% of that number at 22.66 million. To be sure, there has been one more such period of consistent decline since May 1, when vaccinations were opened up for all adults. In the week ended July 16, new registrations were only 45% of the new registrations in the week ended June 25. Still, when seen along with the fact that 73% of the eligible population has received at least one dose -- many experts say coverage will max out at 75-80% -- the reason for the current decline is evident.States with higher first dose coverage are showing a bigger fall in new vaccinationsThe number of registrations across states is not available from the Co-WIN dashboard. However, growth rates of new first doses across states have some correlation with coverage. Himachal Pradesh has given first doses to its entire population, according to the 2021 population projections. Here, the overall rate of first doses delivered since September 1 is 4,591 per day, which is 15% of the rate in the May to August period. In West Bengal, where only 65% of adults have been given at least one dose, the overall per day rate of first doses since September is 2.5 times the rate in May to August.Is it time to expedite second doses?The decision to prolong the gap between the first and second doses of Covishield was motivated by supply constraints. Data on falling demand for the first dose of Covid-19 vaccines shows that India might be reaching a point of moderation in demand for the first dose. Can this window be utilised to accelerate the process of administering second doses, and boost immunity levels against the pandemic?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/is-it-time-to-reduce-the-waiting-time-for-second-dose-of-covid-19-vaccines-101634057178895.html
13-10-2021||India||5 J&K terrorists killed amid spate of attacks||Five terrorists were killed in two separate gun battles with security forces in Jammu and Kashmir’s Shopian district on Tuesday amid intensified counter-insurgency operations after a series of targeted attacks left seven civilians dead this month. One of the five was involved in the killing of a street vendor in Srinagar, police said.The gunfights came a day after five Indian Army soldiers lost their lives in an encounter in the region. The latest casualties are the worst security forces have suffered in anti-insurgency operations in J&K this year.On Tuesday, a gunfight broke out following a raid by soldiers and police in the Imam Sahib area of Shopian, the police said. Security forces cordoned off the area late on Monday and firing began after the terrorists refused to surrender, they said. Three militants were killed early in the day. In another incident, two terrorists were killed at an apple orchard during an operation in Feeripora in southern Shopian district, according to the police.Several operations have been launched across Kashmir since the civilian killings. The police said two of the terrorists involved in two killings at Hajin and Srinagar have so far been shot dead. The five terrorists killed on Tuesday included Mukhtar Shah, who shifted base from Ganderbal district to Shopian after allegedly killing the vendor, Virendra Paswan.“In the last 24 hours, based on specific inputs about the presence of terrorists in the twin villages of Shopian – Tulran and Feeripora – two anti-terrorist operations were carried out, resulting in the elimination of five ultras. The slain terrorists include Mukhtar Shah, who was involved in the targeted killing of a non-local vendor at the Lal Bazar area of Srinagar,” a police statement said.An official said the three terrorists killed in the first gunfight on Tuesday were affiliated with The Resistance Front (TRF) – a shadow outfit of the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT). TRF has claimed responsibility for attacks on civilians in the recent days.A joint operation was launched in Feeripora following inputs from J&K Police, defence spokesperson Emron Masuavi said. “Repeated calls to surrender were turned down by the terrorists, who fired on our forces in return, forcing the forces to take action. Two terrorists were eliminated in the gun battle,” said Masuavi. An AK-47 rifle and armament were recovered from the spot.On Monday, police said Imtiyaz Ahmad Dar, who went underground after allegedly killing taxi driver Mohammad Shafi Lone last week, was killed in a gun battle at Gundjahangir in Bandipora district. Four people were arrested in connection with Lone’s killing on Sunday, the police said. The killing was carried out at the behest and instructions of Lashkar-e-Taiba handler Lala Umar of Pakistan, they said.One terrorist was killed in another exchange of fire with security forces in Verinag on Monday. A policeman was injured.October, just before the onset of winter, usually sees an increase in infiltration attempts with handlers of the terrorists in Pakistan trying to get more of them into India before traversing the already inhospitable terrain becomes almost impossible.Four exchanges of fire were reported across the Valley on Monday when five soldiers, including a junior commissioned officer, were killed in an exchange of fire with heavily armed terrorists in a forest in Surankote in Poonch district amid a spike in violence in the region.The J&K Police said terrorists involved in the attack on security forces in Poonch district in which five army personnel lost their lives were in the area for two to three months. Deputy inspector general of police (DIG), Rajouri-Poonch range, Vivek Gupta said the terrorists have been confined to a particular area and asserted that the operation shall be taken “to a logical conclusion in the shortest time”.Security forces have killed 120 terrorists in Kashmir this year, including over a dozen top commanders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-terrorists-killed-in-separate-places-in-j-k-s-shopian-101634040376489.html
13-10-2021||India||Waive IPR for equitable Covid vaccine access: India at G20||Developed countries need to waive intellectual property rights to ensure equitable access to Covid-related medicines by poorer nations, commerce minister Piyush Goyal said on Tuesday. He also asked the G20 nations to dismantle new trade barriers, such as vaccine differentiation and Covid-19 passports, to ensure delivery of critical services. Goyal’s comments were in line with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s June 12 statement at the G7 Summit that urged the developed nations to support India and South Africa’s proposal for a TRIPS waiver on Covid-19 related technologies. TRIPS is short for trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights. “Our response to the pandemic needs to ensure equitable access to vaccines and other Covid-19 related health products by ensuring quick resolution of the supply side constraints,” Goyal said at the G20 Trade and Investment Ministerial meeting in Italy. “One of the ways to demonstrate this is by accepting the TRIPS waiver proposal.” Goyal is India’s Sherpa for the G20, a grouping of 19 major economies and the European Union. Its members account for 80% of global gross domestic product, 75% of global trade and 60% of global population. The next G20 Leaders’ Summit is scheduled on October 30-31 under Italy’s presidency. India, which is a member of the group since its inception in 1999, will be holding the G20 presidency from December 1, 2022, and will convene the G20 Leaders’ Summit in 2023 for the first time. “We need to actively resolve new trade barriers like vaccine differentiation or Covid passports, which impose mobility restrictions and impede the movement of personnel needed for delivering critical services,” Goyal said at the meeting. The G20 Trade and Investment Ministerial Meeting is important precursor of the World Trade Organization’s 12th Ministerial Conference (MC12), as it is a “springboard for a successful outcome”, according to the official G20 Italy website. MC12 is scheduled to take place in Geneva from 30 November to 3 December 2021. The proposal to waive TRIPS was advanced jointly by India and South Africa last year to ensure access to technologies needed to prevent, contain or treat Covid-19. “The Covid-19 crisis is a powerful reminder of our interconnectedness, and the need for a coordinated global strategy to overcome such an unprecedented public health situation,” Goyal said, underlining the need for an early universal vaccination against Covid-19.“Apart from focusing on facilitating free flow of goods, I invite G20 countries to join in efforts to make health services accessible and more affordable for the citizens of the world by enabling free flow of health services,” he said. “As a quick response to the pandemic, I am happy to inform that our telemedicine initiative, eSanjeevani, has been serving millions of Indians. I am happy to offer it to the entire world.” Among other issues, Goyal called for an equitable and balanced outcome to trade negotiations in the fisheries sector, advocating that countries engaged in distant water fishing should stop subsidising fishing in high seas and gradually reduce their fishing capacities, particularly for overfished stocks. Goyal also discussed the agreement on joint multilateral positions in fisheries with his Australian counterpart during a one-on-one meeting on Monday . India was committed towards the United Nations 2030 Agenda on Sustainable Development and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), Goyal said in his address, asking the developed nations to keep their end of the bargain. “India is among the few countries which is on track to exceed its commitments as per the Paris Agreement. We urge the members to fulfil their commitments regarding transfer of technology and climate finance, which are far from being fulfilled by the developed countries,” he said. Goyal said sustainability has to be linked to making available grant-based, long tenure, low cost and concessional and affordable technologies. “India has consistently maintained that environmental, sustainability measures need careful assessment to ensure they do not become new trade barriers and the right forum for them is the dedicated Multilateral Environmental Agreements,” he said. On the sidelines of the G20 Trade Ministers Meeting at Sorrento in Italy, Goyal advanced India’s trade position and negotiated bilateral and multilateral agreements in his meetings with nearly 15 ministers, including from the United States, the United Kingdom, the European Union, Brazil, China, Australia, South Africa, Indonesia, Canada, South Korea and Mexico. He also met the director general of the World Trade Organisation. Goyal made it clear that India was working towards the success of the upcoming WTO 12th Ministerial Conference (WTO MC12) next month, but it expected the outcome to be just and equitable. “Historical wrongs against developing countries must be corrected rather than being carried over,” said a commerce ministry statement, quoting Goyal. In his meetings with the Canadian minister, Goyal discussed steps to take forward the Free Trade Agreement (FTA) negotiations with the newly elected government while calling upon his South Korean and EU counterparts to accelerate review of the FTA. With the Mexican minister, Goyal discussed cooperation in healthcare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-asks-g20-to-dismantle-trade-barriers-to-ensure-equitable-access-to-vaccines-101634039356206.html
13-10-2021||India||HC dismisses plea challenging Asthana’s appointment as Delhi Police chief||The Delhi high court on Tuesday dismissed a petition challenging the appointment of Rakesh Asthana as the city police commissioner. A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh pronounced the operative part of the order. A detailed judgment is yet to be released.On August 25, the Supreme Court asked the high court to decide within two weeks the plea pending before it against the appointment. The bench reserved its order on September 27.In his plea, lawyer Sadre Alam sought quashing of Union home ministry’s July 27 order appointing Asthana as well as that granting inter-cadre deputation and extension of service to him. The plea contended that a high-powered committee comprising the Chief Justice of India, Prime Minister, and the Leader of Opposition, on May 24 rejected the appointment of Asthana as CBI director due to procedural lapses. It added the same rules should apply to the appointment of the Delhi Police commissioner.NGO Centre for Public Interest Litigation also filed an intervention application through advocate Prashant Bhushan, challenging the appointment. The petition was earlier filed in the apex court, which asked Bhushan to approach the high court. Bhushan, during the proceedings, contended that Alam’s petition was a “copy-paste” of his plea.Also Read: Suspected terrorist held in Delhi, AK-47 rifle seizedThe Centre justified Asthana’s appointment and told the court that most of the appropriate level of officers of a cadre of officers for Union territories did not have the sufficient balance of experience and policing for an appointment as a top cop of the city.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, contended that filing Public Interest Litigation has spawned into an industry of vested litigation.Asthana, in his affidavit, told the court there was a sustained social media campaign against him, and the legal challenge to his appointment was an abuse of process of law arising from vendetta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-dismisses-plea-challenging-asthana-s-appointment-as-delhi-police-chief-101634019012927.html
13-10-2021||India||Will the festive season trigger the third wave?||It's festival time in India and despite the Covid cloud public places are buzzing across the country. A decline in cases, with numbers hovering around the 20,000 mark and a surge in vaccination, crossing the 900million mark, has boosted confidence. However, the policymakers have been sending warning signs, alerting of an imminent third wave, that may see a sporadic rise in cases. Recently, the Indian Council of Medical Research, ICMR, warned that revenge tourism may trigger the third wave, with cases surging by over 40%. As we begin the festivities the most pertinent question being asked is, is the worst over for India and has Covid-19 now turned into an endemic, as being suggested by few experts or is it the lull before the storm? hindustantimes.com Editor- Audience Engagement, Vertika Kanaujia, speaks to eminent public health experts - Dr. Raj Shankar Ghosh, Senior Advisor, Vaccine Delivery, Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation; Dr. Anant Bhan, Researcher – Global Health, Bioethics and Health Policy and Dr. Ratna Devi, Chair of the Board of Trustees, International Alliance of Patients’ Organizations, to help us decipher the current situation and the road ahead.Talking about fears of the much-touted third wave, Dr Bhan said, “during the festive season adherence to public health measures is drastically going down. It is likely that there would be more possibility of exposure.""Schools and colleges are opening, offices are calling employees back and markets are flooded with people, this is a cause for worry. However, vaccination has been the saving grace. It is likely that the third wave will not be as severe. We can expect upward trends but not a significant surge," he added.Globally, and in India too, overconfidence has been observed among the youth over a falsely presumed invulnerability, that clubbed with vaccine production concerns, can India meet its December deadline for full vaccination coverage?Dr Ghosh believes, ‘considering the current covid vaccination coverage pace India should be in a position to vaccinate its entire population by the first quarter of 2022.’As we stare at a third wave that may or may not come, schools are set to open. Even as we understand that school reopening has become a necessity now - but does the benefit of opening schools outweighs the risks? Dr Ratna Devi said, “benefits, especially of mental health, far outweigh the risks because children are supposed to be in the playgrounds and not confined to homes. Several schools have opened but there have been no major concerns reported as comorbidity burden on children is far less.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-the-festive-season-trigger-the-third-wave-101633976808364.html
13-10-2021||NA||Breaking news highlights: Russia hits new record for Covid-19 deaths||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:Covid vaccination: Gurugram achieves 14% of mega drive target on Day 1The district health department administered over 21,300 doses of Covid-19 vaccines on Tuesday, achieving 14% of its 150,000 target on Day 1 of a three-day statewide mega vaccination drive. Read moreRussia hits new record for Covid-19 deathsRussia on Tuesday recorded 973 deaths due to Covid-19, highest single-day toll since the beginning of the pandemic last year. Russia has repeatedly hit record daily death tolls this month, and daily infections also have been hovering near all-time highs, with 28,190 new cases reported Tuesday.Mumbai Cyber Police's email account hacked by Pak malware attackA preliminary enquiry by Mumbai Police has revealed that an email with the subject “Terrorists behind JK attacks gunned down in Mumbai” that has an attached PDF document named ‘Intelligence Report,’ was sent somewhere from the Punjab province of Pakistan. The email was received by Maharashtra government offices and even those of other states in India. Probe found that on clicking the PDF document, the malware gets downloaded in the user's computer system and further compromises it. Moreover, the email was sent from the hacked email of a senior inspector of cyber police station of Mumbai police. Following this, Maharashtra cyber department has written to all government offices in the state and other states, warning them not to open the email.‘Increasing spread of terrorism in Africa is matter of concern’: MoS MEA Muraleedharan at UNSCUnion minister of state MEA V Muraleedharan said that the rising “spread of terrorism in Africa is [a] matter of serious concern,” while addressing the UN Security Council on Tuesday. “What's even more unfortunate is that these terrorist forces and groups receive encouragement from member states, seeking to divide communities by legitimising terrorist activities,” he added.Union Cabinet approves proposal for launching of affiliated Sainik Schools The Union Cabinet on Tuesday approved proposal for launching of affiliated Sainik Schools under Sainik Schools Society. These Schools will function as an exclusive vertical which will be different from existing Sainik Schools, ANI quoted the Defence Ministry as saying.PM Modi calls for urgent & unhindered humanitarian assistance to Afghans during G20 Summit After attending the G20 Summit on Afghanistan, PM Modi tweeted that he stressed on preventing the Afghan territory from becoming the source of radicalisation and terrorism during the Summit. “Also called for urgent and unhindered humanitarian assistance to Afghan citizens and an inclusive administration,” he added. ‘There will be repercussions’: PDP leader Mehbooba Mufti on arrests over civilian killings in J&KPDP leader Mehbooba Mufti on Tuesday told ANI that the recent civilian killings in Jammu and Kashmir are “saddening” and the failure of the Union territory (UT) government. “As a cover-up, government is arresting people without evidence. If they keep arresting repercussions will be dangerous, everyone will have to pay the price,” she was quoted as saying.Non-bailable warrant issued against NCP leader Eknath Khadse's wifeA Special PMLA court on Tuesday rejected the anticipatory bail application of Mandakini Khadse, wife of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Eknath Khadse, and issued a non-bailable warrant against her by naming her as an accused in the Bhosari (Pune) Land deal case by the Enforcement Directorate (ED). Besides Mandakini, the ED had named Eknath Khadse and his son-in-law Girish Chaudhari as accused in the case.CBI court defers Gurmeet Ram Rahim's sentencing order to Oct 18A special CBI court in Panchkula on Tuesday deferred the sentencing order of Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim to October 18. Rahim was recently held guilty of conspiring the murder of the former dera manager Ranjit Singh in 2002.EU announces 1-billion euro aid package for AfghanistanThe European Union (EU) has announced an aid package worth 1 billion euros for Afghanistan, which is controlled by Islamist militant group Taliban now.Pak terrorist Mohd Asraf sent to 14-day police custodyPakistani terrorist Mohd Asraf, who was arrested from Delhi's Laxmi Nagar area earlier in the day, has been remanded to14-day police custody.Civil aviation ministry allows 100% capacity of domestic flights from October 18 onwardsTh Union ministry of civil aviation on Tuesday announced restoration of domestic operations in flights from October 18 onwards, and issued a circular permitting 100% capacity of domestic flights.Earthquake of 6.3 magnitude hits Greek island of CreteAn earthquake of 6.3 magnitude hits Greek island of Crete, AFP reported.BJP MP Manoj Tiwari stable after sustaining injuries in protest outside Kejriwal's houseBJP MP Manoj Tiwari on Tuesday sustained injuries in the protest outside Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal's house against the ban on Chhath puja celebrations. The Delhi police used water cannons to disperse BJP workers protesting outside the CM's house, Abhay Verma, chief spokesperson of Delhi BJP, said. “He (Tiwari) sustained injuries as he was standing on the barricade when the water cannon was used to disperse us. He is stable now," Verma added.Encounter underway between security forces and terrorists in J&K's PangaiAn encounter is currently underway between the security personnel and terrorists in the Pangai Area in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri district.Ex-Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh fails to appear before city crime branch in extortion caseFormer Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh failed to appear before the Crime Branch of Mumbai Police that had sent him a notice asking him to appear before them. He was summoned to record his statement in an extortion case lodged against him by the branch, ANI reported.Lakhimpur Kheri violence case: Congress delegation to meet President Kovind tomorrowA seven-member Congress delegation, led by former party chief Rahul Gandhi, will meet President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case, after the Rashtrapati Bhavan, on Tuesday, scheduled their appointment with the President in this regard. Read MoreUN panel says it can't rule on climate case brought by ThunbergA UN panel said it could not immediately rule on a complaint by Swedish teenager Greta Thunberg and others that state inaction on climate change violates children's rights, adding that they should have taken the case to national courts first.Covaxin gets SEC emergency use nod for childrenBharat Biotech's Covaxin gets SEC emergency use nod for children between 2-18 years of ageAfter Sameer Wankhede’s stalking claim, Maharashtra home minister reactsMaharashtra home minister Dilip Walse Patil said on Tuesday he did not have any information about senior officials of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), including Mumbai zonal director of the agency Sameer Wankhede, being watched by the Mumbai Police. Read MoreIndian, American, Japanese, Australian navies kick off Malabar drillsIndia, the US, Japan, and Australia on Tuesday kicked off the second phase of this year’s Malabar naval drills in the Bay of Bengal. The three-day exercise seeks to build on the synergy, coordination, and interoperability developed during the first phase held in August, the Indian Navy said. Read MoreMaharashtra govt issues SOPs to reopen auditorium and cinema halls from October 22The Maharashtra government has issued SOPs to reopen auditorium and cinema halls from October 22. Under the guidelines, the occupancy of the cinemas / theatres / multiplexes / auditorium shall not be more than 50% of their total beating capacity. Visitors will also be asked to show ‘safe status’A on the Aarogya Setu App, the rules also mandate.'Red Light on, Gaadi off' initiative to begin from Oct 18: Delhi CMWe had started the 'Red Light on, Gaadi off' initiative last year. This will begin again from 18th October, as soon as you stop at a Red signal, turn down the engines of your vehicle. You can begin today itself, though it'll be formally launched on 18th, says Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal.Over 650 fast track courts set up in India: PM ModiFor women safety, one-stop centres have been set up in over 700 districts, providing medical, police, mental counselling and legal help to them. Over 650 fast track courts have been set up, and for heinous crimes like rapes provision of death penalty has been introduced: PM ModiPM Modi addresses 28th NHRC Foundation DayToday, India is providing paid maternity leave of 26 weeks to career women. This is basically the protection of the rights of newborn children...: PM Modi at 28th NHRC Foundation DayNation is going ahead with ‘Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas’: PM ModiNation is going ahead with 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas, Sabka Prayas'. In a way, it also works on basic principle of ensuring human rights for all. If Govt starts a scheme and it benefits only a few, it'll raise the issue of rights, says Prime Minister Narendra Modi at 28th NHRC Foundation Day program.1 unidentified terrorist killed in ongoing operation in J&KA fresh encounter broke out between the security forces and terrorists in Feeripora area of Shopian district in Jammu and Kashmir. Read More‘Stopped at the Bareilly airport': RJD's Jayant ChaudharyRLD Chief Jayant Chaudhary claime he is stopped at Bareilly airport. He was on his way to Tikunia from Bareilly for the antim ardas program for the four farmers who died in Lakhimpur Kheri violence. “I want to join the last prayer of the farmer. But I have been stopped at the Bareilly airport and made to sit in the lounge!" he tweeted.Delhi HC dismisses plea challenging Rakesh Asthana's appointment as police commissionerThe Delhi High Court on Tuesday dismissed a plea challenging the appointment of Rakesh Asthana as the city Police comissioner.Will Quad stand-up to dragon breathing fire from Indo-Pacific to Ladakh?The condescending statement issued by PLA's Western Theatre Command spokesperson after the unproductive 13th round of senior military commanders meeting on Sunday to de-escalate situation in East Ladakh is reflective of the overall Chinese belligerence towards its perceived adversaries with dragon breathing fire from Indo-Pacific to Ladakh. Read MoreIndia's daily Covid-19 tally drops to 14,313, lowest spike in monthsIndia's daily Covid-19 tally drops to 14,313, lowest spike in the last 224 days, according to the Union ministry of home and family welfare.Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Farmers to observe 'Shaheed Kisan Diwas' todayFarmers protesting against the Centre’s three farm laws will observe 'Shaheed Kisan Diwas' on Tuesday to pay tribute to the four farmers who lost their lives in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) said in a statement on Monday.Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to visit Lakhimpur Kheri todayCongress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to visit Lakhimpur Kheri today where she will take part in the 'antim ardaas' of farmers who died in the violence there on October 3.In 12 days, Delhi reports over a 100 cases of dengue139 cases of Dengue reported in Delhi so far in the month of October, 217 cases were reported in September. A total of 480 cases of Dengue have been reported in the national capital so far this year,  shows a report by the SDMC.One man dies in Bengaluru after a short circuit A man was killed due to a short circuit in a house that was flooded, in Konappana Agrahara limits of Bengaluru.  There were two people in the house, the second person managed to escape unhurt, informs Dr Sanjeev M Patil, deputy Commissioner of Police.Search operation underway in J&K's RajouriAn encounter and search operation is underway in Dehra Ki Gali (DKG) area, Rajouri,  where one JCO & four soldiers had lost their lives during a counter-terror operation on Monday.India set to ink key trade deals by next yearIndia is set to conclude three major trade agreements with the United Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom and Australia by 2022, and is close to signing early harvest trade deals separately with the three nations, three people aware of the development said.PM Modi to address 28th NHRC foundation day programme todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will address the 28th National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) foundation day programme on Tuesday through video conferencing.Quad navies set to kick off 2nd phase of Malabar drillsIndia, the United States, Japan and Australia will kick off the second phase of this year’s Malabar naval drills in the Bay of Bengal on Tuesday, with the exercise seeking to build on the synergy, coordination and interoperability developed during the first phase held in August, the Indian Navy said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-live-october-12-2021-101633996933526.html
