14-10-2021||India||India to participate in Moscow Format dialogue on Afghanistan||New Delhi : India on Thursday confirmed its participation in a meeting of the Moscow Format dialogue on Afghanistan on October 20 that is set to be joined by representatives of the Taliban setup in Kabul. This will be the second time that the Indian side will come face-to-face with Taliban representatives at a Moscow Format meeting since 2018, and also the second formal contact between the two sides since the Taliban marched into Kabul on August 15 after the collapse of the Ashraf Ghani government. India has so far held off on any formal recognition of the Taliban setup in Kabul, with New Delhi saying there are questions about its legitimacy as it is not inclusive and was formed without negotiations. “We have received an invitation for the Moscow Format meeting on Afghanistan on October 20. We will be participating in it,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said during a weekly news briefing. There is no confirmation on who will attend the meeting but India is likely to be represented by a joint secretary from the external affairs ministry, he said. India participated in the second meeting under the Moscow Format in November 2018 at a “non-official level”, sending retired ambassadors TCA Raghavan and Amar Sinha to represent the country. That meeting was attended by a five-member Taliban delegation led by Sher Mohammed Abbas Stanekzai, a key player in the group’s political office in Qatar and the current deputy foreign minister. Stanekzai also met India’s ambassador to Qatar, Deepak Mittal, at the Indian embassy in Doha on August 31, the first officially acknowledged contact between the two sides. The Moscow Format was launched in 2017 as a six-party mechanism for consultations between representatives of Afghanistan, China, Pakistan, Iran, India and Russia. Russia also started the “extended troika” dialogue on Afghanistan that includes the US, China and Pakistan. This will be the first meeting of the Moscow Format since the Taliban takeover of Kabul. Russia and the Central Asian states have concerns about terrorism and instability spilling over from Afghanistan. Russia is particularly concerned about the activities of Islamic State on Afghan soil. The world community has mounted pressure on the Taliban to deliver on its commitments regarding human rights and counter-terrorism even as it tries to fashion a response to the humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan. Bagchi didn’t give a direct response to a question on India providing humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan but reiterated New Delhi’s call for the world community to create the “best possible enabling environment”, including unimpeded and unrestricted access for aid providers and non-discriminatory distribution of aid. “India’s policy towards Afghanistan is guided by our friendship with the Afghan people. We have in the past provided assistance both for infrastructure as well as humanitarian [needs],” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-participate-in-moscow-format-dialogue-on-afghanistan-101634236132269.html
14-10-2021||India||Maharashtra housing minister Jitendra Awhad arrested on kidnapping, assault charges||Maharashtra housing minister Jitendra Awhad was arrested on Thursday evening by the Thane Vartak Nagar police in connection with the Anand Karmuse kidnapping and assault case. He was later released on bail. Earlier, five people had been arrested for the alleged abduction, including three police constables. Thane resident, Anant Karmuse, 40, had alleged that he was beaten up inside Awhad’s bungalow by 10-15 people for posting a morphed photograph of the leader on social media for his stand against the call by PM Narendra Modi to hold a candlelight vigil on April 5 at 9.00 pm to applaud the efforts of all those involved in the battle against Covid-19.After Karmuse posted the morphed photograph of Awhad, two people in police uniform came to his house and asked him to accompany them to the police station. Karmuse alleged that instead of the police station he was taken to Awhad’s bungalow in Thane, beaten up by around by 10 to 15 people and was made to apologise for the post. On Thursday afternoon at about 2.45 pm, Awhad was called by the Thane Vartak Nagar police who wanted to record his statement. Later he was arrested under Sections 365, 324, 143, 147, 148, 506 of Indian Penal Code. “After Awhad’s arrest, the Vartak Nagar Police recorded his statement and then he was produced in Thane court. The court released him on bail on a bond of ₹10,000 and one surety. He was arrested in connection with the kidnapping and assault on Anant Karmuse, a Thane resident,” Deputy Commissioner of Police, Zone V, Vinay Rathod said. “He would have been arrested one-and-half years back. Police officials arrested him on the ground and evidence which I had provided then not now. Why was he not arrested at that time? They have CCTV footage of his bungalow and he is clearly visible. I never stopped the fight against him despite several threats, and bribes offered. I will fight till he gets convicted,” Anant Karmuse said.Following the arrest of the minister, the BJP has demanded his resignation. Kirit Somaiya tweeted, “BJP demands Minister Jitendra Awhad must be sacked from the Ministry.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-housing-minister-jitendra-awhad-arrested-on-kidnapping-assault-charges-101634235952021.html
14-10-2021||India||India confirms participation in Oct 20 Moscow Format meet on Afghanistan||India on Thursday confirmed its participation in a meeting of the Moscow Format dialogue on Afghanistan on October 20 that is set to be joined by representatives of the Taliban setup in Kabul. This will be the second time that the Indian side will come face-to-face with Taliban representatives at a Moscow Format meeting since 2018, and also the second formal contact between the two sides since the Taliban marched into Kabul on August 15 after the collapse of the Ashraf Ghani government. India has so far held off on any formal recognition of the Taliban setup in Kabul, with New Delhi saying there are questions about its legitimacy as it is not inclusive and was formed without negotiations. “We have received an invitation for the Moscow Format meeting on Afghanistan on October 20. We will be participating in it,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said during a weekly news briefing. There is no confirmation on who will attend the meeting but India is likely to be represented by a joint secretary from the external affairs ministry, he said. India participated in the second meeting under the Moscow Format in November 2018 at a “non-official level”, sending retired ambassadors TCA Raghavan and Amar Sinha to represent the country. That meeting was attended by a five-member Taliban delegation led by Sher Mohammed Abbas Stanekzai, a key player in the group’s political office in Qatar and the current deputy foreign minister. Stanekzai also met India’s ambassador to Qatar, Deepak Mittal, at the Indian embassy in Doha on August 31, the first officially acknowledged contact between the two sides. The Moscow Format was launched in 2017 as a six-party mechanism for consultations between representatives of Afghanistan, China, Pakistan, Iran, India and Russia. Russia also started the “extended troika” dialogue on Afghanistan that includes the US, China and Pakistan. This will be the first meeting of the Moscow Format since the Taliban takeover of Kabul. Russia and the Central Asian states have concerns about terrorism and instability spilling over from Afghanistan. Russia is particularly concerned about the activities of Islamic State on Afghan soil. The world community has mounted pressure on the Taliban to deliver on its commitments regarding human rights and counter-terrorism even as it tries to fashion a response to the humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan. Bagchi didn’t give a direct response to a question on India providing humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan but reiterated New Delhi’s call for the world community to create the “best possible enabling environment”, including unimpeded and unrestricted access for aid providers and non-discriminatory distribution of aid. “India’s policy towards Afghanistan is guided by our friendship with the Afghan people. We have in the past provided assistance both for infrastructure as well as humanitarian [needs],” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-confirms-participation-in-oct-20-moscow-format-meet-on-afghanistan-101634234031819.html
14-10-2021||India||India re-elected to UNHRC for sixth term with 'overwhelming majority'||India on Thursday was re-elected to the United Nations Human Rights Council for the sixth term (2022-24)with an overwhelming majority and vowed to continue to work for the promotion and protection of human rights through "Samman, Samvad and Sahyog."In a series of tweets, India’s Permanent Mission to the UN said, "India gets re-elected to the @UN_HRC (2022-24) for a 6th term with overwhelming majority. Heartfelt gratitude to the @UN membership for reposing its faith in India."We will continue to work for promotion and protection of Human Rights through #Samman #Samvad #Sahyog #Samman #Samvad #Sahyog."India🇮🇳 gets re-elected to the @UN_HRC (2022-24) for a 6th term with overwhelming majority. Heartfelt gratitude to the @UN membership for reposing its faith in 🇮🇳. We will continue to work for promotion and protection of Human Rights through #Samman #Samvad #Sahyog pic.twitter.com/ltqktWcat1The UN General Assembly elected by secret ballot Argentina, Benin, Cameroon, Eritrea, Finland, Gambia, Honduras, India, Kazakhstan, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Montenegro, Paraguay, Qatar, Somalia, UAE and the US.Though member states were chosen in a secret ballot, the election was a non-contest, with 18 candidate countries standing for 18 seats.The United States, which had quit the council in 2018 under the previous Donald Trump's regime, was reelected to the global rights body for a period of  three-and-a-half years. Ahead of its dramatic walkout, the US had accused the UN of hypocrisy and obsession with haranguing Israel. It received 168 votes during Thursday's vote.Among other notable entries, the UN General Assembly chose Eritrea, often criticised for alleged rights abuses. The country received 144 votes.The council is tasked with promoting and protecting human rights worldwide, addressing violations and making recommendations, hence the election of Eritrea again raised the issue of having authoritarian regimes on the body.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-re-elected-to-unhrc-for-sixth-term-with-overwhelming-majority-101634228909758.html
14-10-2021||India||Announcements in railway stations, planes, ships, metros to mark 1 billion Covid-19 vaccine doses, says Mandaviya||A billion (100 crore) Covid-19 vaccine doses would be administered under the country’s immunisation drive against the disease sooner this month and Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya has unveiled the government’s plans to mark the momentous occasion.Mandaviya on Thursday said that India is expected to cross the massive one-billion mark in the number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered by October 18 or 19 and to mark the moment, announcements would be made on airplanes, ships, metros and at railway stations. The minister made the announcement while launching a coffee table book on Covid-19 warriors, news agency PTI reported.Also read | India backs WHO move for new expert group to probe origins of Covid-19 pandemicAlso, domestic airline carrier Spicejet will wrap its planes with posters regarding one billion vaccinations and with images of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and healthcare workers as part of the celebrations to mark the country’s achievement, Mandaviya also said.Briefing on plans after achieving a billion doses, the minister said that the focus would be shifted to administering second doses. “After 100 crore doses is achieved, we will go in mission mode to ensure that those who have taken their first dose take their second dose too to ensure they are protected against Covid-19,” PTI quoted him as saying.So far, 970 million (97 crore) vaccine doses have been administered to beneficiaries above 18 years of age in the country, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Thursday. Earlier on Thursday evening, Mandaviya said that the vaccination drive has completed delivering 970-million doses. “The nation is rapidly approaching the 100 crore vaccination mark! 97 crore #COVID19 vaccine doses administered to date. Keep it up India, let us fight corona,” he tweeted.The nation is rapidly approaching the 100 crore vaccination mark!97 crore #COVID19 vaccine doses administered to date.Keep it up India, let us fight corona 👏 pic.twitter.com/QjWCqNHJeTAlso, 73% of the population have received at least one dose and 30% fully immunised. Mandaviya’s announcement that the focus would be shifted towards the second dose vaccinations assume significance considering the sizeable gap between the number of people having received one or both doses.As of 7pm on the day, 2,762,523 doses of the vaccine were administered, pushing the cumulative doses to 971,120,405 the ministry said in a statement. The country also logged 18,987 new Covid-19 cases and 246 fatalities on the day.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/announcements-in-railway-stations-planes-ships-metros-to-mark-1-billion-covid-19-vaccine-doses-says-mandaviya-101634226363923.html
14-10-2021||India||Two Army personnel critically hurt during anti-terror ops in J&K's Poonch dist, NH shut||Two Army personnel were critically injured on Thursday during an encounter in Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir. The operation is underway in the Bhatadhorian area of Mendhar sub-division in Poonch district.According to official sources, a junior commissioned officer and a soldier were severely injured in the operation. Also read | Centre intensifies CT ops in Kashmir, 9 terrorists killed in six daysVehicular traffic on the Jammu-Rajouri-Poonch national highway has been suspended in the particular stretch during the ongoing counter-terror operation.The deaths came amid an intensified counter-terror operation launched by the security forces over the past few days leading the killing of at least nine militants in a span of six days.Last week, a teacher and principal of a government school, both of them belonging to minority communities in the Valley, were killed by militants in Srinagar. The Resistance Front (TRF), which police say is the front for terror group Lashkar-e-Taiba, claimed responsibility for the attack and said the teachers were killed for their role in getting students to participate in a “function at school on August 15”, India’s independence day.Further details awaited.(With inputs from bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-army-personnel-killed-during-anti-terror-ops-in-j-k-s-poonch-district-101634227157239.html
14-10-2021||India||'Let's have a blast': What did Aryan Khan message Arbaaz Merchant on WhatsApp?||As the Narcotics Control Bureau opposed Aryan Khan's bail plea on Thursday in the special NDPS court, the agency referred to the WhatsApp chats it has found from Aryan Khan's phone. As reported, there have been primarily three findings from Aryan's WhatApp chats.First, the 6 gram charas that was found on Arbaaz Merchant was for the consumption of Arbaaz and Aryan, the NCB has claimed. NCB counsel, additional solicitor general Anil Singh told the court to note the WhatsApp chat between Aryan Khan and Arbaaz Merchant where 'they said they are going to have a blast', LiveLaw reported. ASG says that the panchnama clearly shows that the 6 gms of charas found from Arbaaz Merchant's shoe was for their consumption. "They said 'they' are going to have a blast," please note this. #AryanKhanBailSecond, the NCB earlier said in the court that Aryan Khan had interacted with some foreign nationals. Two foreign nationals have been arrested in connection with the case.Third, Aryan Khan's WhatsApp conversation involved the mention of some ‘bulk quantity’, which the NCB assumed is not for personal consumption and accused Aryan Khan of drugs trafficking.'In the land of Mahatma Gandhi': NCB's 5 points opposing Aryan Khan's bail pleaNot Queen's English: What Aryan Khan's lawyer saidAryan Khan's lawyer Amit Desai said the context of WhatsApp chats matters the most. He also said that today's generation uses a type of English for their communication, which is very different from proper English."Today's generation has a means of communication, which is English..not the Queen's English..it's sometimes what the older generation will call torture. The way they communicate is very different," Desai said.He also argued that Aryan spend some time abroad recently. If the conversation is from that time, one must remember that many things are legal in other countries, he said. "Conversations on chats can often be misunderstood. WhatsApp chats are supposed to be private conversations. But I am told there are no messages or conversations on the mobile about the rave party," he said."We need to see… is this youthful banter, friendly gossip, joke..is someone trying to tell him I got this, I did this, were they trying to joke or laugh about it?" Desai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lets-have-a-blast-what-did-aryan-khan-message-arbaaz-merchant-on-whatsapp-101634225517632.html
14-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: Amit Shah's 'surgical strike' comment rattles Pakistan and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Pakistan reacts to Amit Shah's 'surgical strike' comment, says it's peace-lovingPakistan on Thursday said it is a peace-loving country but will not spare any effort to thwart any ‘aggressive design’ of India. The comments came after Union home minister Amit Shah referred to surgical strike in his speech in Goa. Read more‘Full faith in Congress president,’ says Navjot Sidhu after AICC meetingPunjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Thursday met All India Congress Committee president Harish Rawat and Congress general secretary KC Venugopal at the AICC office in Delhi and discussed his concerns regarding the party’s organisational matters pertaining to Punjab Congress. Read moreIndia backs WHO move for new expert group to probe origins of Covid-19 pandemicIndia on Thursday backed the World Health Organization (WHO)’s decision to create an expert group to examine the origins of new pathogens, including the Coronavirus that causes Covid-19, and said all countries should cooperate with the probe. Read moreRashmi Rocket movie review: Taapsee Pannu needs to start making better choices, like yesterdayIn Taapsee Pannu’s Rashmi Rocket, the heroine gets a shocking slap on her face. Now if you, like myself, could not stop gushing about her after watching Anubhav Sinha’s Thappad, let me tell you that the similarities between the two movies end right there. Read more‘It was in nice manner, if that makes sense’: Anderson on rivalry with KohliVeteran England pacer James Anderson revealed that the battle between him and India skipper Virat Kohli this year was so far the best in his career. The 39-year-old sent Kohli packing on a golden duck in the opening Test of the five-match series, which was played in August. Read moreNora Fatehi flaunts hot workout look during indoor cycling. Health perks insideIf there is one leg or cardio workout that is loved by all women, it has to be an indoor cycling session and Bollywood actor Nora Fatehi is no different. Read moreWhy Pak PM Imran Khan is refusing to endorse Gen Bajwa choice for new ISI chiefA big row has erupted in Pakistan after Prime Minister Imran Khan's office did not issue the notification over the appointment of new DG ISI Lt Gen Nadeem Anjum announced by Army Chief General Qamar Bajwa. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-amit-shah-s-surgical-strike-comment-rattles-pakistan-and-all-the-latest-news-101634224130832.html
14-10-2021||India||Coal shortage was due to monsoons: Pralhad Joshi||Minister of coal, mines and parliamentary affairs Pralhad Joshi said on Thursday the shortage of coal in the country was due to monsoons and closure of some mines. The coal minister added they have been supplying 2 million tonnes of coal since Wednesday, indicating the situation is headed towards improvement.“Closure of some coal mines and inundation of a few others due to monsoon led to the hindrance in coal supply to power plants,” news agency PTI quoted Joshi as saying."We can produce two million tonnes of coal per day," he added, acknowledging there is a need to produce more coal.The minister also paid a visit to the Ashoka mine of the Central Coalfields Ltd (CCL) at Piparwar in Chatra district of Jharkhand. After the visit, he said the power plants in the country will continue to receive the required amount of coal. Joshi also held discussions with officials of CCL and Eastern Coalfields Ltd (ECL) on the prevailing situation. Apart from holding discussion on the coal crisis, the minister also discussed the issue related to the availability of land for mining at the meeting, PTI reported.Many states in the past few days have given power cut warnings if the coal crisis doesn't improve. While load shedding is already taking place in Karnaraka's capital city Bengaluru, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi claiming that power generation was being affected and requested him to intervene in the matter. Shortly after, the Ministry of Coal said there was ample coal available in the country to meet the demand for power plants.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coal-shortage-was-due-to-monsoons-pralhad-joshi-101634213491977.html
14-10-2021||India||India backs WHO move for new expert group to probe origins of Covid-19 pandemic||India on Thursday backed the World Health Organization (WHO)’s decision to create an expert group to examine the origins of new pathogens, including the Coronavirus that causes Covid-19, and said all countries should cooperate with the probe. WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus announced the launch of the Scientific Advisory Group for the Origins of Novel Pathogens (SAGO) at a news briefing on Wednesday, and Michael Ryan, executive director of WHO’s health emergencies programme, said this represented the “last chance” to determine the origins of SARS-CoV-2. India has consistently backed all moves by WHO to establish the origins of the Covid-19 pandemic, and called on all stakeholders, including China, to cooperate with such efforts. External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi reiterated this position when he was asked about the new expert group at a regular news briefing on Thursday. “Let me just reiterate what we have stated till now – we have our interest in further studies and data on this issue of the origin [of the Coronavirus] and the need for understanding and cooperation by all concerned,” he said, without naming China. The Indian side, he said, was gathering details of what the new move by WHO would entail. Raman Gangakhedkar, the Dr CG Pandit National Chair at the Indian Council of Medical Research in India, and Yungui Yang of the Beijing Institute of Genomics at the Chinese Academy of Sciences, are among the 26 members of SAGO. Responding to WHO’s announcement, China warned against any “political manipulation” of the renewed probe into the origins of Covid-19 but said it would support the investigation. The Coronavirus first emerged in the central Chinese city of Wuhan in late 2019, triggering the worst pandemic in a century. Asked about the new probe, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said it should be conducted in the “spirit of science” and not used as a political tool. The result of the previous study on the matter should be respected, he added. “China will continue to support and participate in international Coronavirus origins -tracing, yet opposes any form of political manipulation on the issue,” Zhao told a news briefing in Beijing. He added, “China has always maintained that tracing of virus origins is a serious and complex scientific issue and that research should be conducted by scientists in cooperation.” Tedros said SAGO will advise WHO on developing a global framework to guide studies into “origins of emerging and re-emerging pathogens with epidemic and pandemic potential, including SARS-CoV-2”. He said that while SARS-CoV-2 is the latest virus to spark a pandemic, “it will not be the last”. Ryan noted the current pandemic “has stopped our whole world” and said the expert group “may be our last chance to understand the origins of this virus in a...collective and mutually responsible way”. He urged everyone, including countries, to create space for discussions on the issue. Maria van Kerkhove, WHO’s technical lead on Covid-19, said the expert group is expected to call for further studies in China by international missions. “I anticipate that the SAGO in its discussions about the urgent next steps for understanding the origins of the current pandemic will recommend further studies in China and potentially elsewhere...We very much hope that there will be further missions to China and other countries,” she said. The 26 members of SAGO were selected from more than 700 applications following a global call. Tedros said they were chosen for their world-class expertise and experience in a range of disciplines, and geographic and gender diversity. There will be a two-week public consultation period for WHO to receive feedback on the proposed members. China has dismissed theories that the Coronavirus leaked from a laboratory in Wuhan and has said no more visits by international experts are needed. A WHO-led team spent four weeks in and around Wuhan this year with Chinese scientists, and said in a joint report in March that the Coronavirus had probably been transmitted from bats to humans through another animal, but further research was needed. Tedros has said this investigation was hampered by a dearth of raw data pertaining to the first days of the Covid-19 outbreak and called for laboratory audits. Van Kerkhove said “more than three dozen recommended studies” must still be carried out to determine how the Coronavirus crossed from animal species to humans. Reported Chinese testing for antibodies in Wuhan residents in 2019 will be “absolutely critical” to understanding the virus’s origins, she said. WHO, in an editorial in Science, said detailed investigations of the earliest known and suspected cases in China prior to December 2019 are still needed, including analyses of stored blood samples from 2019 in Wuhan and retrospective searches of hospital and mortality data for earlier cases. Labs in the area where the first reports of human infections emerged in Wuhan must be a focus, as ruling out an accident requires sufficient evidence, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-backs-who-move-for-new-expert-group-to-probe-origins-of-covid-19-pandemic-101634221548272.html
14-10-2021||India||‘Full faith in Congress president,’ says Navjot Sidhu after AICC meeting; announcement tomorrow||Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Thursday met All India Congress Committee president Harish Rawat and Congress general secretary KC Venugopal at the AICC office in Delhi and discussed his concerns regarding the party’s organisational matters pertaining to Punjab Congress. An announcement regarding Sidhu's post in the PPCC is expected on Friday.“Navjot Sidhu has clearly stated that decision of the Congress President will be acceptable to him. The instructions are clear that Navjot Sidhu should work as Punjab Congress President and set up organisational structure. An announcement will be made tomorrow,” Harish Rawat said after the meeting.Sidhu, who was made the Punjab Congress chief in July this year, resigned last month due to internal differences with the party. His resignation was, however, rejected by the Congress high command.“I expressed my concerns regarding Punjab and Punjab Congress to party high-command. I've full faith in Congress president, Priyanka ji and Rahul ji. Whatever decision they'll take, it'll for the betterment of Congress and Punjab. I'll follow their directions,” Sidhu told reporters outside the AICC office.‘Some things take time’Earlier this week, Rawat had, in a tweet, informed that Sidhu will meet them to discuss "organisational matters" of the Punjab Congress.“Navjot Singh Sidhu and Charanjit Channi have spoken on some issues, a solution will emerge...there are some things that take time,” Rawat had said prior to the meeting today.This is the first official meeting between Sidhu and the Congress central leadership since the resignation.Meanwhile, yesterday Sidhu told reporters that he is always grateful to the party high command for "facilitating" him but asserted that there "can never be compromises"."I have 'ishq' with Punjab. What is the meaning of 'Ishq'? People think it is something physical. No... It breaks away from all relationships and this is the kind of my 'Ishq' for Punjab. Those who understand my 'Ishq' for Punjab will never level any allegations against me," he said."Everywhere my merit was ignored. In politics, 5 can be made 50 and 50 can be turned into zero... I will always be grateful to them. But how to move forward by making compromises? This system stands up like a monster and bites you," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navjot-sidhu-meets-congress-leaders-in-delhi-harish-rawat-says-some-things-take-time-101634220502494.html
14-10-2021||India||1st Moscow Format after Taliban takeover on October 20. India says it will attend||The ministry of external affairs on Thursday said India will participate in the Moscow Format meeting on October 20, the first after the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan. The participation will be at the joint secretary level, the ministry has confirmed. This will be the second time New Delhi will be face to face with the Taliban after the group toppled the Ashraf Ghani government in a coup on August 15, and the first meeting after the Taliban announced its Cabinet.Moscow Format is a negotiation mechanism established in 2017 to address the issues of Afghanistan. It includes countries like Afghanistan, China, Pakistan, Iran and India. The United States too had participated in Moscow Format before. This is not the first time that the Taliban will be invited to the platform, but the first time after they have their government in Afghanistan.At G20 special summit on Afghanistan, PM Modi calls for inclusive administration in KabulAmid international appeal for an inclusive government in Afghanistan, Russia has decided to continue its Moscow Format. The Taliban too are looking for international recognition while the countries are buying time before recognising the Taliban government in Afghanistan.On international platforms, India has clarified its stance that it will stand by the Afghan people. PM Modi has urged the international community to ensure that Afghan territory does not become a source of radicalisation and terrorism.The first official contact between New Delhi and the Taliban was on August 31 when the ambassador of India to Qatar, Deepak Mittar, met Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanekzai, the head of Taliban's political office in Doha. That meeting took place at the Embassy of India in Doha at the request of the Taliban side.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1st-moscow-format-after-taliban-takeover-on-oct-20-india-says-it-will-attend-101634219423530.html
14-10-2021||India||Amid opposition, Adani Group takes charge of Thiruvananthapuram airport||Amid opposition by a section of airport staff as well as the ruling LDF government in Kerala, the Adani Group has taken charge of the operation and management of the Thiruvananthapuram International Airport on Thursday.“Connecting lives with cherished travel experiences, we are pleased to share that #Thiruvananthapuram Airport is now a #GatewayToGoodness. We are privileged to serve and welcome passengers to God’s Own Country filled with lush greenery, beautiful beaches, and exquisite cuisine,” the group said in a tweet, both in English and Malayalam, after the takeover. The CPI (M)-led state government had tried its best to stall the takeover and last year the state assembly had passed a unanimous resolution against it. Its petition questioning the takeover was rejected by all courts. But Congress MP from the state capital Shashi Tharoor has hailed the move and said it will help develop the airport and increase its connectivity. In February 2019, the government-owned Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC) participated in the open bidding for the airport but Adani Enterprises won it with the highest bid. Adani group offered to pay a fee of Rs. 168 per passenger, followed by KSIDC at ₹135 and GMR Group at ₹63. Though KSIDC was also given a 10% discount since it was a government entity, Adani quoted more than 30% to win the bid. After losing the bid, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking him not to hand over the airport to a private entity, citing the successful public-private partnership model of Cochin International Airport Limited (CIAL) and Kannur airports. He said the state deserved preferential consideration over a private group, taking into account its experience in running two airports. Later its pleas were turned down by the High Court and Supreme Court. One of the oldest airports in the country, built in 1932, the Thiruvananthapuram Airport was operated so far by the Airports Authority of India (AAI). It is situated in the middle of the city on 638 acres of land donated by the erstwhile rulers of Travancore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-opposition-adani-group-takes-charge-of-thiruvananthapuram-airport-101634219567919.html
14-10-2021||India||Irresponsible, ridiculous: Amarinder Singh on Congress attack over BSF row||Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday hit out at Congress leader Pargat Singh for saying he had been with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) even while he was heading the Congress government in the state.Earlier in the day, the school education minister said, “I've always said Captain (former CM) is with BJP only. Earlier, he went to Delhi to delay procurement of paddy and now this... If you are deploying the BSF in Punjab it shows your motive to impose governor rule.”His comment was in response to Amarinder Singh praising the decision of the Union government to extend the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) to conduct searches, arrest suspects and make seizures up to an area of 50km (which was 15km earlier) inside the Indian territory from the International Border with Pakistan and Bangladesh.Also read | Centre raises BSF's area of jurisdiction, Punjab CM wants decision rolled backCalling it the height of irresponsibility, Singh’s media advisor Raveen Thukral quoted the former as saying that Pargat Singh and his close ally Navjot Singh Sidhu had nothing better to do than cooking up “ridiculous stories for cheap publicity”.“This is the height of irresponsibility from a state minister. You and @sherryontopp are clearly birds of the same feather, with nothing better to do than cook up ridiculous stories for cheap publicity.’: @capt_amarinder to Pargat Singh @INCPunjab @INCIndia”.Amarinder Singh also slammed Congress leader Randeep Surjewala who said the former did not write about increasing the BSF’s jurisdiction in Punjab while in the CM’s chair.Days after resigning as the chief minister following months of tussle over leadership issue within the Congress, Singh met Union home minister Amit Shah amid speculations that he might switch over to the BJP. While he made it clear that he would not join the saffron camp, he said he would definitely leave the Congress having suffered adequate humiliation within the grand old party. He said Surjewala, who could not an election even in his own state, did not have any right to speak on national issues.‘How ridiculous! You mean I’m dictating @HMOIndia decisions now not just in Punjab but also in Gujarat, WB, Assam, etc? A person who couldn’t win an election in his own state has frankly no right to speak on national issues.’: @capt_amarinder to @rssurjewala @INCIndia #BSF https://t.co/gqqBEQJ1D5“How ridiculous! You mean I’m dictating @HMOIndia decisions now not just in Punjab but also in Gujarat, WB, Assam, etc? A person who couldn’t win an election in his own state has frankly no right to speak on national issues.’: @capt_amarinder to @rssurjewala @INCIndia,” Thukral quoted Amarinder as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/irresponsible-ridiculous-amarinder-singh-on-cong-attack-over-bsf-row-101634219273730.html
14-10-2021||India||Coal India ‘temporarily’ halts supply to customers outside power sector||Coal India Ltd, the world's largest miner, has temporarily stopped coal supplies to its customers from the non-power sector, a company official informed on Thursday. The development comes as India – the world's second largest coal producer, and among the fourth largest reserves – battles one of its worst power supply deficits in years. However, the company assured that it is only a temporary move till the situation stabilises."This is only a temporary prioritisation, in the interest of the Nation, to tide over the low coal stock situation at the stressed power plants and scale up supplies to them," the source, familiar with Coal India's plan was quoted as saying by Reuters.The company has not issued any official comment on the same.With India's economic reopening after the prolonged virus-infused lockdown, India has witnessed a surge in power demand to above pre-pandemic levels. This means state-run Coal India's supplies were no longer enough.Coal India said it had stopped all online auctions of coal except those meant for the power sector. Additionally, most of India's 135 coal-fired power plants have fuel stocks of less than three days.The government has even asked power producers in the country to import up to 10% of their coal needs amid fuel shortages in various states. The Centre also warned states against sale of electricity on power exchanges to cash in on surging prices, asserting that federal companies will curb their power supplies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coal-india-temporarily-halts-supply-to-customers-outside-power-sector-101634214426065.html
14-10-2021||India||Tamil Nadu allows places of worship to open on all days; beaches to open on Sundays from Nov 1||The Tamil Nadu government on Thursday announced more relaxations to the Covid-19 norms, including those for temples and shops, in view of the festival season in the state but extended the ongoing lockdown till October 31. However, chief minister MK Stalin asked people to avoid crowding during the festivals, strictly follow Covid appropriate behaviour and get Covid-19 vaccines in the mega vaccination camps being conducted by the state to check the spread of the viral disease.The state government said in a press release that all places of worship, which have so far remained closed on Fridays and the weekends, would now be open for people on all days of the week. Among other relaxations, shops, hotels, restaurants and other commercial establishments have been allowed to function till 11pm from Thursday, October 14, in view of people shopping for essential needs during the season.Also read | TN to become first in country to administer Covid shots to children over 2 yearsPeople can also visit beaches on Sundays too from November 1, the release said. The government partially reopened the beaches in August but kept them locked on Sundays to avoid overcrowding.What changes from November 1?Tuition centres and government and private employment programmes have been allowed to function from November 1. Notably, the government reopened schools for classes 9 to 12 in early September and for classes 1 to 8 on September 28.The cap on attendance at weddings and funerals have also been relaxed slightly from November 1. While 100 people would be allowed during weddings and other ceremonies, funerals can take place with a maximum of 50 people. Before this, only 50 people were allowed in weddings and other ceremonies.All district administrations have also been allowed to continue their public hearing programmes. Private exhibitions too would be permitted, conditional on adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour.Playschools, nursery schools and Anganwadis can also be fully operational. However, the government has mandated vaccination against Covid-19 for the staff working in these schools. Meanwhile, the ban on political, social and cultural gatherings would prevail, the government noted.Covid-19 situation in TNThe relaxations have been announced as Tamil Nadu continues to report upwards of 1,000 daily infections and is among the few states in India to still do so. The state government has tried to increase the vaccination rate through mega camps on Sundays and five such camps have been held so far.On Wednesday, 1,280 new Covid-19 cases and 19 deaths were reported in the state as the total confirmed infections reached 2,682,137 and the death toll rose to 35,833, a health department bulletin showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-allows-places-of-worship-to-open-on-all-days-beaches-to-open-on-sundays-from-nov-1-101634216314952.html
14-10-2021||India||Govt rejigs fertiliser-subsidy regime to continue offering crop nutrients at below-market rates||The Union government has revamped parts of its subsidy regime for fertilisers and crop nutrients to continue providing them at below-market rates, while rolling over special discounts announced for the summer-sown season to the oncoming winter-sown months, according to an official statement on Thursday. International prices of raw materials for some key crop nutrients such as di-ammonium phosphate (DAP) and 22 grades of P&K fertilisers have been increasing for over 18 months, trade data show. Most of these fertilisers have seen a jump of over 50% in prices, forcing the government to expand subsidy. India relies on import of raw materials for crop nutrients as well as finished products and compensates fertiliser companies who sell them at below-inflation rates. Subsidised rates under the so-called nutrient-based subsidy regime -- the mechanism by which the Centre disburses the subsidy to manufacturers – will be extended to the winter-sown season at a cost of ₹28,602 crore, the government’s calculations show. This means while prices will be allowed to be increased, the roll-over to October 2021 to March 2022 period will keep the retail per kg subsidy rates for a group of nutrients known as nitrogen-phosphorus-potassium unchanged. The second key change is the inclusion of potash-derived from molasses or PDM, a crop nutrient derived from sugarcane waster matter, under the nutrient-based subsidy scheme for the first time. India’s is the world’s second-largest cane grower after Brazil. Potash extracted from sugarcane waste will reduce India’s reliance of 100% import of more than 4.2 million tonne of mineral-based potash, an essential crop nutrient which is critical for India’s food security. “This decision will improve the income level of sugarcane growers and sugar mills,” the official statement said. A “special one-time package” for additional subsidy on di-ammonium phosphate or DAP at a projected additional cost of ₹5,716 crore along with an additional subsidy on three most consumed fertilisers called NPK worth ₹35115 crore has been approved by the Modi government. The total fertiliser subsidy on account of these new steps could go up to ₹36,000 crore, an official said. A central team is monitoring availability of fertilisers in the country on a daily basis, according to the official. The government has already directed all the fertilisers companies to ensure the availability of these fertilisers in the market for farmers and sell all old stocks at old prices. “We expect a nearly 10% increase in fertiliser demand,” an official of the agriculture ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-rejigs-fertiliser-subsidy-regime-to-continue-offering-crop-nutrients-at-below-market-rates-101634216687355.html
14-10-2021||India||Suvendu Adhikari urges PM Modi to take urgent steps after pandal attacks in Bangladesh||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Suvendu Adhikari has requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take urgent steps to provide relief to Hindus residing in Bangladesh in view of attacks on Durga Puja pandals and various temples in the neighbouring country. In a letter to PM Modi, the Opposition leader of the West Bengal Assembly said the notorious vandals are habituated to targeting the ‘Sanatani’ minority community in Bangladesh.“This time the religious fanatics took to the streets to vandalize several Durga Puja pandals and various temples also. Presently the condition of Sanatani People living in Bangladesh is very miserable,” he wrote, referring to the term often used to describe Hindu movements.The violent attack on pandals occurred after the alleged desecration of the Quran in Cumilla, a city in the Chittagong Division of Bangladesh, by placing it near the feet of goddess Durga’s idol at a puja pandal. Citing diplomats in Dhaka and New Delhi, HT earlier reported that the Jamaat-e-Islami (JEI) might be behind the attacks with an intention of embarrassing the Sheikh Hasina government.The attacks on pandals mainly took place in Noakhali, Chandpur, Cox’s Bazaar, areas around Chattogram, Chapainawabganj, Pabna, Moulvibazara and Kurigram. No disturbance was reported in Dhaka, Brahmanbaria, Jashore and other major cities.Adhikari highlighted that many Bangladeshi Hindus, who have crossed over to West Bengal to escape the inhuman atrocities of the past, are making “frantic calls” to stand in support of the victims.“Hence I heartily request you please take necessary and urgent steps at your disposal as early as possible to provide relief to the Sanatani People of Bangladesh,” wrote Adhikari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suvendu-adhikari-urges-pm-modi-to-take-urgent-steps-after-pandal-attacks-in-bangladesh-101634215018640.html
14-10-2021||India||Centre mulling making forensics mandatory for serious criminal cases: Amit Shah||Any crime that involves a possible punishment of six years or more needs to necessarily include a forensic investigation, Union Home Minister Amit Shah has said in Goa. The minister also indicated that the Union government is considering making it mandatory for such investigation to be conducted. Shah said that forensic evidence strengthens the prosecution’s hand and can take the conviction rate for criminal cases higher. He was speaking an event to lay the foundation stone for the Goa campus of the National Forensic Science University. “We are trying to focus on ensuring that there should be compulsory visits of the forensic science team in all crimes where the punishment is more than six years (serious crimes). If we achieve this then in more than 600 districts across the country, one forensic science laboratory, even if small, will have to be set up along with a mobile forensic van,” Shah said. “If we have to do this then we will need 30,000 to 40,000 forensic scientists. From where will we get them? On the one hand there is unemployment; on the other hand skilled manpower is not there. If we are to bridge this then education and skilling is the way forward. Which is why we are setting up the forensic science university,” Shah added. “The wrongdoer can be brought to justice only when the conviction ratio rises and when the people can rest assured that he will spend a long time in jail. This can happen only when the conviction rate climbs higher. This can happen when the prosecutor has in his hands scientific evidence. The concept had come to our country, even the labs came but there was a shortage of manpower so cases were dragging on and on,” he added. Shah is in Goa to lay the foundation stone for the Goa campus of the National Forensic Science University which he said will help staff forensic labs across the country ten years from now. “This is a big gift for the youth of Goa. In this campus, forensic science in general, forensic chemistry, toxicology, biotechnology, fingerprint, DNA science, financial crimes investigation, cyber-security analysis, digital forensic science and wildlife forensic science courses will be available. I call on science stream students from the state to take up these courses,” Shah said. “Not only for students and children -- police officers, judicial officers and people related to cyber-security and private security researchers will also have the option for diploma courses,” he added. “I know that Goa is a small state. But if you look for the number of sailors across the country, you will find that most of them are from Goa. Most of the sailors of the country come from Goa. So I wish to say that in ten years’ time there should be a situation where most of the forensic scientists from across the country come from Goa,” he added. Shah called on the institute to also offer Goa-specific courses that can tackle issues like tourist security, drugs, narcotics, coastal policing etc. “Look at Goa’s crime situation as a tourist hub and you need to make some courses ready for tourist security, a suitable centre also needs to be set up for drugs and narcotics and for coastal policing too a centre of the NFSU unit needs to be set up,” he added. The college is not only for Goa but law enforcement agencies from across west India and neighbouring Karnataka who could use its expertise, he said. The courses at the college will start immediately, the minister informed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-mulling-making-forensics-mandatory-for-serious-criminal-cases-amit-shah-101634214106914.html
14-10-2021||India||Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik's security tightened after threat calls||Maharashtra minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawak Malik said on Thursday the state government has upgraded his security after he claimed he has been receiving threat calls following the press conference he conducted last week on the Narcotics Control Bureau’s (NCB’s) raid on a cruise ship.Malik also claimed that the NCB was trying to “frame” him by involving his son-in-law Sameer Khan in a drug peddling case. He claimed that rumours regarding the recovery of ganja and drugs were spread by the anti-drug agency despite none of it was recovered from his son-in-law's possession. The Maharashtra minister said they are moving court against the agency, the harassment meted out to them, and for quashing the case."BJP leaders have been targeting me by saying that I am defaming the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) to take revenge over the arrest of my son-in-law. Since the last press conference, which was held on October 9, I have been getting threatening calls. This is why the state government upgraded my security," news agency ANI quoted Malik as saying during a press conference on Thursday."The NCB had arrested my son-in-law (Sameer Khan) earlier in July. When his house was raided by the NCB, there was no recovery but still there were rumours that ganja and drugs were recovered. It was done by NCB to defame me," he said."Hearing Khan's bail application, the court released him in September. My whole family including my daughter was in trauma," he added.Nawab Malik, in his presser on October 9, claimed that the NCB had initially detained 11 persons from a Goa-bound cruise ship off Mumbai coast, but let off three of them, including the brother-in-law of BJP leader Mohit Bharatiya, a couple of hours later. He also termed the NCB's raid on the cruise as "fake, planned and conspired to defame the film industry and the Maharashtra government". He alleged that there exists a connection between the Zonal Director of NCB Mumbai unit and BJP leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-minister-nawab-malik-s-security-beefed-up-after-threat-calls-101634206889062.html
14-10-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Pak airline suspends flights from Kabul and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Pakistan International Airlines (PIA) on Thursday announced the suspension of flights from Kabul, accusing the Taliban of “heavy-handed” interference, according to news agencies. The Taliban government had ordered Pakistan’s national flag carrier to cut prices to the levels when it was operating during the Western-backed Afghan government. PIA accused the Sunni Pashtun group, which announced an interim government last month, of arbitrary rule changes and intimidation of staff. Read moreAssam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Thursday his government welcomed the Centre’s decision to extend the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) in the state amid loud protests from states like Punjab and West Bengal. Read moreKolkata Knight Riders (KKR) on Wednesday registered a tricky 3-wicket win against Delhi Capitals (DC) in Sharjah to storm into the final of Indian Premier League (IPL) 2021. While chasing a small total of 136, Eoin Morgan & Co. went through a horrendous middle-order collapse after a rollicking start. However, following a compact tussle with DC, the Knight Riders came out victorious. Read moreMinecraft Live 2021 is expected to feature many important announcements from new mobs and Minecraft Dungeons to the important Caves & Cliffs update Part 2. Here’s what to expect and how to watch the event live stream online. Read moreSamantha Ruth Prabhu has made her first public appearance since her separation from Naga Chaitanya. Samantha was spotted taking her dogs to a vet recently. Fan groups have shared pictures of the South Indian actor with her pets. Read moreTata Motors on Thursday announced that its recently introduced Punch small-sized SUV has become the latest recipient of the 5-star rating (16.453) for adult occupant protection and 4-star rating (40.891) for child occupant protection from Global NCAP. The new Punch comes out as the third vehicle from Tata to be awarded this safety recognition after Altroz in January 2020 and Nexon in December 2018. Read moreA brain tumour is an abnormal mass of cells that grows abnormally in or around the brain which can impair brain functions if it gets large enough to press on nearby nerves, blood vessels, or tissue. Unlike common myth, not all brain tumours are cancerous. Also symptoms of the health condition may vary from person to person depending on the tumour's location, type and grade. According to a study, the incidence of central nervous system tumors in India ranges from 5-10 cases per one million people. Read moreUnion Health minister Mansukh Mandaviya visited the former PM at AIIMS this morning.Prime Minister Narendra Modi wished former PM Manmohan Singh a ‘speedy recovery’. PM Modi tweeted: ‘I pray for the good health and speedy recovery of Dr. Manmohan Singh Ji’. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-pak-airline-suspends-flights-from-kabul-and-all-the-latest-news-101634207680854.html
14-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan to remain in jail till next Wednesday, court reserves order||Aryan Khan will have to remain in jail till next Wednesday as the special NDPS court which was hearing the bail plea of Shah Rukh Khan's son in connection with the cruise rave party reserved its order for October 20, almost a week from now. The bail plea came up for hearing on Wednesday but as NCB counsel Anil Singh could not finish his argument on Wednesday, the hearing resumed on Thursday. As the court heard both the parties, it reserved the order for October 20, which means Aryan Khan will have to spend this week too in judicial custody. Aryan has now completed his isolation period in Arthur Road jail and has now been moved with other inmates.Aryan Khan regular consumer of drugs, says NCB; compares with Rhea-Showik caseWhat happened during Thursday's hearingThe NCB opposed Aryan Khan's bail plea and said that Aryan Khan can't be granted bail as bail has nothing to do with the quantity of drugs recovered from him. NCB counsel Anil Singh said Aryan is a regular consumer of drugs, his WhatsApp interaction has revealed. The fact that he was not found with drugs is immaterial as there are some provisions in the NDPS Act where the recovery of drugs is not at all crucial, he said. "Innocent until proven guilty doesn't apply in the cases of NDPS offences. In the NDPS Act, the presumption is of culpable a mental state, and it is for the accused to prove that he was not in possession during the trial," Singh said.He also submitted that the NCB will ultimately find out how all the arrested are connected to each other and will establish a case of conspiracy. "This isn't a case of bail at this state. It can be considered at an appropriate stage," he said.'In the land of Mahatma Gandhi': NCB's 5 points opposing Aryan Khan's bail pleaCountering NCB's arguments regarding Aryan Khan's WhatsApp chat, his lawyer Amit Desai said the context of the WhatsApp chats is important as casual conversations between friends on WhatsApp may appear suspicious. He also said that Aryan Khan was overseas for a while where a lot of these things are legitimate.Regarding a WhatsApp chat ‘Let’s have a blast' apparently exchanged between Aryan Khan and Arbaaz Merchant, Amit Desai said, “Today's generation has a means of communication, which is English...not the Queen's English…it's sometimes what the older generation will call torture. The way they communicate is very different. But by no stretch of the imagination is this boy involved in illicit international drug trafficking.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aryan-khan-to-remain-in-jail-till-next-wednesday-court-reserves-order-101634210632816.html
14-10-2021||India||'In the land of Mahatma Gandhi': NCB's 5 points opposing Aryan Khan's bail plea||As Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) counsel Anil Singh argued against Aryan Khan's bail plea in connection with the cruise rave party, he put forward some strong points regarding the menace of drugs in India and how NCB officials are fighting it risking their safety.Here are 5 things that Anil Singh told the court> Anil Singh said he does not agree with the argument of Aryan Khan's counsel Amit Desai that these are young kids and therefore should be considered for bail. "I disagree. This is our future generation. The entire country will be depending on them. This is not what our freedom fighters in the land of Mahatma Gandhi envisioned," Anil Singh said.> NCB officers are working day and night to fight the drug menace. They also get beaten up when they are on the duty, Singh said.> On the specific case of Aryan Khan, Singh said Aryan Khan should not be granted bail as he is part of the conspiracy. He was aware of the possession of drugs.> Aryan Khan is not a first-time consumer of drugs. Referring to his WhatsApp chats, the NCB said that he has been a regular consumer of drugs and the 6 gram charas found from Arbaaz Merchant was for their consumption.> Referring to the Rhea Chakraborty-Showik Chakraborty case, Singh said that the quantity does not always matter, as Rhea Chakraborty's brother Showik Chakraborty was also not found in possession of drugs.On Wednesday, Aryan Khan's lawyer Amit Desai argued that the judicial system should not penalise the “kids” in bail. They are some young kids, Amit Desai said, adding that they should not be considered drug peddlers, racketeers or traffickers. Desai had argued that they have suffered enough and have learnt their lesson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-the-land-of-mahatma-gandhi-ncb-s-5-points-opposing-aryan-khan-s-bail-plea-101634209768720.html
14-10-2021||India||Farmers blame black marketing, hoarding of fertilizer as MP govt preps to invoke NSA||Farmers looted bags of DAP (diammonium phosphate) fertilizer from a warehouse in the third such incident in Chambal division of Madhya Pradesh in the last five days, police said. There is an acute shortage of urea, especially in the northern parts of the state just before the winter crop sowing season and farmers are becoming desperate, they added. The farmers in the region have also resorted to blocking roads, demanding distribution of urea. Most of the warehouses are almost empty and the supply is not in consonance with the demand, said local government officials. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday said there was no shortage of fertilizer in the state. MP requires 4 lakh tonnes of urea for the Rabi season and the state has already received 2.5 lakh tonne, the CM said.State home minister Narottam Mishra, however, said the administration is receiving reports of illegal hoarding and supply of sub-standard fertilizers in DAP bags and the government has decided to invoke the stringent national security act (NSA) against the businessman for black marketing and illegal hoarding of fertiliser. On Monday farmers, who were waiting in the queue in grain market in Sabalgarh in Morena, looted more than 50 bags of fertilizer from a truck, police said. Police said a group of farmers stole fertilizer bags from warehouses of cooperative societies in Fup and Mehgaon area of Bhind in two separate incidents. An FIR has been registered only in one of these cases, police said.State officials and experts said the major reasons behind the crisis are changes in crop pattern, black marketing and farmers defaulting on loan repayments. Farmers are eligible for fertilizer from the government at subsidised rates only if they have repaid loans. Agriculture expert Vinayak Tomar said: “Nearly 61% of total mustard production of the state takes place in Morena, Bhind, Sheopur and Gwalior. With the sudden increase in the price of mustard from ₹4,800 per quintal to ₹8,000/per quintal, many farmers, who used to sow wheat and bajra, have started sowing mustard for winter crop also. Mid-September and October is the best time for sowing mustard so the demand for urea has increased suddenly. Earlier, there was a balance as for wheat, farmers need fertilizer by the end of October and in November.”Then there is black marketing.“The (state) agriculture department gives fertilizers to cooperative societies according to the agricultural land of registered farmers. There is a ban on open sale of fertilizers from the societies to stop black-marketing in UP and Rajasthan (the fertilizer from the state is illegally shipped there). Similarly, societies are not providing fertilizers to defaulter farmers, who have not cleared their loans,” said Shiv Mangal Singh, former president of district cooperative bank in Morena. He added that private shops have stock of urea that are being sold at a premium of ₹200-300 for a 50 kg bag. In the past two days, Gwalior and Morena district administration raided warehouses of two traders and recovered more than 200 bags, which were being hoarded. A resident of Gurema village in Morena, Shankar Singh Jadon, 62, said, “This is the peak season of sowing and I am standing in queue daily for the past 15 days and I received only two bags for my three acres of land. At one time, the society manager is providing only two bags to a farmer. In the (open) market, the same bag is being sold at ₹1500. The government is promoting black marketing.”Another farmer from Gormi in Bhind, Ran Singh Narwariya, said, “If we don’t find urea on time, sowing will be affected. The state government is compelling us either to borrow money to purchase the fertilizer in black or steal it from the warehouse.”MP Kisan Congress president Dinesh Gurjar said, “The government should make fertilizer available within a week or we will intensify our protest.” On Tuesday, Chouhan instructed all the collectors to ensure a smooth supply of fertilizers to farmers.Farmers’ welfare and agricultural minister Kamal Patel said, “There is no crisis of fertilizer (availability) in MP and it is being supplied smoothly. Some defaulting farmers are creating a ruckus but we are ensuring that they get DAP (Di-ammonium Phosphate) bags at subsidized rates from the market. We are also conducting raids to stop the hoarding of fertilizers”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-blame-black-marketing-hoarding-of-fertilizer-as-mp-govt-preps-to-invoke-nsa-101634208466250.html
14-10-2021||India||Assam CM backs BSF's extension of jurisdiction as Punjab, Bengal step up attack||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Thursday his government welcomed the Centre’s decision to extend the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) in the state amid loud protests from states like Punjab and West Bengal.Sarma said the move, in coordination with the state police, would serve as a strong deterrent for defeating cross-border smuggling and illegal infiltration. According to an ANI report, the chief minister said it strengthened national security and was in the interest of the country.Assam welcomes the extension of BSF’s operational jurisdiction. In coordination with state police, this move will serve as a strong deterrent for defeating cross border smuggling & illegal infiltration. It strengths national security and national interest: Assam Chief Minister pic.twitter.com/6dnqFTSVi9Sarma’s statement came in the wake of a massive pushback from Punjab and Bengal, both under non-BJP governments, over the government's decision to amend the BSF Act and authorise the force to undertake search, seizure and arrest within a larger 50-km stretch, in place of the existing 15km, from the international border in Punjab, West Bengal and Assam.Also read | ‘Captain is with BJP’: Punjab minister alleges Amarinder behind govt's BSF moveBoth the Congress-led government in Punjab and the ruling Trinamool Congress in Bengal have said the Centre’s move was an "infringement" on the rights of the state and an attack on the federal structure of the country.Soon after the news had come to fore, Punjab chief minister Charanjit SIngh Channi had urged Union home minister Amit Shah to immediately roll back the decision. “I strongly condemn the GoI's unilateral decision to give additional powers to BSF within 50 KM belt running along the international borders, which is a direct attack on the federalism,” he wrote on Twitter.Minister Vijay Inder Singh said the BJP was trying to take away the rights of the states.”Punjabis have always stood together whether it was the freedom struggle or farmers' protest... We will fight against this too," he added.Meanwhile, the TMC said the decision was taken by the Centre without any consultation with the Bengal government."If the BSF has to conduct any search, they can always do it along with the state police. This has been the practice for years. It is an attack on the federal structure," TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said.Senior TMC MP Sougata Roy said the BSF did not have a good track record on human rights in border villages.Bengal Congress president Adhir Chowdhury warned the Union Home Ministry of "consequences" over the move.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-cm-backs-bsf-s-extension-of-jurisdiction-as-punjab-bengal-step-up-attack-101634206903459.html
14-10-2021||India||Elgar Parishad case: HC extends temporary bail of Varavara Rao till Oct 28||The Bombay high court on Thursday extended till October 28 the temporary bail granted to poet P Varavara Rao, 80, who was among those arrested for alleged inflammatory speeches at the Elgar Parishad conclave in Pune in December 2017. It granted Rao bail for six months on health grounds in February.Rao, who was to return to Mumbai’s Taloja jail on September 5, filed a plea for the extension of the bail saying he has developed three new ailments. He cited a lack of proper medical facilities at the jail hospital while seeking the extension.A division bench of justices Nitin Jamdar and Sarang Kotwal was unable to hear Rao’s application on Thursday due to paucity of time. It said the matter will be taken up for hearing on October 26 before extending the bail.Rao submitted he has complied with all bail conditions and was living in Mumbai with his wife. He added he has been receiving treatment and has undergone medical check-ups. Rao said his reports indicate he has developed asymptomatic Parkinson’s disease and neurological ailments. He added as he is dependent on his pension, the February 22 bail order be modified to allow him to return to his home state of Telangana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elgar-parishad-case-hc-extends-temporary-bail-of-varavara-rao-till-oct-28-101634207027974.html
14-10-2021||India||Rajnath Singh says women will be equal contributors in fight against terrorism, highlights role in armed forces||Defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Thursday women have always been and will always remain equal contributors within the armed forces in India. Singh said that terrorism is a common threat to the countries under the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) that “challenges us in equal measure” and it reinforced the role of all citizens in the fight against it.“And this fight cannot be won by half the population of our region or of a country. Women have and will remain equal contributors in this fight, both within the armed forces and beyond them,” Singh during his address at the SCO international webinar on the role of women in the armed forces.Women have and will remain equal contributors in this fight, both within the armed forces and beyond them: Raksha Mantri Shri @rajnathsinghWhile mentioning women who reached the helm of Indian administration, Singh referred to former prime minister Indira Gandhi and former president Pratibha Patil and said that women reaching higher ranks within the armed forces came as no surprise. “It, therefore, comes as no surprise that a number of women have reached the rank of lieutenant general and equivalent within the Indian armed forces, leading their men and women under the most challenging conditions,” he said.The defence minister also said that the country was amongst the oldest to induct women into its armed forces and highlighted the role of women in the Indian Military Nursing Service for more than 100 years now. He also said that the army had begun commissioning women in 1992 and they are now present within most branches.Also read | After SC judgement, UPSC invites application from women candidates for NDA exam“Women are now being accepted for permanent commission and shall be commanding army units and battalions in near future,” he said. “I am happy to share with you that from next year, women shall be able to join our premier tri-service pre-commissioning training institute, the National Defence Academy,” he added.Singh also said that the role of women should be recognised and reinforced in all spheres of security and nation-building, apart from their role in the armed forces. He also pointed to the role of women in the navy, the coast guard and the UN peacekeeping missions within the services and said that India’s approach has been progressive towards their induction into these services.“We have found that the process of induction, given its broad-based and progressive path, has also simultaneously prepared the society and the armed forces for this change. This is an important aspect to ensure a smooth and successful transition,” he said.The ministry of defence said in February this year that the Indian Army has 6,807 women or 0.56 per cent of its total strength, the Indian Air Force 1,607 or 1.08 per cent and the Indian Navy 704 women officers or 6.5 per cent of the arm’s strength.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-says-women-will-be-equal-contributors-in-fight-against-terrorism-highlights-role-in-armed-forces-101634206484570.html
14-10-2021||NA||Mumbai drugs case live updates: Aryan Khan to stay in jail, no order on bail plea today||A special court under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act in Mumbai on Thursday reserved the order for October 20 on the bail application of Aryan Khan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha in connection with the cruise ship drugs bust case. The three were arrested on October 3 and are currently lodged at Arthur Road prison. Their bail plea was submitted in the special NDPS court after a Mumbai magistrate rejected their bail and remanded them to judicial custody. The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has argued that Aryan Khan, the eldest son of Bollywood star Shah Rukh Khan, should not get bail in the case just because he was not found in possession of drugs. Stay tuned for live updates.Follow all the updates here:Bail plea hearing adjourned till October 20After hearing the arguments of both the sides in the bail application of Aryan Khan, Actor Arbaaz Merchant and model Munmun Dhamecha, the Mumbai court has adjourned the matter to 20th October, 2021, for bail order,Possibility of conspiracy, speculation in Aryan Khan's case: Desai in court“This young man was overseas for a while. In those countries some times lot of things are legitimate. I don't know what kind of chats are there. I have not seen. The possibility of conspiracy and speculation cannot hold me back in this case,” Aryan Khan's lawyer tells court, as quoted by Live Law.Aryan Khan ‘by no stretch involved in illicit drug trafficking’, Amit Desai tells court“By no stretch of imagination the boy is involved in illicit drug trafficking or international drug trafficking. This allegations are fake. Nothing to do will illicit drug trafficking. These chats needs to be seen as whole. They need to see if they (the chats) are jokes, banter. Context is important when we deal with evidential value,” Aryan Khan's lawyer in court.Investigation in regards to Aryan Khan ended on October 7: Desai tells court“The custody was given in bailable offence to facilitate investigation,” Desai continues, “Then he was remanded to judicial custody. Now the learned magistrate heard everything of the NCB, applied his mind and concluded that no investigation's is actually happening now. The crucial investigation (in regards to Aryan Khan) was completed on October 7.”Reformative approach needed: Aryan Khan's lawyer tells court“You are at the bottom of the chain, affected by the drug menace. But they want you to keep in jail. How long that too? You are a consumer affected and they say you might be in conspiracy with peddler and put you in jail. This is a far stretched argument. They should have a reformative approach,” Desai tells court, adding that in connection to Aryan Khan's involvement in the case, the NCB may have crossed a legal line.No debate that world is fighting drug menace: Aryan Khan's lawyer“I say this as an officer of this court and citizen of this country. I don't think there can be a debate that the entire world is fighting the drug menace. We got our freedom and we must protect it and save the younger generation from the drug menace,” Senior counsel Amit Desai says in his rejoinder arguments on behalf of Aryan Khan.Aryan Khan's lawyer argues in courtSenior Lawyer Amit Desai, who is representing Shah Rukh Khan‘s son Aryan Khan, is presenting his arguments in court.‘Drug abuse needs to stop somewhere': NCB to court“I don't agree they are boys, tell the court you are our future generations. The entire country depending on you. It is not what father of nation Mahatma Gandhi would have envisioned. Drug abuse needs to stop somewhere. We are taking it seriously and investigations looking at every chain,” ASG Anil Singh tells court.NCB in court as hearing resumes“Bail can be granted in case there are reasonable grounds for believing that accused is not guilty of such offence, and that he is not likely to commit any offence while on bail,” Additional Solicitor General representing NCB told the court, citing the judgement of State of Kerala vs Rajesh, as reported by Live Law.NCB argues in court that Aryan Khan is ‘a regular drug consumer’“The record and the evidence before your honour shows that he is a regular consumer of contraband for last few years,” NCB said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-drugs-case-live-updates-aryan-khan-a-regular-drug-consumer-says-ncb-hearing-underway-101634204950457.html
14-10-2021||India||‘Captain is with BJP’: Punjab minister alleges Amarinder behind govt's BSF move||A day after the Centre extended the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) to a 50-kilometre belt along the international border in few states, including Punjab, Congress leader and cabinet minister Pargat Singh attacked Amarinder Singh over the Union government's move.In an apparent reference to Captain's meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah last month, Pargat Singh said that Amarinder Singh went to Delhi to delay the paddy procurement and now he has motivated the government to extend the BSF’s jurisdiction to Punjab. “I have always said the Captain is with the BJP only. Earlier he went to Delhi to make a delay in paddy procurement and now this... If you are deploying BSF in Punjab it shows your motive to impose governor rule...,” news agency ANI quoted Pargat Singh as saying.“I want to appeal to the Union home minister to not take Punjab in different directions for the 2022 and 2024 elections. We will not allow anyone to make Punjab communal,” Singh added, referring to the assembly polls scheduled to be held in the state next year and the general elections later.On Wednesday, Amarinder Singh extended his support to the move and urged people not to drag central armed forces into politics. “Our soldiers are being killed in Kashmir. We’re seeing more & more weapons & drugs being pushed by Pak-backed terrorists into Punjab. BSF’s enhanced presence & powers will only make us stronger. Let’s not drag central armed forces into politics," Singh's media adviser tweeted on his behalf.Meanwhile, Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi requested Amit Shah to immediately roll back this decision, terming it a "direct attack on federalism".In a move aimed at maintaining "zero tolerance" against terrorism and cross border crimes, the Centre has empowered the BSF to conduct searches, arrest suspects and make seizures up to an area of 50 km inside Indian territory from the International Border (IB) along the India-Pakistan and India-Bangladesh borders.As per the fresh order, the BSF, which was only empowered to take action up to fifteen kilometres in the states of Punjab, West Bengal and Assam, has now been authorised to spread its jurisdiction up to 50km without any hurdle or further permission either from central or state governments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/captain-is-with-bjp-punjab-minister-alleges-amarinder-behind-govt-s-bsf-move-101634203006472.html
14-10-2021||India||Isolated populations of India are at higher risk of Covid-19, study finds||A study led by experts at the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CSIR-CCMB), Hyderabad, and the Varanasi-based Banaras Hindu University (BHU), has concluded that some isolated populations in the country have a higher genetic risk for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). These include, for example, tribes such as Onge and Jarawa, researchers said. Both the tribes are isolated from the population on mainland India, as these are found on the Andaman and Nicobar Islands.Speaking about the research, Professor Gyaneshwer Chaubey of the BHU, who co-led the exercise with CSIR’s Kumarasamy Thangaraj, said, “There might be some speculations on the effects on Covid-19 among isolated populations. However, for the first time, we used genomic data to study the risk of the infection on 227 isolated Indian populations. It was found that the ones which carry long homozygous segments in their genome are highly susceptible to Covid-19.”The team investigated the high-density genomic data of more than 1600 people across these 227 groups. Among these, high frequency for Covid-19 risk alleles (gene) was found among the Onge and Jarawa tribes.Besides these, the other groups found on here are the Great Andamanese and Sentinels.“The study noted that these inhabitants live in protected areas and the general public is not allowed to interact with them. However, after seeing the number of cases among the islanders, it can be said that they are at greater risk mainly from illegal intruders and health workers. The total census of this population is less than 1000 in number,” Chaubey, who teaches molecular anthropology at BHU, further said.On Thursday, two more people tested positive for coronavirus in the Union territory of Andaman and Nicobar, pushing the cumulative tally to 7637, according to a health department bulletin. This includes 7499 recoveries and nine active cases, while the toll remained unchanged at 129.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/isolated-populations-of-india-are-at-higher-risk-of-covid-19-study-finds-101634201424692.html
14-10-2021||India||WPI inflation eases to 10.66% in September on lower food prices||India’s headline wholesale price inflation for September rose 10.66% from a year ago, a six-month low, signalling cooling prices, government data showed on Thursday. The key gauge of producer prices in September, however, remained in double-digits. In August, wholesale inflation was 11.39%. The easing of wholesale prices was led by a decline in prices of food articles, especially vegetables. Fuel and power category prices rose slightly at a slower pace to stand at 24.81% in September from a year ago, compared with a 26.09% rise in August. Prices of manufactured goods, the biggest component in the WPI basket, rose 11.41%, marginally lower than August’s 11.39%. Price rise is a key determinant of monetary policies. Moderate inflation helps the Reserve Bank to keep interest rates low to spur economic activity hit by the pandemic. The slide in prices was largely driven by declining food prices at the wholesale level, which can pressure farm incomes. Inflation, or the rate at which prices rise, of food articles, dropped by nearly 5%, Thursday’s data showed. Vegetable inflation fell by 32.5%. Within horticulture items, wholesale onion rates saw a 1.9% decline in September, after a sharp rise of 62.8% in August from a year ago. Data released on October 12 showed retail inflation eased in September. The Retail inflation rate, as measured by the widely watched consumer price index, stood at 4.35% in September 2021. In August consumer prices rose 5.3%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/september-wholesale-inflation-cools-to-six-month-low-at-1066-101634201267656.html
14-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan regular consumer of drugs, says NCB; compares with Rhea-Showik case||Drawing a parallel between the cruise rave party case and that of the Rhea Chakraborty-Showik case, ASG Anil Singh on Thursday told the court that the fact that Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan was not found in possession of drugs does not mean he should get bail. In the case of Showik Chakraborty, the brother of Rhea Chakraborty, there was no recovery. But the court at that time said that the matter was being investigated, Anil Singh said. "The record and the evidence before your honour shows that he is a regular consumer of contraband for last few years. The contraband in possession of Arbaz Merchant who accompanied Khan was for the consumption of both of them," Anil Singh said as he continued his argument opposing the bail plea on Thursday.Aryan Khan drugs case hearing to continue today. Here's where things standThe agency in its reply to the bail plea, which was submitted in front of the special NDPS court on Wednesday, said the quantity of the recovery is immaterial as the initial probe has revealed that Aryan Khan is a regular consumer of drugs and used to procure through Arbaaz Merchant."There are provisions in the NDPS Act which have got nothing to do with quantity so that can not be the argument to say that the punishment is only for a year. Once the connection is established, then the quantity is not important. My submission is that this is not a case for grant of bail," Anil Singh said.The NCB counsel also said that the "innocent until proven guilty" does not apply in the cases of NDPS offences. "In the NDPS Act, the presumption is of culpable a mental state, and it is for the accused to prove that he was not in possession during the trial," Anil Singh said.As he argued on Wednesday, Anil Singh had said Aryan Khan and Arbaaz Merchant are friends and they know each other for years. Though no drug was found from Aryan Khan, he knew about the possession. His WhatsApp chats revealed references to ‘bulk quantity’, which can not be for individual consumption, the NCB counsel said accusing Aryan Khan of illicit drug trafficking.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aryan-khan-regular-consumer-of-drugs-says-ncb-compares-with-rhea-showik-case-101634200726833.html
14-10-2021||India||After Garba, Pragya Thakur seen playing kabaddi in Bhopal in viral video||After performing Garba, senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Pragya Thakur played kabaddi in Madhya Pradesh’s Bhopal. In the 10-second-long video, which is being shared widely on social media, Pragya Thakur is seen playing a round of kabaddi with local players at a Kali temple in Bhopal. Pragya Thakur was reportedly asked by the players, who were already there, to join them.The video of Pragya Thakur, who is often seen in a wheelchair in public, is from Wednesday. The video has been retweeted by various Congress leaders, who took a jibe at Pragya Thakur, asking about her next appearance with the National Investigation Agency (NIA).This comes just days after another video was posted on Twitter showing Pragya Thakur performing Garba. A controversial figure, she is often targeted over videos showing her dancing at weddings and playing basketball.A member of Parliament from Bhopal, she has been charged for terrorist activities and she is currently out on bail. She has skipped hearings in the Malegaon blast case citing serious injuries because of alleged custodial torture.Pragya Thakur is among the seven accused in the 2008 Malegaon blast case in which six people were killed and 100 others were injured. Pragya Thakur was arrested after it was found that a motorcycle used in the blast was registered in her name. She was charged under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and murder and fanning enmity between communities under the Indian Penal Code (IPC). She was granted bail in 2017 after the special NIA court dropped charges of being a member of a terrorist organisation as well as those under the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA). She is being tried under UAPA act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-garba-pragya-thakur-seen-playing-kabaddi-in-bhopal-in-viral-video-101634200376285.html
14-10-2021||India||Nawab Malik slams NCB, alleges ‘malafide intentions’ behind ‘selective leaks’ to frame people||Against the backdrop of various raids conducted by the NCB, including on some high-profile people, Maharashtra minister, and NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik on Thursday alleged that the anti-drugs agency has “malafide intentions” and is involved in "selective leaks" to frame people. Addressing a press conference, Malik also said that his son-in-law Sameer Khan, who was recently granted bail in a drugs case after nine months, will move the high court to seek quashing of charges levelled against him by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB).Khan was arrested by the NCB in January this year in an alleged drug case. He got bail last month. Apart from the recent drugs bust on board a cruise liner off the Mumbai coast, that led to the arrest of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan, the NCB last year investigated a drug case linked to the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput and several other matters related to narcotics involving high-profile people.Malik last week alleged that the NCB's raid on the cruise ship off the Mumbai coast on October 2 was “fake”, and no narcotic drugs were found during it. On Wednesday, the minister alleged that the “NCB has malafide intentions and is involved in only selective leaks to frame people.”He also said that his security was beefed up after he started getting “threats” when he raised doubts over the NCB's investigations.Referring to the bail order issued by an NDPS court in connection with the case involving his son-in-law Sameer Khan, Malik said there was “no prima facie evidence of a drug syndicate.”It is surprising that an agency like the NCB cannot differentiate between drugs that fall under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and tobacco-related items, the NCP leader said. “It (NCB) said ganja was seized (in the case involving Sameer Khan), but there was none. I just had to make things clear today after the bail order, since the BJP was targeting me over my son-in-law when I raised issues about the NCB's fake case of the cruise drug party,” the NCP leader said.Malik also claimed his family faced trauma and stigma due to the NCB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nawab-malik-slams-ncb-alleges-malafide-intentions-behind-selective-leaks-to-frame-people-101634198957725.html
14-10-2021||India||Nora Fatehi appears before Enforcement Directorate in money-laundering probe||Bollywood actress Nora Fatehi on Thursday appeared before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in Delhi while Jacqueline Fernandez is likely to appear on Friday in connection with the agency’s money-laundering probe against Sukesh Chandrasekhar, who is accused of cheating people of ₹200 crore, people familiar with the matter said. Officials said the two are so far not being treated as suspects in the case and that they are assisting the agency in connecting some dots.The ED earlier in August recorded Fernandez’s statement as she may have been duped by Chandrasekhar. Chandrasekhar, who is lodged in Delhi’s Rohini jail, is under Delhi Police and ED’s probe for cheating, conspiracy, and extortion. ED raided Chandrasekhar’s sea-facing bungalow in Chennai on August 24 and recovered several high-end cars such as Rolls-Royce Ghost. He was arrested in April 2017 for allegedly taking money from Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam leader TTV Dhinakaran to allegedly bribe Election Commission officials in connection with a dispute over the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s “two leaves” poll symbol.In a statement in August, ED said searches were conducted at the residential and business premises of Leena Maria Paul, the wife of Chandrasekhar and an actress. “Sukesh Chandrashekhar is a known conman. He has been part of the crime world since the age of 17. He has multiple FIRs against him and was lodged in Rohini Jail. Despite being lodged in jail, Sukesh Chandrashekhar did not stop conning people. He has used technology to his aid and advantage and spoofed calls to dupe people as the numbers reflecting on the seven of the called party were from Government officers and he claimed to be Government officer offering to help people for a price of course. In this case also, Sukesh Chandrasekhar extorted money to the tune of ₹200 Crores by impersonating Senior Government officials,” the ED said in the statement. “During the search, it was revealed that she (Paul) along with Sukesh Chandrashekhar lead a lavish life in a bungalow in Chennai which is no less than a resort and have various luxury cars including BMW, Range Rover, Mercedes. The house is luxurious sea facing bungalow with home theatre and a fleet of cars and servants. Leena Maria Paul loves luxury like her partner Sukesh and there are numerous shoes, shades, bags and clothes. The shoes are Ferragamo, Chanel, Dior, Louis Vuitton and bags of the same brands including Hermes. The rugs in the house are Versace with Italian Marble floors, dining table and expensive furniture.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nora-fatehi-appears-before-enforcement-directorate-in-money-laundering-probe-101634198266721.html
14-10-2021||India||BJP MP Varun Gandhi shares clip of former PM Vajpayee's speech supporting farmers in apparent message to govt||BJP MP Varun Gandhi on Thursday posted on Twitter a short clip of a speech of former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee from 1980 in which he warns the then Indira Gandhi government against repressing farmers and extends his support to them.Gandhi tweeted, "Wise words from a big-hearted leader..."The BJP MP has been vocal in empathising with farmers agitating against the three agri laws enacted by the Modi government and sharing Vajpayee's speech is seen as his message to the central government.In the video clip, Vajpayee is heard telling a gathering that farmers cannot be scared."If the government will suppress (farmers), misuse laws and repress a peaceful agitation, then we will not shy away from joining the farmers' struggle and standing with them," he is heard saying.Gandhi has also sought stringent action against those responsible for the death of four farmers after vehicles, allegedly linked to BJP leaders, ran over them in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri. He was recently dropped from the BJP national executive in what was seen as an indication of the party leadership's unhappiness with the Pilibhit MP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wise-words-bjp-mp-varun-gandhi-shares-clip-of-former-pm-vajpayee-s-speech-supporting-farmers-in-apparent-message-to-govt-101634197131828.html
14-10-2021||India||'People of UP can make us win 400 seats': SP chief Akhilesh Yadav on 2022 polls||Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav has claimed that his party can win 400 seats in Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections scheduled next year. He also said that SP's aim is to remove the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government."Seeing the disappointment against the BJP government, (it seems) that people of Uttar Pradesh can make our party win 400 seats in upcoming 2022 polls. Our party's aim is to remove BJP government," Yadav said while speaking to reporters on Thursday, news agency ANI reported.Attacking chief minister Yogi Adityanath, the SP chief said, "Fake Baba will be removed soon."Samajwadi Party has joined the chorus against UP government over the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri, in which eight people were killed. Four of them were farmers.Akhilesh Yadav tried to visit the families of the farmers in Tikunia village days after the violence, but was stopped by the police. He slammed the move, accusing the state government of being "anti-farmer".The farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri have claimed that a vehicle in the convoy of Union minister Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra ran over the farmers who were returning after a protest, killing four of them. The minister and his son have repeatedly denied these allegations; however, Ashish Mishra was later arrested by the state police.Today, Akhilesh Yadav sharpened the attack against BJP-led government, alleging it has cheated the public."The BJP workers crushed and killed the farmers with their vehicles. This government is anti-farmer, manure-stealer, and is behind the rise of prices of pesticides," alleged Yadav."Under this government, inflation has increased, unemployment has increased, corruption has increased, crime has increased, law and order have collapsed," he further claimed.Yadav said that in the upcoming Assembly polls the SP will fight in alliance with the small parties. "We will not ally with any national party," he added.Yadav is on a 'Vijay Rath Yatra' in the state ahead of next year's Assembly polls.Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections are scheduled to take place early next year. In the 2017 polls, the BJP won a landslide victory winning 312 of the 403 seats. The party secured a 39.67 per cent vote share. Samajwadi Party bagged 47 seats, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) won 19 while Congress could manage to win only seven seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-of-up-can-make-us-win-400-seats-sp-chief-akhilesh-yadav-on-2022-polls-101634196522513.html
14-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: No immersion of Durga Puja idols in water bodies in Delhi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Durga Puja in Delhi: No immersion of idols at public place or in water bodies, rules DPCCThe Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) has issued directions for the Durga Puja festivities in the national capital, which includes, among others, prohibition on the immersion of idols at any public place, or water bodies. Read more‘If you ask me, we will win’: Babar Azam ‘fully confident’ of defeating India in T20 World CupThe T20 World Cup is around the corner and the fans in India and Pakistan are eagerly waiting to watch their respective favourite teams locking horns in the mega ICC event. Read moreWhen Amitabh Bachchan commended Aishwarya Rai for delivering Aaradhya without painkillers: 'Woh lagi rahin...'Actor Amitabh Bachchan shares a special bond with his daughter-in-law Aishwarya Rai Bachchan and granddaughter Aaradhya. Recently, on his 79th birthday, Aishwarya wished Amitabh with a picture of him and Aaradhya. Read moreKia Sonet First Anniversary Edition launched in IndiaKia India on Thursday announced the launch of the Kia Sonet 1st anniversary edition. The new special edition model commemorates the first successful year of the compact SUV in India. Read moreSoha Ali Khan Column: Actress spills lockdown fitness secrets, shares favourite Dussehra recipeSoha Ali Khan Column: Growing up I saw my mother balance family life and work effortlessly. In many ways, she has inspired me to become the person I am today, and a lot of my habits and mantras are borrowed from the way she managed her household and family. Read moreHow assailant armed with bow and arrows killed 5 in Norway; Danish man arrestedA man armed with a bow and arrows killed five people in Norway on Wednesday. Two people, including an off-duty police officer, were wounded in the attacks. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-no-immersion-of-durga-puja-idols-in-water-bodies-in-delhi-and-all-the-latest-news-101634196064343.html
14-10-2021||India||Bollywood actors Jacqueline Fernandez, Nora Fatehi summoned by ED in money laundering case: Report||Bollywood actors Jacqueline Fernandez and Nora Fatehi were summoned by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) for questioning in connection with a money laundering case, reported the ANI news agency, citing officials familiar with the matter. While Fatehi, an actor and dancer, was asked to be present before the law enforcement agency on Thursday itself, Fernandez is expected to join the probe tomorrow (i.e. Friday), according to officials cited by ANI. This ED case is based on an FIR filed by Delhi Police’s Economic Offences Wing (EOW) against conman Sukesh Chandrashekhar who is accused of cheating and extorting the wife of a businessman of ₹200 crore.In photos shared by the news agency, Nora Fatehi could be seen reaching the ED office to cooperate with the investigation launched by the law enforcement agency. In another update, ANI informed, citing sources, that Jacqueline Fernandez is expected to present herself before the interrogators tomorrow in connection with the investigation.  Delhi: Actor & dancer Nora Fatehi reaches the Enforcement Directorate (ED) office to join the investigation in connection with the conman Sukesh Chandrashekhar case pic.twitter.com/c3t5YEMEaAActor Jacqueline Fernandez to join the investigation in connection with the Sukesh Chandrashekhar case. She will appear before Enforcement Directorate in Delhi, tomorrow: SourcesThis is not the first time that Bollywood actor Jacqueline Fernandez was summoned by ED in connection with the money laundering case. Earlier in August, she was already questioned once by the economic intelligence agency in connection with the probe against alleged conman Sukesh Chandrashekhar, who is suspected to be a part of a multi-crore extortion racket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bollywood-actors-jacqueline-fernandez-nora-fatehi-summoned-by-ed-in-money-laundering-case-report-101634191401434.html
14-10-2021||India||Displaced Kashmiri employees to be posted in safer areas after attacks on civilians||Employees recruited under a scheme for displaced Kashmiris will be posted in safe and secure instead of far-flung and vulnerable areas in Kashmir for the time being, officials said on Wednesday. The announcement came following a series of targeted attacks that left seven civilians dead in the region this month. Displaced Kashmir Pandit employees expressed apprehensions about their postings in far-flung areas after the attacks.Around 3,000 such employees are posted across Kashmir and a bulk of them stay in guarded transit government accommodations. A teacher from Jammu was among the civilians killed in the targeted attacks that prompted many displaced Kashmiri employees to leave the Valley.A statement quoting divisional commissioner (Kashmir) Pundurang K Pole on Wednesday said he has instructed deputy commissioners and senior police superintendents to regularly visit colonies and accommodations of displaced Kashmiris. It added they were being briefed about the security, confidence-building measures, facilities, and other arrangements being put in place for their safety and security. “The officers have been issued clear cut directions to preferably post these migrant employees in safe and secure zones instead of far-flung and vulnerable areas for the time being.”Office bearers of employees’ unions have visited some of the transit accommodations to express solidarity with the displaced Kashmiri employees.The Centre told Parliament in July that 3,841 displaced Kashmiris have moved back to Kashmir and have taken up jobs across Kashmir under the Prime Minister’s Rehabilitation Package. It added 6,000 residential units were being constructed for the Kashmir Pandit employees in the Valley and that 1,000 of them have been allotted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/displaced-kashmiri-employees-to-be-posted-in-safer-areas-after-attacks-on-civilians-101634191905159.html
14-10-2021||India||Meghalaya: Rebel group warns people against voting for ruling party in by-polls||The proscribed Hynñiewtrep National Liberation Council (HNLC) has asked the citizens of the state not to vote for the ruling National People’s Party (NPP) in the upcoming by-elections to the three Assembly seats, slated for October 30.The rebels also served a one-week ultimatum to the NPP to shut down all its facilities in the Khasi and Jaiñtia Hills region.“We urged the people not to vote for the NPP in the by-election as a mark of protest against the gunning down of Cherish Thangkhiew,” HNLC general secretary-cum-spokesperson Saiñkupar Nongtraw said in an emailed communiqué late Wednesday.Thangkhiew, a former self-styled general secretary of the HNLC, was allegedly killed in a police operation to arrest him from his residence in the wee hours of August 13.Claiming that national parties come and go in Meghalaya but none of them can truly serve the people of the state, Nongtraw said, “I feel the national parties are just like a rainbow coalition and that they can never address the problems faced by the state,” while asserting, “Therefore, we need our own regional parties which can deliver and fulfil the aspirations of the people.” The outfit leader further announced that the NPP is directed to shut down all its offices in the Khasi and Jaiñtia Hills region beginning today. “We will give only one week to complete the exercise,” he warned.Meanwhile, the HNLC has referred to the police statement that an HNLC cadre, named Emanuel Suchen, had recently surrendered in Khliehriat, East Jaiñtia Hills District as a “drama”.“Six months ago, Suchen was arrested by the police for his alleged involvement in the IED blast. Even after he was released, police repeatedly conducted searches and raids often threatening him with dire consequences which forced him to go underground and subsequently surrender,” Nongtraw elaborated while affirming that Suchen was never involved in the planting of any IED explosive as alleged by the police.“Simply because they failed to gather concrete evidence regarding the IED cases, the state police resorted to random arrests of former cadres of the HNLC as well as innocent youths as if they were chickens in a farm, but it is not easy to arrest cadres of the outfit. Such arrests only show that they (police) are weak and have become like swines drunk on fermented corn,” Nongtraw scoffed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meghalaya-hnlc-directs-people-not-to-vote-for-npp-in-bypolls-101634191545590.html
14-10-2021||India||Health minister visits former PM Manmohan Singh at AIIMS||Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya visited former Prime minister Manmohan Singh who is admitted to New Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), early on Thursday morning.Mandaviya visited Singh to enquire about his health and wished him a speedy recovery. Prime Minister Narendra Modi also took to Twitter and wished for Singh’s good health.आज पूर्व प्रधानमंत्री डॉ. मनमोहन सिंह जी से AIIMS, नई दिल्ली में मुलाक़ात की व उनके स्वास्थ्य के विषय में जानकारी ली। मैं उनके शीघ्र स्वस्थ होने की कामना करता हूं।Singh was admitted to AIIMS-Delhi on Wednesday evening after complaints of fever, weakness, and general uneasiness, according to people familiar with the matter.The condition of the 89-year-old former prime minister is said to be stable.“He was admitted into the hospital to be evaluated for fever. Tests are being run at the moment; his condition is stable,” a member of the hospital staff said on condition of anonymity. I pray for the good health and speedy recovery of Dr. Manmohan Singh Ji.Because of the fever and weakness, Singh was put on fluids to maintain the electrolyte balance. He is admitted to the hospital’s Cardiothoracic and Neurosciences Centre under the care of a team of specialists led by Dr Nitish Naik, professor, department of cardiology. Dr Naik has been Singh’s personal physician for many years now.Earlier in April, Singh was admitted to the hospital’s trauma centre (functioning as Covid care centre) after he tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Singh has a history of cardiac ailments; in 2009 he underwent a revision bypass surgery at AIIMS, Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-minister-visits-former-pm-manmohan-singh-at-aiims-101634189804905.html
14-10-2021||India||Manmohan Singh hospitalised: Praying for your speedy recovery, tweets PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday wished his predecessor, Dr Manmohan Singh, a speedy recovery, after the latter was admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi, last night, for evaluation of fever. “I pray for the good health and speedy recovery of Dr Manmohan Singh Ji,” PM Modi tweeted. I pray for the good health and speedy recovery of Dr. Manmohan Singh Ji.Earlier today, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya visited the premier hospital to check upon Singh, who turned 89 last month. “Met former PM Dr Manmohan Singh Ji today, at AIIMS, and enquired about his health. I pray that he recovers quickly,” a rough translation of Mandaviya's tweet, that was posted in Hindi, read. आज पूर्व प्रधानमंत्री डॉ. मनमोहन सिंह जी से AIIMS, नई दिल्ली में मुलाक़ात की व उनके स्वास्थ्य के विषय में जानकारी ली। मैं उनके शीघ्र स्वस्थ होने की कामना करता हूं।In a bulletin late Wednesday night, doctors said that the Congress Rajya Sabha MP is “stable.” Singh, who, in 2004, became the country's first Sikh Prime Minister, and won a re-election in 2009, had been complaining of fever since Tuesday. In April this year, he was admitted to AIIMS after contracting Covid-19.Also Read | Manmohan Singh's condition stable, under observation, say AIIMS doctorsA renowned economist who spearheaded the 1991 economic reforms as the Union finance minister under then-PM PV Narasimha Rao, Singh held various important political and non-political portfolios throughout his illustrious career. He headed the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) as it governor, from 1982 to 1985, and was the deputy chairperson of the Planning Commission from 1985 to 1987. Singh's tenure as the Prime Minister ended in 2014 after the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) swept the general elections that year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manmohan-singh-hospitalised-i-pray-for-your-speedy-recovery-tweets-pm-modi-101634187610830.html
14-10-2021||India||Global edible oil producers are outsmarting India’s moves to curb prices||International edible oil producers are synchronizing price increases with India’s series of actions to soften their domestic rates by slashing import duties. This has had the effect of making India’s steps to ease the price of cooking oils less effective, market watchers say.Higher food inflation not only impacts poorer households more, which tend to spend a larger share of their monthly budgets on food, compared to the well-off, but they also throw the Reserve Bank’s inflation targets off gear.Inflation must stay within a “tolerable” range to enable India to quickly consolidate gains from a nascent economic recovery underway since the pandemic took a heavy toll on Asia’s third-largest economy.In a key policy move to tame inflation, India on Wednesday virtually abolished basic customs duty on crude imports of three edible oils, a basic ingredient of most Indian cooking. But international markets are coordinating prices to thwart India’s moves to make imports cheaper, market data show.India has also pared basic customs duty on refined varieties of edible oil to 17.5% from 32.5%. Both these measures should offer at least short-term relief to consumer prices, while the government would lose out on revenue needed to keep borrowing under check.“Almost instantly, major producer penciled in the duty cuts by India and raised prices to a similar extent so that there is no impact or very less impact on rates by the time it reaches the consumer,” said Atul Chaturvedi of the Indian Solvent Extractors’ Association, the industry body of oilseed processors, after analysing movement in a fresh increase in Malaysia’s prices.The tariff cuts announced by India on Wednesday will be in force until March 2022. This is the fifth reduction in import tariffs on vegetable oils since February. Edible oils have inflated household budgets since India imports up to two-thirds of its domestic consumption requirements of edible oils.Duty cuts should -- other market factors remaining the same -- immediately lower prices and potentially stave off food inflation soaring to multi-year highs. “However, prices are moving sinisterly in the global edible oil markets, almost in response to India’s measures,” said Ashok Agrawal of Comtrade, a commodities trading firm.Soon after India’s decision to cut duty rates, exportable edible oil rates in Malaysia moved by an extent enough to match India’s cuts. So, what is at play here? Simply, India’s moves to depress the rates of edible oils are being negated by an almost similar increases in the rates such that international prices remain high.The main advantage of international producer nations is that India has a gluttonous appetite for edible oils. The country imports up to two-third of its domestic demand for edible oil through imports since the domestic output is not sufficient.Palm is one of the most widely consumed oils, which is found in everything from bread to ice-creams. Edible oil is India’s third most high-value import, after crude oil and gold. India typically imports from producers such as Malaysia, Indonesia, Brazil, Argentina and Russia.According to a central notification, imported crude palm oil, the most widely consumed of edible oils in the Indian market, will now be charged an agri infrastructure cess of 7.5%, while unrefined soyabean and sunflower oils will attract a cess of 5 %, down from 20%.The lowering of the cess will bring down the effective customs duty on palm, soyabean and sunflower oils 8.5%, 5.5% and 5.5% respectively, according to the government’s notification.The reductions will cut prices by up to ₹20,000 a tonne, which is expected to have a pass-through effect on final consumer prices. However, a fresh increase in Malaysian prices has made market watchers unsure to what extent Indian consumers will benefit from duty cuts.According to official data, the share of rural and urban consumption in total is 3.8% and 2.7%. Much of the demand comes from commercial users, like biscuit and snack makers.“If international prices increase further, the duty cuts may not be effective because they will necessitate further reductions,” said Agrawal. “We are getting into this trap.”In June, the government cut duties on palm oil by 5% and lifted restrictions on the import of refined palm oil, as food inflation worries mounted.Edible oil prices have risen by up to 60%, according to data from the consumer affairs ministry from a year ago. Average costs of a litre of mustard oil rose to ₹170 in August compared to ₹120 a year ago.India’s usual levies on edible oil imports ranges between 32.5% (for palm oil, the cheapest edible oil) and 35% for soyabean oil. The country produces about 11 million tonnes of edible oil but consumption hovers around 24 million tonnes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/global-edible-oil-producers-are-outsmarting-india-s-moves-to-curb-prices-101634188006321.html
14-10-2021||India||Explained: How affiliation with Sainik School will benefit govt, private schools||The central government's decision to clear the proposal of affiliation of 100 schools, including both private and public, with the Sainik School Society has been called a historic decision.According to people aware of the developments, these Sainik Schools will now be sharing their expertise and experience with capable and qualified private educational institutions.This is a unique initiative to promote public-private partnership, they further said.How will the move benefit the schools?The government said that the move will open up untapped potential of private schools, adding that the Sainik School society will actively engage with them and provide assistance is establishing required quality infrastructure and other aspects of the curriculum.An estimated 5,000 students are expected to receive admission in Class 6 in 100 such affiliated schools in the first phase.The people cited above also said that these private affiliated schools will function in an exclusive vertical, distinct and different from existing Sainik Schools of the defence ministry.The expected impact of the government's decisionExperts say that the integration of the Sainik Schools education system with regular board is expected to create academically strong, physically fit, culturally aware, intellectually adept, skillful youth and well-rounded citizens.The students from these schools will be equipped with necessary life skills which will make them shine in their chosen fields, the people aware of the developments said.According to the government, this will provide cost-effective ways in reaching out to larger populations across all regions in the country.The support from the governmentThe Sainik School Society, an autonomous organisation under the ministry of defence, will provide affiliation to interested private or government schools based on certain objective criteria related to academic and infrastructure.The scheme envisages to provide annual fee support of 50% of fee (subject to an upper limit of ₹40,000 per annum) for 50% of the class strength (subject to an upper limit of 50 students) per year from Class 6 onwards to class 12, on merit-cum-means basis.Initially, the total maximum expenditure on account of fee rebate will amount to ₹20 lakhs per class per school per year.Requirements from schoolsThe schools which are interested in affiliation should have adequate infrastructure in terms of land, buildings, sports facilities.Boarding facility for the students is not mandatory but they are expected to follow a routine of 10 hours per day for engaging the students in various academic and extra curricular activities.They should follow a standard common uniform which will be prescribed by the Sainik School society.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/explained-how-affiliation-with-sainik-school-will-benefit-govt-private-schools-101634186461812.html
14-10-2021||India||More Indians travel during Dussehra weekend; portals expect surge during Diwali||With passenger capacity being restored, passengers have once again begun to utilise the long weekends. According to various travel web portals, the Dussehra long weekend has seen a high surge of travel demand by at least 60%. Domestic destinations that are in demand during this long weekend are Leh-Ladakh, Kashmir, Rajasthan, Goa, Uttarakhand, Andaman. As travel restrictions are at ease now, the industry is seeing an upsurge in travel bookings, particularly for leisure travel or visiting hometowns. As a result of this, portals unanimously said they are seeing a surge in the demand for air travel bookings and they are hoping that the demand continues to grow throughout Diwali week. “Especially for Mumbai and New Delhi, there is a sharp uptick in bookings. Also, due to the increase in demand, flight rates have gone up but there are a lot of offers like EzCancel (powered by Cleartrip) which offers full refunds on flight cancellation only at a minimal charge and fuelling demand in part as it empowers the customers,” said Prahlad Krishnamurti, chief business officer, Cleartrip. As travel restrictions have eased following the pandemic, demand for rental cars has also increased. “The bookings are mainly from Tier 1 cities, such as Delhi and Bangalore. While the lockdown forced people to stay at home, there is a pent-up demand for travel and we are seeing people renting premium/luxury cars to have a comfortable and luxurious experience,” said Sunil Gupta, managing director and chief executive officer (CEO), Avis India.A MakeMyTrip spokesperson said that they are seeing strong demand for hotels and homestays during the upcoming long weekend of Dussehra with many opting for a quick weekend getaway to the hills or to the beaches of Goa and Pondicherry. “On MakeMyTrip, advance bookings for the upcoming festive season have touched 75% of pre-Covid levels. While travel bookings to visit friends and relatives have seen significant traction over the past few weeks, leisure travel continues to see a month-on-month recovery. Some of the most preferred destinations include Goa, Jaipur, Udaipur, Rishikesh, Shimla, Mussoorie, Lonavala, Puri, Manali, Nainital, Pondicherry, Coorg, Amritsar and Ooty,” the spokesperson added. Thomas Cook is witnessing an acceleration in demand from not just Indians going back to their home stations to celebrate but increasingly from millennials/working professionals, multi-generational family units and ad hoc groups of friends, making the most of an opportune mini-vacation.“Domestic travel is witnessing an unprecedented surge for us, not just in demand but in bookings - upward of 5x versus the same period last year,” said Rajeev Kale, president and country head at Holidays, MICE, Visa-Thomas Cook (India).“The upcoming extended weekend is witnessing brisk demand for Goa, Andamans and new entrants like North East, Rajasthan, Kerala, Gujarat etc. Drivecations to destinations like Pondicherry, Coorg, Ooty, Pondicherry, Shimla, Manali, Jaipur, Mussoorie are popular but what is noteworthy is the strong resurgence in air-inclusive holidays, signalling the return of confidence for air travel,” Kale said.SOTC said that it is seeing a 60-70% increase in demand for weekends. “There is high demand for reunion travel and interest in private tours, villa stays, and boutique properties. Multi-generational family groups are opting for eclectic accommodations such as colonial bungalows, plantation villas (coffee/tea estates), heritage properties and palaces. While micro-trips continue to be a rising travel trend, especially with Gen Z and millennials, to escape their ever hectic work from home schedules with a quick getaway. Gen Z and millennials are displaying a strong inclination to explore offbeat experiences such as bike trips and staycations with a group of friends,” said Daniel D’souza, president and country head, SOTC Travel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-indians-travel-during-dussehra-long-weekend-portals-expect-increase-in-demand-during-diwali-101634186264938.html
14-10-2021||India||'Thousands forgotten': Veer Savarkar's grandson on 'father of the nation' row||Ranjit Savarkar, the grandson of freedom fighter Vinayak Damodar Savarkar, on Wednesday said that a country like India cannot have one father of the nation. "There are thousands who have been forgotten," he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. The remarks were made in response to All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi's comments, who said that that the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will soon declare the RSS ideologue as "the father of the nation".A row broke over on Wednesday after defence minister Rajnath Singh said that it was on Mahatma Gandhi's request that Veer Savarkar filed mercy petitions. Singh also claimed that there was a deliberate conspiracy to defame Savarkar.The comments prompted immediate criticism from the opposition parties which accused him of "trying to rewrite history".The Union minister was speaking after releasing a book on Savarkar.
14-10-2021||India||India moves a step forward in achieving E20 fuel dream||The ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) has notified test standards for vehicles compliant with ethanol-blended fuel variants E12 and E15 that will act as intermediaries in India’s target of achieving 20% ethanol blending in petrol (E20) across the country by the year 2023. In its notification dated October 11, which was made public on Wednesday, the ministry made it mandatory for all automobile manufacturers to put “clearly visible stickers” on every vehicle informing about its compatibility to the level of ethanol blend (E12, E15, E20).While E12 has 12% ethanol blended with petrol, E15 has 15%. Currently, India is using E10 fuel (petrol blended with 10% ethanol). A MoRTH official said the notification sets the norms for automobile manufacturers for type testing of vehicles compliant with these two bio-fuel variants. “They can now start production of vehicles that are E12 and E15 compliant, apart from being E20 compliant which is the larger goal,” the official said. Ethanol blended fuel is less expensive than petrol and has lower carbon emissions, reducing the impact of vehicular pollution. Besides, by introducing ethanol-blended fuel, the central government wants to reduce its heavy dependency on crude oil imports, the rate of which is highly volatile. India currently imports 85% of its total fuel. Produced using sugarcane and grains such as corn, surplus rice, damaged food grains, bajra, jowar, and sweet sorghum, ethanol is considered to be one of most suitable alternative blending, transportation fuel due to its better quality and environmental benefits, according to a NITI Aayog report released in June. The report said the use of this fuel will result in an annual saving of $5 billion in India’s oil imports.In June, India brought forward its target for producing E20 by two years. Initially set for 2030, the target date was brought forward to 2025. The date was, through another notification, advanced to April 1, 2023.“The notification made public on Wednesday will help automobile manufacturers to introduce intermediary level - E12 and E15 - compliant vehicles. While India has to shift to E20 fuel by 2023 or 2025 maximum, several oil producing companies in India had raised questions to the government as to what happens when the country is hit by a year of bad produce (of sugarcane and other food grains) on account of weather or for some unforeseen reason. That is why these two blended fuel types have also been notified now so that if ethanol production reduces some time, then vehicles can use fuel that has lower ethanol blending,” said said PK Banerjee, executive director of Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-moves-a-step-forward-in-achieving-e20-fuel-dream-101634184705229.html
14-10-2021||India||Tamil Nadu local body polls 2021: All you need to know||Five months after it swept to power in Tamil Nadu, chief minister MK Stalin-led Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) has registered yet another electoral victory, this time in the rural local body elections. Though the counting of votes took place on October 12, and the Tamil Nadu State Election Commission (TNSEC) is yet to release official results, the ruling party is well ahead of the opposition All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK).Also Read | DMK set to sweep Tamil Nadu local body polls in 9 areasHere's all you need to know:(1.) The polls were held for elections to more than 27,000 posts, including 22,581 village panchayat ward councillors, 2901 village panchayat presidents, 1381 panchayat union ward members, 140 district panchayat ward members and 74 panchayat unions.(2.) The exercise was conducted across two phases, one each on October 6 and 9, across nine districts: Chengalpattu, Kallakurichi, Kancheepuram, Ranipet, Tenkasi, Tirunelveli, Tirupathur, Vellore and Villupuram.(3.) The voter turnout in the first phase was 77.4 per cent, while that in the second and final phase was 73.27 per cent, according to the state poll body.(4.) Besides the two major parties, other parties which contested these elections are the Paatali Makkal Katchi (PMK), actor-politician Kamal Haasan's Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM), TTV Dhinakaran's Amma Makkal Munnettra Kazagam (AMMK), actor Vijaykant-led Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam (DMDK) and Naam Tamizhar Katchi (NTK).(5.) In the assembly elections, which took place in a single-phase on April 6, the DMK brought to an end the AIADMK's 10-year-rule. The Stalin-led alliance won 159 of the state's 234 assembly constituencies, while the AIADMK was victorious on 66 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-local-body-polls-2021-all-you-need-to-know-101634178842705.html
14-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: Navjot Singh Sidhu in Delhi today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Navjot Singh Sidhu in Delhi today, to discuss 'organisational matters' with Congress leadersThe meeting between Sidhu and the senior leadership of Congress is first since September 28, when he posted his resignation on social media. Read moreAmit Shah in Goa today; to lay foundation stone for NFSU, address BJP workersUnion home minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Amit Shah will be on a day-long visit to poll-bound Goa on Thursday. Read moreDinesh Karthik reprimanded for breaching IPL Code of ConductAccording to an official release, Dinesh Karthik was found guilty of breaching the Code of Conduct during the IPL 2021 Qualifier 2 against Delhi Capitals in Sharjah. Read moreTanishaa Mukerji calls Aryan Khan's case harassment, wants him freed: 'People have become callous towards our stars'Actor Tanishaa Mukerji has voiced her support for Shah Rukh Khan's Aryan Khan. The NCB arrested Aryan after an alleged drug bust aboard a cruise ship near Mumbai. Read moreAditi Rao Hydari is Dussehra fashion goals in blue gharara, strappy pink shararaSharing pictures from her photoshoot, Aditi set the Internet on fire with her killer sartorial looks and we can't help but take fashion cues to slay at our next ethnic outing this festive week. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-navjot-singh-sidhu-in-delhi-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101634178586877.html
14-10-2021||India||New abortion rules notified for ‘special categories’ of women, details here||The government has notified new rules under which the gestational limit for termination of a pregnancy has been increased from 20 to 24 weeks for certain categories of women. According to the Medical Termination of Pregnancy (Amendment) Rules, 2021, these categories include survivors of sexual assault or rape or incest, minors, women whose marital status changes during an ongoing pregnancy (widowhood and divorce), and those with physical disabilities.The new rules also cover mentally ill women, cases of foetal malformation that has a substantial risk of being incompatible with life or if the child is born it may suffer from such physical or mental abnormalities to be seriously handicapped and women with pregnancy in humanitarian settings or disaster or emergency situations as may be declared by the government.The new rules come under the Medical Termination of Pregnancy (Amendment) Act, 2021 passed by Parliament in March.Earlier, abortion required the opinion of one doctor if it is done within 12 weeks of conception and two doctors if it is done between 12 and 20 weeks.According to the new rules, a state-level medical board will be set up to decide if pregnancy may be terminated after 24 weeks in cases of foetal malformation and if the foetal malformation has a substantial risk of it being incompatible with life or if the child is born it may suffer from such physical or mental abnormalities to be seriously handicapped.The function of the Medical Board shall be to examine the woman and her reports if she approaches for medical termination of pregnancy and provides the opinion with regard to the termination of pregnancy or rejection of a request for termination within three days of receiving the request.The Board has also been tasked to ensure that the termination procedure, when advised by it, is carried out with all safety precautions along with appropriate counselling within five days of the receipt of the request for medical termination of pregnancy.Poonam Muttreja, the Executive Director of the Population Foundation of India (PFI), said given the advancements in scientific and medical technology, the extended 24 week gestation period should apply to all women and not just 'special categories of women'."We welcome the new rules under the Medical Termination of Pregnancy (MTP) Act notified by the Union Government recently, which are an outcome of the  MTP Amendment Act, 2021 passed by Parliament in March this year."However, given the advancements in scientific and medical technology the world has witnessed over the years, the extended 24 week gestation period should be for all women and not just 'special categories of women'," she said."In addition, the creation of state medical boards could potentially create impediments for women's access to abortion services as many women discover they are pregnant at a later stage," Muttreja added.Dr. Jaideep Malhotra, founder of Rainbow IVF and former president of Federation of Obstetric and Gynaecological Societies of India, said it is a "much-awaited, sensitive and forward-looking amendment"  for both the beneficiaries and the gynaecologists, who faced this turmoil for years and had their hands tied in the face of the law.Dr. Loveleena Nadir, a senior gynecologist, said the new rules of the Medical Termination of Pregnancy (MTP) Act notified by the Union Government are a welcome move and a leap ahead for women's reproductive choices."I hope that this is a first step towards making safe abortion accessible to all women and not just restricted to women in special categories," said Dr. Loveleena Nadir, Senior Gynecologist in New Delhi."This would empower women and make India a liberal woman supporting country," Nadir added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-abortion-rules-notified-for-special-categories-of-women-details-here-101634179830782.html
14-10-2021||India||Rainfall likely over North-West India on October 16, 17||Conditions are becoming favourable for further withdrawal of monsoon from more parts of Maharashtra and Telangana and some parts of Karnataka on Thursday according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Monsoon has already withdrawn from most parts of the country including East India.A cyclonic circulation is lying over the east-central Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood. Under its influence, a low-pressure area is likely to form over the east-central Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood during the next 24 hours. It is likely to move west-northwestwards and reach south Odisha-north Andhra Pradesh coasts during subsequent 24 hours. Under its influence, light to moderate rainfall is likely at most places with isolated thunderstorms (wind speed 40-50 kmph) and heavy rain is very likely over Andaman & Nicobar Islands during the next 4 days. Rainfall intensity is very likely to increase over east India and adjoining Central India from October 15. A cyclonic circulation is lying over the east-central Arabian Sea off the Karnataka coast extending up to mid-tropospheric levels and an east-west trough is lying across the cyclonic circulation over the east-central Arabian Sea off the Karnataka coast and the cyclonic circulation over the east-central Bay of Bengal. Under its influence, widespread light to moderate rainfall is very likely over southern peninsular India during the next 4-5 days. Isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is very likely over Coastal and South Interior Karnataka, Kerala, Mahe and Tamil Nadu during the next four days and isolated heavy rainfall likely over Lakshadweep and Rayalseema today.Under the influence of lower-level easterlies, a fresh spell of rainfall with thunderstorms and lightning is likely over northwest India from October 16. Isolated heavy rainfall is also likely over Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh on October 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rainfall-likely-over-north-west-india-on-october-16-and-17-101634180386107.html
14-10-2021||India||Explained: Why bypolls in 14 states are crucial ahead of Assembly elections||The country is set to witness assembly elections in five states next year. But before that, by-elections to three Lok Sabha seats and 30 assembly seats spread across 14 states will capture the political pulse of the country.These bypolls are being held amid fears of the third wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and the ongoing farmers' agitation. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and many state governments will be keenly watching these polls.The seats where Lok Sabha by-elections will be held are Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Mandi in Himachal Pradesh and Khandwa in Madhya Pradesh. In Khandwa, elections were necessitated due to the death of BJP MP Nandkumar Chauhan, while in Himachal, Mandi is vacant since the death of BJP leader Ramswaroop Sharma. The Dadra and Nagar Haveli seat was left vacant due to the demise of Mohan Delkar, an Independent Lok Sabha member.Similarly, the Vidhan Sabha bypolls will be held this year on one seat in Andhra Pradesh, five in Assam, three in Madhya Pradesh, two in Bihar, one in Haryana, three in Himachal Pradesh, two in Karnataka, one in Maharashtra, three in Meghalaya, one in Mizoram and Nagaland, two in Rajasthan, one in Telangana and four in West Bengal.BJP keenly watchingThe BJP leadership is taking these upcoming bypolls seriously, since they will depict the mood of the electorate. The party is in power in Assam, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Karnataka - some of the states where bypolls will be held. It will give a chance to the BJP to understand if it is facing anti-incumbency.The BJP has rejigged some of the governments in the states and these bypolls will give it a chance to understand the impact of those decisions.A highly charged political landscapeRajasthan sports minister Ashok Chandna on Wednesday claimed that the Congress will win both the seats in bypolls in the state, and said he will quit politics if the BJP wins even a single seat.Hitting back, BJP's state chief spokesperson Ramlal Sharma said the "minister's ego will definitely be broken when the results will be declared".The BJP has included former Rajasthan chief minister Vasundhara Raje, Union ministers Bhupendra Yadav, Gajendra Singh, Arjun Meghwal and Kailash Chaudhary in the list of 20 star campaigners for the bypolls on Vallabhnagar (Udaipur) and Dhariyawad (Pratapgarh) assembly seats in the state.Congress leader Kamal Nath, who has been campaigning in Khandwa, has said that the results of the upcoming bypolls in Madhya Pradesh will give a message to the nation that people can't be fooled every time. Nath hit out at the BJP-led governments at the Centre and in MP and said people are distressed due to rising prices and a downturn in the economy.The polling will be held on October 3 and counting of votes will take place on November 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/explained-why-bypolls-in-14-states-are-crucial-ahead-of-assembly-elections-101634179320201.html
14-10-2021||India||New Kushinagar airport is step towards India firming its Buddhist legacy||Amidst the presence of more than 100 priests and eight high priests from Sri Lanka led by Prime Minister Mahinda Rajpaksa’s minister son Namal, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will place Kushinagar, site of Lord Buddha’s Parinirvana, firmly on Buddhist Tourism circuit by inaugurating the international airport on October 20.Keeping firm sight on 3Ts - trade, tourism, technology - as markers for economic development, PM Modi will inaugurate the new airport also in the presence of ambassadors of at least 10-15 countries, where Buddhism is both practiced and preached. UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath will also be present on the occasion and the two leaders are expected to address a political rally afterwards.It is understood that PM Modi will also visit the Parinirvana Stupa, where Lord Buddha after decades of missionary activity is said to passed away in 487 BCE in Kushinagar. It is said that Mauryan king Ashoka the Great visited the parinirvana site, which was expanded to include a reclining statue of founder of Buddhism during Gupta period after expansion during Kushan empire. The present temple was build by the Central Government in 1956.Excavations in the past century in the area by Indian and foreign archeologists have also led them to believe that Piprahwa, some 100 km away from Kushinagar, was the site of the ancient city of Kapilavastu, the capital of Shakya kingdom, where Prince Siddhartha Gautama spent the first 29 years of his life. Others believe that Kapilavastu is in Nepal. It is at Piprahwa that a buried stupa was found containing relics of Buddha. The founder of Buddhism attained Nirvana in Bodh Gaya in adjacent Bihar.According to UP government officials, more than 110 Buddhist priests and eight high priests are flying from Sri Lanka for the inauguration with 35-year-old Sports Minister Namal Rajapaksa leading the delegation. The priests will conduct religious ceremonies at the Parinirvana Stupa.The inauguration of Kushinagar international airport will coincide with the city being linked with other Buddhist sites by dedicated trains for Indians and foreigners interested in pilgrimage or religious tourism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-kushinagar-airport-is-step-towards-india-firming-its-buddhist-legacy-101634179676541.html
14-10-2021||India||Amit Shah in Goa today; to lay foundation stone for NFSU, address BJP workers||Union home minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Amit Shah will be on a day-long visit to poll-bound Goa on Thursday. He is scheduled to lay the foundation stone of the National Forensic Science University (NFSU) at the Union territory. During the visit, Shah will also hold meetings with party leaders.Goa is set to hold legislative assembly elections in February next year."During his visit to Goa, the Union Home Minister will perform 'Bhumipujan and Shilanyas' for National Forensic Science University," according to the official release. The foundation laying function is scheduled for 1pm at Dharbandora in South Goa.The Union minister is also scheduled to inaugurate the Transit Campus for NFSU at Curti Ponda.He will address a public meeting at Dharbandora. In the second half of the day, the minister will address BJP workers at Taleigao village, following which he is set to hold a meeting with the leaders at a resort, according to news agency PTI.Shah will be accompanied by Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla; Punyasalila Srivastava, additional secretary of the ministry of home affairs and other officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-in-goa-today-to-lay-foundation-stone-for-nfsu-address-bjp-workers-101634177153917.html
14-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan drugs case hearing to continue today. Here's where things stand||The Mumbai cruise drug raid by Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) and the subsequent arrest of actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan, among others, in recent days has generated quite a buzz. As the investigation into the case progresses, a Mumbai court will on Thursday continue the hearing on bail applications of Khan and other accused Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha. The court had on Wednesday adjourned the hearing after the NCB claimed to have found Aryan Khan's links with the illicit procurement and distribution of contraband.What is the case all about?The NCB had on October 2 busted the alleged drugs party on the Cordelia Cruise ship, which was on its way from Mumbai to Goa. The team seized 13 grams of cocaine, 21gm of Hashish, 22 pills of MDMA, 5gm of MD, and 6 gm of charas. It has made as many as 20 arrests so far, including two Nigerian nationals.The special Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) court is hearing a plea for bail to Khan and other accused.What NCB has claimed in court so farThe NCB, in its reply filed at the special court on Wednesday, said its investigation has revealed that 23-year-old Khan used to procure drugs from Merchant, his close friend, who was also arrested after the raid on the cruise ship."Investigation has revealed accused number 1 (Aryan Khan's) role in the illicit procurement and distribution of contraband," said the NCB in its reply. The central investigative agency further said, “It is also revealed in the investigation that accused number 1 (Aryan) used to procure drugs from accused number 2 (Arbaaz) and people connected to Arbaaz.”Also Read | Drugs hidden in sanitary pad, shoes: How those aboard cruise tried to evade securityEarlier, the central agency accessed WhatsApp chats between Aryan Khan and Arbaaz Merchant, and officials familiar with the development said that Merchant may have “shared some drugs” with Khan.“Accused numbers 1 and 2 are associated and worked in close collaborations so the offences are attracted against them, especially section 29 of the NDPS Act (criminal conspiracy to commit an offence),” the reply added.The NCB earlier revealed that those aboard the cruise ship initially planned to evade the security check by attempting to conceal the drugs in personal belongings, including shoes, socks, and even inside a sanitary napkin. Elaborating more on this, the NCB said on Wednesday that six grams of charas were removed from the shoes of accused number 2 (Arbaaz) during the raid by the NCB.Aryan's defenceArguing for Aryan Khan's bail plea, his counsel, senior advocate Amit Desai on Wednesday cited many verdicts related to the seizure of a small number of drugs. As he claimed that his client was not even on the cruise and was apprehended as he was going to attend the party, Desai highlighted a few points regarding international practices.Desai argued that many countries have made substances like cannabis legal and removed them from the schedule of dangerous drugs. They (the accused) are some young kids and they have “suffered enough” and learned their lessons if at all, the lawyer said, adding that these kids should not be considered drug peddlers, racketeers, or traffickers since the term ‘illicit drug trafficking’ is very serious.Also Read | Many countries have legalised these drugs: 5 things Aryan Khan's lawyer saidAryan was being represented by advocate Satish Maneshinde in all previous hearings. Earlier, the defence insisted that the NCB has no grounds to continue to keep the accused in custody since no drugs were recovered from the personal possession of Aryan Khan and that his WhatsApp chats only consisted of messages about football and other related stuff. However, Aryan Khan's bail plea has been rejected thrice after he was arrested by the NCB on October 3. On October 7, he along with seven others were sent to 1-day judicial custody. A special NDPS court is now hearing the bail plea.Meanwhile, Maneshinde clarified on Wednesday that the bulk of the main argument on part of Aryan Khan will be carried forth by advocate Amit Desai from here on out and that he will only add anything if required.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aryan-khan-drugs-case-hearing-to-continue-today-here-s-where-things-stand-101634170590054.html
14-10-2021||India||Navjot Singh Sidhu in Delhi today, to discuss 'organisational matters' with Congress leaders||Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu will visit Delhi on Thursday to meet party's general secretary KC Venugopal. He is also scheduled to meet Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat in Delhi.The meeting between Sidhu and the senior leadership of Congress is first since September 28, when he posted his resignation on social media, saying he can’t compromise on Punjab’s future and its welfare agenda. The abrupt resignation triggered a fresh turmoil for Congress which was already struggling to control the infighting in the state unit, months before it is set to hold legislative assembly elections.According to Rawat's earlier tweet, Sidhu is arriving in the national capital to discuss the "organisational matters" of the state Congress with the party leaders. "Navjot Singh Sidhu, President Punjab Congress will be meeting me and KC Venugopal for discussion on certain organisational matters pertaining to the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee at Venugopal's office (in Delhi) on October 14," he tweeted on October 12.The meeting also comes two days before the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting in which the forthcoming assembly elections in five states, including Punjab, are on the agenda.The Congress has been in turmoil in Punjab for the past several months and the replacement of chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, who had faced a revolt by Sidhu and several other ministers and MLAs, has failed to put an end to infighting.The cricketer-turned-politician had expressed his unhapiness over some appointments in new chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi's cabinet. Following Sidhu's resignation, both leaders held a meeting and agreed to a “consultation mechanism” to allow Sidhu to have a say in important decisions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sidhu-in-delhi-today-to-discuss-organisational-matters-with-cong-leaders-101634172374140.html
14-10-2021||India||Manmohan Singh's condition stable, under observation, say AIIMS doctors||The condition of former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh is stable, the doctors at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) said later on Wednesday. Singh, 89, was admitted to the hospital in Delhi for evaluation of fever.The Congress leader had been complaining of fever since Tuesday."The eighty-nine year Congress leader was admitted to AIIMS, Delhi for evaluation of fever; his condition is stable," news agency ANI quoted the doctors a saying.The former Prime Minister is under the observation of doctors."I wish a speedy recovery to former Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh Ji. May God grant him good health," Union minister Hardeep Puri tweeted.I wish a speedy recovery to former Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh Ji. May God grant him good health. pic.twitter.com/o2u2NMxjqZThe Congress party also posted a tweet on its official handle, wishing Singh good health and speedy recovery.Singh had earlier been admitted to AIIMS after testing positive for coronavirus in April this year. The two-time Prime Minister marked his birthday on September 26.Last year too, the widely renowned economist had received treatment at AIIMS after complaining of uneasiness.Born on September 26, 1932, in Gah in Punjab in British India (present-day Punjab in Pakistan), Singh held various important portfolios throughout his career. From 1982 to 1985, he was the governor of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), and from 1985 to 1987, he served as the deputy chairperson of the Planning Commission. In 1991, he was appointed as the chairman of the University Grants Commission (UGC).Singh's term as prime minister came to an end in 2014, when the BJP, under his successor and incumbent PM Narendra Modi, won general elections that year. In fact, he was among the first to congratulate Modi on the latter's win.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manmohan-singh-s-condition-stable-under-observation-say-aiims-doctors-101634171607457.html
14-10-2021||India||President Kovind begins his Ladakh, J&K tour today; to mark Dussehra with jawans||President of India Ram Nath Kovind will celebrate Dussehra this year with the soldiers of the Indian Army in Ladakh's Drass area, one of the coldest places in the world where temperatures can drop to less than -40°C. With this, the President will be breaking away from the tradition where he is usually seen participating in Dussehra celebrations in the national capital, Delhi, every year.An official communiqué issued by the Rashtrapati Bhavan on Wednesday said that President Kovind will be visiting Ladakh, and Jammu and Kashmir on October 14 and 15 (a two-day trip over Thursday and Friday).On the first day of his visit to the Union territory of Ladakh, President Kovind will perform the Sindhu Darshan puja at the Sindhu Ghat in Leh, according to the communiqué. The riverbank, known for its beautiful and scenic landscape, is situated near the Shey village in Leh and hosts a multitude of cultural programmes with the barren mountains, typical to the region, in the backdrop.In the evening, the President will travel to the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir and interact with Indian troops stationed at Udhampur, the Northern Command headquarters of the Indian Army. Notably, this city – which also serves as the district capital – is considered an important and strategic transit point by the armed forces when travelling by road on the National Highway 44.Finally, President Kovind will travel to Drass in Ladakh on October 15 (Friday) and pay tributes to the martyrs of the 1999 Kargil War at the famous Kargil War Memorial in the hill station. Drass is known as “the Gateway to Ladakh” and is famous for its high-altitude trekking routes and tourist sites. It is also a strategically significant military point, one where the Indian Army personnel have to brave the soaring altitudes and freezing temperatures all year long to guard the Line of Control (LoC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-kovind-begins-his-ladakh-j-k-tour-today-to-mark-dussehra-with-jawans-101634168306012.html
14-10-2021||India||Ayudha Puja: History, meaning and significance of this Navratri day||Tamil Nadu Governor RN Ravi greeted the people of the state ahead of Ayudha Puja and Vijayadasami. Ayudha Puja symbolise the victory of good over evil and celebration of the annihilation of demon Mahishasura by Goddess Durga, he said in a statement.It is celebrated as part of the Navratri festival.What is Ayudha Puja?Also known as 'Astra Puja' (worship), it is the day when people worship and clean the instruments they use, weapons (whoever possesses it), machine, tools etc.These tools can be as small as pins, knives or spanners as well as large devices like computers, heavy machinery, cars and buses.In South India, Ayudha Puja is also celebrated along with Saraswati Puja.Historical referenceThe story of Ayudha Puja is connected to the killing of demon Mahushasura. According to Hindu mythology, the demon started massacring innocent people after receiving a boon from Lord Brahma that he could only be killed by a woman.All the gods then pleaded Lord Brahma to find a solution to the problem.Goddess Durga was then assigned the task to end Mahishasura. All the gods gave her their weapons to help her defeat the demon.Spiritual and philosophical meaningAccording to spiritual gurus and experts, the worshipping of instruments and weapons gives a feeling of fulfillment. When a person shows reverence to the things he/she possesses, it brings them to harmony with the universe, according to experts."Reverence in ownership frees you from greed and jealousy," said Art of Living founder Sri Sri Ravishankar.Rituals performed on Ayudha PujaOn this day, all the instruments are thoroughly cleaned and worshipped. Some devotees also keep their tools in front of the goddess to seek her blessings and mark the victory she achieved.A mixture of turmeric and sandalwood (tilak) is applied on the tools and vehicles. Some people also decorate these things with flowers.While worshipping Goddess Saraswati, some students seek her blessings by keeping booms and study material in front of them.Union minister Rajnath Singh has performed Ayudha Puja (or Shastra Puja) for several years. In 2019, he performed the puja in Paris while receiving the first Rafale fighter jet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayudha-puja-history-meaning-and-significance-of-this-navratri-day-101634170307380.html
14-10-2021||India||North Korean children, elderly risk starving: Report||North Koreans living under strict pandemic restrictions are facing a growing food crisis and the most vulnerable children and elderly people in the isolated Asian nation are at risk of starvation, a UN investigator said in a report released Wednesday.Tomás Ojea Quintana said in the report to the UN General Assembly that North Korea’s agriculture sector appears to be facing multiple challenges due to a drop in imports of fertilizer and other agricultural items from neighboring China, the impact of UN and international sanctions stemming from its nuclear program, and an outbreak of African swine fever.He said prolonged and strict pandemic measures since January 2020 have resulted in “severe economic hardship and increased vulnerability to human rights violations among the general population.” The measures include a full-scale border shutdown, travel restrictions between cities and regions, and restricted imports of non-essential supplies including humanitarian goods.Before the COVID-19 pandemic, the Argentine lawyer said, over 40% of North Koreans were “food insecure,” with many suffering from malnutrition and stunted growth. That number has increased, according to the UN Food and Agriculture Organization, he said, pointing to rising prices for rice and corn in different regions in June and emergency government measures.North Korea said Monday that leader Kim Jong Un urged officials to overcome the “grim situation” and “unprecedented difficulties” facing the country and make stronger efforts to improve the food and living conditions of his people. State media said that in his speech marking the 76th anniversary of the founding of the ruling Workers’ Party, Kim confirmed the party’s determination to carry out a five-year plan to boost “the national economy and solving the people’s food, clothing and housing problems.”Ojea Quintana painted a grim picture of life for the North Korean people who have “already suffered and waited too long for peace, security, development and basic human rights,”Since the COVID-19 restrictions, he said, they have faced a worsening ordeal including further isolation, “wider and harsher state command over people’s lives, the further stifling of economic activity, and the exodus of humanitarian agencies from the country.”As a result, he said, “families can no longer support themselves” and are increasingly taking out loans and selling household items to survive.“Many factories and mines have shut down because of a lack of power, machine parts and raw materials,” Ojea Quintana said. “The number of homeless people and street children is increasing ... (and) social concerns such as prostitution, drug use, trafficking of drugs and robbery are reportedly on the rise due to economic deprivation.”He said the government has reportedly mobilized urban residents, those recently discharged from the military, orphaned children and married women to bolster agricultural production and work on farms. But floods in early August and a lack of fertilizer, pesticides, fuel for vehicles and agricultural parts are “likely to impact food production,” he said.In his wide-ranging final report as the UN special investigator on human rights in North Korea, Ojea Quintana called on the Security Council to consider lifting sanctions “that negatively affect humanitarian assistance and human rights, including under the COVID-19 pandemic.”He renewed his call for the UN’s most powerful body to refer the situation in North Korea to the International Criminal Court or establish a tribunal to investigate possible crimes against humanity.“These crimes are likely ongoing, epitomized by continued operation of large political prison camps,” Ojea Quintana said.The existence of these camps, known as kwanliso, “represents the worst excesses of a system of governance that systematically violates the human rights of its people,” he said.Nuclear negotiations between Washington and Pyongyang have stalled for more than two years due to disagreements over North Korea’s demand to end US-led sanctions and US demands for significant North Korean steps toward denuclearization.North Korea has ramped up its missile testing activity in recent weeks while making conditional peace offers to South Korea, reviving a pattern of pressuring the south to get what it wants from the United States.“This is the time to send clear signals, take concrete action and find creative ways to give momentum to the stalled diplomatic process for securing a peaceful resolution to the conflict,” Ojea Quintana said, “and it could include the announcement of a peace declaration among parties.”Since he was appointed to his post in 2016, North Korea has refused to let Ojea Quintana visit the country. He said COVID-19 has restricted his visits to neighboring countries, so he held a series of online meetings with victims of human rights violations, their family members, civil society organizations, UN agencies and UN member nations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/north-korean-children-elderly-risk-starving-report-101634166816765.html
14-10-2021||India||Amit Shah likely to visit J-K from Oct 23 to 25||Union home minister Amit Shah is likely to visit the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir from October 23 to October 25, as part of the central government’s mega outreach programme, people familiar with the development said on Wednesday.Shah’s three-day visit to the UT marks the culmination of the second edition of the central government’s mega outreach program that started on September 8 this year during which 70 Union ministers visited the Jammu and Kashmir.Shah’s visit to the UT will be his first visit after the nullification of Article 370 on August 2019 and was designed to inform the public about various central schemes as well as to obtain feedback from the ground.Shah will also be meeting the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders there, to discuss issues like security, developmental projects, mega outreach program etc, people added.During their visit, several Union ministers have so far interacted with locals, administration, and representatives of the Panchayati Raj institutions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-likely-to-visit-j-k-from-oct-23-to-25-101634157459898.html
14-10-2021||India||After raids, 4 held for aiding terrorists||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has arrested four terror associates during searches at 16 locations in Jammu and Kashmir, officials said on Wednesday, adding that the agency continued its raids in the Valley in connection with terror attacks.The agency on October 10 registered a case to unearth a conspiracy hatched by various terror groups to carry out attacks in J&K and other major cities, including New Delhi.NIA spokesperson in a statement on Wednesday said that the agency conducted searches at 16 locations in Srinagar, Pulwama and Shopian districts on Tuesday and arrested four terror associates. The accused were identified as Waseem Ahmed Sofi of Chattabal, Srinagar; Tariq Ahmed Dar of Shergarhi, Srinagar; Bilal Ahmed Mir alias Bilal Fufu of Parimpora, Srinagar; and Tariq Ahmed Bafanda of Rajauri Kadal, Srinagar.Officials said fresh raids were carried in Srinagar’s Batamaloo area on Wednesday.“The case pertains to information received regarding hatching of conspiracy both physically and in cyberspace for undertaking violent terrorist acts in J&K and other major cities, including New Delhi, by cadres of proscribed terrorist organisations — Laskhar-e-Taiba (LeT), Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM), Hizb-ul-Mujahideen (HM), Al Badr and similar other outfits and their affiliates such as the Resistance Front (TRF), People Against Fascist Forces (PAFF) etc,” the NIA statement said.The statement added that the “terror associates/OGWs (over ground workers) of these organisations are conspiring with their handlers and commanders based in a neighbouring country and indulging in radicalisation of local youth...”“These terrorists and cadres have affected several terrorist acts including killings of numerous innocent civilians and security personnel...” the statement said.NIA spokesperson said that during the searches on Tuesday, several electronic devices, incriminating jehadi documents and records of suspicious financial transactions were seized.“Preliminary investigation has revealed that arrested accused persons are terror associates/OGWs of various proscribed terrorist organisations and have been providing logistical and material support to terrorists and facilitating them in their nefarious designs. Further investigation in the case continues,” the spokesperson added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-raids-4-held-for-aiding-terrorists-101634157062808.html
14-10-2021||India||‘Like Maoist leaders…’: Bhupesh Baghel takes swipe at RSS, BJP comeback follows||RAIPUR: A week after police booked BJP leader Raman Singh’s son and a sitting MP for rioting in Chhattisgarh’s Kawardha, chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Wednesday said there will be an “impartial investigation” into the violence in Kawardha town and lashed out at the leadership of the Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS), who he alleged, dictated instructions to the cadres.“Even now, they (RSS workers in the state) are not heard as everything is controlled from Nagpur. Like the Maoist leaders are in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and other states and their cadres (in Chhattisgarh) do the job of firing bullets and getting hit… The same is the situation in the RSS. ..The local RSS workers have no value and everything is centered in Nagpur,” Baghel told reporters who sought his reaction to governor Anusuiya Uikey’s letter.The RSS, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) ideological fount, is headquartered in Nagpur.In her letter, the governor sought an impartial inquiry into the violence that took place on October 5 in Kawardha, the headquarter of Kabirdham district, during a rally taken out by right-wing outfits. Scores of people have been booked by the police for the violence.On Tuesday, police named former CM Raman Singh’s son Abhishek Singh and BJP MP from Rajnandgaon, Santosh Pandey, in a case registered for rioting and causing damage to property in connection with the communal violence in the town. District police chief Mohit Garg said both were present at the rally which turned violent after bikes were torched and some houses ransacked.Baghel’s comments drew an immediate and sharp reaction from the BJP.Senior BJP legislator and leader of opposition in the assembly Dharamlal Kaushik said, “The way CM has compared Sangh and Naxalism, in reality, these are not Bhupesh Baghel’s words, but are of his Leftist ideology. The Congress has lost its core ideology and deviated from the Gandhian ideology.”Kaushik also advised Baghel to read up on the RSS. “I advise Baghel that if he wants to speak about the Sangh, then he should read about it. One should see the work of the Sangh by going to the Sangh’s place,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/like-maoist-leaders-bhupesh-baghel-takes-swipe-at-rss-bjp-comeback-follows-101634155603278.html
14-10-2021||India||President Kovind to celebrate Dussehra with jawans in Drass||New Delhi Breaking away from the tradition, President Ram Nath Kovind will celebrate Dussehra this year with jawans in Ladakh’s Drass area. Traditionally, the president has been participating in Dussehra celebrations in the national capital.According to a Rashtrapati Bhavan communiqué issued on Wednesday, the president will visit Ladakh and Jammu and Kashmir on October 14 and 15. On Thursday, the president will perform Sindhu Darshan puja at Sindhu Ghat, Leh, the communiqué said. He will also interact with troops at Udhampur (J-K) in the evening. On October 15, Kovind will pay tributes at the Kargil War Memorial in Drass and interact with officers and jawans.Dussehra will be celebrated on Friday||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-kovind-to-celebrate-dussehra-with-jawans-in-drass-101634153148052.html
14-10-2021||India||BJP’s old headquarters on Ashoka Road to be venue for meetings ahead of state polls||The Bharatiya Janata Party‘s old headquarters on Ashoka Road in the nationalCapital will be the centre of activity in the coming days as the party leadership has picked it as a venue for closed-door meetings that will be held ahead of the upcoming state assembly elections in seven states. This week the old office was the venue for a meeting of the core group on Uttar Pradesh, which was attended by senior leaders including party president JP Nadda, general secretary (organisation) BL Santhosh, Union Minister Dharmendra Pradhan, who is the election in-charge of the state among others. According to a party official, the venue has been picked for meetings owing to its proximity to various ministries making it convenient for senior ministers to join meetings at short notice. On Wednesday, the venue was chosen for a meeting that was attended by Union home minister Amit Shah, Union minister Piyush Goyal, BL Santhosh and national general secretary Arun Singh. The details of the meeting were not shared by the BJP functionaries.The party headquarters was shifted from Ashoka Road to a swanky new building on Deen Dayal Upadhayay Marg in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjps-old-headquarters-on-ashoka-road-to-be-venue-for-meetings-ahead-of-state-polls-101634153142789.html
14-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur violence: Two more arrested, bail plea of Ashish Mishra rejected||Lucknow: Two more accused, former Union minister late Akhilesh Das’s nephew Ankit Das and his private gunner Latif alias Kale were arrested on Wednesday, in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case while the main accused and junior home minister Ajay Mishra’s son, Ashish Mishra was denied bail by a court here, said senior police officials.Ankit Das and Latif appeared before the Special Investigation Team (SIT) on Wednesday. The officials said Das and his gunner were present with Mishra at the violence site in Tikunia village on October 3. Ashish Mishra was named in an FIR following allegations that he was in one of the vehicles that mowed down four farmers protesting over UP deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya’s visit to Kheri on October 3. Four others, including a journalist, Mishra’s driver and two BJP workers were also killed during the violence broke out after the incident.With this, a total of six accused have been arrested in the case, including Mishra, his two accomplices Luv Kush and Ashish Pandey. The police claimed that three other accused, including Mishra’s driver and two BJP workers, were killed during the violence. Meanwhile, a court in Lakhimpur Kheri denied bail to Ashish Mishra and his alleged accomplice Ashish Pandey, senior prosecution officer SP Yadav told PTI. The court chief judicial magistrate sent both to 14-day judicial custody. The court also remanded Das, his gunner Latif and his driver Shekhar Bharti, who was arrested on Tuesday, to three-day police custody beginning Thursday morning, said a press release issued by Lakhimpur Kheri police. Bharti was allegedly driving the car behind Mishra’s car that allegedly mowed down four farmers. A police official aware of the matter said Das was arrested after multiple hours of questioning by the investigation committee led by deputy inspector general Upendra Agarwal after he appeared before it on Wednesday morning.Before Das’s arrest, his lawyer Razi Ahmad told reporters that Das had appeared before the investigation committee after receiving the notice regarding the case. “We have not come here to surrender but to cooperate in the investigation,” Ahmad said..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-violence-two-more-arrested-bail-plea-of-ashish-mishra-rejected-101634152845350.html
14-10-2021||India||Opposition targets Rajnath over Savarkar remark||A day after defence minister Rajnath Singh said that Mahatma Gandhi had asked Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) ideologue VD Savarkar to file a mercy petition, Opposition leaders hit back at Singh accusing him of trying to “rewrite history” and pointing out that Gandhi was still in South Africa when Savarkar had filed his first mercy petition in 1911. Congress leader Jairam Ramesh tweeted, taking potshots at Singh. “Rajnath Singh-ji is amongst the few sober & dignified voices in Modi Sarkar. But he doesn’t seem to be free of RSS habit of rewriting history. He has given a twist to what Gandhi actually wrote on Jan 25 1920. Here is that letter to Savarkar’s brother,” tweeted the Congress leader, posting a copy of Gandhi’s letter to Savarkar. Communist Party of India (Marxist) general secretary, Sitaram Yechury tweeted a copy of Savarkar’s mercy petition on Wednesday. “Preposterous rewriting of history. Savarkar’s mercy petitions are in 1911 & 1913. Gandhiji enters Indian freedom struggle in 1915. Such distortions cannot mislead. The fact is RSS was never part of the freedom struggle. Often collaboratedWhile AIMIM leader Asaduddin Owaisi reminded Singh that Savarkar had sought “leniency, mercy and promising to be a faithful servant of the crown” after just six months in prison, CPI chief D. Raja termed the theory as “factory of lies” and RJD leader Manoj Jha quipped that th BJP’s “‘craft of history’ doesn’t follow rules of history.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-targets-rajnath-over-savarkar-remark-101634152781782.html
14-10-2021||India||Covid curfew extended in Andhra with more relaxations||The Andhra Pradesh government on Wednesday extended the Covid-19 curfew till October 31, but limited it to only five hours from 12 midnight.Accordingly, the curfew will now be in force from 12 midnight to 5 AM only. So far the curfew hours were 11 PM to 6 AM.The government also eased restrictions on public gatherings, including marriages, permitting a maximum of 250 persons. Previously only 100 persons were permitted in such gatherings.Cinema halls too can now run to full capacity as the government has dispensed with the alternate seating arrangements, according to an order issued by Principal Secretary (Health) Anil Kumar Singhal.Following Covid Appropriate Behaviour was still mandatory, he said in the order.The government eased the restrictions following reduction in the number of Covid-19 cases in recent days. Andhra Pradesh reported 517 fresh Covid-19 cases, 826 recoveries and eight deaths in 24 hours ending 9 AM on Wednesday.The latest bulletin said the number of active coronavirus cases in the state reduced to 6,615.The cumulative positives so far registered were 20,58,582, recoveries 20,37,691 and toll 14,276.In 24 hours, Chittoor district reported 97 fresh cases, East Godavari 88, Guntur 84 and Krishna 71. The remaining nine districts added less than 40 new cases each.Krishna, SPS Nellore and Prakasam districts reported two more Covid-19 deaths each and Chittoor and East Godavari one each in a day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-curfew-extended-in-andhra-with-more-relaxations-101634152361658.html
14-10-2021||India||DMK MPs meet Telangana minister seeking support for NEET scrapping||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) MPs on Wednesday met the Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS) working president and Municipal Administration Minister, K.T. Rama Rao, seeking support to oppose the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) held for entry into medical colleges.TKS Elangovan while speaking to the media stated that “We have come to hand over a letter from our chief minister MK Stalin to Telangana chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao to scrap the NEET exams.”He said “We build the infrastructure for medical college and we pay salaries to lecturers but NEET exam deprive our students of getting into our colleges, it is also against the federal sector. So, education should be brought back to the state list instead of the concurrent list. We are talking to all the Opposition parties in the country that all these attempts made by the Centre to suppress states should be stopped”. We have met the KTR and he said that he will give all the support to stop the NEET exam.”Dr. Kalanidhi Veeraswamy and T.K.S. Elangovan met KTR at the Telangana Bhavan and handed over a letter written by the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to 11 non-BJP ruled states in this regard.Tamil Nadu Chief Minister MK Stalin had earlier written the letter reiterating the DMK government’s Opposition to NEET to restore the primacy of the states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dmk-mps-meet-telangana-minister-seeking-support-for-neet-scrapping-101634152181791.html
14-10-2021||India||Cong leaders caught on tape ‘linking Shivakumar to graft’||The Congress in Karnataka was embarrassed on Wednesday after two party leaders were caught on tape purportedly linking state unit chief DK Shivakumar to allegations of corruption.Party media coordinator M A Saleem and former Lok Sabha member VS Ugrappa were heard whispering in front of microphones and cameras of media organisations minutes before a press conference in Bengaluru on Tuesday. Video clips of the incident went viral on Wednesday.In the roughly two-minute-long clip, Saleem and Ugrappa are heard purportedly talking about corruption and money being made by Shivakumar and people close to the leader. “If they have made 50-100 (crore) imagine how much he has, He is a collection giraki (customer),” Saleem is heard purportedly saying in Kannada and Ugrappa is passively lending an ear. The verbal exchange is caught on the microphones placed before them.In reply, Ugrappa is purportedly heard saying that he did not know about these things.Next, Saleem is heard hailing former chief minister Siddaramaiah and complaining that Shivakumar stammered in his speeches. The two senior leaders are old rivals.After the video clip went viral, the Congress expelled Saleem for six years and issued a show-cause notice to Ugrappa, who is considered close to Siddaramaiah.“Before the press conference, some internal conversations happened. Congress party keeps discipline in mind and the disciplinary committee will take appropriate action and we will all adhere to it,” Shivakumar said.He added that he has no connection with the allegations but conceded that the entire episode was “embarrassing” to the party. “I was never part of any ‘percentage’ (share in contracts) and I don’t need it. I have no connection with it,” he said.Ugrappa feigned innocence and said that he did not respond to Saleem and later pulled up the media coordinator for the statement.“When I was about to start the press conference, he whispered something in my ear. There was an irrigation scam and he said that they are trying to make such allegations (against Shivakumar),” Ugrappa said. He added that Shivakumar is a good administrator, disciplined and a pro-people politician who was not into “percentage” politics.The developments come at a time when the Congress is trying to win some ground back in the October 30 bypolls in Hanagal and Sindgi after a bitter loss in the 2019 general elections and later the collapse of its alliance government with the Janata Dal (Secular).The Congress is also trying to mobilise support on the ground ahead of the yet-to-be announced zilla and taluka panchayat elections which is likely to provide a good indication of which way the 2023 assembly polls could go.But its preparations have been marred by a bitter war between Siddaramaiah and Shivakumar, two of the party’s tallest leaders in the state who are vying to be the next chief ministerial candidate.The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) used the episode to attack the Congress.“Former Congress MP V S Ugrappa and KPCC media coordinator Salim discuss how party president DK Shivakumar takes bribes and a close aid of his has made between 50-100 crores in collection. They are also discussing how he stutters while talking and as if he his drunk,” party leader Amit Malviya tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leaders-caught-on-tape-linking-dk-shivakumar-to-graft-101634152122195.html
14-10-2021||India||Court rejects discharge plea of minister among 6 in 2015 Kerala assembly violence case||In a setback to the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) government in Kerala, the chief judicial magistrate (CJM) court in Thiruvananthapuram on Wednesday rejected a discharge petition moved by six legislators, including state education minister V Sivankutty in connection with the 2015 assembly violence case. Rejecting the plea, magistrate R Rekha directed all accused to appear before the court on November 22 to frame charges, which will be later read out to them. The accused contended that the video of the assembly proceedings were heavily edited and media blew the incident out of proportion. They also argued that their sole intention was to disrupt the budget speech and furniture was damaged by the security personnel during pushing and shoving in the assembly. However, the court rejected their contention and asked them to face charges. The counsel for the accused said he said he will move the High Court. Earlier the High Court and Supreme Court had rejected their pleas to quash the case. In March, 2015, the Kerala assembly witnessed violent incidents after then opposition LDF legislators tried to prevent finance minister KM Mani, also the Kerala Congress (M) chairman and a constituent of ruling UDF then, from presenting the budget alleging his role in the 2014 bar bribery case. Angry members snapped mikes, threw chairs, destroyed furniture and damaged lights during the ruckus, which also resulted in two legislators getting hospitalised. The session was live when the violence took place and property worth ₹2.20 lakh was destroyed in the melee. Since coming to power in 2016, the LDF tried to withdraw the case but the CJM court rejected the move in 2018. The government then moved the high court, which also turned down its plea. The Pinarayi Vijayan-led government had invoked the privilege of legislators and public interest to justify its decision to withdraw the case, but the high court rejected it saying privilege was not a license to unleash violence in the House. Later, in July, the Supreme Court also upheld the lower court’s verdict and directed all accused to face criminal proceedings. The apex court said acts of destruction of public property cannot be equated with either the freedom of speech of the legislator, or with forms of protest legitimately available to the members of opposition. “Privileges and immunities are not gateway to claim exemption from the general law of the land, particularly as in this case the criminal law which governs the action of every citizen,” a bench of justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah had said. Following the SC rap, opposition Congress sought the resignation of one of Sivankutty, but chief minister Vijayan rejected it saying the government will fight it out legally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/court-rejects-discharge-plea-of-minister-among-6-in-2015-kerala-assembly-violence-case-101634152061684.html
14-10-2021||India||Siddaramaiah, BSY dismiss Kumaraswamy’s secret meeting claim||Senior Congress member and leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah and senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader BS Yediyurappa on Wednesday dismissed JD(S) leader HD Kumaraswamy’s claim that both the leaders had secret late night meeting.Kumaraswamy on Tuesday alleged that two others who occupied the top post in the chair were holding meetings as a result of which the Income Tax (I-T) raids were unleashed in an effort to “control” Yediyurappa.“I had gone to meet Yediyurappa on his birthday. I had not met him personally as chief minister or as the Leader of Opposition. I have not met him (personally) till today. We both were in the same hospital when we were infected by Corona, even then we had not met,” Siddaramaiah said.The Congress leader said that it was actually Kumaraswamy who held multiple meetings with Yediyurappa when the latter was the chief minister. Terming the claims as ‘blatant lies’, Siddaramaiah said that he would retire from politics if Kumaraswamy can prove that he had met Yediyurappa.Yediyurappa also took to social media to rubbish the claims made by his predecessor.“Other than my birthday on February 27, 2020, I have not personally met Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah. I have no need to have such a meeting. We in the party are working to bring BJP back to power in the state,” Yediyurappa said in a post on Twitter.He added that his only goal was to bring back BJP to power in 2023 and has been working on the same.“I have never compromised on the ideology that I have believed in, and will never compromise in the future. As Siddaramaiah has clarified that no such meeting has taken place, I’m too clarifying that the reports in the media in this regard are far from truth and meaningless,” Yediyurappa added.The claims and denial come at a time when the three major political parties in Karnataka are gearing up for the October 30 bypolls in Hanagal and Sindgi that has evolving into a huge electoral battle for all the outfits in the state.Kumaraswamy has been actively making statements against the Congress and the BJP as the former Prime Minister HD Deve Gowda-led party is shrug off the tab that it is in a tacit alliance with the saffron outfit to take on the Congress, which they both consider the common enemy.The recent IT raids on close associates of Yediyurappa had given the political opposition another opportunity to attack BJP and its internal rumblings which had led to the 78-year-old stepping down from the top post on July 26.Kumaraswamy on Tuesday hinted that the IT raids on Yediyurappa was part of a possible ₹20,000 crore irrigation scam, as alleged even by BJP legislator AH Vishwanath.“Anyone with the slightest understanding of politics can understand that the recent IT raids were for what reasons. IT raids were with a political motive and it is to control or checkmate Yediyurappa as both (Siddaramaiah and Yediyurappa) had a late night meeting about political developments, and the BJP that has government both at the centre and state got to know about it from their sources, and probably have tightened things,” Kumaraswamy had said.Though the three chief ministers have spared no opportunity to criticise the other, they have worked together in the past as JD(S) has allied with both national parties at the state level as well as smaller district, zilla and taluka units.Karnataka’s politics has been defined, in recent years, by coalition building abilities through which Siddaramaiah, Deve Gowda and Yediyurappa have remained relevant in state politics and have seldom allowed Delhi to dictate terms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/siddaramaiah-bsy-dismiss-kumaraswamy-s-secret-meeting-claim-101634151885337.html
14-10-2021||India||19 candidates in fray from two seats in Oct 30 by-elections in Karnataka||A total of 19 candidates are in the fray in Sindagi and Hangal assembly constituencies for the October 30 by elections, poll officials said on Wednesday.Wednesday being the last day for withdrawal of nominations, two from Sindagi and four from Hangal withdrew their papers, leaving six and thirteen candidates in the fray from the two constituencies respectively.Two candidates from Sindagi are women.Counting of votes will take place on November 2.The by-elections have been necessitated as the seats fell vacant following the death of Sindagi JD(S) legislator M C Managuli and BJP’s C M Udasi from Hangal.While Ramesh Bhusanur, who came second behind Managuli in 2018 polls, is the BJP candidate from Sindagi, Shivaraj Sajjanar is its candidate from Hangal constituency.The Congress has named Managuli’s son Ashok Managuli, who has joined the party, as its candidate from Sindgi, while former MLC Srinivas Mane is its candidate from Hangal.JD(S), which was the first to announce its candidates, has fielded 33-year-old post graduate Naziya Shakeel Ahmed Angadi from Sindagi and 35-year-old B.E, M.Tech (CSE) graduate Niyaz Shaikh from Hangal.This is the first electoral challenge for chief minister Basavaraj Bommai after taking charge. Retaining Hangal is even more important for him as it is the neighboring constituency to his Shiggaon assembly segment.The Congress, by ensuring a win, wants to give momentum for its preparations in the run up to 2023 assembly polls in the state, while JD(S) is looking to retain Sindagi seat and thereby prove that it still commands a support base in the northern districts.Congress leaders have alleged that JD(S) deliberately fielded minority candidates for the Hangal and Sindagi by-elections to help the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/19-candidates-in-fray-from-two-seats-in-oct-30-by-elections-in-karnataka-101634151883037.html
14-10-2021||India||Kalaburagi earthquake: Govt not concerned about people’s lives, says Siddaramaiah||Karnataka Congress leader Siddaramaiah has alleged that the state government is nowhere concerned about the lives of the people in Kalaburagi where the earthquake is scaring people for the last 20 or more days.Siddaramaiah said, “people are very much scared and they are leaving their villages and going somewhere else after the fear of the earthquake, but still no minister from the government have visited this spot and look after this situation.” “Being in responsible post at least Deputy Commissioner of Kalburagi must have visited the Chincholi and Sedam where the earthquake is making people sleepless, she doesn’t have any concern towards people, she has sent assistants when she came to know that I was coming there, she came and went back without announcing any relief or solution to the people”. “Being in the responsible and powerful position of Deputy commissioner of Kalaburagi, she could have ordered of relief on the spot,” Siddaramaiah said while attacking the Deputy Commissioner.“Karnataka government must be taken war foot decisions and try to safeguard the people of Afzalpur where people are very much scared at this point of time. The same situation has happened before in Kalburgi but at least now the government would have taken war foot relief decision,” added Siddaramaiah. The Greek island of Crete anticipated more aftershocks within 48 hours after a 6.3 magnitude earthquake jolted the island, the Athens-Macedonian News Agency (ANA-MPA) reported on Wednesday citing the Earthquake Planning and Protection Organization of Greece (EPPO) earlier today. Following the earthquake, which occurred off the coast of Crete on Tuesday, the island felt two more aftershocks with a magnitude of 4 and 4.4, respectively. More aftershocks could be expected within the next two days before the tremors can be considered over, according to the E.P.P.O, the news said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kalaburagi-earthquake-govt-not-concerned-about-people-s-lives-says-siddaramaiah-101634151881759.html
14-10-2021||India||Another building collapses, Bengaluru civic body under lens||Even as the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) ordered a survey of old buildings in the city, one building in Kamala Nagar,which is part of Mahalaxmi Layout, partially collapsed on Tuesday night while side wall of a house collapsed on Wednesday. The collapses in the last few weeks have raised questions on the civic body and its ability to monitor the construction of such structures. The building in the Mahalaxmi Layout which had partially collapsed on Monday night was razed on Wednesday by disaster management personnel. “All the people who lived in those house’s and within the vicinity have been shifted elsewhere. Accommodation and food arrangements have been made for such families,” the BBMP said in a statement on Wednesday. Sharing information on the other collapse, the civic body said, “An old Mangalore tiles house side wall collapsed around 10 am on Wednesday in Ward no 119, second cross, PVN lane, Nagarthpet. No injuries were reported as no one was stayed in the house for last 6 years; as per the neighbours. The house was also not under maintenance. Removal of debris will be started immediately.” The city, since the last few weeks, has been witnessing a sudden spate of building collapses on account of non-maintenance of old buildings and construction with poor quality of materials and basic design flaws. The BBMP has skirted responsibility on the issue blaming the owners and contractors for the collapses, overlooking at the approvals given by the agency. Experts had also questioned the lackadaisical attitude of the BBMP. “ I think there is a need for a proactive approach, like the 15-20 year car policy, with regular checks on old and ageing buildings,” V Ravichandar, a Bengaluru-based urban infrastructure expert, told Hindustan Times.Experts also point out violations of building permits by builders that is often neglected or has the tacit approval of officials.“Because of the violations, the foundation of a building does not have the capacity to take the load,” Ravichandar said. “It is important to involve the community and Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) for early identification of any signs of cracks or damage.”BJP legislator from Mahalaxmi Layout and Cabinet minister K Gopalaiah on Wednesday said that action will be taken against the owners of the buildings. “The police will take action mercilessly against the owners,” he said. He added that around 10 homes next to the dilapidated building in Mahalaxmi Layout has been evacuated to ensure there is no threat to human lives. Stating that the building was among the list of dilapidated structures surveyed by the BBMP in 2009, Gopalaiah added that since the owner had not yet returned the rent advance taken from the tenants in the building, hence people were still staying there. The BBMP carried out a survey of dilapidated buildings in Bengaluru and found that there were at least 185 such structures that had to be brought down. However, by the BBMP’s own admission, only 10 have been brought down so far while people continue to reside in the remaining ones, adding to the possibility of another catastrophe. The BBMP had ordered a rapid survey of dilapidated buildings last month and had given itself a deadline to complete the exercise within 15 days. Gaurav Gupta, the BBMP’s chief commissioner on Wednesday said that there were 185 dilapidated buildings in the 2019 survey, of which only 10 have been demolished and action was being taken on the remaining ones. “The new survey had a 15 day deadline and we have got preliminary results,” Gupta said in Bengaluru on Wednesday. There have been at least six buildings that have collapsed in Bengaluru in the last couple of weeks and Gupta had instructed zonal joint commissioners and chief engineers to form a committee to conduct a resurvey of dilapidated buildings and submit a report within 15 days.On September 30, revenue minister R Ashok held a meeting with BBMP, the city’s civic body, to take stock of old and dangerously unstable buildings in the city.Most of Benglauru’s public infrastructure is crumbling as roads are full of potholes, uncleared garbage, unplanned expansion of the city, encroached and toxic lakes and flooding of homes, offices and streets during heavy rains, making life miserable for the over 12 million residents of a city that aspires a global status on account of its prowess in technology, startups and aerospace among other sectors. According to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), at least 18 people in Bengaluru are said to have died due to negligence of civic bodies in the whole of last year which is more than six times of such fatalities recorded across at least six other urban centres in the country including Delhi and Mumbai. The BBMP has blamed the heavy rains witnessed in Bengaluru as the reason for some of these deaths and accidents but has never clarified why the quality of roads and civic infrastructure in one of India’s richest cities remain this poor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-building-collapses-bengaluru-civic-body-under-lens-101634151822985.html
14-10-2021||India||Karnataka CM Bommai’s remark on moral policing triggers row||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday stoked a controversy with his statements that appeared to justify incidents of moral policing and communal disharmony in the state.“There are several sentiments in the society. Those emotions should not be affected and such should be the behaviour. When such emotions are hurt there is likely to be an action and reaction,” Bommai told reporters in Mangaluru, about 350 km from Bengaluru.Besides policing, Bommai said, the government’s duty is also about taking action to maintain harmony in society.“Even youngsters should watch their actions to ensure it does not hurt sentiments of the society,” he said, adding that there should be “morality in the society and we cannot live without it”.Reacting to the CM’s remark, a statement endorsed by 35 human rights activists and organisations stated that the justification of moral policing and communal violence by the chief minister sends out a “dangerous message”.“This statement has been made at a time when instances of communal policing have increased in the Karnataka, which has in fact witnessed the killing of persons for the simple act of loving across caste and religion,” said the statement released on Wednesday.“Your statement that social morality is (to) be protected is not an innocent message. It sends out a dangerous message that as far as you are concerned, it is ok to use violence to enforce what some people see as ‘morality’,” the statement added.Activists also said such acts of violence affect the dignity of the youth and instill fear in them. “It condemns minorities and Dalits to lead the life of second class citizens. It also conveys the message that women have no right in choosing their partners. It is an attack on all women in fact. It also fills the minds of many youth among majority community with hate,” the statement added.The CM’s statement comes at a time when Karnataka has been witnessing a surge in cases of moral policing allegedly by individuals associated with right-wing outfits.On Tuesday, police in Bagalkote district arrested eight people after a fight between two Class IXth students took communal colour after members of both Hindu and Muslim groups attacked each other.According to the police, both students are from the same locality. There were allegations that one of the students objected to the other wearing a skull cap, however, police said they are yet to ascertain what led to the fight.On September 28, decapitated body of a 24-year-old Muslim man, Arbaz Mullah, was found on a railway track in Belagavi district. On October 8, police arrested 10 people, including the parents of a woman he was in a relationship with, for his murder.The Belagavi police said the woman’s parents, Eerappa and Susheela Kumbhar, and Maharaja Nagappa alias Pundalik Mutgekar, a member of Hindu group Sri Ram Sena Hindustan, are the prime suspects in the murder.On Monday, HT reported two separate cases of moral policing in Dakshina Kannada and Shivamogga districts.In the Dakshina Kannada incident, police said two persons belonging to a right-wing group waylaid a car with four occupants, including a Muslim couple and two Hindu girls, and objected to them travelling together.In Shivamogga district, two youngsters were detained in a case of moral policing after they allegedly assaulted a Hindu youth for dropping off a Muslim girl on his two-wheeler.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-cm-bommbai-s-remark-on-moral-policing-triggers-row-101634151821644.html
14-10-2021||India||Govt withdraws quarantine rules for UK nationals||ndia has withdrawn the need for UK nationals to mandatorily quarantine for 10 days upon arrival, irrespective of their vaccination status, days after the government in London added India to the list of countries from where people will be able to show proof of vaccination to skip a similar quarantine rule.The decisions caps a controversy over vaccine passports that reached some of the highest diplomatic channels, beginning with the UK refusing to recognise India’s vaccine certificates at first and prompting a retaliatory move by New Delhi.In an official memorandum issued on October 11, the Union health ministry said that based on the evolving scenario, it was decided that the revised guidelines stand withdrawn and the earlier guidelines on international arrival issued on February 17, this year, will be applicable to all international travellers arriving in India from the UK, a person familiar with developments said.According to the travel rules from February 17, airlines need to ensure passengers have a negative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test result before they board the flight at UK. On arrival, they need to take a test at the first point of entry. If positive, the passenger needs to be isolated and treated. If they are negative, they need to be in home quarantine for seven days and get re-tested on the eighth day.Initially, the UK recognised Covishield vaccine produced by the Serum Institute of India but retained the 10-day quarantine period for fully vaccinated travellers from India. The move was attacked as discriminatory by the Indian government. India then decided to impose reciprocal curbs against all British nationals arriving in the country as the contentious issue relating to the UK not recognising Indian vaccine certificates could not be resolved despite holding a series of technical-level talks.UK officials later held multiple discussions with teams in India managing the Co-WIN platform, which is used to issue as well as verify vaccine certificates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-withdraws-quarantine-rules-for-uk-nationals-101634151762843.html
14-10-2021||India||Call on easing Covid curbs on state borders after Dasara: CM Bommai||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday said that the decision to further relax Covid-19 pandemic-induced restrictions and reopening of primary schools would be taken only after consulting experts.“The experts are assessing the situation in Karnataka districts bordering Kerala and Maharashtra. A meeting would be held with the Covid expert committee soon after Dasara festival next week to discuss the situation, and a decision on relaxing the restrictions in border districts would be taken,” Bommai said on Wednesday in Mangaluru. The statements come when Karnataka has actively relaxed Covid restrictions across the state to kick-start economic activity around the festive period.The state government has already relaxed restrictions to allow physical classes for students above 6th grade, 100% occupancy in cinema halls, pubs and other places since October 1.There is now a demand for reopening classes for students between 1-5th grades. “(A) decision will also be taken regarding reopening of primary schools too,” Bommai said.The proposal to reopen classes for young students comes even as trials of Covid-19 vaccination for children aged between 2-18 years old are underway.“Children and adolescents will be vaccinated soon. Karnataka is in the forefront of vaccination,” Bommai said.The Covid-19 infection numbers in Karnataka appear to have stabilised, if government data is anything to go by, allowing the Bommai-led administration to continue easing restrictions after nearly two years of lockdowns and the uncertainty attached to it.Bommai also said that he would take a decision on the withdrawal of cases filed against the public for violation of any Covid-19 norms during the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/call-on-easing-covid-curbs-on-state-borders-after-dasara-cm-bommai-101634151761700.html
14-10-2021||India||1,183 PSA oxygen plants under PM CARES fund operational, says govt||Of the 1,224 pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants sanctioned by the Union government under the PM CARES fund, 1,183 are currently operational and work on the remaining plants will be completed by October-end, secretary, ministry of housing and urban affairs, Durga Shanker Mishra said on Wednesday.“In 22 states, we have completed the work, while there are nine states where the work is more than 90% complete. We are using advanced technology like the Internet of Things to track the performance and functioning of all the PSA plants. Currently, 24 plants are on IOT system. By December-end, all plants will have IOT,” Mishra said.Mishra added that of the 3,850 PSA plants sanctioned by the Centre, central public sector undertakings (PSUs) and other sources such as state governments, 2,494 (close to 65%) are providing 3,324 metric tonnes of oxygen daily, as on October 13.HUA ministry officials said around ₹1,200 crore (almost ₹1 crore per plant) has been spent on installing these plants.The installation of PSA plants (under PM CARES) has been carried out by the National Highways Authority of India, the Central Public Works Department, states and the National Buildings Construction Corporation.In five states — Meghalaya, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram and Maharashtra — the work of installing PSA plants (under PM CARES fund) is more than 90% complete. All plants have a warranty of 18 months to five years, Mishra said.According to officials, the HUA ministry has also developed a portal for monitoring the status of oxygen supply at the operational plants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1183-psa-oxygen-plants-under-pm-cares-fund-operational-says-govt-101634151341606.html
14-10-2021||India||Lucknow court summons Netflix over docu-series||A court in Lucknow has issued summons to over-the-top (OTT) platforms Netflix and producer-director of docu-series Bad Boy Billionaires over a criminal defamation complaint filed by Sahara India for allegedly showing Sahara’s Subrata Roy in a bad light.The court of special chief judicial magistrate issued summons to Netflix’s Director of Business Development Abhishek Nag, producer Reve Sharma and director Nick Reed by an order on October 13. The order was released on Wednesday.According to the criminal defamation complaint, the documentary on Sahara India Pariwar chairman has tried to bring disrepute not only to Roy but has also impacted the esteem of all the employees of the group.It claimed that the documentary was a deliberate attempt to benefit the adversaries of Sahara and ensure business advantage to other companies by tarnishing Sahara’s image.Issuing summons, the judicial magistrate said that a prima facie case is made out to hand out the process against those complained against. Nag, Reed and Sharma have been asked to appear before the court on November 15.The docu-series was released on Netflix last year. Three out of the docu-series’ four total episodes are now streaming: ‘The King of Good Times’ about Kingfisher’s Vijay Mallya, ‘Diamonds Aren’t Forever’ about jeweller Nirav Modi, and ‘The World’s Biggest Family’ about Sahara’s Subrata Roy.The fourth and final episode, about Satyam’s Ramalinga Raju, could not be released due to a separate order of injunction from a Hyderabad court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lucknow-court-summons-netflix-over-docuseries-101634151161498.html
14-10-2021||India||Cong meets President, calls for Mishra’s dismissal||A Congress delegation, including Wayanad MP Rahul Gandhi, on Wednesday called on President Ram Nath Kovind to demand the immediate dismissal of Union minister of state for home affairs, Ajay Mishra Teni, and ask for an independent judicial investigation by sitting judges of the Supreme Court or high court into the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri earlier this month.Gandhi said after the meeting with Kovind that when he went to meet the families of the victims last week, they had two principal demands.“The family members told us that they wanted two things. First, they want justice. They want the murderer to be punished. They also said, the father of the person who has committed the murder is the (junior) home minister, so, as long as a person is a minister, a proper investigation and justice can’t be achieved,” the Congress leader said.Eight people died after violence erupted after a car mowed down farmers protesting in Lakhimpur Kheri. So far, police have arrested six people--Ashish Mishra, his alleged accomplices Luv Kush and Ashish Pandey, former Union minister, late Akhilesh Das’s nephew, Ankit Das, his gunner Latif alias Kale and his driver Shekhar Bharti -- in connection with the case.The Congress also demanded an “independent judicial investigation by a commission comprising of two sitting judges of the Supreme Court of India or the high court”, and maintained that such an investigation was necessary. “Ajay Mishra Teni in a public function openly threatened the agitating farmers and even boasted about his dubious antecedents. How can justice be done when the original provocation came from Union MoS Home Affairs himself?” the memorandum to the President said.The seven-member delegation also included general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, Congress leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, and senior party leaders KC Venugopal, AK Antony and Ghulam Nabi Azad.They described the Lakhimpur incident as “one of the most gruesome and premeditated acts of bone-chilling murder ever seen and caught on camera” the memorandum said.They also alleged that UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath was making “conciliatory statements towards him (the Union minister), [which] suggests this situation is unlikely to change without intervention” added the memorandum.“Mishra’s role is also yet to be investigated and the same is unlikely while he continues in office. Furthermore, which police official would dare to fairly investigate the son of Union MoS Home Affairs with the father occupying a position of such high influence and who enjoys continued endorsements from both the central and the state governments.” the memorandum said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/laskhimpur-violence-congress-meets-prez-calls-for-ajay-mishra-s-dismissal-101634151100991.html
14-10-2021||India||India will administer 1bn vaccine doses by October-end: Mandaviya||NEW DELHI: India will cross an important milestone of having administered a billion vaccine doses by the third week of October, and will then take a call on resumption of exports of locally-made Covid vaccines, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Wednesday. He added that this month, around 280 million doses are available for the country’s vaccine drive. The government said on September 20 that it would resume exports of vaccines in October. And the numbers have suggested for some time now that India will cross the billion-doses mark around mid-October. Till Wednesday night, India had administered 967 million doses, with 276 million people having received both doses and another 414 million having received one dose. A total of 940 million Indians aged 18 and above are eligible for vaccines. Only China has administered more vaccine doses than India. Bharatiya Janata Party insiders on condition of anonymity said that the government is keen on speeding up the vaccination drive ahead of the upcoming assembly elections and wants to present the inoculation programme as a major achievement of the Narendra Modi administration.On Tuesday, the subject expert committee of the drug regulator recommended the emergency use of Bharat Biotech’s COVID-19 vaccine for those in the 2 to 18 years age-group . India is yet to start vaccinations of those under the age of 18, although another vaccine for those in the 12-18 age group, ZyCoV-D was approved on August 20. “As on date, 73% of the total population has been given at least a single dose of the vaccine; close to 30% has received both doses and we are following up with states to increase the vaccine administration. There are 80 million doses kept ready for use by the states,” said a government functionary. In an analysis published on Wednesday, HT pointed out that vaccinations in India may be nearing a ceiling. Most experts believe not more than 75-80% of the population will want to take vaccines. The functionary said that most states have inoculated about 60% of their population (one dose), but without citing numbers said the proportion of vaccinated people is lower in the tribal areas. “There is no shortage of vaccines, it has however been noticed worldwide that there tends to be a saturation once 70% of the population is covered. So efforts are on to cover the remaining the population and counter any vaccine hesitancy. As for the availability of vaccines, the production for October alone is about 280 million doses. Of this 220 million are of Covishield, 60 million Covaxin and 6 million, the DNA vaccine (ZyCov-D),” the functionary saidTo a separate question on how the government plans to counter the bar on travels inoculated with Covaxin which is awaiting clearances from the World Health Organisation and not recognised by countries such as Canada, Australia and the UK., the official said, “While we are awaiting clearances (from the World Health Organisation) we are also working on country- to- country mutual agreements for waiving the restrictions. So far about 15-16 counties including Italy are allowing travellers with Covaxin jabs.” Most countries, including Australia most recently, recognise Covishield, the Indian variant of the AstraZeneca Covid-19 shot. India is also yet to take a call on administering booster doses to senior citizens, healthcare workers and those with comorbidities even though the WHO has recommended booster doses for the immunocompromised. “There is no expert opinion yet in India on the booster doses. The sero survey that was conducted shows a pan India prevalence of antibodies in 67% of the population and we will also be conducting a survey to study breakthrough cases,”the functionary explained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-will-administer-1-billion-covid-vaccine-doses-by-third-week-of-october-mansukh-mandaviya-101634150981684.html
14-10-2021||India||Sputnik Light 70% effective against Delta variant: RDIF||The Russian-made one-shot Sputnik Light vaccine shows 70% efficacy in preventing Covid-19 caused by the Delta variant of the Sars-CoV-2 virus, the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) said on Wednesday, citing data from the vaccine’s developer.Gamaleya Institute, which uploaded a pre-print on the medical website medRxiv, said its findings were based on 28,000 participants who received a dose of Sputnik Light, compared with a control group of 5.6 million individuals who were not vaccinated.“The Sputnik Light vaccine administered alone has demonstrated 70% efficacy against infection from the Delta variant of coronavirus during the first three months after vaccination. The vaccine is 75% effective among subjects under the age of 60. Sputnik Light has demonstrated a superior efficacy compared with some two-shot vaccines, which have shown a major decline in efficacy against the Delta variant to less than 50% five months after injection,” said RDIF in a statement based on a study conducted in Russia.The data used in the study was collected in July 2021 in Moscow.“In a certain cohort of Russian people, the efficacy was seen to be as high as 83% also. The vaccine’s one-shot regimen makes it is a strong solution for countries with low vaccination rates. Sputnik Light can also be successfully used to maintain existing herd immunity as a booster shot,” said Denis Logunov, deputy director, Gamaleya Center.The data comes as Russia battles soaring infections and hesitancy about vaccines at home.Countries around the world are deploying or considering administering third dose of Pfizer or Moderna vaccines or booster shots to some of their population, although there is no consensus among scientists about how broadly they should be used.Sputnik Light as a booster for other vaccines will be almost as effective against the Delta variant as Russia’s flagship two-shot Sputnik V vaccine, RDIF added. Sputnik V, in its two-dose regimen, is one of six Covid-19 vaccines that have been granted emergency use approval by the Indian drugs regulator.RDIF said Sputnik Light would be over 83% effective against infection and over 94% effective against hospitalisation.Kirill Dmitriev, head of the RDIF, told Reuters he expected Sputnik Light to become the main Russian vaccine against Covid-19. “Eventually, we believe that Sputnik Light could be the main vaccine one year from now when many people will just need to get revaccinated or will have had COVID and won’t need Sputnik V,” said Dmitriev.Sputnik Light will be produced by RDIF’s global partners in at least 10 countries (India, China, South Korea, Vietnam, Mexico, Argentina, Serbia, Turkey, etc.).Experts said a one-shot regimen may have benefits for some, but a two-dose vaccine will eventually work better. “One-shot vaccines could possibly be good for people who have been previously infected, as some protection is expected...,” said Dr Gagandeep Kang, vaccinologist from Christian Medical College, Vellore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sputnik-light-70-effective-against-delta-variant-rdif-101634150561616.html
14-10-2021||India||UK foreign secy’s visit: Boosting trade, Indo-Pacific security to top agenda||Boosting trade and investment, including negotiations for an interim early harvest deal, and security cooperation across the Indo-Pacific are expected to top the agenda during UK foreign secretary Liz Truss’ maiden visit to India next week.This will be the first visit to Asia by Truss since she replaced Dominic Raab as foreign secretary in mid-September, and only her second trip abroad following a visit to the US and Mexico. She is expected to review bilateral ties with her Indian counterpart S Jaishankar and meet top business leaders in New Delhi and Mumbai during her three-day visit.With India and the UK recently sorting out a row over vaccine certification for travellers, both sides are looking forward to meaningful engagement on key issues, especially trade and investment and closer cooperation across the Indo-Pacific. With the two sides set to launch negotiations for a free trade agreement on November 1, the UK is especially keen on finalising an interim early harvest deal by March 2022.People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that Truss is expected to make a strong pitch for closer economic ties as part of the UK’s efforts to forge new trade partnerships around the world in the wake of its exit from the European Union. Among the top business leaders Truss is expected to meet during her visit is Ratan Tata, the people said.In a reflection of the UK’s focus on the Indo-Pacific, Truss’ trip to Mumbai will be timed to coincide with the arrival of a carrier strike group led by HMS Queen Elizabeth, Britain’s largest warship, in the waters off India’s financial hub on October 21. The aircraft carrier is transiting the Indian Ocean on her maiden deployment and conducted exercises with the Indian Navy in May. The UK carrier strike group will carry out further exercises with the Indian Navy and air force this month.Two executives working in separate industry associations said, requesting anonymity, said the Indian government has been constant touch with domestic industry to obtain its views for trade negotiations with the UK. In order to address concerns of all stakeholders, the commerce ministry sought comments from industry representatives in June, an official of an economic ministry said on condition of anonymity.“FTAs cannot be one-sided. It is about give and take. Hence, industry should be prepared for opening up in certain areas and competing with foreign entities. But the gains are immense for both India and the UK, and both partners are taking the views of industry leaders of the two sides for better understanding,” the official said.Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) director general Chandrajit Banerjee said: “We understand the UK government had done initial consultations with its own industry. In India, industry too was consulted on issues which are part of the early harvest deal as well as for the future comprehensive FTA. These include goods, services, investment and procurement.”He added, “Our trade negotiating team is having regular consultations with industry. Since the target is to complete the early harvest deal by December-end, senior officials have already engaged in negotiations. At the political level, the leaders are likely to meet on the sidelines of the G20 Summit and the WTO ministerial conference later this year.“India is hoping to get preferential access for those products where we lost GSP. That includes textiles, apparel and other labour intensive export-oriented products. Besides, in services, we expect further easing of work visas for Indian professionals, both for intra-corporate transfers and contractual service providers.”PHD Chambers of Commerce and Industry (PHDCCI) president Pradeep Multani said possible opportunities existed in negotiating higher thresholds to “reserve some sectors temporarily and to exclude some permanently”.India should take an aggressive approach instead of a defensive one, as Indian businesses would have easier access to the UK market, he said. “It is fair to assume that ICT, financial services, food and beverages and pharmaceuticals will benefit the most from the trade and investment agreement, but this will only become evident as discussions proceed,” he said.According to a spokesperson of FICCI, the two governments have been consulting industry associations in India and the UK. “These meetings have been ongoing since the announcement of the Enhanced Trade Partnership. Once negotiations start between the two countries, more meetings will be scheduled,” the spokesperson said, referring to the partnership launched by the Indian and UK prime ministers during a virtual summit in May.“FICCI has submitted its recommendations to the commerce ministry covering industry expectations on goods and services,” the spokesperson added.The British side is expected to demand the removal of tariffs of up to 150% on spirits, which will require more consultations with the industry before offering any concession as this could impact India’s trade negotiations with the European Union, an industry executive said, requesting anonymity.In the field of services, the UK is expected to demand market access for its legal and auditing firms. This too requires more informed consultations with professional bodies before arriving at any decision, the executive added.As part of the Enhanced Trade Partnership, Britain will open up its fisheries sector to more Indian players, facilitate opportunities for nurses, recognise Indian seafarers’ certificates and enter into a dialogue on a social security agreement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/boosting-trade-indo-pacific-security-to-top-agenda-during-uk-foreign-secy-s-visit-to-india-101634150381523.html
14-10-2021||India||Top Jaish commander gunned down in Pulwama encounter||Security forces on Wednesday gunned down Shamus-ud-din Sofi, a top Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) commander responsible for several killings of civilians, in an encounter in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district.The Jammu and Kashmir Police issued a statement narrating the sequence of events. According to them, they received intelligence about the presence of militants in Tilwani Mohalla, in the Waggad area of Tral, and undertook a joint cordon and search operation with the army and Central Reserve Police Force.“The terrorists were given repeated opportunities to surrender; instead, they fired indiscriminately on the joint search party, which retaliated. In the ensuing encounter, one terrorist was killed, and his body was retrieved from the site of the encounter.He has been identified as Shamus-ud-din Sofi alias ShamSofi, a top commander of JeM,” said a police spokesperson on condition of anonymity.Police said Sofi was active as a militant since June 2019, figuring among the most-wanted Jaish commanders operating in the Kashmir Valley.“He was also part of groups involved in several terror cases, including attacks on security establishments and atrocities on civilians, and there were several cases against him,” the spokesperson said.The police said Sofi was first arrested in 2004 and detained under Public Safety Act for aiding terror activities.Sofi was arrested for a period of two months and then released on bail.“He provided logistical support to terror groups operating in Tral before joining an outfit himself,” the police spokesperson said, adding that Sofi also motivated local youth to join terror outfits, recruiting some himself.According to an official document, in 2007, Sofi was arrested again in another case. In 2008, he was detained under PSA as he continued his anti-national activities before being released after the Jammu and Kashmir high court order on bail. In 2019, Sofi left his home and joined the ranks of JeM and was active in the region since then.Sofi lured several young people to join terrorism . He was involved in two cases of civilian killings -- of Mohammad Ayoub Ahenger in 2020 and Shakeela in 2021, states the document. In January 2020, during an encounter in Pulwama’s Khrew, Sofi’s escaped, the document added.So far, 121 militants, including top commanders of various militant outfits, have been killed in Kashmir this year. This month alone, 10 militants have been killed in separate encounters.Since Sunday night, six encounters have taken place in Kashmir, following a spate of killings of civilians, including a well-known Srinagar chemist and two school teachers, for which a little-known outfit called The Resistance Front, believed to be backed by the Lashkar-e-Taiba, has claimed responsibility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-jaish-commander-gunned-down-in-pulwama-encounter-101634150322791.html
14-10-2021||India||NCB opposes Aryan Khan’s bail petition, hearing to continue today||Mumbai: The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Wednesday opposed the bail application filed by Aryan Khan, model Munmun Dhamecha and actor Arbaaz Merchant, arrested in connection with the seizure of drugs on board a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast, saying the agency has sought the ministry of external affairs’ help to arrest a foreign national, a suspected peddler.NCB, in its affidavit, told the court that Aryan Khan, son of actor Shah Rukh Khan, chatted with peddlers about bulk drugs and would procure them through actor Arbaaz Merchant. “During initial investigation, some international linkages pertinent to this applicant (Aryan Khan) have been unearthed which prima facie indicate towards illicit drug procurement. The investigation requires sufficient time so as to approach the foreign agency concerned,” the affidavit said.Additional solicitor general Anil Singh, who appeared for NCB, told the court that bail applications are heard day in and out, but it is not like they have to be decided on the same day. “NCB is a credible agency dealing with drug trafficking. Consumption of drugs by youngsters is affecting the whole nation, not only economically but also otherwise. The agency is concerned about the gangs involved and efforts are made to trace them,” Singh said.“There are chats that mention about commercial quantities or bulk quantities. There are chats with foreign nationals in reference to hard drugs. Somebody won’t order bulk quantities for consumption. There is something more. We have spoken to the ministry of external affairs and are trying to locate the foreign national,” the ASG added.Requesting for bail for Aryan Khan, senior counsel Amit Desai told the court: “They are not drug peddlers or drug traffickers, but young kids. They have learnt their lessons, let us not penalise them.”“Nothing was found on Aryan Khan, whatever was found was from Arbaaz Merchant, that to 6 grams of Charas, the agency has been relying on his statement and claiming that both of them used to consume it. This has a one-year punishment, the involvement in consumption, no substance for sale, and there is no money, so no purchase.”Desai told the court that Aryan Khan had no money, so there was no question of purchase.Senior counsel Taraq Sayyad, representing Arbaaz Merchant, Aryan Khan’s friend, told the court: “It’s a clear case of consumption. The court should immediately grant bail; there is even no need for prosecution. Both were together and they have already accepted the fact; they don’t know anybody else. They have already spent time in jail so should be granted bail.”Counsel Ali Kashif Khan, who argued for Munmun Dhamecha, said: “I am a fashion model who had gone to do a ramp walk on the cruise. They recovered drugs from my room but there were two more people in the same room. I had just reached the cruise when the raid happened.”After hearing the arguments, additional sessions judge VV Patil adjourned the matter to Thursday. Earlier, a metropolitan magistrate rejected the bail applications of the three accused, saying they were not maintainable before it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncb-opposes-aryan-khan-s-bail-petition-hearing-to-continue-today-101634150081451.html
14-10-2021||India||Political row erupts over move to extend BSF jurisdiction||A decision by the Union home ministry to extend the area under jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) in three states sparked a political controversy on Wednesday with the ruling parties in Punjab and West Bengal opposing the decision.The third state, Assam, is ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).The Union government amended the BSF Act to authorise the force to undertake search, seizure and arrest within a larger 50 km stretch, instead of the existing 15 kms, from the international border in Punjab, West Bengal and Assam.In Gujarat, which shares border with Pakistan, the same limit was reduced from 80 km to 50 km, and in Rajasthan, it was kept unchanged at 50 km.Punjab, which is ruled by the Congress, called the move an attack on federalism.“I strongly condemn the government of India’s unilateral decision to give additional powers to BSF within 50km belt running along the international borders, which is a direct attack on the federalism. I urge the Union home minister Amit Shah to immediately rollback this irrational decision,” Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi tweeted.Earlier in the day, the chief minister faced some barbs from former party state unit chief Sunil Jakhar. “Has Charanjit Channi unwittingly managed to hand over half of Punjab to Central govt? 25000sq km (out of total 50,000sq km) has now been placed under BSF jurisdiction,” Jakhar tweeted.Former chief minister Amarinder Singh supported the move. “Let’s not drag central armed forces into politics,” he said.In Bengal, the ruling Trinamool Congress opposed the decision.“I am sure the Bengal government will oppose this because it (the plan) is infringing on the sovereign rights of the state. The BSF, in any case, is a problematic organisation. There are allegations of links between BSF and smugglers. To let them increase their area of operation would be suicidal. I totally oppose this,” party MP Saugata Roy told HT.In Bengal, several officers of the BSF are under the scanner of the Central Bureau of Investigation in a 2020 transborder cattle smuggling case.A BSF spokesperson said the decision established uniformity in defining the area within which the force could operate. “This will also enable improved operational effectiveness in curbing trans-border crime,” the spokesperson added.The BJP accused the Opposition of politicising national security. “We hope that political parties would rise above their political interests and not create a precarious situation,” said party national secretary Subhash Sharma. The Union home ministry issued a notification in this context on October 11 amending a July, 2014 enabling provision for the BSF personnel and officers while they operate in border areas.The notification will allow the force to search, seizure and arrest on par with the state police in an extended area. BSF personnel will continue to invoke these powers in the “whole of the area” in Manipur, Mizoram, Tripura, Nagaland and Meghalaya and the Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/political-row-erupts-over-move-to-extend-bsf-jurisdiction-101634149961784.html
14-10-2021||India||Coal power generation outage down to 6 GW from 11, says ministry||The coal-based electricity generation outage came down to 6 GW on Wednesday from 11 GW a day earlier, the power ministry said in an official statement. The government statement comes against the backdrop of the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) drawing up a plan to ensure uninterrupted fuel supplies to power plants amid some states raising concerns that depleted stocks at power plants may lead to blackouts.“The Power System Operation Corporation Ltd (POSOCO) reported that the total capacity of units under outage due to low coal stocks has reduced from 11 GW on October 12 to 6 GW on October 13,” the ministry said.Earlier in the day, coal minister Pralhad Joshi said cumulative coal supplies to thermal power plants crossed 2 million tonne on Tuesday and dispatch of the dry fuel is being enhanced to the plants.“I don’t want to do politics over this. We have already been meeting the total requirement. Today, the requirement is 1.1 million tonnes of coal for power generation and we have already supplied two million tonnes. The stock is also rising because of it. I assure that there will be no problem in meeting the supply for power generation in the country,” he said.In a letter issued on Tuesday, the Union ministry of power requested all states and UTs to utilise unallocated power of the central generating stations (CGS) to meet the requirement of their own consumers only. In case of excess power, it asked the states to inform the ministry, so that the electricity can be diverted to needy states.“It has been observed that some states are not supplying power to their consumers and imposing load shedding in some areas. At the same time, they are also selling power in the power exchange at a high price,” read the letter signed by deputy secretary, GoI, Devashis Bose, without naming any state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coal-power-generation-outage-down-to-6-gw-from-11-says-ministry-101634149722769.html
14-10-2021||India||AAP promises 24-hour power supply, industries in Punjab||Amid the ongoing power crisis due to coal shortage, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, who is on a two-day visit to Punjab, promised round-the-clock electricity supply in the state if his party is voted to power in the 2022 polls. He said the power scarcity in Punjab was man-made and once the transmission system is upgraded, half the problem will be solved. “We faced a similar problem in Delhi during our initial years in government. We changed the transmission system, and the situation has improved to the point that people don’t buy inverters now,” Kejriwal said. He was speaking during an interactive session with the Jalandhar-based industrialists at a private resort. He unveiled a 10-point agenda for the development of industry, trade and commerce. The chief minister underlined the need to give special focus on MSME and small scale industry sectors. “Ek mauka saanu vi (give us a chance too). I assure you that you will forget others,” Kejriwal said.After listening to the grievances of industrialists, Kejriwal pledged to end red-tapism and ‘inspector raj’. “Corruption runs in the system because the intentions of the governments are not honest. If the CM and ministers are honest, the entire system will fall in place. We did this in Delhi,” he said. Kejriwal further said that the problem of delay in VAT(value-added tax) refunds will be solved within 3-6 months after coming to power, and an instalment system will be introduced. To prove his point, the AAP leader said his government in Delhi had stopped “raid raj” and reduced the VAT rate that led to the doubling of tax revenue at ₹60,000 crores. It happened because the government trusted the traders, he said. Kejriwal also promised the formation of a trade and industry body and its decisions will have to be implemented by the state government. He also underlined the need to make the change of land use (CLU) process transparent to eradicate corruption. AAP Punjab president and MP Bhagwant Mann, MLA Aman Arora and other senior leaders of the party were also present. Meanwhile, a group of farmers opposed Kejriwal’s event, but the police kept them at bay. Leader of opposition in the Punjab Assembly Harpal Singh Cheema said they don’t organise rallies as advised by the Samuykt Kisan Morcha. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aap-promises-24-hour-power-supply-industries-in-punjab-101634149541519.html
14-10-2021||India||Amend discriminatory info on LGBTQIA+: NMC to institutes||Medical institutions shouldn’t teach students in a way that is derogatory or insulting to the LGBTQIA+ people and authors of medical textbooks should amend all unscientific and discriminatory information about the community, India’s apex medical regulatory body said on Wednesday.In an advisory, the National Medical Commission (NMC) said various medical textbooks, especially those in forensic medicine, toxicology and psychiatry contain unscientific and derogatory remarks against Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, Intersex and Asexual people. “All medical universities, colleges, institutions are requested not to approve books as recommended…if the books have unscientific, derogatory and discriminatory information about virginity, LGBTQIA+ community and homosexuals,” said the advisory, signed by NMC secretary Dr Anjula Jain.The advisory referred to a Madras high court judgment last month that said “queerphobia” – prejudicial and abusive attitudes and behavior towards the community – was rampant in medical education. The court referred to a report by Dr Trinetra Haldar Gummaraju who stated that the curriculum of undergraduate forensic medicine described “sodomy”, “lesbianism” and “oral sex” as sexual offences, and “transvestism” (cross-dressing) as a “sexual perversion”.“The NMC’s advisory based on the Madras HC’s verdict is a long-awaited and welcome step in India’s medical history. I applaud it with cautious optimism, and can only hope that authors and institutions across the country abide by the apex med-ed body,” Dr Gummaraju said. The NMC advisory asked the guidelines to be strictly applied by the government and authorities. “All medical universities, colleges, institutions are requested that while teaching UG and PG student, where the issue of gender or similar kind arise, the mention of clinical history or complaints or signs or symptoms, examination findings or history about nomenclature shall not be taught in such a way that it becomes/perceived in any way derogatory/discriminatory/insulting to LGBTQIA+ community,” the document read.Experts hailed the move. “Stigmatised, pathologised contents in medical textbooks are getting removed finally. I see the next generation of medical professionals is knowledgeable, wise, compassionate, and ethical in their approach to their patients from the LGBTQIA+ community,” said Dr Sameera Jahagirdar, a senior clinical fellow at Barts Health NHS Trust in the UK.Research by her, Dr L Ramakrishnan of SAATHII, an NGO, and others found that some authors called lesbians “mental degenerates or those who suffer from nymphomania. “Lesbians who are morbidly jealous of one another, when rejected may commit homicide, suicide or both,” read an excerpt from a forensic medicine and toxicology book.Other books listed homosexuality as a disorder and even mentioned conversion therapy, which is banned in several countries and was harshly criticised by the Madras high court.“This is a very encouraging development and we eagerly await its implementation by public and private medical colleges across the country. The issue is, however, not limited to Forensic Medicine and Psychiatry, but extends to other fields such as Gynecology, Pediatrics, and General Medicine,” said Dr Ramakrishnan.He pointed out that the ‘competency-based curriculum’ of the erstwhile Medical Council of India (2018-2019) contained antiquated terms like sodomy and gender identity disorder. “We hope the NMC will also address content in these other disciplines, and take a stand against conversion therapy.”The landmark Madras HC order had come on a petition by two students from Tamil Nadu who approached the court to seek protection from their families and the police. In response, the HC issued instructions to a slew of state and central agencies to frame guidelines that recognise the rights of the community. “The case brought to the court’s attention about wrong and unscientific information in medical textbooks, including conversion therapy. It is a welcome step and another instance where courts have led the way,” said Manuraj S, the petitioners’ lawyer.The judge, N Anand Venkatesh, even undertook counselling to understand the identity and vulnerabilities of the petitioners, and invited Dr Gummaraju to write a report on the issue. “Originally, I’d only sought to impart basic gender/sexuality literacy to justice Venkatesh. However, I believed my report would be incomplete without details of the hopelessly transphobic and queerphobic chapters in the Indian medical syllabus that normalise horrific violence and discrimination at the hands of doctors,” said Dr Gummaraju. She said these textbooks invalidated her existence and that of thousands of other queer and trans medical students and patients alike. “Now, there is something to slap across the faces of doctors who have practiced discrimination and called it ‘medicine’,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amend-discriminatory-info-on-lgbtqia-nmc-to-institutes-101634149481724.html
14-10-2021||India||India rejects China stand on V-P’s Arunachal tour||India on Wednesday angrily rejected China’s objection to a visit to Arunachal Pradesh by vice president M Venkaiah Naidu and again called on the Chinese side to work for the speedy resolution of the standoff on the Line of Actual Control (LAC).The terse exchange between the two countries highlighted tensions caused by the standoff in eastern Ladakh, which has dragged on for more than a year-and-half, and fresh face-offs between troops of the two sides in Uttarakhand and Arunachal Pradesh sectors of the LAC.Naidu made a two-day visit to Arunachal Pradesh over the weekend as part of a tour of the northeast, and addressed a special session of the state assembly in Itanagar on Saturday. Responding to a question on the visit from state-run media, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said Beijing doesn’t recognise Arunachal Pradesh (as part of India) and is firmly opposed to visits to the region by Indian leaders.Hours later, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi rejected China’s objection to the visit and asserted that Arunachal Pradesh is an integral part of India.“We have noted the comments made today [Wednesday] by the Chinese official spokesperson. We reject such comments. Arunachal Pradesh is an integral and inalienable part of India,” Bagchi said.“Indian leaders routinely travel to the state of Arunachal Pradesh as they do to any other state of India. Objecting to the visit of Indian leaders to a state of India does not stand to reason and understanding of Indian people,” he said.India’s demand for China to speed up the resolution of the standoff in eastern Ladakh was reiterated by Bagchi, who again accused the Chinese side of causing tensions along the LAC through unilateral attempts to “alter the status quo” in the border areas.“Further, as we have mentioned earlier, the current situation along the LAC in the Western Sector of the India-China border areas has been caused by unilatteral attempts of Chinese side to alter the status quo in violation of the bilateral agreements,” he said.“Therefore, we expect the Chinese side to work towards early resolution of the remaining issues along the LAC in eastern Ladakh while fully abiding by bilateral agreements and protocols rather than trying to link unrelated issues,” Bagchi added.The raising of Naidu’s visit to Arunachal Pradesh by Chinese state-run media was an indication that Beijing intentionally raked up the issued against the backdrop of the lingering tensions due to the LAC standoff.Replying to a question from Xinjiang Television, Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Zhao said: “China’s position on the boundary issue is consistent and clear. The Chinese government has never recognised the so-called Arunachal Pradesh established unilaterally and illegally by the Indian side and is firmly opposed to the Indian leader’s visit to the area concerned.”Zhao added, “We urge the Indian side to earnestly respect China’s major concerns, stop taking any action that would complicate and expand the boundary issue and refrain from undermining mutual trust and bilateral relations. It should instead take real concrete actions to maintain peace and stability in the China-India border areas and help bring bilateral relations back on the track of sound and steady development.”During his address to Arunachal Pradesh assembly, Naidu highlighted the transformation of the northeast and said this was evidence of resurgence in the region’s development after being neglected for decades.China has often objected to visits to Arunachal Pradesh by Indian leaders and even the Dalai Lama as part of its efforts to lay claim to the region, which Beijing refers to as “South Tibet”.The latest exchange between the foreign ministries of India and China came two days after a meeting of senior military commanders was unable to make any progress on disengagement and de-escalation at the remaining friction points in eastern Ladakh.Both countries doubled down on their positions, and the Indian said the Chinese side “was not agreeable” and “could not provide any forward-looking proposals” in response to constructive suggestions for ending the standoff on the LAC. A spokesperson for China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) contended India was making “unreasonable and unrealistic” demands.New Delhi has insisted that it is necessary to end the LAC standoff to ensure progress in the overall bilateral relations. Chinese leaders have said in recent months that the border issue should be delinked from other aspects of the bilateral relationship, a suggestion rejected by the Indian side.The standoff on the LAC emerged in the open on May 5 last year following a violent clash in Pangong Lake area. Twenty Indian soldiers and four Chinese troops were killed in a brutal clash at Galwan Valley in June 2020. Following several rounds military and diplomatic talks, the two sides withdrew frontline troops from the north and south banks of Pangong Lake in February and from Gogra area in August.Former ambassador Vishnu Prakash said India has no option but to continue dialogue with China even as it strengthens its infrastructure, defences and countervailing measures. “India should not be in a hurry. The Chinese side will always test your nerve and push the envelope, but two can play the same game,” he said.“China believes time is on their side, and one shouldn’t be taken in by their rhetoric,” he said, noting that it had taken the two countries nine years to resolve a face-off at Sumdorong Chu in Arunachal Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-rejects-china-s-objection-to-vp-s-visit-to-arunachal-demands-resolution-of-lac-standoff-101634124759738.html
14-10-2021||India||PM Modi launches mega infra connectivity plan||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday launched a national master plan for multi-modal connectivity to ensure integrated planning and implementation of infrastructure projects in the next four years, with focus on expediting works on the ground, saving costs and creating jobs.The online “holistic governance” system – PM Gati Shakti – aims to reduce logistics costs and boost the economy with a planned National Infrastructure Pipeline of over ₹111 lakh crore.The Prime Minister said that with the resolve of “Atmanirbhar Bharat” (self-reliant India), the foundation for the next 25 years is being laid, and it will provide “Gati Shakti (speed and power) to the 21st century India”.“PM Gati Shakti Master Plan not only brings together governmental processes and various stakeholders, but also helps to connect different modes of transportation. This is an extension of holistic governance,” Modi said while institutionalising an integrated approach of implementing infrastructure projects initially by 16 central ministries. He also inaugurated a new exhibition complex at Pragati Maidan in the national capital.PM Gati Shakti joins different departments for the coordinated development of projects, from road to railways, aviation to agriculture, Modi said. It involves the creation of a common umbrella platform through which infrastructure projects can be planned and implemented in an efficacious manner by way of coordination between various ministries/departments on a real-time basis.The integrated approach is in line with the government’s plan to raise capital expenditure to boost the economy. Union finance minter Nirmala Sitharaman, in her Budget speech on February 1, announced a ₹5.54 lakh crore capital expenditure (capex) plan in the current financial year. In August, she also unveiled a ₹6 lakh crore plan to monetise the central government’s brownfield assets in four years, which is coterminous with the ₹111 lakh crore National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP).Saying that an integrated approach will change the perception behind the age-old signage, “work in progress” indicating incomplete infrastructure projects, PM Modi added that the signage had become “the symbol of lack of trust”, but “today’s, 21st century India is leaving behind this old systems and practices”.“Today’s mantra is – ‘Work for Progress’, ‘Wealth for Progress’, ‘Plan for progress’, ‘Preference for progress’... We have not only developed a work culture of completing the projects within the stipulated time frame but efforts are now being made to complete the projects ahead of time,” he said.Modi said that during a review of infrastructure projects in 2014, he found that hundreds of projects were incomplete due to the lack of departmental coordination. He brought all projects on a single platform and tried to remove hurdles. “Now the focus is on avoiding delays due to lack of coordination... Because of this, many unfinished projects are being completed,” he said.The PM said the change in approach has resulted in expeditious completion of infra projects. Before 2014, only 1,900km of railway lines underwent doubling. But, in the last seven years, more than 9,000km of railway lines have been doubled. Only 3,000km of railway lines were electrified before 2014, but in the last seven years, more than 24,000km of railway tracks have been electrified, he said. Similarly, before 2014, only 60 gram panchayats were connected with optical fibre, which is now expanded to 150,000 panchayats in just seven years.Union ministers Nitin Gadkari, Piyush Goyal, Jyotiraditya Scindia, Hardeep Singh Puri, Ashwini Vaishnaw and Sarbananda Sonowal were present at Wednesday’s event.PM Modi said infrastructure had not been a priority for most of the political parties as it was not even visible in their manifesto. Now, some opposition parties are criticising the construction of necessary infrastructure, he said. It is globally accepted that the creation of quality infrastructure is the way for sustainable development, which gives rise to several economic activities and creates employment on a large scale, he added.Speaking at the event, Aditya Birla Group chairman Kumar Mangalam Birla said: “This is yet another example where India is setting a global benchmark for digital governance... Building and managing high-quality infrastructure is a national enterprise. Furthermore, roads and rivers do not respect state boundaries. A holistic approach to infrastructure therefore has to navigate the challenges of working through a complex federal system. It is almost like conducting a grand yet complex orchestra. The outcome is a symphony like Gati Shakti.”According to Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) president TV Narendran, the PM Gati Shakti National Master Plan is “a game changer for industry” due to “scale and speed”.Narendran, who is also CEO and managing director of Tata Steel Ltd, highlighted key impacts of PM Gati Shakti. “First, with a GIS based ERP system to map the existing and proposed connectivity projects, there will be immense clarity on how different regions and industrial hubs in the country are linked, particularly for last mile connectivity,” he said.“Second, a holistic and integrated transport connectivity strategy which incorporates roads and highways, railways, ports, airports and waterways into a single, well-targeted, synergistic network will greatly support Make in India and integrate different modes of transport,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gati-shakti-will-expedite-infra-projects-create-jobs-and-bring-prosperity-pm-modi-101634122540736.html
