15-10-2021||India||RSS chief Bhagwat flags need for population policy||New Delhi: Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat on Friday expressed concern over India’s growing population, calling it a “predicament” that could give rise to “many problems in the near future” and renewed his demand for a national population policy. Delivering his annual Vijaydashami speech in Nagpur, Bhagwat said, based on the “demographic changes and imbalance” that is being noticed worldwide, there is a need for a policy “applicable to all”. “There should be a population policy. There has been some discussion on the issue before. Based on the view of experts, the government agreed to a 2.1 children per family formula. But we feel there is a need to revisit the issue,” Bhagwat said. He said the country will need a policy that will take into account the next 50 years and strike a balance – even assessing how many people will be needed to feed the aging population after 30 years. Bhagwat referred to a resolution passed by the Sangh in 2015 demanding a population policy; and said it was in line with a resolution on population control passed in Cairo in 2005 (check) when Manmohan Singh was the Prime Minister. This is not the first time that the Sangh chief has voiced the demand for a law to check population. In 2018, he underscored the need for a common law to ensure “demographic balance”, pivoted on the principle of a uniform policy that would be applicable to all and implemented without exception. The Sangh’s repeated mention of a population policy, while mentioning the perils of a large population, is also built around the belief that the Hindu population of the country isn’t growing as fast as the Muslim or Christian population, one reason why Bhagwat’s older comments on this, as well as those from his speech on Friday, emphasise terms such as demographic imbalance and universal applicability of any policy.Such a policy, the Sangh says, will serve the multiple purposes of checking illegal infiltration, conversions through coercion and ensure an equal right to natural resources.A 2019 report by the UN Department of Economic and Social Affairs said that India would add around 273 million people to its population between 2020 and 2050, around 13.7% of the increase in the world’s population in the same period. The report put India’s population in 2050 at 1.64 billion. India’s population is expected to exceed China’s by 2027.India will retain a demographic advantage till the middle of the century with the median age of its population increasing to 38 from 29; by then, China’s median age is expected to be 55-56 and the US’s 44-45.In 2004, at the Akhil Bhartiya Karyakarini Mandal or the executive board meeting, the Sangh referred to Census 2011 to buttress its claims of changes in numbers of Hindus and other communities. At the same meeting, it also sought laws against anti-conversion as it blamed illegal infiltration and forced conversions for changes in the population of Hindus, Muslims and Christians.According to census data, the population growth rate in the decade 2001-2011 was lower than in the 1991-2001 decade. The overall 17.7% growth rate in 2001-2011 was 0.82 times of the 21.5% growth rate in the 1991-2001 decade. While growth rates of all major religions also decreased, they did not decrease in the same degree. The Hindu population grew by 0.87 times as it had the previous decade, while in the case of the Muslim population, the growth was slightly slower: 0.84 times of the previous decade. In case of Christians and Sikhs, the dip was larger. The Christian population grew at 0.69 times the previous decade and the Sikhs’, the increase was nearly half. To be sure, these figures are dependent on 1991 projections for Jammu and Kashmir, where the census was not conducted in 1991 due to unrestIn 2005, at the All India Pratinidhi Sabha, the highest decision-making body of the Sangh, the issue of “declining Hindu population” came up for discussion. In a resolution passed at the meeting it called upon heads of religious institutions of all sects, sub sects, temples, monasteries, gurdwaras to “play an important role in mental transformation …and call upon the brethren who have converted from their sects to return to the sects of their ancestors.” In 2015, a year after the BJP-led NDA government came to power at the Centre with a clear majority, the Sangh at its Akhil Bharatiya Karyakari Mandal held in Ranchi, passed a resolution demanding that the government should “reformulate the national population policy keeping in view the availability of resources in the country, future needs and the problem of demographic imbalance” and that this policy should be “applied uniformly.” It was this resolution that Bhagwat read from in his speech. Following the Sangh’s concerted campaign for a population policy, at least three BJP-ruled states -- Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Assam -- recently announced their intent to introduce the population control policy. The move is perceived to be in line with the Sangh’s push to address what it calls challenges of demographic changes and its impact on natural resources. Uttar Pradesh, the most populous state in the country with an estimated population of 220 million, has announced a policy that seeks to incentivise population control; in Assam, with a population of 36 million, the government wants to link a two-child policy to access to social welfare schemes and government jobs. Uttarakhand, which, like UP, goes to the polls next year, has also begun examining the draft population control bill prepared by the latter to come up with its own version of a law to check the growing populace and ensure “demographic balance”. In the election-bound states, the perception of demographic imbalance has emerged as a key issue. In Uttarakhand, for instance, opposition parties claim the motive behind the population policy is to polarise. While the Congress said the BJP was “targetting a particular community under its (policy) garb”, the Aam Admi Party labelled it as “divisive politics”. A functionary of the Sangh who has served as a pracharak, or full-time worker, in several states said the issue of “changing patterns of demography have triggered concerns in states such as Uttarakhand where land and natural resources are scarce” and should not be viewed as “political or communal”. The functionary said in states along the borders, “rapid changes in demography” also rings alarm over issues “of security and stability”. This concern was echoed by the Uttarakhand government in September in a statement where it alluded to instances of migration due to a demographic change in specific areas and referred to these as grounds for checking “illegal land deals”. The government said, “…due to unprecedented rising population in certain areas of the state, the demography of those areas has been majorly affected. And due to this demographic change, members of certain communities are forced to migrate from those areas. Also, there are possibilities that the communal harmony in those areas may be disturbed.” SS Jodhka, professor of sociology at the Jawaharlal Nehru University however, said the anxiety about changing demography is a mechanism that the Sangh uses to push its ideology. “Changes in demography have been one of the foundational anxieties of the Sangh. It is a political strategy to mobilise anxiety among the Hindus that they are a persecuted majority. There is no data-based evidence to suggest that Muslims are outnumbering the Hindus. The birth rate of Hindus in the lower socio-economic demographics has been nearly equal to the Muslims in the comparable stratum. Poorer populations tend to have higher birth rates, across religions,” Jodhka said. BJP’s Rajya Sabha MP, Rakesh Sinha said Bhagwat’s demand was an “expression of the collective sentiments of 130 crore Indians who face the challenges imposed by the growing population on a day-to-day basis”. Sinha, also said Bhagwat’s appeal was to the political class to rise above politics and without delay frame a central law which is “essential and urgent in terms of the detrimental impact of the population imbalance in the border areas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rss-chief-bhagwat-flags-need-for-population-policy-101634321880713.html
15-10-2021||India||Mansukh Mandaviya faces heat over picture with ailing Manmohan Singh||Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya’s visit to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) to enquire about former Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh’s health drew flak on Friday over a picture that was allegedly taken inside the ward without the family’s permission. The Congress slammed the health minister for the act, accusing the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of always looking for a "photo op".The party’s attack came after former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh's daughter, Daman Singh, accused Mandaviya of getting a photographer against the wishes of the family. She told ThePrint that her mother was “very upset” and when she insisted that the photographer leave the room, "she was completely ignored".Daman Singh said her parents had expressly insisted that visitors be restricted as her father was suffering from dengue and his immunity was low, increasing the risk of infection.“It was nice of the health minister to visit and express his concern,” Daman was quoted as saying by ThePrint, adding, “However, my parents were in no state to be photographed at the time.”"My parents are trying to cope in a difficult situation. They are elderly people. Not animals in a zoo," she said.Meanwhile, the Congress has demanded that the health minister apologise."Everything is a ‘Photo Op’ for BJP. Shame on Health Minister, who made a visit to meet Former PM in AIIMS, a ugly ‘PR Stunt’," Congress' chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said in a tweet. "This is.. Negation of every ethical norm, Breach of ex-PM’s privacy, insult of established tradition, reflects absence of basic decency. Apologise now!" he added.Everything is a ‘Photo Op’ for BJP.Shame on Health Minister, who made a visit to meet Former PM in AIIMS, a ugly ‘PR Stunt’This is..Negation of every ethical norm,Breach of EX PM’s privacy,Insult of established tradition,Reflects absence of basic decency. Apologise Now! pic.twitter.com/ZQdmw2H2XPRajya Sabha MP and senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh also slammed the BJP saying “photo op” is the “hallmark of the Modi government”, while Congress leader Manickam Tagore said the minister's actions were a "serious breach of privacy".It’s a serious breach of privacy, why Union Health Minister @mansukhmandviya walk with cameras in to the Hosipital and publish it ? When former PM Vajpayee was in hospital whether we got pictures from AIIMS? It’s crime @crpfindia must answer ? AIIMS must answer? #ManmohanSinghji pic.twitter.com/7uMiBFfFahTagore said he will write to President Ram Nath Kovind to ask Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his ministers to stop these "petty things".Senior Congress leader Abhishek Singhvi also reacted to the picture, saying: "I know you all are concerned about the health of former PM Manmohan Singh but kindly do stop sharing photos of him from his hospital bed. It's invasion of his and his family's privacy and not good conduct in any way."Singh was admitted to the AIIMS in Delhi on Wednesday evening after he complained of fever and weakness. The 89-year-old Congress leader is currently admitted to a private ward in the cardio-neuro centre of the hospital and is under the care of a team of cardiologists led by Dr Nitish Naik.The former prime minister had contracted Covid-19 in April, when the second wave of the pandemic was at its peak in Delhi. He was fully vaccinated against the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mansukh-mandaviya-faces-heat-over-picture-with-ailing-manmohan-singh-101634316797591.html
15-10-2021||India||They catch a celebrity, click photos and make noise: Uddhav Thackeray's dig at NCB after Aryan Khan's arrest||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in his Dusshera speech this year trained the gun at the Narcotic Control Bureau without taking its name and said that while the agency is recovering a little quantity of drugs, the Maharashtra cops have recovered drugs worth ₹150 crore. "All they are interested in is to catch celebrities, get their pictures clicked and make some noise," Uddhav Thackeray said in his first comment regarding the ongoing drugs issue in Mumbai after the arrest of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan in connection with a cruise rave party."They have painted a picture that Maharashtra has become a drug capital. That is not the case. In Mundra, there was a drug haul of crores. While your agencies are recovering pinch of ganja, the Maharashtra cops have recovered drugs worth ₹150 crore. You are interested in is to catch celebrities and get their pictures clicked," Uddhav said.The chief minister said that there is an attempt to defame Maharashtra, to project a picture of Maharashtra as if it is the hub of drugs. "Maharashtra is being looked at through a different lens. While we are being targetted, why are places like Uttar Pradesh, where rapes happen, not criticised as well?" Uddhav said adding that politicians who have now lost power are trying to malign the state's image like 'rejected lovers sometimes throw acid on a girl who spurns them'. "If they call the Mumbai Police ‘mafia’, then what will you term the UP Police?” he said.Since Sushant Singh Rajput's death last year, Bollywood has come on the radar of the NCB for its alleged nexus of drug dealing. Apart from actor Rhear Chakraborty, scores of Bollywood actors, including Deepika Padukone, have been summoned by the NCB for interrogation; many have been detained and arrested. NCB's latest raid on a cruise rave party is now in the news as Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan has been arrested in connection with the case. The agency has made so far 20 arrests in the case, while it is probing other Bollywood-drugs cases parallelly.Nationalist Congress Party leader Nawab Malik has earlier pointed out several alleged loopholes in NCB's operation which the agency refuted and clarified. This is the first time after Aryan Khan's arrest that Uddhav broached the issue.The NCB has recovered 6 gram of charas from Aryan Khan's friend Arbaaz Merchant, who was arrested along with Khan. Mocking the quantity of the drugs recovered by the NCB, Udhhav Thackeray said the state police have been recovering drugs worth crores of rupees while the NCB is only after celebrities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/they-catch-a-celebrity-click-photos-and-make-noise-uddhav-s-dig-at-ncb-101634315590839.html
15-10-2021||India||Sidhu assured Rahul Gandhi he has withdrawn his resignation as Punjab Congress chief: Rawat||Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu assured Rahul Gandhi that he has withdrawn his resignation as the chief of the party's state unit, said Harish Rawat on Friday. Sidhu met Rahul Gandhi at the latter's residence in New Delhi after months of turmoil in the Punjab Congress which eventually saw the ouster of Captain Amarinder Singh as the chief minister. "He (Sidhu) shared his concerns with Rahul Gandhi. We have told him that his concerns will be taken care of here. He assured Rahul Gandhi that he has withdrawn his resignation and he will resume his duties as the PCC president," Rawat, AICC in-charge of Punjab, said after the meeting.Sidhu arrived at Gandhi's residence on Friday evening amid uncertainty around the former cricketer's future in Punjab Congress. “I shared all my concerns with Rahul Gandhi. Everything has been sorted out,” Sidhu said after the meeting.Sidhu was said to be unhappy with the appointments on some key postings under Channi's government. In his resignation letter that he shared on Twitter last month, Sidhu told Sonia Gandhi that he “can never compromise on Punjab's future and agenda for the welfare” of the state.Sidhu's surprise resignation, which wasn't accepted by interim Congress president Sonia Gandhi, came days after Amarinder Singh was replaced by Charanjit Singh Channi as Punjab's chief minister. Several party leaders from the Sidhu camp also tendered their resignation in solidarity with the PCC president.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sidhu-assured-rahul-gandhi-he-has-withdrawn-his-resignation-as-punjab-congress-chief-rawat-101634314242434.html
15-10-2021||India||Singhu lynching: Accused Nihang surrenders, security beefed up at border||Saravjeet Singh, a man associated with the Nihang group, surrendered to the police, claiming the brutal mutilation and the killing of a 33-year-old man at the border. Saravjeet will be produced at the court on Saturday. The incident of mutilating and lynching a person allegedly for disrespecting Guru Granth Sahib has created unrest at the protest site as the farmers' unions have distanced from the incident and protesters at Singhu too are dissociated from the incident.What happened at Singhu?A Dalit labour from Punjab's Tarn Taran, identified as Lakhbir Singh, was found tied to an overturned police barricade near the main stage of the farmers' protest. His left hand was severed. A video of the incident also appeared on social media which showed the man lying in a pool of blood with his chopped off left hand lying next to him. In the video, the Nihangs were heard saying that man was punished for desecrating the holy book of the Sikhs. Lakhbir apparently put the holy book in an unclean place. The incident took place around 4.30am.
15-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: Thackeray dares BJP to topple Maharashtra govt ​and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Thackeray dares BJP to topple Maharashtra govt, takes dig at FadnavisIn a no-holds-barred attack on the former ally, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday dared the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to topple the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. Read moreClass 7 girl dials helpline number she found on textbook, says teacher raped herA school teacher was arrested late on Thursday evening on charges of raping an 11-year-old girl in Rajasthan’s Jhunjhunu district earlier this month. The 31-year-old government school teacher also threatened the girl not to tell anyone. And she didn’t, for about nine days. Read moreCovid-19: ‘Vaccine Mela’ in Dehradun; fridge, microwave, smartphone among prizesThe Dehradun district administration on Friday announced a mega vaccination drive against Covid-19, aimed at increasing the second dose vaccination coverage in the district. Read more‘Heavily-armed’ Taliban men entered premises of Kabul gurdwara today: ReportAmid concerns over the situation of minorities in Afghanistan post the Taliban's takeover of the country, Puneet Singh Chandhok, who heads the India-based Indian World Forum, claimed on Friday that “heavily-armed” officials from the “Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan” invaded a gurdwara in Kabul. Read moreKapil Dev channels Ranveer Singh in new video; bowls in long skirt, catches a ball in animal print coat. WatchRanveer Singh will be seen playing the role of Kapil Dev in '83 this year. However, before fans get to see Ranveer as Kapil, the veteran cricketer doubled up as the actor for a new ad, leaving fans in splits. Watch hereMS Dhoni 'can't hear' Ian Bishop at toss as Dubai crowd erupts, reacts on becoming 1st player to captain 300 T20 matchesMS Dhoni added another feather in his already-illustrious cap as he became the first captain to lead in 300 T20 matches as he led Chennai Super Kings against Kolkata Knight Riders in the final of the Indian Premier League 2021 at the Dubai International Stadium on Friday. Read moreDussehra 2021: In orange and white, Karishma Tanna aces festive fashion goalsAs we ring to the end of the Navratri celebrations for this year, wishes and good vibes are pouring in on social media. The Navratri celebrations kickstarted on October 7 and has been going on till October 15. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-thackeray-dares-bjp-to-topple-maharashtra-govt-and-all-the-latest-news-101634312544544.html
15-10-2021||India||Thackeray dares BJP to topple Maharashtra govt, takes dig at Fadnavis||In a no-holds-barred attack on the former ally, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday dared the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to topple the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government.  Addressing party workers and functionaries during the annual Dussehra rally, Thackeray said that Shivaji Maharaj and Shiv Sena founder, Balasaheb Thackeray, had “taught us that we should not be afraid of anything.” “We are not scared of ED and CBI. We are not the ones to hide behind Police after making threats,” the Maharashtra CM said.Targeting the BJP for fielding a former Sena leader for the Deglur bypoll, Thackeray said that the “world's largest political party” has to import candidates even for assembly by-election. The chief minister also took potshots at his predecessor, Devendra Fadnavis, who had recently said that he still feels like he is holding the top office in the state.""I never think that I am the chief minister. Some people who said 'I will return', now thinks he has not gone [out of power]," Thackeray said, taking a veiled dig at Fadnavis' impassioned "Me punha yein" (I will return) assertion before the Assembly elections.Also Read | Still feel I am in Maharashtra CM’s chair, says Devendra Fadnavis; Congress slams remarkCriticising the ideological sibling, the Sena chief said that the BJP has neither understood Veer Savarkar nor Mahatma Gandhi. In an apparent reference to the arrest of four Muslim men at a Garba event, Thackeray rhetorically asked “what kind of Hindutva is this?”“Hindutva means love for the nation. Balasaheb had said that we're citizens first, religion comes later. When we step out of houses by keeping religion at home, nation becomes our religion. It's our duty to speak against anyone who does anything in religion's name,” the Maharashtra CM said.“Hindutva is social service. We don't think of religion or caste at the time of donating blood. We don't see if the blood is Hindu, Muslim or Marathi,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thackeray-dares-bjp-to-topple-maharashtra-govt-takes-dig-at-fadnavis-101634307034597.html
15-10-2021||India||'Could be a conspiracy': SKM leader on lynching of man at farmers' protest venue||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Friday claimed there could be a conspiracy behind the lynching of a man at a farmers' protest site near the Delhi-Haryana border, and demanded a thorough probe into the matter. "We are all very saddened at what happened. The Samyutka Kisan Morcha is fighting against the three farm laws. This (incident) could be a conspiracy. We condemn the incident in the strongest words," news agency PTI quoted Jagjit Singh Dallewal, a farmer leader from the organisation, as saying.The SKM is an umbrella body of 40 farm unions who have been spearheading the farmers' agitation against the Centre's three agri laws since last year. The statement came hours after the man, identified as Lakhbir Singh, was brutally lynched, his hand chopped off and the body tied to a metal barricade at a farmers' protest venue at Kundli.According to a report carried by PTI, a video is doing rounds on social media wherein some Nihang Sikhs, who are part of the protesters, are claiming responsibility for the killing. The PTI report further stated that Nihangs are heard saying in the clip that the man was punished for desecrating a holy book of the Sikhs. In the video, the Nihangs are seen standing as the man lies on the ground in a pool of blood with his chopped off left hand lying next to him, reported PTI.Speaking to the news agency further, Jagjit Singh Dallewal said they have learnt the victim had been staying with the Nihang Sikhs and had allegedly tried to steal the Sarbloh Granth, a holy book of the Sikhs. "We condemn disrespecting of any religion. We also condemn the reaction (killing)," he said.Dallewal alleged that a religious colour is being given to farmers' protest. The farmers' leader also called the killing "an internal matter between the Nihang Sikhs" as he sought to distance the farmers' movement from the incident.Meanwhile, another farmers' leader Yogendra Yadav tried to dissociate the farmers protest from the incident. "The leaders of SKM had earlier appealed the Nihangs that they had nothing to do with farmers protest and they should leave because it was not a religious agitation," Yadav said in a video message.Police said the deceased was a labourer from Cheema Khurd village in Punjab's Tarn Taran district. They said his body was found tied to an overturned police barricade near a stage put up by the farmers protesting at the site for over 10 months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/could-be-a-conspiracy-skm-leader-on-lynching-of-man-at-farmers-protest-venue-101634307930837.html
15-10-2021||India||Class 7 girl dials helpline number she found on textbook, says teacher raped her||JAIPUR: A school teacher was arrested late on Thursday evening on charges of raping an 11-year-old girl in Rajasthan’s Jhunjhunu district earlier this month. The 31-year-old government school teacher also threatened the girl not to tell anyone. And she didn’t, for about nine days.On Thursday morning, she spotted a child helpline phone number on her school textbook and mustered the courage to give them a call. It probably helped that the teacher was on leave. “She narrated the entire incident to them. Soon after, members of the Child Welfare Committee reached out to the girl and approached the district superintendent of police, who directed immediate action,” said Bhajana Ram, station house officer (SHO) of Singhana police station.According to the girl’s statement, the teacher told her to stay back after school on October 5 and sexually assaulted her after other students left for the day. “He threatened her not to report what had happened,” Bhajana Ram said.The girl also told the police that the government school teacher had been sending obscene messages and photos to her for some time but made sure that these were deleted after the rape.Bhajana Ram said a team of police officers was quickly sent to Alwar district 200 km away to the teacher’s family home and arrested him on Thursday evening.The officer said the suspect, who comes from a family of educationists, was married to a school teacher posted in another district. He is the son of a retired teacher, and his sister and her husband are also lecturers in a government college.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/class-7-girl-dials-helpline-number-she-found-on-textbook-says-teacher-raped-her-101634311139296.html
15-10-2021||India||Breakfast at 7am, weekly video call: What N956 Aryan Khan's life in Arthur Road Jail looks like||Aryan Khan, lodged at Arthur Road Jail, was recently allowed to speak to his parents Shah Rukh Khan and Gauri Khan via video call from inside Mumbai's Arthur Road Jail for 10 minutes, reports said. He has also received a money order of ₹4,500 from his parents earlier this week, prison officials have confirmed to news agencies. All these come under the regulations that all other inmates of the prison have to abide by and no special treatment is being given to Shah Rukh Khan's son, arrested in connection with the cruise rave party.Here are the other rules of Arthur Road prison:> Reports said inmates are served breakfast at 7am and lunch at 11am. The dinner is served at 6pm and after that, the barracks are closed. Between lunch and dinner, the inmates are allowed to roam around in the open area inside the jail.> Inmates are allowed to speak to their family members once or twice a week as visiting has been disallowed because of Covid-19 guidelines. There are a total of 3,200 prisoners in the Arthur Road jail. As per the guidelines of the jail amid the pandemic, people are not allowed to visit the inmates. They can only speak to them over the phone.> When the inmates speak to their family members, jail officials remain present. The jail has a total of 11 phones. The family members of prisoners who have a video call facility are given 10 minutes on a video call. Otherwise, a voice call is dialled, reports said.> No outside food is allowed inside the prison. Aryan Khan is also not allowed to have home food. He is being served the food that is cooked inside the prison. The food is of good quality and served as per the required standards, reports said.> A prisoner can receive a money order of ₹4,500 maximum for their expenses inside the jail per month, which Aryan has already received on October 11. They can buy something from the canteen through coupons which are only accepted in the prison.> As Aryan has moved to the general cell following his quarantine period, he has given his qaidi number which is N956. The N stands for NDPS (Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances) referring to his case.Aryan Khan was sent to 14-day judicial custody on October 7, though he had to spend the initial few days at the quarantine cell of the prison because of Covid rules. His bail pleas have so far been rejected and the verdict of the special NDPS court is expected on October 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breakfast-at-7am-weekly-video-call-what-n956-aryan-khan-s-life-in-arthur-road-jail-looks-like-101634310492475.html
15-10-2021||India||US says India playing a crucial role in vaccinating world against Covid||US deputy secretary of state Wendy Sherman said India is playing a crucial role in the fight against the coronavirus disease pandemic as it is the world’s largest vaccine producer. Sherman applauded the decision made by India to restart the export of Covid-19 vaccines after a brief halt which was caused due to the nation facing a devastating second wave that required the embargo on vaccine exports.“We look forward to working together with India to vaccinate the world, including through the Quad vaccine partnership,” Sherman said on Wednesday (Oct 6). The ‘Vaccine Maitri’ initiative launched by the government aims at exporting vaccines under commercial exports, grants and vaccine dose contributions to COVAX – global vaccine sharing initiative co-led by Gavi, the World Health Organisation (WHO) and the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI) to help lower and middle-income nations tackle Covid-19.According to data shared by the Union ministry of external affairs, India has exported 19.86 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine under the COVAX initiative to several impoverished countries as of May 29. It has exported 66.36 million doses of vaccines, in total, until May 29.Sherman also said that India and the US’ partnership remains indispensable at a meeting with foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla. She said that both nations can overcome any challenge together. She further added that both nations are vital to each other and the relationship between both countries is central to security and peace in the Asia-Pacific region and the wider world.Sherman said that dealing with counter-terrorism and the Afghanistan issue was also discussed. She said that India and the US will meet again for security dialogue.The US deputy secretary of state also pointed out that India and the US are fighting the climate crisis together. “We cannot lose sight of the other crisis on our hands that is the climate crisis which is already fueling deeper droughts, the more intense storms, and rising sea levels in India and in the United States,” Sherman was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-says-india-playing-a-crucial-role-in-vaccinating-world-against-covid-101633516066511.html
15-10-2021||India||Terrorist involved in targeted killings in Kashmir gunned down||A terrorist involved in the targeted killings of civilians from minority communities in Srinagar was gunned down Friday in an anti-terror operation in the Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir. According to J&K police, security agencies received the information about the presence of the terrorist, Shahid Bashir Sheikh, in the Wahibug area of Pulwama, prompting a search and cordon operation.Police said that the slain terrorist was a resident of Srinagar."One #terrorist of #Srinagar City involved in recent civilian killing, neutralised in #Pulwama #encounter," Vijay Kumar, IGP, Kashmir, tweeted.One AK-47 rifle, along with ammunition, was recovered from the site of the encounter, police said."He (Sheikh) was involved in the killing of a civilian, Mohammad Shafi Dar -- an employee of Power Development Department, on 2/10/21. An AK-47 rifle was used in that killing,” news agency PTI quoted police as saying.Security forces have intensified counterterrorism operations in the Valley after Pakistan-based as well as Pakistan-backed terrorist groups stepped up attacks in the region, particularly targeting the civilians from Hindu and Sikh communities.At least 11 terrorists from organisations ranging from Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) and Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) to Hizbul Mujahideen and The Resistance Force (TRF) have been neutralised in the last 10 days.“After civilian attacks, we started offensive ops. 8 encounters took place and 11 terrorists killed. After civilian killings, terrorists in Srinagar city fled to South Kashmir - one killed in Shopian and Shahid, who had killed PDD staff, killed in today's Pulwama encounter,” ANI quoted Kumar as saying.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorist-involved-in-targeted-killings-in-kashmir-gunned-down-101634307665409.html
15-10-2021||India||Kerala logs 8,867 new Covid-19 cases with TPR of 11.14%||Kerala on Friday reported 8,867 new Covid-19 cases after 79,554 samples were tested with a test positivity rate (TPR) of 11.14%, the state health ministry said adding that out of 94,756 active cases only 9.8% are in hospitals. In the last 24 hours, the country reported 16,862 fresh Covid-19 cases with a TPR of 1.43%. For more than five months, Kerala has been contributing the lion’s share of Covid-19 cases in the country. After Onam festivities in August, the cases multiplied and at one point claimed more than 70% of the total cases of the country. The state also reported 67 deaths on Friday taking the death toll to 26,774 though the health department added 7,000 deaths to the Covid-19 list recently these numbers failed to figure in the total fatality list. When asked about this, a senior health department official said some more formalities will have to be completed. Three districts-- Ernakulam, Thiruvananthapuram and Thrissur-- reported more than 1,000 cases. State Health Minister Veena George said at least 25% of the newly-infected had not taken the vaccine. At least 93.7% of the eligible population got one vaccine and 44.9% got both shots, she said adding the vaccination rate of the state is one of the best in the country. She asked the remaining people to take their jabs at the earliest. Kerala had conducted a sero prevalence survey last week. At least 82% of people above 18 years have antibodies against Covid-19 and over 40% of children in 5-17 age group are exposed to the virus. In the earlier sero survey conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research in July, Kerala’s sero positivity was the lowest in the country, 44.4% but the latest is pegged at 82.6%. Immunity among the population has been achieved either through vaccination or natural infection, experts said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-logs-8-867-new-covid-19-cases-with-tpr-of-1114-101634308199187.html
15-10-2021||India||Forex reserves rise by $2.039 billion to reach $639.516 billion||The country's foreign exchange reserves rose by USD 2.039 billion to USD 639.516 billion in the week ended October 8, according to RBI data.In the previous week ended October 1, the reserves had dipped by USD 1.169 billion to USD 637.477 billion. The reserves had surged by USD 8.895 billion to a life time high of USD 642.453 billion in the week ended September 3.During the reporting week ended October 8, the rise in the reserves was on account of an increase in the Foreign Currency Assets (FCAs), Reserve Bank of India's (RBI) weekly data released on Friday showed.FCA rose by USD 1.55 billion to USD 577.001 billion in the reporting week, as per the data.Expressed in dollar terms, FCA include the effect of appreciation or depreciation of non-US units like the euro, pound and yen held in the foreign exchange reserves.Gold reserves were up by USD 464 million to USD 38.022 billion in the reporting week.The Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) rose by USD 28 million to USD 19.268 billion.The country's reserve position with the IMF declined by USD 3 million to USD 5.225 billion in the reporting week, the data showed. PTI HV RAM||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/forex-reserves-rise-by-2-039-billion-to-reach-639-516-billion-101634307809654.html
15-10-2021||India||Delhi covid outbreak shows herd immunity against Delta variant difficult: Study||A study conducted by an international team of scientists has highlighted the challenges of reaching herd immunity against the Delta variant of SARS-CoV-2. Taking Delhi as a case study, the research found that the Delta variant was able to infect people who had previously been infected by SARS-CoV-2. The study, published in the journal Science on Thursday, also found that prior infection gave only 50-90 per cent of the protection against infection with the Delta variant that it provides against previous lineages.The study also concluded that the Delta variant, which is said to have driven the 2nd wave of the pandemic in India, was 30-70 per cent more transmissible than previous strains of Covid-19 in Delhi.Delhi witnessed multiple Covid-19 outbreaks, in June, September and November 2020. However, the April 2021 outbreak, when the cases peaked at 20,000, was the worst as it saw a rapid rise in hospitalisations and ICU admissions with the medical infrastructure on the verge of collapse. The daily deaths saw a three-fold rise in comparison with previous waves.The study noted that Delhi's seropositivity, which was at 56.1 per cent, should have offered some protection against the Delta variant of Covid-19. But this remained insufficient in providing the protection expected due to the presence of the delta variant. The delta variant made it difficult to achieve the herd immunity, which works as an indirect protection from a disease when a sufficient percentage of a population has become immune to an infection."The concept of herd immunity is critical in ending outbreaks, but the situation in Delhi shows that infection with previous coronavirus variants will be insufficient for reaching herd immunity against Delta," PTI quoted study co-author Professor Ravi Gupta from the University of Cambridge as saying."The only way of ending or preventing outbreaks of Delta is either by infection with this variant or by using vaccine boosters that raise antibody levels high enough to overcome Delta's ability to evade neutralisation," Gupta added.The work was led by the National Centre of Disease Control and the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (CSIR-IGIB) in New Delhi with collaborators from the University of Cambridge and Imperial College London, UK, and the University of Copenhagen, Denmark.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-covid-outbreak-shows-herd-immunity-against-delta-variant-difficult-study-101634293224242.html
15-10-2021||India||'How to lose friends': Rahul Gandhi takes swipe at Centre after Bhutan-China MoU||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday took a swipe at the Centre a day after China and Bhutan signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) for expediting negotiations on their boundary dispute. Sharing a news clip about the pact between China and Bhutan, Rahul Gandhi said the government’s foreign policy is to “lose friends and influence nobody”.“GOI’s foreign policy: How to lose friends and influence nobody,” the Wayanad MP tweeted.The agreement on a “three-step roadmap” for expediting the boundary talks came four years after Indian and Chinese troops were involved in a weeks-long standoff. Bhutan foreign minister Lyonpo Tandi Dorji and China’s assistant foreign minister signed the MoU during a virtual ceremony on behalf of the respective sides. China’s ambassador to India, Sun Weidong, and Bhutan’s ambassador to India, Maj Gen Vetsop Namgyel, also joined the virtual event.During a regular news briefing on Thursday, the external affairs ministry said that India has taken note of the signing of the MoU between Bhutan and China, but didn’t answer the query whether New Delhi was kept in the loop about the agreement.“You are aware that Bhutan and China have been holding boundary negotiations since 1984. India has similarly been holding boundary negotiations with China,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said.Bhutan foreign ministry said in a statement that two sides have held 24 rounds of boundary negotiations and 10 rounds of meeting at the “expert group level” since 1984. It stated that the pact will “provide a fresh impetus” to the negotiations.“It is expected that the implementation of this Roadmap in a spirit of goodwill, understanding and accommodation will bring the boundary negotiations to a successful conclusion that is acceptable to both sides,” the ministry added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-to-lose-friends-rahul-gandhi-takes-swipe-at-centre-after-bhutan-china-mou-101634305598533.html
15-10-2021||India||Global handwashing day: Importance of hand washing||One lesson that Covid-19 taught us was to adopt the practice of washing our hands as one of the most effective ways to stop the spread of germs and stay healthy.Each year on October 15, Global Handwashing Day highlights the importance of handwashing with soap and water at home, in the community, and around the world. The day was founded by the Global Handwashing Partnership in 2008.The theme for 2021 is “Our Future is at Hand – Let’s Move Forward Together.” With a focus on the importance of hand washing and to come up with “creative ways to encourage people to wash their hands with soap at critical times”.“Our hands are the biggest source of microorganisms as we use our hands to carry out the maximum chores from handling currency, carrying stuff around, handling cell phones and hence need to be clean so that they act as our body’s weapons to prevent microorganisms from entering our body,” says Jessica D Souza, Chief Nursing Officer, Global Hospital, Mumbai.Hand washing is one of the most important steps we can take to avoid getting ill or spreading germs. So, education about the risks and benefits associated with hand washing can considerably reduce the number of people who get sick and even die from infectious diseases.“Washing hands with soap under running water is a simplest technique which kills the germs and prevents gastric as well as respiratory infections like flu and diarrhea,” says Kshitija Jadhav, Assistant Nursing Superintendent, Masina Hospital, Mumbai.Hand washing tipsEach of us have our beliefs and follow practices. The number of times we wash hands varies from each individual and depends on the nature of our work. “Wash hands with soap and water, preferably liquid soap as bar soap has higher chances of harvesting harmful organisms, while washing hands make sure to interlace fingers as the space between fingers are great reservoir of organisms, drying the hands is equally important and of course not with a soiled or wet napkin,” says D Souza.UNICEF states that you can lessen the chances of being infected by Covid-19 by 36% by properly washing hands. It is the most effective way to avoid the spread of infections and keep sickness at bay.“One must wash their hands whenever they touch any visibly soiled area, after getting out from any transport, going for marketing and touching various places for selection of items, after using the bathroom, before preparation of food, before eating and after coughing or blowing nose,” says Jadhav.Hand hygieneFor people working in the health industry, 5 moments have to be followed strictly.Moment 1 - before touching a patient.Moment 2 - before a procedure.Moment 3 - after a procedure or body fluid exposure risk.Moment 4 - after touching a patient.Moment 5 - after touching a patient’s surroundings.D’souza adds, “If a person handles babies, they need to double up the frequency of hand washing and someone working in a health care industry is well aware of the 5 moments of hand hygiene.” She encourages us to exercise caution, “Always remember not to be obsessed with hand hygiene, use hand sanitizer when there is no access to soap and water, too much of chemicals can cause skin irritation and be harmful.”Developing hand washing behaviour in childrenPractising hand hygiene by parents in the presence of children can help them build up these practices.“Sometimes it’s difficult to get children follow handwashing so, parents can use few techniques like use of foam soap, blow soap bubbles, use of different shapes and colors of soaps, give them time up of 20 seconds, show them a video on handwashing, ask them to do handwashing dance,” opines Jadhav.D’souza believes it’s important to teach hygiene practices as early as and when they are toddlers. “Show them cartoons of harmful bacteria and reinforce the concept of washing hands by singing songs and reading books which can make the practise very interesting. Using water toys can add on to the fun in washing hands and yes of course guiding them not to waste water.``All of us should make handwashing as a part of our routine life which will really prevent maximum infection and prevent diseases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/global-handwashing-day-importance-of-hand-washing-101634304609998.html
15-10-2021||India||‘Shocking’: India says Global Hunger Index 2021 methodology unscientific||The Centre on Friday issued a rebuttal to the publishers of Global Hunger Index 2021 after the country slipped seven positions and was ranked at 101 out of 116 countries. The Union ministry of women and child development said that the publishing agencies have not done their “due diligence” before releasing the report.In a statement, the ministry claimed that the estimates by the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the United Nations (UN) regarding the proportion of undernourished population was devoid of “ground reality and facts.”“It is shocking to find that the Global Hunger Report 20201 has lowered the rank of India on the basis of FAO estimate on proportion of undernourished population, which is found to be devoid of ground reality and facts and suffers from serious methodological issues. The publishing agencies of the Global Hunger Report, Concern Worldwide and Welt Hunger Hilfe, have not done their due diligence before releasing the report,” the ministry said in the statement.Further, it also called the methodology used by FAO as “unscientific” and claimed there was no methodology to measure undernourishment.Also read | India slips to 101st rank in Global Hunger Index 2021; behind Pak, Bangladesh“The methodology used by FAO is unscientific. They have based their assessment on the results of a ‘four question’ opinion poll, which was conducted telephonically by Gallup. There is no scientific methodology to measure undernourishment like availability of food grains per capita during the period. The scientific measurement of undernourishment would require measurement of weight and Height, whereas the methodology involved here is based on Gallup poll based on pure telephonic estimate of the population,” the ministry argued. Gallup is an American analytics and advisory company that conducts opinion polls globally.Also, the ministry expressed doubts over the representativeness of the opinion poll, saying that the respondents were not asked anything about food support received from government or other sources. “The report completely disregards Government’s massive effort to ensure food security of the entire population during the covid period, verifiable data on which are available,” it added. However, HT has not seen or accessed the questions that were asked during the Gallup poll.The ministry also said that it was surprised by the FAO’s ‘State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World 2021’ report, which said that Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Nepal and Sri Lanka, have not been affected by the Covid-19 pandemic and rather they have improved the proportion of undernourished population over the past year.In addition, the ministry also issued a list of 13 facts, which it said that the above mentioned report has “completely ignored” and also noted the facts were available in the public domain. The Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojna (PMGKAY) and Atma Nirbhar Bharat Scheme (ANBS) were among some of the initiatives that found a mention in the ministry’s response. It also provided the data on the food grains disbursed to beneficiaries under the schemes. The ministry also listed the monetary assistance that was provided to farmers, farm workers and other low income workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shocking-india-says-global-hunger-index-2021-methodology-unscientific-101634303534044.html
15-10-2021||India||C’garh horror caught on video as SUV ploughs into procession; 1 dead, 15 hurt||RAIPUR: A sports utility vehicle (SUV) ploughed into a religious procession in Chhattisgarh’s Jashpur district on Friday, killing a man on the spot and leaving 15 more injured, police saidThe horrifying incident, which took place in the district’s Pathalgaon town when the procession was headed for immersion of goddess Durga’s idol, was captured on camera by some people. The chilling videos shows the speeding SUV emerge out of nowhere, hit the people and run over the people as it continued without slowing down.The vehicle was later found a short distance away by the side of the car.“One death has been reported till now. Around 15 injured are shifted to a government hospital,” said Superintendent of Police, Jashpur, Vijay Agarwal said.ये वीडियो बेहद दर्दनाक है।छत्तीसगढ़ में नशा माफियाओं के हौसले बुलंद हो गए हैं, अब क्या धार्मिक जुलूस निकालने वालों को ऐसे ही कुचल दिया जाएगा। जशपुर एसपी को तत्काल हटाया जाए।मृतकों के परिजन को 50 लाख का मुआवजा और घायलों के इलाज की तुरंत व्यवस्था की जानी चाहिए। pic.twitter.com/wzzHCF06lhThe two men in the vehicle, Babloo Vishwakarma, 21, and Shishupal Sahu, 26, residents of Madhya Pradesh’s Singrauli, were arrested.In a post on Twitter, chief minister Bhupesh Bhaghel described the incident as “saddening and painful”.“The accused were arrested immediately after the incident and action has been taken against some policemen who prima facie appeared guilty,” Baghel tweeted. He did not elaborate but added that an inquiry has been ordered.Former chief minister Raman Singh promptly attacked the Congress.In a reference to reports that the vehicle was smuggling marijuana when the incident took place, Raman Singh said asked if religious processions would be run over like this in Chhattisgarh where the drug mafia has been emboldened. He demanded the government announce ₹50 lakh compensation for the next of kin of the dead person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cgarh-horror-caught-on-camera-as-suv-ploughs-into-procession-1-dead-15-hurt-101634303940016.html
15-10-2021||India||Painful that some people are raising questions over Savarkar's life: Amit Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah on Friday said it is painful to see that some people are raising questions over Veer Savarkar's life. Savarkar was bestowed on the title 'Veer' by no government, people added 'veer' to his name to acknowledge his courage and patriotism, the Union minister said as he addressed at the iconic Cellular Jain in Port Blair. His comments come amid a controversy triggered by defence minister Rajnath Singh's comment that Mahatma Gandhi asked Veer Savarkar to file a mercy plea with the British.On the first day of his visit to the Andaman and Nicobar islands, Amit Shah visited the National Memorial Cellular Jail and laid a wreath at the Martyr's Column. As part of the Centre's 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' celebrations, Amit Shah paid floral tributes at the cellular jail. He also visited the cell of Savarkar.Remembering Veer Savarkar's contribution to the freedom movement, Amit Shah said the man who was sentenced to two life terms of imprisonment is now being questioned for his patriotism.Savarkar India’s first, biggest defence expert, says Rajnath Singh"No one can take away the 'veer' from his name as no government gave that. Savarkar was a learned person. He knew many languages, was a great speaker, writer. His cell in Cellular jail is a pilgrimage site, inspiration for India's youth," Amit Shah said."There cannot be a greater pilgrimage than this cellular jail. This place is a 'mahatirth' where Savarkar experienced inhuman torture for 10 years but did not lose his courage, his bravery," Shah said.Releasing a book on Veer Savarkar on Tuesday, Rajnath Singh said, “Time and again, it was said that he filed mercy petitions before the British government seeking his release from jail...The truth is, he didn't file mercy petitions to get himself released. It is a regular practice for a [jailed] person to file mercy petitions. It was Mahatma Gandhi who asked him to file mercy petitions.”The comment drew flak as politicians and historians termed thedefence minister's comment as an attempt to rewrite history. Posting the copy of the letter that Gandhiji wrote to Savarkar's brother on January 25, 1920, leaders pointed out that Savarkar wrote the first petition in 1911 and the second in 1913-14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/painful-that-some-people-are-raising-questions-over-savarkar-s-life-amit-shah-101634302983113.html
15-10-2021||India||‘Understand air pollution concerns, blanket ban not reasonable’: MK Stalin writes to 4 states on firecrackers ban||Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin on Friday wrote to his counterparts in Delhi, Odisha, Rajasthan and Haryana regarding the blanket cracker ban implemented by these states and asked them to reconsider the decision. Stalin also asked the CMs to allow the sale of firecrackers that are in accordance with the directions set forth by the Supreme Court of India and the National Green Tribunal (NGT).Expressing his concerns about the crippling effect of the Covid-19 pandemic on micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) sector, Stalin said that the lives of around eight lakh workers who depend on the firecracker industry would be affected due to the ban.மாண்பமை உச்சநீதிமன்றம், தேசிய பசுமைத் தீர்ப்பாயம் ஆகியவற்றின் வழிகாட்டுதலின்படி, தயாரிக்கப்பட்ட பட்டாசுகளுக்கு அனுமதி அளிக்க வேண்டுமென்று 4 மாநில (டெல்லி/ஒடிசா/ ராஜஸ்தான்/ஹரியானா) மாண்புமிகு முதலமைச்சர்களுக்கு, மாண்புமிகு முதலமைச்சர் @mkstalin அவர்கள் கடிதம் எழுதியுள்ளார். pic.twitter.com/qY47nsfrPcHe also said that the firecracker industry, concentrated around the Sivakasi town in TN, was one of the “most important” industrial activities in the state. Mentioning that while he understands the concerns of the respective states about air pollution.“I wish to draw your attention to the fact that the Hon'ble Supreme Court has already banned certain categories of polluting firecrackers and now, green crackers with significantly less emissions are being manufactured. Therefore a blanket ban on firecrackers is not reasonable,” Stalin wrote.Also read | Chandigarh imposes blanket ban on crackers this Diwali“Moreover, such a ban if imposed by other states also, would lead to the closure of the entire industry, jeopardizing the livelihood of around 8 lakh persons. You would also appreciate that bursting of firecrackers is an integral part of Indian festivals, especially Diwali. A balanced approach that gives due regard to environment, livelihood and public health is possible and necessary,” he further said.The Supreme Court had in July dismissed a plea challenging the NGT’s complete ban sale and use of all firecrackers in Covid-19 times in cities and said that the authorities may allow for the the sale and use of firecrackers based on the category of air quality index (AQI) in the respective cities, several news agencies reported.However, the top court also said that the production of crackers was allowed. People who want to celebrate by bursting crackers could do so with permission from the authorities based on the AQI, the court added. Further, it also said that there was no ban on the manufacture of crackers but only in places where the air quality is poor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/understand-air-pollution-concerns-blanket-ban-not-reasonable-mk-stalin-writes-to-4-states-on-firecrackers-ban-101634298194085.html
15-10-2021||India||1 dead, 16 injured in Chhattisgarh as car ploughs into religious procession||In a shocking incident reminding of what recently happened in Lakhimpur Kheri, a speeding car on Friday rammed a religious procession in Chhattisgarh's Jashpur leading to the death of one. 16 others have been injured. Block medical officer James Minj said one body was brought to the hospital, while 16 others received an injury in the incident. Two of them have been referred to other hospitals after an x-ray that established fracture, he said.Chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has issued a statement, terming the incident heart-reding. "The culprits have been arrested. Action has been taken against police officers who appeared to be responsible. An inquiry has been ordered. Nobody will be spared," the CM said. Both the arrested - Bablu Vishwakarma and Shishupal Sahu - are residents of Madhya Pradesh and was passing through Chhattisgarh, Jashpur SP office said.  जशपुर की घटना बहुत दुखद और हृदयविदारक है।दोषियों को तुरंत गिरफ्तार कर लिया गया है। प्रथमदृष्टया दोषी दिख रहे पुलिस अधिकारियों पर भी कार्रवाई हुई है।जांच के आदेश दिए गए हैं। कोई भी बख्शा नहीं जाएगा।सबके साथ न्याय होगा।ईश्वर दिवंगतजनों की आत्मा को शांति दे।The video of the incident being shared on social media has shaken social media users as the speeding car is seen coming at a great speed without any horn while the religious procession was going on with the music. People clad in red clothes can be seen falling as the speeding car ploughs into the procession and zooms ahead. As evident from the video, the incident created commotion and the people chased the car. The killer car is a Mahindra Xylo with a Madhya Pradesh number plate. Details of the car with the Madhya Pradesh transport department shows the owner's name as Kameshwar Singh of Amlai district. A photo of the car left with its rear windshield broken has also surfaced.The video is a grim reminder of the Lakhimpur Kheri incident in which a car mowed down farmers in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri. Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni's son Ashish Mishra has been arrested in connection with the incident as a prime accused as FIR says he was inside the speeding car.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-dead-16-injured-in-chhattisgarh-as-car-rams-religious-procession-101634298841019.html
15-10-2021||India||Prasar Bharati to auction archival, premium content||In a move towards self-sustainability and digitization, public broadcasting body Prasar Bharati has decided to allow traditional channels and over the top streaming platforms to purchase archival content that dates back to the pre-Independence era. The content that will be up for e-auction will include footage of the Constituent Assembly debates, or even news recordings of several of India’s key milestones. “The policy will ensure that archival and premium content of Prasar Bharati is syndicated to third parties through an open and transparent mechanism of e-auction in order to fetch the maximum market value of content on demand basis,” Prasar Bharati said in a notification dated October 8. “Prasar Bharati, the Public Service Broadcaster in its mandate has played a key role in modern times for preservation and promotion of Indian culture, history and values. This has been the key factor in content creation since inception. Prasar Bharati has accumulated very rich and heritage content in its centralized repository at Archives as well as a number of Stations, Kendras located in all corners of nation. News division of AIR & DD too have illustrious recording of many important milestones of development of India,” it added. “The TV channels as well as the new channels on OTT are continuously looking for good saleable content. This has created a demand for programme content of Prasar Bharati in India and overseas for the purpose of broadcast as well as streaming on Digital Platforms.”According to Prasar Bharati CEO Shashi Shekhar Vempati, both Doordarshan and AIR have accumulated a lot of iconic content, which has been created over decades. “It has been lying idle on tapes and as the technology evolved, the world has moved to the digital sphere. One of the first steps taken by the broadcaster was to digitise this content. This includes many pre-Independence era events, the Constituent Assembly debates and parliamentary debates.”Vempati added that the broadcasting agency received several requests from various OTT platforms and news media channel to access this content. “What was lacking was that there was no enabling framework, so a policy was required by virtue of which content can be syndicated or monetized,” he said. The content will be monetised under both exclusive and non-exclusive categories. “Exclusive rights may be priced at a premium relative to non-exclusive rights; similarly longer-term syndication may be incentivized over shorter duration. Exclusive rights may be auctioned first before attempting auction of non-exclusive rights,” states the notification. While premium content may be auctioned only for a period of one year or less, archival content may be auctioned for a minimum period of 5 years. “Once the licensing period ends, the licensee shall not have any rights to own, share or use the licensed content in any form. He/she may need to participate in the e-auction process once again to obtain further rights after the licensing period,” it adds. Vempati said that the decision was taken keeping in mind the recommendations of the Sam Pitroda Committee, set up to look into the working of Prasar Bharti, and the Ernst and Young audit, which looked into making the organisation self- sustaining. “This way the content will have a global reach,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prasar-bharati-to-auction-archival-premium-content-101634298598987.html
15-10-2021||India||Violates my right, says Goan’s plea to let him enter casino. Bombay HC rejects it||PANAJI: The Bombay high court at Goa on Thursday rejected a petition by a local resident who insisted that the law barring Goans from gambling at the coastal state’s casinos violated his constitutional right to equality before the law.Goa Public Gambling Act allows only adults with a valid “tourist permit” to enter a casino for gambling. Goa resident Shukr Sinai Usgaonkar said this provision discriminates against people domiciled in Goa and its permanent residents.A two-judge bench of justices MS Sonak and MS Jawalkar rejected this argument, holding that the classification between tourists, who come to Goa for a few days to entertain themselves, and locals domiciled in Goa is based on “intelligible differentia”, and is well-founded.“Gambling is totally prohibited but by way of some exceptions, a certain class of places and people are exempted from such prohibition. The object of the State is naturally to prevent the person domiciled in Goa to be lured into such chance games and to suffer poverty and mental trauma for their families. The classification is founded with the object of preventing the spread of gambling and transforming the exception into a rule,” the court said. The judges noted that the locals will have much greater opportunities to access the casinos as compared to tourists who visit the state for a limited period.“Therefore, there is nothing arbitrary or discriminatory in the object or the classification. The petitioner does not challenge the entry of tourists in casinos but insists on permitting him to enter in. Since the petitioner and the tourists belong to separate classes, no case of breach of Article 14 (equality before law) is made out,” the court ruled. Goa, like other Indian states has outlawed public gambling for years, but later amended the law to allow adult visitors holding a tourist permit issued by the state’s Gaming Commissioner to go to casinos.There are six offshore casinos in Goa, boats anchored in the Mandovi river that flows past the capital city.Another amendment in February 2020 made it an offence for any person to enter such a place or area for gaming, without a valid tourist permit. This, Usgaonkar, argued was violative of his personal rights, since he wanted to visit casinos that have started operating in the state.“The impugned provisions contravene Article 14 of the Constitution of India by prohibiting access to persons, who are permanent residents of Goa. The distinction being made between tourists and non-tourists miserably fails the test of reasonable classification which must be fulfilled by any classification to withstand the rigours of Article 14. What is good for tourists cannot be bad for the Goans or non-tourists,” Ugaonkar said.The state’s top law officer, advocate general Devidas Pangam, argued that gambling cannot be equated with any trade or commerce to assert any fundamental right to practise any profession or to carry on any occupation, trade, or business.“There is no right vested where the business is dangerous or immoral; such a business may be absolutely prohibited or may be required to be licensed,” the law officer told the two-judge bench.“The State also must see that youth of the state be protected and do not overindulge or get addicted to such activities involving chance or luck. The restriction on people domiciled in Goa is in the interest of the welfare of society. In the absence of such restrictions, the person domiciled in Goa may suffer poverty, which ultimately will hamper the economic and social development of the State,” he said.The high court agreed, underlining that it is the discretion of the State to take a policy decision to restrict the entry of Goan domiciled or permanent residents to the casino. “It is in the public interest of residents of Goa so also in the interest of the State for the justifiable reasons. Thus, the decision to prohibit entry for persons other than the tourist, which excludes persons domiciled or permanent residents of Goa, is a conscious decision of the State, considering its evil consequences on its subject,” the high court verdict said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/violates-my-right-says-goan-s-plea-to-let-him-enter-casino-bombay-hc-rejects-it-101634298118559.html
15-10-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: 32 killed in multiple blasts at Kandahar mosque and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.A week after the deadly suicide attack in a Shiite mosque in Afghanistan's Kunduz city, multiple explosions hit a mosque in Kandahar city during the Friday prayers, reported new agencies. A hospital spokesperson told news agency AFP that at least 32 people were killed and 53 wounded in the explosions at the Shiite mosque. Read moreMS Dhoni’s Chennai Super Kings are set to square off against Eoin Morgan’s Kolkata Knight Riders for one last in the Indian Premier League (IPL) 2021 on Friday. The two teams will compete against each other in the season finale at the Dubai International cricket stadium while the fans are gearing up to cheer for their favourite sides. Read moreA video shared by German acrobat Rene Casselly involving an elephant has left people amazed. There is a possibility that his video will stun you too. The clip shows the animal joining him for a hula hoop performance. Read moreThere will be so much to miss as Netflix’s Little Things comes to an end with its fourth season. This ‘little’ show limited itself to the huge task of sensitively, authentically showing the everyday tiny things that made love so beautiful. We watched season one on YouTube after a college friend would just not shut up about it. Read moreElectric vehicles sales in India are rocketing to new heights and that's majorly because of the range of new options available in the market, alongside various subsidies offered by the government to encourage new buyers to opt for battery-powered vehicles. Read moreTwo wardrobe staples that guaranteed make us feel sartorially high are crop tops and high-waist denims, both of which have been a fashion fad all throughout this season and tapping into the trend in her own charming style is Bollywood actor Vaani Kapoor. Making the most of the last few days of summers, Vaani laid sultry fashion cues on how to style high-waist denim jeans with sexy crop tops in pink, white and red and her smoking hot looks are enough fashion inspiration to slay on our next casual outing. Read morePrime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated seven new defence companies on Vijayadashami. PM Modi said the seven companies will contribute to India’s military strength in future. The seven companies are carved out of Ordnance Factory Board (OFB). OFB was dissolved by the Defence Ministry earlier this year. The Assets of the 200-year-old OFB were divided into these seven DPSUs. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-32-killed-in-multiple-blasts-at-kandahar-mosque-and-all-the-latest-news-101634295816150.html
15-10-2021||India||Meditation cave to be built near famous Jageshwar temple in Kumaon||A meditation cave will be built near the ancient Jageshwar temple in Almora, Uttarakhand on the lines of the cave at the Kedarnath shrine area where Prime Minister Narendra Modi meditated in May 2019, officials said. The tourism department has been asked to identify the land for the proposed cave. “A meditation cave on the lines of Kedarnath shrine will be built near Jageshwar temple. The district magistrate and ex-officio president of the management committee have asked the district tourism officer to identify the land for the proposed cave,” said Hemant Bhatt, chief priest of Jageshwar temple in Almora. Jageshwar temple is an ancient temple complex around 35 km from Almora district headquarters. It is a group of 124 temples dated between the seventh to fourteen centuries. Pilgrims visit here round the year to offer prayer to Lord Shiva. District magistrate Vandana Singh visited the temple on Thursday and took the meeting of the management committee and the priests. She said to highlight and attract pilgrims across the country, new features must be added around the temple area. She stressed a meditation cave should be constructed so that pilgrims could find a suitable place for meditation. She asked the district tourism officer to identify the suitable land and send a proposal to the government for the proposed meditation cave. Apart from this, signage will be put along the way leading to the temple, depicting the historical and religious importance of the ancient temple. The signage will depict the tourist places around the temple and in Almora district. Bhatt said, “She emphasised preparing ‘Prasad’ and items for prayer at the local level for offering at the temple. She instructed CCTV cameras to be in operation round the clock and use of an alcohol-meter to check the entry of alcoholics and anti-social elements.” Prime minister Narendra Modi visited the Rudra meditation cave in Kedarnath in May 2019. He spent a day meditating at the cave, which is nearly a kilometre from the Kedarnath shrine. Following Modi’s visit, the cave received a significant number of bookings from across the country for meditation. Following this, the state government constructed three meditation caves in the Kedarnath area. Last month, the state tourism development board also decided to start cave tourism to attract tourists towards the newly explored caves in the hill district of Pithoragarh to diversify the tourism sector which is based majorly on religious tourism and hill stations. The development has come after the exploration of at least nine new caves situated near the Patal Bhuvaneshwar caves in Pithoragarh by the scientists of Uttarakhand Space Application Centre (USAC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meditation-cave-to-be-built-near-famous-jageshwar-temple-in-kumaon-101634296800064.html
15-10-2021||India||Attention successfully diverted from Lakhimpur: Kapil Sibal on Aryan Khan case||Senior Congress leader and lawyer Kapil Sibal on Friday commented on the Narcotics Control Bureau's probe into the case of Aryan Khan and said the attention has been successfully diverted from Ashish Mishra and the Lakhimpur Kheri case. Terming NCB's investigation as a new legal system where there is no evidence of consumption and possession (of drugs), the Congress leader said it is a case of 'guilty till proven innocent'. Aryan Khan Narcotics Control Bureau investigation New Jurisprudence:No evidence of :consumption possession Guilty till proven innocent Attention successfully diverted from Ashish 𝐌𝐢𝐬𝐡𝐫𝐚 ( Lakhimpur Kheri )Aryan Khan was arrested on October 3 after the NCB raided a rave party on a Goa-bound cruise. His bail pleas have so far been rejected by the court while a special NDPS court is likely to issue its order on October 20.Aryan Khan was not found in possession of drugs while 6 gram charas was found from his friend Arbaaz Merchant. NCB said possession of drugs, the quantity of it is immaterial in this case as it is a case of conspiracy, illicit drug trafficking, the NCB said. It also said that Aryan Khan is not new to drugs and was aware that Arbaaz was carrying drugs.
15-10-2021||India||India to emerge as a powerful global military through self-reliance: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said the country’s goal under the Atmanirbhar Bharat campaign was to emerge as a powerful military in the world and develop modern defence industry in the country under its own steam, and the steps taken by the government during the last seven years were driven by the self-reliance mantra and aimed at taking this resolve (to build military and defence capabilities) forward. “The transparency, trust and technology-driven approach” prevailing in the defence sector was never witnessed before.” the PM said. “For the first time after Independence, big defence reforms are taking place in the defence sector. Instead of policies that were a hindrance, a single-window system has been put in place, leading to an increase in the industry’s confidence. Indian companies are looking for opportunities in the defence sector, and now the private sector and the government are working together to achieve the national security mission,” Modi said. Policy changes have resulted defence exports shooting up to more than 325 % over the last five years, he said. PM’s comments came while dedicating to the nation on the occasion of Vijaya Dashami, also known as Dussehra; seven new defence companies carved out of the now dissolved Ordnance Factory Board (OFB). He said the new entities would play a critical role in helping the country cut down military imports in line with the vision of Atmanirbhar Bharat. In the 21st century, the growth and brand value of any country or company will be determined by its research and innovation, Modi said. “From software to the space sector; India’s growth, its new identity is the biggest example of this (research and innovation). I ask all companies and these seven new firms to make research and innovation a part of their work culture,” he said. “You have to not only match the big companies in the world, but also take lead in future technologies. That’s why it’s important that you have new thinking, give maximum opportunities to research-oriented youth and give them freedom to think. I also ask Indian start-ups to be a part of this new journey in the defence sector.” He said while cost competitiveness was India’s strength; high quality and reliability should be the country’s identity. Last month, the PM said India was shedding its image of being a major importer of military hardware and carving out an identity for itself as a defence exporter, at a time the government has taken several measures to boost self-reliance in the key sector as well as tap the potential of defence markets globally. The world had taken note of the strides made by the country in defence manufacturing with locally produced equipment ranging from modern grenades, assault rifles and drones to fighter jets and warships, PM said on September 14 at a public function in Aligarh. “I am confident that these seven companies will form a strong base for the military strength of the country in the times to come,” he said in a video address, adding that the corporatisation of OFB had been hanging fire for 15 to 20 years. The Union Cabinet, headed Modi, cleared the board’s corporatisation in June to boost its efficiency and competitiveness in a long-awaited reform in the country’s defence manufacturing sector. The OFB, which earlier controlled 41 ordnance factories, has been split into seven government-owned entities that will produce ammunition and explosives, vehicles, weapons and equipment, troop comfort items, opto-electronics gear, parachutes and ancillary products. The government issued an order last month dissolving OFB with effect from October 1. “This year India has entered its 75th year of independence. The country is making new resolutions to build a new future, and completing work that was stuck for decades,” PM said. The new companies are Advanced Weapons and Equipment India Limited, Troop Comforts Limited, India Optel Limited, Munitions India Limited, Armoured Vehicles Nigam Limited (AVANI), Gliders India Limited and Yantra India Limited. The restructuring would provide more autonomy to the new companies to nurture innovation and expertise, he said. Ordnance factories were engaged in the production of tanks, armoured personnel carriers, mine protected vehicles, bombs, rockets, artillery guns, anti-aircraft guns, parachutes, small arms, clothing and leather equipment for soldiers. The government expects the seven new professionally managed entities to increase their share in the domestic market through better capacity utilisation and also tap new export opportunities. During the last two decades, various high-level committees underlined the need to improve the functioning of OFB and making its factories vehicles of self-reliance for the country’s defence preparedness.PM said the ordnance factories had a glorious past, but their upgradation was ignored in the post-independence period, leading to the country’s dependence on foreign suppliers. “These seven defence companies will play a major role in changing this situation,” he said. PM said the government has ensured that the interests of the employees are fully protected. Defence minister Rajnath Singh said the corporatisation of OFB will help overcome various shortcomings in the previous set-up and provide the new companies incentive to become competitive. “The objective of this restructuring is to transform Ordnance Factories into productive and profitable assets, improve expertise in product range, increase competitiveness, improve quality, enhance cost-efficiency and ensure self-reliance in defence preparedness,” Singh added. All the indents previously placed on OFB by various services, CAPFs and state police have been converted into deemed contracts. These deemed contracts numbering 66 have a cumulative value of more than ₹65,000 crore, as previously reported by HT. The All-India Defence Employees Federation (AIDEF) and three other workers’ associations boycotted the official inauguration of the new companies, said AIDEF general secretary C Srikumar. “We wore black badges and boycotted the function along with our families. We will decide the future course of our protests shortly,” he said. In a major push to the self-reliance campaign in the defence sector, India has signed contracts and cleared projects worth almost ₹54,000 crore during the last one-and-a-half month to boost the military’s capabilities with locally produced weapons and systems including transport planes, tanks, helicopters, airborne early warning systems and counter-drone weapons. India has set aside ₹70,221 crore this year for domestic defence procurement, accounting for 63% of the military’s capital budget. Last year, the ministry spent over ₹51,000 crore, or 58% of the capital budget, on domestic purchases. The country has also decided to ban the import of 209 weapons and systems to boost self- reliance. The ban, to be implemented progressively till 2025, covers artillery guns, missile destroyers, ship-borne cruise missiles, light combat aircraft, long-range land attack cruise missiles, basic trainer aircraft and different types of helicopters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-defence-firms-to-help-import-substitution-pm-modi-101634295540310.html
15-10-2021||India||Leading Indian epidemiologist on WHO's shortlist for panel to study origins of novel pathogens||Dr Raman Gangakhedkar, the former head of epidemiology and communicable diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), is among the 26 names proposed by the World Health Organization (WHO) for its Scientific Advisory Group for the Origins of Novel Pathogens (SAGO). Gangakhedkar was selected from among 700 applications that the global health body said it received seeking inclusion of the applicants on the panel.Also Read | India backs fresh WHO probe into Covid originBorn in 1958, Gangakhedkar is the current Dr CG Pandit National Chair at the ICMR. He retired as the body's head scientist on June 30 last year after a two-year stint. He is also a recipient of the Padma Awards, the fourth-highest civilian awards in the country.Additionally, the senior epidemiologist has a Masters in Public Health (MPH) from the John Hopkins University, Baltimore, and, has served stints with the National Institution of Nutrition, Hyderabad, the National Institute of Immunohaemotology, Mumbai, and the National Institute of Virology, Pune. During his tenure at the ICMR, he played a key role in the handling of the Nipah virus outbreak in Kerala in 2018.Prior to his retirement, Gangakhedkar was a constant presence at the Union health ministry briefings on the Covid-19 situation in the country, representing the ICMR.According to WHO, the SAGO is the world's “last chance” to determine the origins of the SARS-CoV-2, which causes the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). A previous study in this regard ended without a conclusion amid objections from China. The group will make recommendations to WHO on the development of a global framework for studies into the origins of emerging an re-emerging pathogens with epidemic and pandemic potential, including SARS-CoV-2.All the shortlisted names will undergo a two-week consultation period, only after which the final composition of the advisory group will be announced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/leading-indian-epidemiologist-on-who-s-shortlist-for-panel-to-study-origins-of-novel-pathogens-101634292903821.html
15-10-2021||India||Singhu border killing: Vital clues collected from spot, cops say headway soon||The deceased of the Singhu border killing has been identified as Lakhbir Singh, a scheduled caste labourer from Cheema Khurd village in Punjab's Tarn Taran district, the Haryana Police said on Friday. An FIR has been lodged against an unknown person in connection with the death, police said adding that the veracity of the videos that have gone viral on social media platforms is being probed. The Dalit man is survived by his wife and three children. "We have registered a case under 302/34 IPC. The forensic team has examined the scene of the crime. Postmortem is underway. We have some suspect names, will make headway soon," Rohtak ADGP Sandeep Khirwar said.Farmers' body condemns violence; says the Nihang group, deceased not associated with themOn Friday morning, the Police found Lakhbir Singh's body tied to a metal barricade near a stage put up by the farmers. The information was received at 5am. A video clip purportedly of the incident has gone viral on social media platforms where some Nihangs are seen standing in while the man lies in a pool of blood with his chopped off left hand next to him. As seen in the video, the Nihangs asking the man where had he come from and who had sent him for committing sacrilege. The deceased is heard saying something in Punjabi and pleading before the Nihangs.Samyukt Kisan Morcha condemned the violence and issued a statement saying a Nihang group has admitted to the violence. It said the labourer was staying with the Nihang group for some time. "A Nihang group at the scene has claimed responsibility, saying that the incident took place because of the deceased's attempt to commit sacrilege with regard to the Sarbaloh Grant," a statement of the farmers' group said, adding that it has no associated either with the Nihang group or with the deceased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/singhu-border-killing-vital-clues-collected-from-spot-cops-say-headway-soon-101634292146170.html
15-10-2021||India||Centre says lesser stubble burning incidents observed in Delhi, NCR this year||Amid concerns about air pollution due to stubble burning in Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR), the Centre on Friday said that the number of crop residue burnings observed in Punjab, Haryana and the eight NCR districts of Uttar Pradesh (UP) has come down this year in comparison with the same time last year.In a statement, the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change said that the paddy residue burning events in the three states during the one-month period between September 15 and October 15 have reduced from a similar observation last year. The ministry made the remarks following a report by the Commission for Air Quality Management in NCR and Adjoining Areas (CAQM).Also read | Paddy stubble burning picks up in Punjab’s border areas“As per the report based on the protocol framed by ISRO for the Commission, paddy residue burning events have been reduced by 69.49% in Punjab, by 18.28% in Haryana and by 47.61% in the 8 NCR Districts of Uttar Pradesh during the one-month period compared to the same period last year,” a statement from the ministry showed.The first reports from Punjab were noted on September 16 and from the UP districts on September 18 while in Haryana it was observed on September 28. Further, the ministry also noted that in Punjab, a key agricultural state, 1,286 residue burning incidents were reported, significantly lesser than the 4,216 such events in 2020. A similar reduction in the numbers has been observed in Haryana and UP too, the ministry’s data showed.In Haryana, there were 487 fire incidents in the last month against the 596 reported incidents last year. Meanwhile, in the eight NCR districts of UP, stubble fire incidents were almost reduced by half in the same time period and were recorded at 22 in comparison with the 42 incidents last year. Also in Delhi and in the two NCR districts of Rajasthan, no fire counts were observed, the ministry also said.‘Major hotspots’In Punjab, four districts, namely Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Patiala and Ludhiana, contributed more than 70% to the total stubble burning events, the ministry noted. In Haryana, three districts accounted for 80% of the incidents. They were Karnal, Kaithal and Kurukshetra.Also, CAQM has met with individual state officials to implement the action plan to curb the stubble burning events. “Harvesting will be at its peak in the next few weeks and the State Governments are taking steps as per the Plan of Action to improve the efficacy of enforcement and implementation to effectively tackle the problem of stubble burning,” the ministry said in its statement.The development came at the backdrop of a meeting between the Union ministry and the state governments concerned regarding an action plan to mitigate air pollution caused by stubble burning. Following this, Union environment minister Bhuepender Yadav earlier this month said that the four state governments mentioned above extended “constructive cooperation” regarding the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-says-lesser-stubble-burning-incidents-observed-in-delhi-ncr-this-year-101634291537549.html
15-10-2021||India||Manmohan Singh, former prime minister, stable and recovering: AIIMS official||Former prime minister Dr Manmohan Singh, who is undergoing treatment at All India Institute Of Medical Science (AIIMS), Delhi, is stable and recovering, news agency ANI quoted a hospital official as saying on Friday. The 89-year-old former prime minister was admitted to the hospital on Wednesday evening after he complained of weakness, fever and uneasiness.He is being treated at a private ward in the Cardio-Neuro Centre of the hospital and taken care by a team of specialists headed by Dr Nitish Naik, professor, department of cardiology. Dr Naik has also been Singh’s personal physician for years now.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi paid a visit to the hospital on Thursday to enquire about the health of Manmohan Singh. He spent about an hour in the hospital, a report by PTI said. Gandhi also met the former prime minister's wife, Gursharan Kaur, and also spoke to the doctors attending on Singh, the report further added.Former Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh who is admitted at AIIMS Delhi is stable and recovering: AIIMS official(file photo) pic.twitter.com/ZDjyKbRJfEUnion health minister Mansukh Mandaviya also met Singh on Thursday and enquired about his health. Wishes of speedy recovery poured in from Prime Minister Narendra Modi as well. "I pray for the good health and speedy recovery of Dr. Manmohan Singh Ji," PM Modi tweeted on Thursday.To combat weakness and fever, Singh was initially put on fluids to maintain the electrolyte balance, people familiar with the development said.In April too, Singh was admitted to AIIMS after he tested positive for the coronavirus disease. In 2009, he underwent a revision bypass surgery at the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manmohan-singh-former-prime-minister-stable-and-recovering-aiims-official-101634288562391.html
15-10-2021||India||After 2-yr break, globe-trotting Kerala tea vendor couple packs for next adventure||After a pandemic-induced break, the elderly couple of Kochi, who runs a small food joint, is busy packing their bags again, this time to Russia. They want to witness the anniversary of the October Revolution which marked the Bolshevik Party seizing power in Russia in 1917. KR Vijayan (71) and wife Mohana (69) had already put up a notice in their team joint announcing their much-awaited trip because they don’t want to put their regular customers in the lurch. Their Russia trip will begin from October 21 till the 28th. The globe-trotting couple has already visited 25 countries. The couple only planned to hop on this global adventure 14 years back. “In many Russian books (once many books were translated into Malayalam thanks to Commie connections) Volga river is a favourite theme. I am excited enough to see the quiet flowing Volga,” said Vijayan, while preparing tea for his morning customers. His wife was busy peeling coconut to make Puttu - a cylindrical-shaped, steamed breakfast made of rice powder. Their last trip was to Australia in 2019. “Since our hotel was closed on most days in the past two years, this time, I took a loan from the travel agency for tickets. Once I come back, I will pay ₹15,000 monthly and cough it up and start saving for the next adventure,” he said, adding, after every trip he turns wiser and stronger. “It is often said that experience is the best teacher. Travel is the best experience that makes you richer,” he said. The couple’s trips are well known and many celebrities like industrialist Anand Mahindra, actors Amitabh Bachchan, Anupam Kher and writer-politician Shashi Tharoor have lauded them. The Kongani couple’s first trip was to Israel in 2007 and there was no looking back since then. “Travel is in my blood. First, I visited all religious and tourist places in the country and later turned global. I visited Lord Balaji temple more than 100 times,” he said. He named his hotel in Gandhi Nagar, Kadavanthara, after his favourite deity, Sree Balaji. “Look, money will come and go but these memories will remain forever. We both will travel as long as our health permits. After every trip, we feel younger and that keeps us ticking,” said wife Mohana. Their two daughters and sons-in-law always supported their undying passion to explore and travel. After Russia, they have set their eyes on Japan. The elderly couple has a wish. “We would like to meet Prime Minister Modi once. He has a humble origin and started his life as a tea seller. We admire him a lot,” they said, adding they are ready to go to Delhi for this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-2-yr-break-globe-trotting-kerala-tea-vendor-couple-packs-for-next-adventure-101634290078124.html
15-10-2021||India||Farmers' body condemns violence; says the Nihang group, deceased not associated with them||Samyukt Kisan Morcha, the umbrella body of the unions of farmers protesting the three contentious agriculture laws for the past one year, distanced itself from the 'gruesome' killing of a man at the Singhu border allegedly by a Nihang group and demanded the culprits be punished according to law. The farmers' association will cooperate with the police and the administration in any lawful action as always, it said. "This peaceful and democratic movement is opposed to violence in any form," the statement issued by the farmer leaders Balbir Singh Rajewal, Darshan Pal, Gurnam Singh Charuni, Hannan Mollah, Jagjit Singh Dallewal, Joginder Singh Ugrahan, Shivkumar Sharma Kakkaji, Yudhvir Singh and Yogendra Yadav said.In its statement, it said that the man who has been killed for allegedly desecrating Guru Granth Sahib hails from Punjab and he was staying with the same group of Nihangs at the border for some time. "A Nihang group at the scene has claimed responsibility, saying that the incident took place because of the deceased's attempt to commit sacrilege with regard to the Sarbaloh Grant," the statement said."The Morcha is against sacrilege of any religious text or symbol, but that does not give anyone the right to take the law into their own hands," the farmers' union said adding that both the parties to this incident, the Nihang group and the deceased person have no relation with Samyukt Kisan Morcha.On Friday, the body of a man with a severed hand was found hanging at the Singhu border, the main protest site of the farmers. A spokesman for Sonepat (Haryana) Police said Nihangs, a Sikh group, were being accused of killing the man for allegedly desecrating Guru Granth Sahib. “They also made the video of the entire incident. Senior officials have reached the site,” the spokesman added. A video clip purportedly of the incident has gone viral on social media platforms. In that video, some Nihangs are seen standing in while the man lies in a pool of blood with his chopped off left hand next to him. The video clip shows the Nihangs asking the man where had he come from and who had sent him for committing sacrilege. The deceased is heard saying something in Punjabi and pleading before the Nihangs. Asked about the video clip circulating on social media platforms, a Sonipat police official said the matter is being investigated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-body-condemns-violence-says-the-nihang-group-deceased-not-associated-with-them-101634287875322.html
15-10-2021||India||OFB dissolved: The 7 new companies inaugurated by PM Modi on Dussehra||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday dedicated to the nation seven new defence public sector undertakings (DPSUs), carved out of the erstwhile Ordnance Factory Board (OFB), which was dissolved on October 1, in line with a decision taken by the Union cabinet in June this year. The launch of these companies took place on a day when the country is celebrating the festival of Dussehra.Also Read | Centre's 7 new defence companies will be huge base for military power: PM ModiThe seven new DPSUs are as follows: (1.) Advanced Weapons and Equipment India (AWE) Limited: AWE India is based in Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh. According to a media report, the firm has got defence orders worth ₹4066 crore. It is involved in the manufacturing of small arms and weapons for the armed forces and police.(2.) Armoured Vehicles Nigam Limited (AVANI): The same report notes that AVANI has been given a contract for defence goods worth ₹30,025 crore, the highest among all the seven new DPSUs. The company is located in Chennai.(3.) Gliders India Limited (GIL): This company, too, is has its registered address in Kanpur. GIL is involved in the manufacture of textiles.(4.) India Optel Limited (IOL): Headquartered in Dehradun, Uttarakhand, IOL is involved in the manufacturing of electrical machinery and apparatus.(5.) Munitions India Limited (MIL): The entity is based in Pune, Maharashtra, and works to manufacture general purpose machinery.(6.) Troop Comforts Limited (TCL): The company manufactures wearing apparel, except those made of fur. Like AWE India and GIL, the headquarters of TIL, too, is in Kanpur.(7.) Yantra India Limited (YIL): According to a report, YIL has inherited OFB assets worth ₹11,000 crore. It is based out of Nagpur, Maharashtra, and manufactures components such as shells of ammunitions.Classified as Union government companies, all seven DPSUs were registered in August 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ordnance-factory-board-dissolved-here-are-7-new-defence-companies-launched-by-pm-modi-on-dussehra-101634284729696.html
15-10-2021||India||Odisha CM Patnaik to not celebrate birthday due to Covid-19 crisis||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik, who will turn 75 on Saturday, has decided not to celebrate his birthday in view of the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the state, a CMO statement said. This will be the fourth consecutive year when the BJD supremo will give his birthday celebrations a miss.He did not allow any function on his birth anniversary last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Patnaik had chosen not to celebrate the occasion in 2019 due to Cyclone Fani and also in 2018 owing to Cyclone Titli. Both the storms had battered Odisha.The CM urged members of the ruling BJD and his well-wishers not to visit his residence 'Naveen Niwas' on Saturday and appealed to them to organise blood donation camps during the day.Patnaik did not want to celebrate his birthday as people of the state are passing through a very difficult situation due to the pandemic, the CMO said on Friday. Odisha registered 467 new Covid cases, which took the tally to 10,34,276, while six fresh fatalities pushed the coronavirus death toll to 8,279, a health department official said. The chief minister had also given his birthday celebrations a miss in 2016 as a mark of solidarity with the jawans killed in the Uri terror attack and in 2013 and 2014 when Odisha was hit by cyclonic storms Phailin and Hudhud respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-cm-patnaik-to-not-celebrate-birthday-due-to-covid-19-crisis-101634286658788.html
15-10-2021||India||Two killed as truck rams into trailer on Mumbai-Pune Expressway||Two people were killed after a truck crashed into a trailer on Mumbai-Pune Expressway on Thursday evening, officials said. According to the police, the truck was going to Mumbai from Pune. As it was crossing the Khopoli area around 8 pm, its driver somehow lost control of the vehicle and rammed into a trailer that was also moving in the same direction.Satish Asuwar, assistant inspector from Khopoli police station said, “Apart from the driver, the truck had a cleaner in its cabin and both of them suffered severe injuries at different parts of their bodies. They were rushed to a nearby hospital by some locals but died after some time. We have not recovered any photo identity proof from their pockets and hence we still don’t know their names. We are making efforts to find out their family members.”No one from the trailer suffered injuries. The accident created minor traffic congestion on the road for some time. The police later cleared the road by removing the truck.“We have registered a case of negligence under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Motor Vehicle (MV) Act against the truck driver,” Asuwar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-killed-as-truck-rams-into-trailer-on-mumbai-pune-expressway-101634285459582.html
15-10-2021||India||How ‘substandard’ tea from Nepal is threatening to wipe out Darjeeling plantations||Tea leaves imported under the free trade agreement from Nepal are being sold in the Indian markets as Darjeeling tea, reported the Deutsche Welle news agency on Friday. Raising concern over the matter, tea growers in West Bengal's Darjeeling district have now sent a letter to the tea board as well as to the state's chief minister Mamata Banerjee, requesting measures to curb the problem. A few of the producers even alleged that Nepal is purposely sending ‘substandard tea’, imported from China, to flood the Indian markets.The increasing inflow and availability of tea from Nepal has had a direct impact on the prices of prestigious Darjeeling tea. According to the report, the price of Darjeeling tea has fallen by 20-25 per cent in the span of just one year.Nepal accused of delivering ‘substandard tea’People in the tea industry allege that a section of traders, in particular, are selling Nepal's tea as Darjeeling tea. Under the free trade agreement, anyone in India can import tea independently from Nepal. The price of Darjeeling tea on average varies from ₹320 to ₹360 per kilogram in the wholesale market, but Nepal's tea leaves cost less than half this rate.“It is not possible for the consumer to understand whether he is drinking Nepali tea or Darjeeling tea,” the report quoted an official of a tea company that runs a plantation in Darjeeling. “Both these tea leaves have the same taste and even the aroma to a great extent.”Industry sources say about 160 million kilograms of Nepali tea arrive in India every year, of which about 30 to 40 million kilograms are ‘traditional’ in nature. This particular variety of Nepali tea is the one affecting the sale of the Darjeeling tea now, according to the report, which elaborated that traditional Nepali tea – especially the Elam variety – is a close alternative to Darjeeling tea in terms of taste, aroma, and even the appearance.Practice proving ‘difficult’ to stopThe nearly 87 established tea plantations in Darjeeling produce around 80-85 lakh kilograms of tea annually. People associated with the industry explained that when the tea gardens in Darjeeling remained closed for four months in 2017 due to the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha agitation, the sale of Nepali tea in India increased.“It is difficult to ban Nepali tea because India has a free-trade agreement with Nepal,” said DTA president BK Saria. “We have asked the tea board to increase surveillance on Nepali tea so that it cannot be sold in the domestic market as Darjeeling tea.”He pointed out that Japanese buyers of Darjeeling tea also pulled out of a trade deal after facing irregular supply in 2017. Earlier, they used to buy 10 lakh kg of Darjeeling tea annually.The Tea Association of India, in the meanwhile, has appealed to the Union commerce ministry to take concrete initiatives to curb the problem. It has raised the issue regarding the sale of Darjeeling tea and pointed out that the brand's credibility is being damaged due to the growing dominance of Nepali tea.According to data from the National Tea and Coffee Development Board in Nepal, more than half of the 2.52 crore kg of tea produced annually in the 157 tea gardens of the Himalayan country is exported to India.Mamata Banerjee gets a letterThe Darjeeling Tea Association (DTA), an organisation of 87 tea garden owners in the Darjeeling area, recently sent a letter to West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee demanding a complete ban on the import of “cheap and substandard tea” from Nepal, urging her to take proper measures to “save the industry”."Darjeeling tea production declined from 9.5 million kg to just 6 million kg in 2020 due to agitation in the hilly region in 2017," wrote Saria in the letter. “In the meantime, the salaries of the tea garden employees increased by about 50 per cent.”Following the agitation, the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic arrived, further affecting the domestic and foreign markets due to the subsequent lockdown, the letter explained. Now the cheap tea being imported from Nepal has managed to flood the Indian markets, being sold as Darjeeling tea, it added.Demand to set standardsThe DTA estimates that about 9 million kilograms of tea imported from Nepal were sold in the name of Darjeeling tea during the year 2020. “The situation is really serious,” the report quoted says Sandeep Mukherjee, principal advisor to the DTA, as saying. “Darjeeling's tea industry is not being given enough attention. If the tea from Nepal keeps flooding the Indian markets like this, the situation of the entire industry will get worse and many plantations here will have to shut down. This will affect the daily livelihood of thousands of people.”According to DTA data, 67,000 people are directly employed while nearly 400,000 are indirectly associated with the tea industry in Darjeeling.Meanwhile, reports said that Mamata Banerjee has taken stock of the situation and sought a detailed report from the state's chief secretary on the matter. The issue is then expected to be raised with the central government. The tea board, too, has also urged the Union commerce ministry to prepare standards for the import of Nepali tea. It has demanded that the name of the manufacturing country be imprinted on imported tea to curb the practice of selling Nepali tea as Darjeeling tea. (With inputs from Deutsche Welle)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-substandard-tea-from-nepal-is-threatening-to-wipe-out-darjeeling-plantations-101634281407496.html
15-10-2021||India||Mridul Agarwal from Delhi zone tops JEE-Advanced; 41k crack exam overall||Mridul Agarwal from the Delhi zone has topped the Joint Entrance Exam (JEE)-Advanced the results of which were announced on Friday. He has scored 348 out of 360 marks. The JEE-advanced exam is conducted for admissions to the prestigious 23 Indian Institute of Technology (IITs). Students who clear JEE-Mains and meet the cut-off appear in the JEE-advanced exam. This year, the IIT-Kharagpur conducted the exam. According to a statement issued by the organising IIT, a total of 41,862 candidates have qualified in JEE-Advanced this year, of whom 6,452 are female candidates. Among the female candidates, Kavya Chopra from the Delhi zone has emerged as the topper with 286 marks out of 360.Of the 151,193 candidates who registered for the exam this year, 141,699 appeared in both the papers of JEE-Advanced. Of them, 109,414 were male and 32,285 were females.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mridul-agarwal-from-delhi-zone-tops-jee-advanced-41k-crack-exam-to-get-into-iits-101634283538339.html
15-10-2021||India||Centre's 7 new defence companies will be huge base for military power: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday launched seven new defence companies and said they will be a massive base for India's military power. Addressing the launch event of these companies on the occasion of Vijaya Dashami, PM Modi said, “India is taking new resolutions to build a new future. The decision to revamp 41 ordnance factories and the launch of these seven companies is a part of this resolution journey. This decision has been pending for the last 15-20 years."The seven new companies which have been launched are—Munitions India Limited (MIL); Armoured Vehicles Nigam Limited (AVANI), Advanced Weapons and Equipment India Limited (AWE India), Troop Comforts Limited (TCL), Yantra India Limited (YIL); India Optel Limited (IOL) and Gliders India Limited (GIL). They will have 66 firm contracts worth ₹65,000 crore from the three services and paramilitary forces.Pointing out that India's ordnance factories were the most powerful globally at one period of time, Prime Minister Modi said that these factories had the experience of more than 100 to 150 years.“During World War, the world saw the strength of India's ordnance factories. We used to have better resources and world-class skills. Post Independence, we needed to upgrade these factories, adopt new-age technology. But it didn’t get much attention,” PM Modi said.The Prime Minister also urged start-ups to be a part of this journey in the country's defence sector. “You should think about your research, how your products can benefit from each other's capabilities in collaboration with these companies.”Defence minister Rajnath Singh, who was also present during Friday's launch, said the Centre is aiming to bring India among the top countries across the globe in the field of the defence sector. "Today seven companies are being dedicated to the nation in the course of the reformative change. There could hardly have been a better opportunity for such reforms to achieve its new objectives," Singh said.According to a release from the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) on Thursday, the Centre decided to convert the Ordnance Factory Board from a government department into seven 100% government-owned corporate companies to improve self-reliance in the defence preparedness of India.The release added that the above move will bring about enhanced functional autonomy, efficiency and will unleash new growth potential and innovation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centres-7-new-defence-companies-will-be-huge-base-for-military-power-pm-modi-101634281287322.html
15-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: Security of NCB officer handling Aryan Khan case hiked and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Aryan Khan case: NCB officer heading drugs-on-cruise probe gets security hiked after stalking chargeMumbai police commissioner Hemant Nagrale personally took note of the complaint and ordered an inquiry into the allegations made by Sameer Wankhede, Mumbai zonal director of the NCB. Read more‘MSD is equal to CSK. If he has the desire to play as he will’: Chopra has his say on Dhoni’s future with ChennaiMS Dhoni’s future with Chennai Super Kings in the later seasons has become one of the interesting points of discussion among the experts. Dhoni is gearing up with his team for the IPL 2021 final against Kolkata Knight Riders on Friday. Read moreAmitabh Bachchan sings ‘Dilbar Mere’ for Hema Malini on KBC, fan says he will complain to DharmendraAmitabh Bachchan will soon be seen romancing Hema Malini on screen again after 2006 film, Baabul. However, this time Hema will be on the hot seat as Amitabh hosts the upcoming episode of Kaun Banega Crorepati. Read moreMercedes AMG Project One hypercar to enter production in mid-2022: ReportsThe Mercedes AMG Project One, introduced as a concept car at the IAA Mobility Show in Frankfurt in 2017, is finally entering production in the middle of next year, according to reports. Read moreVicky Kaushal makes tradition meet luxury in safari collar shacket, salwar pantsVicky Kaushal continues to make fans swoon over his style, this time in fusion fashion, as he promotes his upcoming film ‘Sardar Udham’ in white safari collar shacket and stylish navy blue salwar-like pants. Read moreArtist’s spooky illusion video is perfect to watch as you wait for HalloweenHalloween is just a few days away and social media is abuzz with all sorts of posts entertaining people who are eagerly waiting for the day. Just like this illusion video by an artist named Emily Robinson. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-security-of-ncb-officer-handling-aryan-khan-case-hiked-and-all-the-latest-news-101634281067860.html
15-10-2021||India||Trains cancelled, diverted on Tundla-Kanpur section after 24 wagons derail||As many as 24 wagons of an empty goods train derailed at the Tundla-Kanpur section near Prayagraj in Uttar Pradesh on Friday morning, forcing the Indian Railways to cancel and divert 20 passenger trains. "Traffic has been disrupted on the up and down lines due to the derailment of empty wagons of a goods train at 04.00 AM between Ambiapur and Rura stations of the Kanpur-Tudla section under the Prayagraj division," North Central Railway said in a statement.“The restoration work is underway and we will try to complete it by midnight. Trains have been diverted from Kanpur,” Mohit Chandra, the divisional railway manager (DRM) of the Prayagraj division of the North Central Railway, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.According to officials, no casualty has been reported and a probe to ascertain the cause of the derailment has been ordered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trains-cancelled-diverted-on-tundla-kanpur-section-after-24-wagons-derail-101634280962354.html
15-10-2021||India||CBSE invites students to submit projects to celebrate lives of India’s brave hearts||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Thursday invited entries from students of classes 3rd to 12th based on the lives of India’s brave hearts under the ministry of defence and ministry of education’s “Veer Gatha Project”. In a notification issued to all CBSE affiliated schools on Thursday, the board said, “In order to disseminate the details of acts of bravery and the life stories of these brave hearts among the students, it has been proposed by the Ministry of Defence (MoD) that school students may be motivated to do projects/activities based on gallantry award winners. Accordingly, the Ministry of Education, Department of School Education & Literacy, is organising the Veer Gatha Project from 21st October to 20th November 2021. The project shall be open to all schools in all states and Union territories including all schools affiliated to the CBSE.”Under the project, students will submit entries in the form of poems, essays, painting, multimedia presentations and any other creative format. For classes 3rd to 10th, the students have to submit an entry on the topic, “If I had been (name of the gallantry award winner) what would I have done for my nation?”. And, for classes 11 and 12, the topic is “(name of the Gallantry Award Winner) motivates me to………”.The schools will conduct the activities between October 21 and November 20, and upload one best entry per category, and a total of four from each school at the CBSE Veer Gatha portal. “Twenty-five selected entries will be awarded a cash prize of Rs. 10,000 by the Ministry of Defence. Each of the 25 winners will be invited for the Republic Day Celebration at Delhi,” the notification added.The CBSE, in a tweet, said the project aims to “communicate to the students about our country’s brave-hearts, and details about their acts of bravery and their life story”. No immediate comment was available from the ministry of education and ministry of defence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbse-invites-students-to-submit-projects-to-celebrate-lives-of-india-s-brave-hearts-101634280778350.html
15-10-2021||India||'What is the Centre doing?': Raut's retort to Bhagwat's drug menace claim||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Friday reacted to Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) president Mohan Bhagwat's allegation that the use of narcotics is increasing in India. Raut’s retort came after Mohan Bhagwat, during his annual Vijaya Dashami address at the RSS headquarters in Nagpur, said that drugs were coming into India from bordering countries and the money generated is being used for anti-national activities.Bhagwat also said the Centre is doing its best to control the menace and urged families to incorporate the right values in their children so that drug addiction can be prevented“If he (Mohan Bhagwat) says something, it has significance. If money generated from drugs and narcotics is being used against the country, then what is the Centre doing. Who is heading the Centre?” Raut asked.Raut said that when it was decided that demonetisation will be enforced, Prime Minister Narendra Modi claimed that it will stop the drug mafia. “But if this (drug mafia) has not been stopped, then the RSS chief's concerns are correct and we support it as well,” the Sena MP told reporters.The political debate over the drugs issue comes amid two cases—the Mumbai cruise ship drugs raid involving Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan and the Mundra drug haul case where 3,000 kilograms of drugs were seized.While Aryan Khan will continue to remain in Mumbai's Arthur Road jail for another six days and order on his bail plea will be passed on October 20, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Tuesday conducted raids at five locations in Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR) linked to the Mundra port case. This was the second in a series of raids carried out by the central agency on October 9 in connection with the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-is-the-centre-doing-raut-s-retort-to-bhagwat-s-drug-menace-claim-101634276375006.html
15-10-2021||India||‘Will give new direction to youth’: PM Modi lays foundation stone of hostel built by Saurashtra Patel Seva Samaj||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday, on the occasion of Vijayadashami, performed “bhumi pujan” ceremony of phase-1 of boys' hostel constructed by the Saurashtra Patel Seva Samaj in Surat. Addressing the gathering via videoconferencing, PM Modi said that the hostel will give a new direction to the youth.“With this initiative in the field of education, the Saurashtra Patel Seva Samaj will help youngsters fulfill their dreams. I've been informed that the construction of both phases of the hostel will be completed by 2014,” he said.Prime Minister Modi also recalled the time when, according to him, there was a shortage of good quality education and teachers in Gujarat. Describing the challenges he faced in this field during his tenure as the chief minister, he said, “Dropout rate among girl students was a challenge, and this was due to various reasons. One such reason was a lack of washroom facilities. However, with various schemes today, washroom facilities have been built, and the dropout rate among girls has declined.”The true power of “sabka saath, sabka vikas,” he said, he saw in Gujarat.PM Modi also praised the new chief minister of the western state, Bhupendra Patel, whom he described as a person who is attached to his roots. “He is a CM who has deep interest in technology. His experience of working at various levels will only help in the development of Gujarat,” Prime Minister Modi remarked.According to a release by the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), the hostel building has residential facilities that can accommodate 1500 students. It also has an auditorium and a dedicated library for the students. The construction of phase-2 of the facility, to accommodate around 500 girls, will commence next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-give-new-direction-to-youth-pm-modi-lays-foundation-stone-of-hostel-built-by-saurashtra-patel-seva-samaj-101634276958605.html
15-10-2021||India||Widespread rain likely over east and northwest India during next 3-4 days||Widespread rain is likely over east India and parts of northwest India during the next 3-4 days according to India Meteorological Department.A low-pressure area over Westcentral and adjoining Northwest Bay of Bengal is now lying over northwest and adjoining Westcentral Bay of Bengal off south Odisha-north Andhra Pradesh coasts. Under its influence, moderate rainfall is likely at most places with isolated thunderstorms (wind speed 40-50 kmph) and isolated heavy rain likely over Andaman & Nicobar Islands during the next 2 days. Rainfall intensity is very likely to increase over east India and adjoining Central India from today.Isolated heavy rain is likely over Bihar on October 18 and 19 over Gangetic West Bengal during October 17 and 19, and over Odisha, Coastal Andhra Pradesh and Yanam till October 17.Another low-pressure area is lying over the Lakshadweep area and adjoining the southeast Arabian sea. An east-west trough is also present. Under their influence, isolated heavy rainfall is very likely over Coastal and South Interior Karnataka, Kerala, Mahe and Tamil Nadu during the next 2 days. Isolated very heavy rainfall is also very likely over Kerala, Mahe and Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal till October 16. Due to the influence of lower-level easterlies, a fresh spell of rainfall with thunderstorms and lightning is very likely over northwest India from October 16 (Saturday). Isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is also likely over Himachal Pradesh on October 17 and 18, over Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh till 19 and isolated thunderstorms, lightning and hail over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan and Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh till October 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/widespread-rain-likely-over-east-and-northwest-india-during-next-3-4-days-101634277178640.html
15-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan case: NCB officer heading drugs-on-cruise probe gets security hiked after stalking charge||Security of Sameer Wankhede, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) officer probing the Mumbai drugs-on-cruise case involving Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan among others, has been tightened after he said he was being spied on. Wankhede, who has been in the eye of a storm since the arrest of Khan and the others in the drugs case, alleged that he was being followed by two Mumbai Police personnel and met Maharashtra director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Pandey, seeking more security.Also Read | Aryan Khan gets money order in Arthur Road prison, has to spend time in general cell till WednesdayAccording to reports, more armed bodyguards have been added to the existing security detail of NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede and his official vehicle has also been changed. Earlier, the officer claimed that he was followed by some policemen when he was visiting a Mumbai cemetery, where his mother is buried. The police personnel also allegedly gathered closed-circuit television (CCTV) footage from the cemetery monitoring his movement.Also Read | Aryan Khan case: What happened during Thursday's hearingLater, Mumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale took note of the complaint and ordered an inquiry into the allegations made by Sameer Wankhede. The commissioner confirmed that he received a written complaint and that an additional commissioner of police has been ordered to look into the allegations and submit a report.In the Mumbai cruise drug raid case, 20 people have been arrested so far – including Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan, his friend Arbaaz Merchant and others, including foreign nationals and drug suppliers.The case has generated a buzz, with politicians, filmmakers, and other eminent personalities across the country pitching in their two cents on the developments. After the cruise drug bust, senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik claimed that the arrest was a conspiracy involving the NCB and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to defame Maharashtra, Uddhav Thackeray-led coalition government, and the film industry.Meanwhile, a special Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) court is hearing the bail plea of Aryan Khan – who has already been denied bail thrice – and other accused. After hearing extensive arguments from both sides on Thursday, the court said that it would pass an order on the plea next Wednesday, October 20. For the while, Aryan Khan will remain lodged in a normal cell at Mumbai’s Arthur Road prison.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aryan-khan-case-ncb-officer-heading-drugs-on-cruise-probe-gets-security-hiked-after-stalking-charge-101634274144907.html
15-10-2021||India||In Vijayadashami speech, Bhagwat warns against rise in consumption of narcotics||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat on Friday expressed concern at what he described as a rise in the consumption of narcotics by youngsters across the country. Speaking at the Sangh's annual Vijayadashami address in Nagpur, where it is headquartered, Bhagwat also alleged that the money from such businesses is being misused for “anti-national” activities.Also Read | Ahead of talks with Taliban, RSS chief says India needs to be prepared for all possibilities“Consumption of different types of narcotics is rising across the country. How should this be curbed, we don't know. However, what we do know is who gets the revenue that is generated from this business. The money is misused for anti-India activities. This is encouraged by people sitting across the border,” Bhagwat said.Though the RSS chief called upon the government to put an end to the drugs menace, he also stressed that one can control the urge to consume these through what Bhagwat called “mann ka break, uttam break” (self control is the best control). “It's upon the younger generation to prepare themselves for this. However, what one should accept or refuse in front of others, all this should be taught at home,” Bhagwat said.He also slammed over-the-top (OTT) platforms and bitcoins, both of which, he said, are “uncontrollable.”Bhagwat's remarks come in the backdrop of controversy surrounding actor Shah Rukh Khan's son, Aryan, who was among several people arrested earlier this month by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) from a cruise ship in Mumbai. During the raid, the agency recovered drugs, along with ₹1.33 lakh in cash. Total 20 people, including Aryan Khan, have been arrested by the NCB thus far.A court will pronounce its order on the bail pleas of Aryan and two others on October 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-vijayadashmi-speech-bhagwat-warns-against-rise-in-consumption-of-narcotics-101634274041341.html
15-10-2021||India||‘Wipe out the evil of drugs from society’: RSS chief Bhagwat||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat on Friday urged the government to wipe out the evil of drugs from society, saying they were coming from neighbouring countries and the money generated from them was being used for the terrorist activities to destabilise the country.In his annual Dussehra speech at the RSS’s Nagpur headquarters, Bhagwat said the government is doing its best to control the menace. He added it is the duty of society and particularly families to inculcate the right values in their children so that drug addiction could be avoided. Bhagwat expressed concern over the misuse of the technology, particularly mobile and over-the-top (OTT) platforms. “The OTT platforms are showing indecent images and it would destroy the new generation. It should be stopped.” He expressed concern over excessive use of mobile phones by the new generation and children.The RSS chief’s annual Vijayadashami speech focuses on the views of the ideological fountainhead of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party on key issues. Over the years, the RSS has invited prominent personalities such as late former President Pranab Mukherjee for the Vijaya Dashami programme. This year’s event was low-key because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The RSS did not invite any chief guest for Bhagwat’s annual address for the second year.RSS was founded in 1925 on Vijayadashami. The RSS chief delivers his annual address that provides a guiding framework for the Sangh and organisations inspired by it annually to mark the foundation on Vijayadashami.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wipe-out-the-evil-of-drugs-from-society-bhagwat-101634275078004.html
15-10-2021||India||‘Be prepared for all possibilities’: RSS chief Bhagwat ahead of Taliban talks||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat on Friday cautioned India must be “prepared for all possibilities” as it prepares to take part in talks with the Taliban hosted by Russia next week. In his annual Vijayadashami speech, Bhagwat said India should be militarily alert at all times in the wake of the Taliban’s takeover of Afghanistan. “…Keeping the channels for dialogue open and considering the scope for a change of (Taliban) heart, India must be prepared for all possibilities,” he said. “Taliban may have changed, but has Pakistan changed? Has China changed its intent towards India? Considering the possibility of a change of heart, of dialogue solving issues, we still need to be prepared,” he said. He cautioned against the support countries such as Russia, Turkey, China, and Pakistan have shown to the Taliban. India has opted for a wait-and-watch policy and stressed that Afghanistan should not become a safe haven for terrorists and terror groups should not be allowed to use Afghan soil. It has announced it will participate in the meeting being hosted by Russia involving the Taliban next week. China, Pakistan, and Iran will also attend the talks with the Taliban in Moscow.Some security analysts have linked developments in Afghanistan with the re-emergence of terror in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K).Against this backdrop, Bhagwat underlined the need to “accelerate” the “emotional integration” of the people of J&K with the rest of the country.“Terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir have restarted the spate of targeted violence against national-minded people, especially Hindus to lower their morale and re-establish the reign of terror in the Valley. Efforts for curbing and finishing off the terrorist activities needs speeding up,” he said, days after targeted attacks left seven civilians dead in Kashmir amid a spike in violence there.Bhagwat also called for stepping up vigilance along borders from where intrusions and attacks have happened stealthily. He underlined the need for ramping up internal security.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-talks-with-taliban-rss-chief-says-india-needs-to-be-prepared-for-all-possibilities-101634274658218.html
15-10-2021||India||JCO, soldier killed in encounter with terrorists in J-K’s Poonch||Two Indian Army personnel, including a junior commissioned officer (JCO), were killed in a gunbattle with terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district, reports said on Friday.News agency PTI cited the defence spokesperson as saying that the JCO and the soldier were critically injured during a counter-terrorist operation in the Nar Khas forest area in Mendhar sub-division on Thursday evening. Both of them succumbed to their injuries later, the spokesperson said.The soldier’s body has been retrieved and efforts are on to retrieve that of the JCO even as the encounter continued in the mountainous and forested area, according to the spokesperson.Also read | Surgical strike showed era of talks is over, we now hit back at terror: ShahFive army personnel, including a JCO, were killed during an encounter between security forces and terrorists at Dera Ki Gali (DKG) in the Surankote area of Poonch on October 12.The Jammu and Kashmir police said on Tuesday that terrorists involved in a recent attack on security forces in Poonch, in which five army personnel, including a JCO, were killed, were present in the area for the last two to three months. Deputy inspector general of police (DIG) Rajouri-Poonch range Vivek Gupta told reporters that the terrorists have been confined to a particular area. "The group has been present in the area for two to three months," he said.Several counter-terrorism operations and encounters have taken place in the Rajouri and Poonch districts of Jammu and Kashmir this year amid a spike in violence in the Union territory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jco-soldier-killed-in-encounter-with-terrorists-in-j-k-s-poonch-101634272006509.html
15-10-2021||India||PM Modi remembers APJ Abdul Kalam on his birth anniversary, said he will remain a source of inspiration||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday remembered former president APJ Abdul Kalam on his 90th birth anniversary and he will always inspire people in India. "Tributes to former president Dr APJ Abdul Kalam ji, known as the 'Missile Man', on his birth anniversary. He dedicated his life to making India strong, prosperous and capable. He will always remain a source of inspiration for the people of the country," Modi said in a tweet in Hindi.
15-10-2021||India||In Vijaya Dashami speech, Mohan Bhagwat talks about Taliban, population policy||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat on Friday spoke on a range of issues—including the Taliban, the country’s population policy and the coronavirus pandemic—during his annual Vijaya Dashami address at the RSS headquarters in Maharashtra’s Nagpur on Friday.The RSS chief said India must be “prepared for all possibilities” as the government will hold talks with the Taliban and cautioned against the support shown to them by Russia, Turkey, China and Pakistan. “Keeping the channels for dialogue open and considering the scope for a change of heart, India must be prepared for all possibilities,” he said during the Vijaya Dashami address, which is considered the most important event for the Sangh.“Taliban may have changed, but has Pakistan changed? Has China changed its intent towards India? Considering the possibility of a change of heart, of dialogue solving issues, we still need to be prepared,” he said.Bhagwat said that population imbalance has become a problem in India and urged for the formation of a population policy for the next five decades which is applicable to all groups. “While reimagining the country’s development one predicament comes to the fore which appears to concern many viz. the population. A population policy that is applicable to all groups is therefore imperative,” he said.Mohan Bhagwat also alleged that the use of narcotics is rising in India and drugs are coming in from bordering countries. “Money from such businesses is used for anti-national activities. All of this should be controlled,” he said.His remark on narcotics comes amid the arrest of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan in connection with the alleged seizure of banned drugs from a cruise ship in Mumbai. Aryan Khan will remain in the city’s Arthur Road jail for another six days.Amid the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic in India which has infected more than 34 million people and killed 451,814 till now, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh president said that the pandemic has reinforced the usefulness of the traditional knowledge systems and the vision emanating from ‘selfhood’.“We experienced the efficacy of our traditional lifestyle practices and Ayurvedic medicinal system in fighting and tackling the coronavirus,” the RSS chief said, adding the second wave of the pandemic was far more destructive than the first one and did not even spare the youth. He urged that everyone should be prepared for the upcoming third wave of Covid-19.As the pandemic pushed school and college students across India to opt for online classes and lectures, leading to increased use of mobile phones and other technologies,Bhagwat during his Vijaya Dashami address expressed concerns over the top (OTT) platforms.“There is no control over what is shown on OTT platforms. Due to Covid-19, children have been using mobile phones. There is also no control over what children watch and don’t watch here.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-reinforced-usefulness-of-traditional-knowledge-systems-mohan-bhagwat-101634269316437.html
15-10-2021||India||‘Second wife can’t be called legally wedded spouse even if...’: HC||A man’s second wife cannot be called his legally wed spouse even if she was kept in the dark about his first marriage, the Mumbai’s high court’s Nagpur bench has observed while rejecting a woman’s plea for restitution of conjugal rights and maintenance from her husband. The 47-year-old woman moved the high court in 2012 after a family court refused to accept her claim of being the 66-year-old man’s legally wed wife.“Even if it is assumed for the sake of argument that the appellant [second wife] had been kept in dark about the first marriage of the respondent [husband] with Chandrakala in the year 1990, on proof of the said fact, the contention of the appellant that she is legally wedded wife of the respondent cannot be accepted,” said a division bench of justices AS Chandurkar and GA Sanap on Thursday.Chandrakala pleaded the family court discarded her evidence and testimony of witnesses supporting her claim that she married the 66-year-old in accordance with their rites and customs in August 2003. She added they lived together for over five years. She claimed the man deserted her in October 2008 when she refused to pay him ₹50,000. Chandrakala said the man’s relatives beat her when she eventually traced him.The man denied having married Chandrakala and said he got married in 1990 and divorced in 2009. Thus, he claimed, in any case, the second marriage was void. The high court accepted his contention and held Chandrakala was not his legally wedded wife as he was yet to get divorced at the time of the second marriage. Chandrakala admitted in her cross-examination that she knew about his first marriage.The bench rejected her contention that she was entitled to maintenance on account of the five years of cohabitation even if her marriage was held to be void.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/second-wife-can-t-be-called-legally-wedded-spouse-even-if-hc-101634270878144.html
15-10-2021||India||RSS chief performs Shastra Pooja ahead of annual Vijaya Dashami address||Ahead of the annual Vijaya Dashami address Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat on Friday performed 'Shastra Pooja' at its headquarters here.Bhagwat also paid floral tribute to Poojaneeya Dr Hedgewar and Poojaneeya Guruji Golwalkar."Poojaneeya Sarsanghchalak, Dr Mohan ji Bhagwat offered his respects at the samadhi Sthal of Poojaneeya Dr Hedgewar and Poojaneeya Guruji Golwalkar," RSS tweeted.The Vijaya Dashami address of the RSS chief is considered the most important event for the organisation as it is during his address future plans and vision are put forth for all to follow. It is from this stage that RSS stand on many issues of national importance is known.However, amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) has decided to refrain from inviting any chief guest for the annual Vijaya Dashami address.This is the second consecutive year when RSS has not invited any guest for the annual Vijaya Dashami address by its Sarsanghchalak here.In the previous years, the Vijaya Dashami programme has witnessed the presence of several prominent personalities including former President Pranab Mukherjee, HCL chief Shiv Nadar and child rights activist and Nobel laureate Kailash Satyarthi.Dussehra or Vijaya Dashami, according to the Hindu calendar is celebrated on the 10th day after the 9 days of Navratri festivities in the month of Ashvina.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rss-chief-performs-shastra-pooja-ahead-of-annual-vijaya-dashami-address-101634268495367.html
15-10-2021||India||President, PM Modi greet nation on Dussehra||President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday extended their greetings to people on the occasion of the Dussehra, also known as Vijay Dashami, amid subdued celebrations due to the countrywide restrictions during the coronavirus pandemic. President Kovind said Dussehra "inspires us to walk on the path of morality, goodness and virtue.""Hearty congratulations to all the countrymen on the auspicious occasion of Vijaya Dashami. Dussehra marks the victory of good over evil. This festival inspires us to walk on the path of morality, goodness and virtue. I wish that this festival brings prosperity and happiness in the lives of the countrymen," the Rashtrapati Bhavan tweeted.The Prime Minister also took to Twitter to wish people on Dussehra. “Greetings to everyone on the special occasion of Vijaya Dashami," he wrote on Twitter.Dussehra is celebrated on the tenth day of the Navratri festival with great enthusiasm across the country.  People mark the occasion by burning the effigy of Ravan, a mythological demon king in the Hindu epic Ramayana who was defeated by Lord Rama, symbolising that good always prevails over evil.Dussehra also signifies getting rid of sins or bad qualities as each head of the Ravana symbolises one bad quality. Dusshera also marks the beginning of Diwali.The festival is also associated with Goddess Durga. It is said that it was on this day that Goddess Durga defeated Mahishasura after a fierce battle that lasted for more than nine days. Women in West Bengal and other parts also participate in ‘sindoor khela’ on the last day to bid the goddess a farewell. It involves women applying vermilion (sindoor) on each other after applying it on the Goddess Durga's feet and forehead and feeding her with sweets and betel leaves.Meanwhile, PM Modi is scheduled to inaugurate seven new defence firms, carved out of the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB), which was dissolved by the defence ministry earlier this year. He will also address the nation virtually during the event to mark the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-pm-modi-greet-nation-on-dussehra-101634267126868.html
15-10-2021||India||Not just UK, over 30 nations now recognise India's Covid-19 vaccine certificate||Apart from Britain, more than 30 countries across the world have now agreed to mutually recognise India's Covid-19 vaccine certificate, according to officials familiar with the matter cited by the PTI news agency on Thursday. The countries that have agreed on this mutual recognition with India include France, Germany, Nepal, Belarus, Lebanon, Armenia, Ukraine, Belgium, Hungary, and Serbia, in addition to the United Kingdom.Also Read | This country has beaten the world with 99% Covid vaccinationHowever, there are a few countries—including South Africa, Brazil, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, and some others in Europe—from where travellers will have to follow additional measures, in addition to the mandatory Covid-19 protocols when they arrive in India. These measures include a post-arrival Covid-19 test in the country and screening, according to the officials cited by the agency.Hungary and Serbia are the latest additions to the list of countries who agreed to mutually recognise India's Covid-19 vaccination certificate, informed ministry of external affairs (MEA) spokesperson Arindam Bagchi last week. Bagchi said that the recognition of the vaccination certificates will cater to help people move across countries for education, business, tourism, and other things in the post-pandemic world.The development comes days after the UK government decided to remove the requirement of mandatory quarantine for vaccinated Indian passengers after India voiced its displeasure regarding the decision and imposed travel requirements on passengers from Britain in a tit-for-tat move. Soon after, Alex Ellis, British high commissioner to India, said in a tweet, “No quarantine for Indian travellers to the UK fully vaccinated with Covishield or another UK-approved vaccine from 11 October.”Also Read | Govt makes elaborate plans to celebrate 1 billion jabsMeanwhile, India on Thursday administered more than 27 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines; with this, the number of vaccine doses given so far across the country has crossed 97 crore. The Union ministry of health and family welfare also said that the daily vaccination numbers are expected to increase as the day-long final report is collected late at night.On Wednesday, as many as 27,62,523 doses of Covid-19 vaccines were administered across the country. The ministry underlined that the vaccination drive is a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from Covid-19 and that the campaign is being regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-just-uk-over-30-nations-now-recognise-india-s-covid-19-vaccine-certificate-101634263197572.html
15-10-2021||India||Why APJ Kalam's birth anniversary is celebrated as World Students' Day||October 15 of every year is celebrated as World Students' Day in honour of former Indian president APJ Abdul Kalam, who was born on the same day in 1931. The day aims to acknowledge the efforts of Kalam towards education and students.The United Nations declared October 15 as World Students' Day in 2010. Every year the world body decides a theme to mark the observance of the day. This year, the theme for World Students' day is "Learning for people, planet, prosperity and peace”, which aims to reaffirm the role of education as a fundamental right of every person across the world.Born in Rameswaram in Tamil Nadu, Kalam studied science and physics during the early years of his life. Kalam dedicated his life to teaching and inspiring students to become the best version of themselves through his insightful lectures. He was also called the ‘Missile Man of India' for spearheading the development of the most significant Indian missiles and the country's civilian space programmes.He occupied some of the very distinguished positions as an administrator with the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and the Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro).In 2002, the aerospace scientist became the 11th president of the country. Kalam served the office till 2007 and dedicated his life to teaching after that. He became the visiting professor at the Indian Institute of Management (IIM) in Shillong, IIM- Ahmedabad and IIM-Indore.Dr Kalam was also awarded India’s highest civilian honour or the Bharat Ratna. He was also honoured with the Padma Bhushan and the Padma Vibhushan for his work as the scientific advisor to the government of India.Kalam breathed his last on July 27, 2015, while delivering a lecture at IIM-Shillong when he collapsed and died from a cardiac arrest. Years after his demise, his contributions are still remembered as some of the best scientific and technological developments in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-apj-kalam-s-birth-anniversary-is-celebrated-as-world-students-day-101634262358789.html
15-10-2021||India||On Vijayadashami, PM Modi set to dedicate 7 new defence firms to the nation||On the occasion of Vijayadashami on Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will make the landmark inauguration of seven new defence companies carved out of the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB), which was dissolved by the defence ministry earlier this year. In line with a decision made by the Union cabinet, the 200-year-old OFB's assets were divided into these seven newly established defence public sector undertakings (DPSUs), and its nearly 70,000 employees transferred to these seven new entities with no change in their service conditions.Marking the auspicious occasion of Vijayadashami, Prime Minister Modi will deliver a video address on Friday during an event organised by the defence ministry and formally announce the seven new defence companies and the government's initiative to modernise the defence sector. According to reports, defence minister Rajnath Singh and minister of state for defence Ajay Bhatt will also be present at the occasion, along with other representatives from the defence industry.The names of these seven new defence PSUs are – Munition India Ltd, Armoured Vehicles Nigam Ltd, Advanced Weapons and Equipment India Ltd, Troop Comforts Ltd, Yantra India Ltd, India Optel Ltd and Gliders India Ltd. The Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said earlier that the conversion of the older defence entity into these seven brand new fully government-owned corporate entities will boost the country's self-reliance on defence preparedness. The move will also bring about enhanced functional autonomy and efficiency and will unleash new growth potential and innovation, it said.Service conditions of employeesAll the employees of OFB (Groups A, B, and C), belonging to the production units and also the identified non-production units, are to be transferred en masse to the new DPSUs on terms of foreign service. They will, however, not be provided with any deputation allowance (deemed deputation) initially for a period of two years from the appointed date, an official order stated.Also Read | Ordnance Factory Board to be dissolved, employees retain service conditionsIt said each of the new DPSUs is required to frame rules and regulations related to service conditions of the absorbed employees and seek an option for permanent absorption from the employees on deemed deputation to the respective DPSUs within a period of two years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-vijayadashami-pm-modi-set-to-dedicate-7-new-defence-firms-to-the-nation-101634260774632.html
15-10-2021||India||India reopens to foreigners on tourist visa from today, only chartered flights allowed for now||Foreign tourists intending to visit India on chartered flights can finally do so from Friday, while those travelling on regular planes will have to wait for one more month. According to the notifications issued by the Union home ministry last week, India will start granting tourist visas to foreigners travelling on chartered flights from October 15 and those by regular planes from November 15. The latest orders are a sign that the country is gradually relaxing its coronavirus disease (Covid-19) restrictions and reopening its frontiers, albeit with sufficient and necessary precautions, in view of the easing overall pandemic situation.Also Read | Cheer in Goa tourism industry as plea to allow foreign tourists grantedIndia suspended all visas granted to foreign travellers last year in view of the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the country and by extension, the rest of the world. Not just that, the country also imposed several other restrictions on international travel, including limiting the number of flights and constituting special ‘air bubble’ arrangements with countries with favourable situations for travel. However, with the gradual easing of the pandemic situation, foreign travellers were later allowed to avail of any other kind of Indian visa, except a tourist visa, to facilitate for themselves entry and stay in India.However, according to the PTI news agency, the Union home ministry had been receiving representations from “several state governments as well as various stakeholders in the tourism sector” to restart the tourist visas and allow foreign tourists to travel to India. Finally, the ministry announced last Thursday that the restrictions placed on tourist visas and international travel since March 2020 due to the coronavirus pandemic stand further eased.Also Read | India allows domestic flights to operate at full capacity amid demand surgeAccording to an official statement, the decision was taken “after considering various inputs” which suggested that fresh tourist visas be granted to foreigners coming to India. For this, the ministry consulted various other government departments – including the ministry of health and family welfare, the ministry of external affairs, the ministry of civil aviation, the ministry of tourism, as well as several state governments where foreign tourists are expected to arrive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reopens-to-foreigners-on-tourist-visa-from-today-only-chartered-flights-allowed-for-now-101634258497237.html
15-10-2021||India||Dussehra: President Kovind to spend day with jawans at Ladakh's Drass, salute Kargil war heroes||President Ram Nath Kovind, who is on a two-day trip to the Union territories of Ladakh and Jammu and Kashmir, is all set to celebrate the occasion of Dussehra on Friday with soldiers of the Indian Army in Kargil's Drass area, one of the coldest places in the world where temperatures can drop to less than -40°C. With this, the President will be breaking away from the tradition where he is usually seen participating in Dussehra celebrations in Delhi every year.Also Read | President Kovind begins his Ladakh, J&K tour today; to mark Dussehra with jawansAccording to an official communiqué issued by the Rashtrapati Bhavan on Wednesday, President Kovind will travel to Drass in Ladakh on October 15 (Friday) and pay tributes to the martyrs of the 1999 Kargil War at the Kargil War Memorial.Meanwhile, President Ram Nath Kovind on Thursday extended greetings to citizens on the eve of Dussehra.“On the auspicious occasion of Vijaya Dashami, I extend my warm greetings and best wishes to all our fellow citizens living in India and abroad,” the President said in his message. He said that Vijaya Dashami is celebrated to mark the victory of good over evil and the persona of Lord Rama and his righteous conduct “is an ideal for all of us.”Drass is known as “the Gateway to Ladakh” and is famous for its high-altitude trekking routes and tourist sites. It is also a strategically significant military point, one where the Indian Army personnel have to brave the soaring altitudes and freezing temperatures all year long to guard the Line of Control (LoC). Situated between the Zoji La pass and Kargil town, the average temperatures in Drass range to less than -20 degrees Celsius in winter and is often called the “coldest inhabited place” in India.Also Read | Will Quad stand-up to dragon breathing fire from Indo-Pacific to Ladakh?On Kargil Vijay Diwas 2021, the President cancelled a visit to Drass, where he was scheduled to lay a wreath at the war memorial, due to bad weather. In 2019, too, bad weather prevented President Kovind from visiting Drass to participate in the Kargil Vijay Diwas, and instead, he paid his tributes by laying a wreath at a war memorial at the Army's 15 Corps headquarters in Badamibagh in Srinagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dussehra-president-kovind-to-spend-day-with-jawans-at-ladakh-s-drass-salute-kargil-war-heroes-101634254467727.html
15-10-2021||India||Monsoon to complete its withdrawal today||The monsoon withdrew from most parts of the country on Thursday, largely sticking to its usual schedule despite a late start to the withdrawal.It now covers only a small portion of Odisha, some parts of northeast India, and southern Maharashtra. The normal date for its withdrawal from the entire country is October 15.The monsoon started withdrawing very late this year, on October 6 against the normal date of September 17, but then withdrew rapidly from different parts of the country, according to scientists.“We can say the monsoon’s withdrawal is complete when the withdrawal line reaches 15 degree latitude. We are close to that line. Very small portions of Goa, Maharashtra and the North-East are left. Two low pressure areas have developed over Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal which will bring rain to parts of central and east India but that cannot be categorised as monsoon rain,” said K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre.With the withdrawal of the monsoon, the northern plains get ready for the onset of winter, although, in recent years, this has also meant an increase in air pollution.The monsoon will completely withdraw by Friday, an expert said, but rains could continue over some parts of the country. “The monsoon is expected to completely withdraw during the next 24 hours. But due to the interaction of a western disturbance lying over north Pakistan and a low pressure area near Odisha coast which will travel inwards, scattered rain is expected over Uttar Pradesh and Delhi NCR and heavy rain over Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand between Saturday to Monday,” explained Mahesh Palawat, vice president (climate change and meteorology), Skymet Weather.And when the rain stops, he added, minimum temperatures are likely to drop over northwest India even as the northeast monsoon sets in over peninsular India. “We can expect pollution levels to increase over northwest India when wind direction changes to northwesterly once again October 18 onwards,” Palawat added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-to-complete-its-withdrawal-today-101634251106561.html
15-10-2021||India||Congress finalises succession plan for House panels||The Congress party, which has struggled to effect a smooth succession plan for organisational positions, seems to have managed the process efficiently in its parliamentary wings.Senior Congress leader Abhishek Singhvi’s shift from the defence panel to the standing committee on home affairs is the latest evidence of this, a senior Congress leader pointed out. Singhvi, who headed the parliamentary panel on Personnel, Public Grievances, Law and Justice between August 2011 and April 2012, is slated to replace Anand Sharma, the current chairman of the panel on home affairs next year.“It was a deliberate move to bring him from defence panel, an equally important committee, to the committee on home,” confirmed a second senior leader. Anand Sharma, the deputy leader of the Congress in Rajya Sabha, will retire from his current term in April next year.The convention is for parties to write to the Parliament secretariat , requesting that a certain member be moved from one panel to another.In this case, the move may be needed because it may be difficult for Sharma to immediately re-enter the house, from Himachal Pradesh (where he was elected from to the Rajya Sabha) which is currently ruled by the BJP.In April, his lone seat will be up for grabs in the biennial Rajya Sabha election from the hilly state, putting the BJP at a clear advantage. MLAs of a state vote to elect Rajya Sabha members.The situation is similar to that of former union minister Mallikarjun Kharge’s nomination to Rajya Sabha in July 2020.As Ghulam Nabi Azad was retiring in March 2021, the Congress brought Kharge into the Upper House to ensure a smooth transition. Azad, a popular face of the Congress, is yet to return to the Upper House as the J&K legislative body has been dissolved after the bifurcation of the state into two Union territories and the Congress has not been able to find any opportunity from any other state to bring him back.While both Azad and Sharma are among the 23 letter leaders who wrote to Congress president Sonia Gandhi in 2019 seeking wholesale change in the functioning of the party, the former J&K chief minister has been given key responsibilities by the party.He was part of the delegation to Rashtrapati Bhavan on Wednesday to submit a memorandum to the President over the incident at Lakhimpur Kheri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-finalises-succession-plan-for-house-panels-101634250128965.html
15-10-2021||India||‘Could revoke Art 370 because had clear majority’: Amit Shah makes a point in Goa||PANAJI: Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday asked Bharatiya Janata Party workers in Goa to raise the bar and set their sights on getting a complete majority in next year’s assembly elections on its own, a feat that the BJP has achieved only once in the past.Shah said it is only when the BJP has a complete majority that it can provide a decisive government.“Why do we need a complete majority? How do two MLAs more, or less matter? It makes a difference. You tell me if Modi hadn’t got a complete majority, would the Ram Janmabhoomi temple be built in Ayodhya? If there was no full majority, would we have been able to revoke Article 370? If there was no full majority, would we have been able to take India on a path of development?” Shah said in his address at a convention of BJP workers.Nudging party workers to target getting a “complete majority’ was a recurring theme in Amit Shah’s address on Thursday. The only occasion when the BJP secured a majority on its own in Goa was in the 2012 general elections when the party won 21 of the state assembly’s 40 seats, while the Congress got just 9 seats.In the 2017 elections, the Congress emerged as the largest single party with 17 seats but was slow to tie up alliances to come close to the majority mark of 21, as compared with the BJP which won 13 seats but secured enough support from the newly-elected MLAs to clear the trust vote. Over the next few years, the BJP’s strength was bolstered by inducting 13 MLAs from the Congress and 2 from the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) to raise the party’s tally to 27.At Thursday’s convention, Shah continued to convince the local BJP workers to focus on the ambitious target.“Everyone says double engine government (with BJP both in power in the Centre and the state). You form a double-engine government, but some compartments are falling short. Am I right or wrong? We do not want a government with fewer compartments. Step into the electoral fray to bring a government with a complete majority. Complete majority means stability, complete majority means the right to govern without hassles, complete majority means the right to rule corruption free, complete majority means the ability to implement antyodaya (compassion for the lowliest) principles,” Shah told a convention of around a thousand party workers. This is not important just for the BJP, but for Goa too, he said turning to the state’s voters.“Why should we be concerned about aaya raams gaya raams. Elect a government with a complete majority, and it will be our responsibility to double the speed of development…. It comes with many advantages; it also leads to transparency. Modi was able to transform India because of a government with complete majority, in 7 years, just 7 years against the Congress’ 60 years,” Shah said, appealing to the coastal state’s electorate to elect a BJP government.“Goa is already a model state, but we will make it a kind of model state which you may have not even imagined. It is a small state, it just needs some effort and one direction. It can only happen when there is a complete majority,” Shah said. Shah advised party workers to focus on polling booths where the party didn’t do well the last time.“We will have to explain to them how governments used to function with the help of horse-trading and corruption. Look at the transformation today. There is no sign of corruption,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/could-revoke-art-370-because-had-clear-majority-amit-shah-makes-a-point-in-goa-101634241832892.html
15-10-2021||India||Mathews Mar Severios elected supreme head of Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church||Thiruvalla Dr Mathews Mar Severios was on Thursday elected as the supreme head of the Kerala-based 2.5 million strong Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church.Severios succeeded Baselios Mar Thomas Poulose II, who passed away in July this year. The 72-year-old priest will be the new Catholicos and Malankara Metropolitan--the religious titles of the supreme head of the church.He was elected unanimously at the meeting of the Malankara Syrian Christian Association, an apex body comprising priests and laity representatives from all parishes under the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church.The meeting was held virtually and was attended by 3091 representatives from across the world, a church spokesman said.“There was only one candidate. There was no voting”, the Kottayam-headquartered Church’s spokesperson Fr Johns Abraham Konat told PTI after the election process got over at Parumala near here.Severios will be ordained as the Catholicos at a ritualistic function to be held later. His new name will also be declared then, he said.The date of his ordination as Catholicos will be decided at the ongoing Synod of the church.According to the Church, the word ‘Catholicos’ means “the general head” or “general bishop” and it can be considered as equivalent to “universal Bishop”.”This title and rank is much more ancient than the title Patriarch in the church”, the Church claims.All the metropolitans of the Church including Severios were present at Parumala during the election process while other members participated in the process virtually from across the world.Severios’s election to the supreme post of the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church came as he was serving as the Metropolitan of the Diocese of Kandanad West of the church.Born in 1949 in Vazhoor near Kottayam, Severios took graduation in Chemistry from Kerala University before joining Orthodox Seminary, Kottayam. After completing his religious education in India, he pursued his higher studies in theology at the Theological Academy, Leningrad, Russia. Later he joined Oriental Institute, Rome, and completed his MTh and PhD from there.Ordained a deacon in 1976 and a priest in 1978, Severios was elevated to the post of an Episcopa in 1991 and metropolitan in 1993.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mathews-mar-severios-elected-supreme-head-of-malankara-orthodox-syrian-church-101634240093340.html
15-10-2021||India||AP fulfils part obligation on Krishna projects||AmaravatiThe Andhra Pradesh government on Thursday issued an order handing over only four irrigation projects on the Krishna river that fell under the state jurisdiction to the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) in compliance with a gazette notification issued by the Union jal shakti ministry in July this year.The AP government, however, attached a rider that the handing over of the projects be done “simultaneously only,” implying that neighbouring Telangana too fulfil its similar obligation as per the notification.In addition, AP water resources secretary J Syamala Rao attached a note to the KRMB chairman, requesting that necessary action be taken with respect to Jurala project, under Telangana jurisdiction, on the upstream of the Krishna that affects inflows into Srisailam reservoir.Syamala Rao requested that the KRMB take over all projects of both states, including the ongoing ones upon completion, that affect inflows into the common reservoirs and that draw water directly from them.The Union jal shakti ministry issued the notification on July 15, as per the AP Reorganisation Act, 2014, fixing the jurisdictions of the Godavari River Management Board and the Krishna River Management Board.The notification said the KRMB would exercise jurisdiction over the projects and its components like head works (barrages, dams, reservoirs, regulating structures), part of canal network and transmission lines on the Krishna.“While the state governments of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana shall be responsible for managing natural calamities, the KRMB shall advise the two state governments on the management of disaster or drought or flood in the river Krishna, particularly in reference to the release of water for the management and mitigation of the natural calamities,” the notification said.The notification formally came into force on Thursday.The AP government, however, agreed to immediately hand over only the Srisailam project spillway and river sluices, Pothireddypadu head regulator and Srisailam Right Main Canal, Handri-Neeva lift irrigation scheme and the Muchumarri lift irrigation scheme to the KRMB.It also agreed to transfer the posts sanctioned in various cadres and respective field offices under these four projects to the Central body.At a special meeting of the KRMB in Hyderabad two days ago, the AP government insisted on including the powerhouses on the Krishna, the main bone of contention between the two states, in the prioritised list for handing over to the board.“AP is ready for prioritised implementation of the (Jal Shakti) notification but truncated implementation with exclusion of powerhouses will not be acceptable,” the state water resources secretary asserted at the board meeting.The board decided that “all direct outlets (components) from the main reservoirs of Srisailam and Nagarjuna Sagar projects which are listed under Schedule-II of the gazette notification may be prioritised by respective state governments for handing over to the KRMB by October 14, 2021.” The KRMB prioritised 15 projects in both states for handing over, including the two main powerhouses each under AP and Telangana control.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ap-fulfils-part-obligation-on-krishna-projects-101634239853163.html
15-10-2021||India||Twitter feud over ‘moral policing’: Siddaramaiah slams Karnataka CM Bommai for ‘loose remark’||Lashing out at chief minister Basavaraj Bommai for accusing him of getting Hindus killed, former chief minister and leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Thursday said that he can file a defamation case against the chief minister but is just advising him to correct himself.“Mr @BSBommai, like an ignorant, you have alleged that I got Hindus killed.Being @CMofKarnataka, you should have thought (it) through before making such loose comments. I can file a defamation case for this but I will just advise you to correct yourself,” Siddaramaiah said in a post on Twitter.He was reacting to the statements made by Bommai before the media on Wednesday wherein he appeared to be justifying moral policing and communal violence in the state. The CM even slammed Siddaramaiah on Twitter.“While you were the CM, you became the icon of anti Hindus by getting killed Hindu activists as Tipu Sultan did in his regime, I need not learn administration or policing from you, we have an able police force to tackle the law and order which was sitting Ducks under ur government,” Bommai had stated in his response to Siddaramaiah’s series of tweets on Wednesday.Siddaramaiah further went to say, “Mr @BSBommai, You have said that you need not learn administration or policing from me. Thank you. Had you learnt anything from your father Shri S R Bommai or me, you would not have joined a communal party just for power & support anti-constitutional activities,” Siddaramaiah posted on twitter.The former chief minister said that he never expected such “loose comments” from Bommai and that the latter was trying to make such statements to please the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) by “deviating from facts and logic”.“Mr @BSBommai, Like anti-social elements, you may be emotionally bankrupt and continue to light communal fires for political gains. But true Hindus are intelligent enough to see through your act of treason!! Initiate investigation based on the report released by our party,” Siddaramaiah said in his post on Thursday.Bommai had courted controversy with his statements that appeared to justify incidents of moral policing and communal violence on Wednesday.“There are several sentiments in the society. Those emotions should not be affected and such should be the behaviour. When such emotions are hurt there is likely to be an action and reaction,” Bommai said in Mangaluru, about 350 kms from Bengaluru on Wednesday.The statements come even as the number of instances relating to moral policing and communal violence have been increasing in the state.“Even youngsters should watch their actions to ensure it does not hurt sentiments of the society,” the CM had said, adding that there should be morality in the society and we cannot live without it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-feud-over-moral-policing-siddaramaiah-slams-karnataka-cm-bommai-for-loose-remark-101634239432612.html
15-10-2021||India||Actor Vijay’s fans win more 115 seats in Tamil Nadu local body polls||Chennai: Tamil actor Vijay has been hinting at his entry into politics for a decade and he silently tested waters in the recently concluded rural local body elections where members from his fan club have won in 115 of the 169 seats from where they contested, according results announced by the state election commission. Though the number is not big, this is the first time that members of the All Indian Thalapathy Vijay Makkal Iyakkam (AITVMI) contested an election and managed to outdo Kamal Hassan’s Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) and Seeman’s Naam Thamizhar Katchi (which emerged as the third largest party in the assembly elections) as they both drew a blank. The ruling DMK has trounced the opposition AIADMK in the 27,003 positions that were filled in the elections for which counting began on October 12. TVMI members have won in all the nine newly carved districts -- Kanchipuram, Chengalpattu, Kallakurichi, Villupuram, Ranipet, Tirupattur, Tenkasi and Tirunelveli -- where two-phase elections were conducted on October 6 and 9. N Anand, the general secretary of AITVMI, said that the 115 seats they won included the post of a panchayat president in Vannur union in Villupuram district by one of their women candidates, Savithri. Vijay is the president of the AITVMI which was founded about 25 years ago and all of the actor’s fan clubs come under the umbrella association which has more than 1 million members, he added. Anand, known more by his prefix ‘Bussy’, was a former MLA from the Bussy constituency in neighbouring Puducherry where he belonged to the All India NR Congress which is currently ruling the union territory.Though the fans contested as independent candidates, actor Vijay allowed them to use his picture and the AITVMI flag during the campaign.This election performance is also surprising in part because there has been no announcements, campaigns from the actor even as he moved court against his parents seeking a bar on them from launching anything political by using his name. In September Vijay filed a petition in a Chennai city court against his father and film director, S A Chandrasekhar, and mother Shoba Sekar for trying to register an outfit, Vijay Makkal Iyakkam, with the Election Commission of India. He issued a public statement that he had no links with this outfit in November 2020 and he went to court this September seeking a restraint against them from conducting meetings or carrying out other activities in his name.In Tamil Nadu, which has pioneered for generations of silver screen idols to switch over to politics successfully, Vijay’s place has been widely anticipated. In chronological order, MG Ramachandran was able to straddle both films and politics as he remained chief minister until his death while his contemporary Sivaji Ganesan was a failure in politics. In contemporary times, while Kamal Haasan has been contesting elections since 2019, his peer Rajinikanth after several fits and starts backtracked from floating a party just ahead of the April 6 assembly elections. Vijay is often pitted against actor Ajith Kumar and the latter has also issued a public statement that he will always steer clear of politics. Another actor who tasted early success emerging as an alternative to the Dravidian parties but lost his way is Vijayakanth whose party, Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam, was the second largest in the 2011 elections but won just one seat in the rural local polls. “Our time will come. Until then work tirelessly,” he told his party cadre in a statement on Thursday. Vijay, like his predecessors MGR and Rajinikanth, enjoys a mass appeal particularly among young men in Tamil Nadu and the neighbouring state of Kerala. Vijay has been thorny for the BJP because of his film dialogues against the BJP-led union government’s introduction of GST. State BJP leaders targeted him for being a Christian and in a couple of years I-T sleuths raided premises linked to him which his supporters called political vendetta as the searches didn’t find anything significant. On the day of assembly elections, Vijay cycled to his polling booth which was read as him protesting the high fuel prices although the actor distanced himself from that speculation. “The rural youngsters consider Vijay as a crusader,” says political analyst Maalan Narayanan. “It’s history repeating itself. Before the 2011 assembly elections, Vijayakanth also asked his fan club members to contest in the rural local body polls even before forming his political party and they did well. Similarly, for Vijay, the idea is to test the waters ahead of the bigger elections.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/actor-vijay-s-fans-win-more-115-seats-in-tamil-nadu-local-body-polls-101634239372635.html
15-10-2021||India||Karnataka logs 310 fresh Covid-19 cases, 6 deaths||Bengaluru Karnataka on Thursday added 310 new cases of Covid-19 and 6 deaths, taking the total number of infections to 2,982,399 and death toll to 37,922, the health department said.The day also saw 347 discharges, pushing the total number of recoveries to 29,34,870.Bengaluru Urban accounted for 148 new cases as the city saw 82 discharges and 2 deaths.Total number of active cases in the state is at 9,578.While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.26 per cent, case fatality rate (CFR) was at 1.93 per cent.Apart from Bengaluru Urban, Bidar, Chitradurga, Kodagu and Raichur recorded one death each.After Bengaluru Urban, Dakhsina Kannada logged 40 fresh infections, Mysuru 27, Hassan 15, Uttara Kannada 10, followed by others.Bengaluru Urban district now has a total of 12,48,892 positive cases, followed by Mysuru 1,78,616 and Tumakuru 1,20,507.Bengaluru Urban tops the list in discharges too with 12,26,049, followed by Mysuru 1,75,824 and Tumakuru 1,19,095.Cumulatively a total of 49,178,421 samples have been tested of which 114,967 were tested on Thursday alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-logs-310-fresh-covid-19-cases-6-deaths-101634239324667.html
15-10-2021||India||Flooding in Bengaluru part of man-made problem: Experts||Bengaluru: The recent flooding in Bengaluru, experts said, is part of human-made problem as rains have been a constant feature in the city’s history, raising questions if the civic bodies have got their act together while approving major infrastructure projects.MN Srihari, a retired civil servant, expert on urban infrastructure and policy, on Thursday said that rains have been an integral part of the city but the bigger question is why flooding is happening only in recent years.“A lot of projects and houses have been built above the lakes. Dried rains do not have rain in summer but attract rains during monsoons,” he said, adding that the water has nowhere to flow.He added that cutting trees which traps a significant amount of water; and concretisation has exacerbated the challenges not only in Bengaluru but other parts of the world as well. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has denied that there has been any flooding in the city and heavy rains sometimes tends to leave water in one place for sometime before it naturally drains out.Gaurav Gupta, BBMP chief commissioner said that heavy rains tend to loosen soil and cause structural damage.Srihari said that when rain water accumulates in the soil which were earlier lake beds, the soil tends to be affected, causing structural damages and adds to the possibility of them collapsing.Not monitoring engineering process, structural integrity and giving approvals to buildings on any piece of land, Srihari said, was adding to the risk in a city that has grown rapidly and in an unplanned manner, encroaching everything in its path to accommodate the needs of the increasing population.V Ravichandar, an urban infrastructure expert, said that several of these buildings have many violations which is against the building plan approval.From around 1.2 million population in 1960, Bengaluru is now home to over 12 million people with most of the spike being seen since 2006.Bengaluru has seen at least six buildings collapse since the last week of September with at least 400 more that need to be brought down at the earliest.Gupta said that apart from the 185 dilapidated buildings identified in its survey in 2019, only 10 have been demolished so far. On Thursday he said that there are at least 300 more such buildings identified in the rapid survey carried out this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flooding-in-bengaluru-part-of-man-made-problem-experts-101634239312751.html
15-10-2021||India||No respite for Bengaluru as heavy rains continue to wreak havoc||As heavy rains continue to lash Bengaluru, several areas were inundated leaving homes, cars and property submerged along with the lives and livelihoods of people residing in low-lying areas of the city. Since the beginning of October, Bengaluru has received 77% more rain at 140 mm as against the normal 79 mm, the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC) said. At least 21 lives have been lost till now since October, it said. Videos of the flooded basements and homes surfaced on Thursday with people sitting on elevated objects to avoid the water. There was at least three feet of water in several basements, damaging cars and other valuables. On Wednesday night, the overflow from Madiwala lake entered basements of homes and apartments, damaging cars, disrupting electricity and other valuables. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), however, said that there has been no flooding in the city and it has been less noticeable compared to earlier years. “There has been no flooding this year and almost very less noticeable this year,” Gaurav Gupta, the chief commissioner of the BBMP told Hindustan Times on Thursday. Gupta said that after heavy rains, water remains on roads for a couple of hours and drains out on its own. As citizens continues to face the brunt, social media was flooded with videos of people and their property inundated as heavy downpour continue to batter the city since the beginning of the month, which is said to be the highest in decades. Meanwhile, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places over Karnataka for the next three days. Earlier on Monday, the city started witnessing heavy rainfall which later cause a flood-like situation. Several areas, including the Kempegowda International Airport (KIAL), were waterlogged following heavy rainfall in the city. Bengaluru houses over 12 million people or nearly a quarter of Karnataka’s population and its rapid and unplanned expansion has led to encroachment of lakes, storm water drains and other natural wetlands that traps the water on concretised roads, damaging more than it can benefit. Officials from the KSNDMC said that the rules of disaster management applies even to Bengaluru during rains with ex-gratia paid to the families of people who have lost their lives, damaged homes and other repairs. The Karnataka government pays ₹5 lakh for a full demolished home in a city where the average per square feet cost is around ₹4,000-5,000. There have been at least six buildings that have collapsed in Bengaluru since the last week of September with two collapsing just on Wednesday. There have been several people who have lost their homes as buildings continue to collapse in the city on account of poor construction, low maintenance, violation of plan approvals and not following basic civil engineering principles. “What happened is that due to continuous downpour at a number of places, the soil and the strata have got saturated with water which has led to some kind of weakening of the binding strength of the soil or load that has led to certain building wall collapse,” Gupta said. Gupta said that there were 185 buildings that were in a dilapidated condition when the city corporation carried out a survey in 2019 of which only 10 have been demolished so far. The city corporation ordered a rapid survey on September 29 which has shown that an additional 300 buildings require urgent attention. Gupta said that the BBMP will not advise on how a building must be built as it would be difficult for the officials to vet every building in the city. He said that the BBMP can’t just tear down a structure and will have to serve notices to owners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-respite-for-bengaluru-as-heavy-rains-continue-to-wreak-havoc-101634239073739.html
15-10-2021||India||Internal rumblings within the Congress in Karnataka as top leadership fight for dominance||Congress leaders in Karnataka casting aspersions on state president DK Shivakumar is adding to the growing challenge for the party, people aware of the development said. In a video, which has now gone viral, KPCC media coordinator MA Saleem and former Lok Sabha MP VS Ugrappa were caught on camera discussing an alleged corruption scandal of Shivakumar right before a press conference was to be addressed. The leaders thought they were whispering to each other, but the conversation was picked up on news channels’ microphones in front of them.Shivakumar on Thursday maintained his composure by not reacting harshly to the incident that has given more fodder to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to attack the Congress in the state.“Whoever wanted to talk, they have spoken. Whoever wanted to use it, whichever way, they have done so. I don’t blame BJP, media or anyone else,” Shivakumar said.The Congress was quick to expel Saleem, who was heard calling Shivakumar a “collection giraki” (a slang for corruption), for six years while Ugrappa, considered close to Siddaramaiah, has been served only a show-cause notice.Saleem on Thursday told local news channels that he regretted the entire episode and feigned innocence. He also said that he was a member of the KPCC and the bylaws indicate that he had to be served a notice before being expelled from the party.“I am embarrassed about the incident and it saddens me to show my face to Shivakumar. He is like a god to us. If I get an opportunity, I will apologise to him,” he said.The developments raise questions if all is well within the Congress party, in which the two tallest leaders, Shivakumar and Siddaramaiah, have been involved in a cold war of sorts for dominance within the party.Siddaramaiah was the chief minister of Karnataka between 2013-15 and wants to be projected as the chief ministerial candidate again for the 2023 assembly elections. Legislators who support the leader have made overt statements such as calling Siddaramaiah the next “chief minister”. Shivakumar, too, nurses the ambition of taking up the top job if Congress does manage to secure a majority in the 224-seater assembly.There is a clear line of differences within the Congress with the president and leader of the opposition (Siddaramaiah) on either side. Several other factions within Congress have blunted their attacks on the BJP and its strategy in recent elections.The BJP, Congress and Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S) have intensified their attacks against each other in the run-up to the polls in Hanagal and Sindgi on October 30, in which all three parties are testing waters before the yet-to-be-announced Zilla and Panchayat polls and the 2023 assembly elections.People aware of the developments do not write off the possibility that the entire episode was part of the Siddaramaiah camp to undermine Shivakumar and his authority.Repeated questions by the media to Shivakumar of the possibility that this entire episode was pre-meditated did not yield any specific response. One party legislator said that the conspiracy was a “possibility” and another worker said that this shows the collapse of the KPCC and Shivakumar losing control of the party. “The KPCC has become a den of gossip and no one come there to work for the party anymore,” said one person aware of the developments, requesting anonymity. There were reports that Saleem was getting threat calls from workers after the incident. A woman Congress worker was seen abusing Ugrappa after the incident on Wednesday.“It’s not about me and the party,” Shivakumar said, adding that he did not know of any threats.The infighting within Congress has given the BJP a free run in the state despite their troubles that began with BS Yediyurappa and refuse to die down even after the 78-year-old stepped down as chief minister on July 26, only to be replaced by Basavaraj Bommai, who has been in the party for just 13 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/internal-rumblings-within-the-congress-in-karnataka-as-top-leadership-fight-for-dominance-101634239012640.html
15-10-2021||India||SIT to record statement of Italy-based woman from Kerala in Monson Mavunkal case||The special investigation team (SIT) probing the deals of arrested Kochi-based antique collector Monson Mavunkal on Thursday decided to record the statement of Italy-based Malayali woman Anitha Pullayil who reportedly introduced many senior police officers to the alleged conman. Later, he used his connection with the officers to cheat and intimidate gullible antique buyers. A senior SIT officer said her statement was crucial in the ongoing investigation and she has been asked come to Kochi to record it. After a series of cheating cases surfaced against Mavunkal; she appeared in a couple of Malayalam news channels saying that she advised many people allegedly conned by him to approach the police. Pullayil also said she was not aware of the shady deals of Mavunkal and stayed away from him after she got an inkling regarding some of them. “We feel her statement is important for further investigation. So we issued a notice to her,” said a senior officer of the SIT who did not want to be named. Officers expect questioning Pullayil will help unravel more about his shady deals. Mavunkal was arrested on September 26 after five businessmen approached chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s office complaining that they were cheated by him of ₹10 crore by promising shares in the upcoming international antique museums in Kochi and Thiruvananthapuram. Later, several other businessmen filed cheating complaints against him and a rape survivor also alleged that he had threatened her to withdraw the complaint against her tormentor. She said Mavunkal threatened to release her “inappropriate pictures and video” if she failed to withdraw the case. After several complaints cropped up, the government constituted a special investigation team under Additional Director General of Police S Sreejith. After his arrest, shocking details of cover up and laxity came to light. Many police officers were regular at his house and museum and there was even a police beat box outside his house where the patrol party would have to sign frequently. He also ran a cosmetology clinic in Kochi. However, his degree was found to be fake. After his photos with state Congress president K Sudhakaran surfaced, the leader said that he knew him personally and sought treatment from him but was not aware of his shady deals. The order of former police chief Loknath Behra giving directions to open a police booth outside his house was also leaked later. In the order, he mentioned that Mavunkal’s house- cum- museum holds many priceless antiques and it was worth giving police security. In one of the photos, Behra was seen sitting on a throne which Mavunkal said he obtained from descendents of Mysore king Tipu Sultan. All complaints against Mavunkal including intelligence reports were hushed up with the help of officers close to him. One inspector general of police, a DIG, two SPs and two station house officers are under scanner now. A motivational speaker, doctor, cosmetologist, art promoter, peacenik and human rights activist Mavunkal, only a matriculate, had donned many roles for more than five years and hoodwinked many. In 2019 the state intelligence had stated that Mavunkal was a fraudster and a high-level probed needed against him but thanks to his high connections nothing happened. In his YouTube videos he claimed that he owns many antique pieces like Mysore emperor Tipu Sultan’s throne, silver coins Judas received for betraying Jesus Christ, Soloman- era gold coins and rare books on Maratha warrior Shivaji and Mughal emperor Aurangazeb. He also claimed that he is a German-trained cosmetologist and treated many VIPs. There are also reports that many cine personalities frequented him quite often. Later police found that most of these antique were made in Kerala and Tamil Nadu by local craftsmen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sit-to-record-statement-of-italy-based-woman-from-kerala-in-monson-mavunkal-case-101634238952485.html
15-10-2021||India||Centre considers domestic operating system to boost cybersecurity infrastructure||The ministry of electronics and information technology is discussing creating a domestic operating system, to boost the government’s capabilities to deal with potential internal and external threats as it formulates a comprehensive cybersecurity framework, officials familiar with the matter said.“Microsoft, Apple have their own cybersecurity infrastructure from the primary layer onwards and have software to protect stored data,” an official said on condition of anonymity. “The government can build an operating system for itself to ensure protection from the primary level.”The Centre is also discussing setting up a dedicated team of professionals to evaluate how the infrastructure needs to evolve to keep with the latest developments in the technological field. “With the advent of 5G, internet of things and growth in cybercrime, there will be a reckoning,” a second official said. “There is a need for a more comprehensive framework that not only addresses national security threats but also other considerations such how the advent of such technologies will impact the citizens of the country.”The first official said it’s not just the primary layer, or the OS, that needs to be indigenous but also the software used for cybersecurity. To be sure, the idea is still at the stage of discussions.Kazim Rizvi, founder of think tank, The Dialogue, said the government should consider customising open source software based on its security requirements, rather than developing a new OS from scratch, as that may not be a practically viable option. “Open source software benefits from continuous scrutiny and improvements made by the community of programmers,” he saidRizvi added that the German government supports open standards and uses free open source Linux software for all its official purposes.HT in April reported several instances in which government domain email addresses were used to launch cyberattacks and the discovery of critical vulnerabilities in some government servers, underscoring the need for the country’s digital infrastructure to be made more secure. There have also been several data leaks, including one from Air India on the data of customers registered between August 26, 2011 and February 20 this year and including details such as name, date of birth, contact information, passport information and ticket information.The government has also started cybersecurity training for all officials. “There are many channels that transmit data, we have under sea cables, we have satellites in the sky, India really needs to upgrade its framework to deal with the vast amount of data being circulated,” the second official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-considers-domestic-operating-system-to-boost-cybersecurity-infrastructure-101634238352497.html
15-10-2021||India||Farmers loot fertilisers amid shortage in MP||Farmers looted bags of DAP fertiliser from a warehouse in the third such incident in Chambal division of Madhya Pradesh in the last five days, police said. There is an acute shortage of DAP, especially in the northern parts of the state just before the winter crop sowing season and farmers are becoming desperate, they added.The farmers in the region have also resorted to blocking roads, demanding distribution of DAP. Most of the warehouses are almost empty and the supply is not in consonance with the demand, said local government officials.Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday said there was no shortage of fertiliser in the state. MP requires 4 lakh tonne of DAP for the Rabi season and the state has already received 2.5 lakh tonne, the CM said.Home minister Narottam Mishra, however, said on Thursday that there were reports of illegal hoarding and supply of substandard fertilisers in DAP bags and the government has decided to invoke national security act (NSA) against the businessman for black marketing and illegal hoarding of fertiliser.On Monday farmers, who were waiting in the queue in grain market in Sabalgarh in Morena, looted more than 50 bags of fertiliser from a truck, police said. Police said a group of farmers stole fertiliser bags from warehouses of cooperative societies in Fup and Mehgaon area of Bhind in two separate incidents. An FIR has been registered only in one of these cases, said police.Bhind superintendent of police Manoj Kumar Singh suspended Fup police station in-charge Anita Gurjar for not registering FIR and taking action against farmers who stole fertilizers on Saturday night.State officials and experts said the major reasons behind the crisis are changes in crop pattern, black marketing and farmers defaulting on loan repayments. Farmers are eligible for fertiliser at subsidised rates only if they have repaid loans.Agriculture expert Vinayak Tomar said: “ 61% of total mustard production of the state takes place in Morena, Bhind, Sheopur and Gwalior. With the sudden increase in the price of mustard from ₹4800 per quintal to ₹8000/per quintal, many farmers, who used to sow wheat and bajra, have started sowing mustard for winter crop also. Mid-September and October is the best time for sowing mustard so the demand for fertiliser has increased suddenly.”Then there is black marketing.“The (state) agriculture department gives fertilisers to cooperative societies according to the agricultural land of registered farmers. There is a ban on open sale of fertilisers from the societies to stop black marketing in UP and Rajasthan (the fertiliser from the state is illegally shipped there). Similarly, societies are not providing fertilisers to defaulter farmers, who have not cleared their loans,” said Shiv Mangal Singh, former president of district cooperative bank in Morena. He added that the DAP has premium rate of ₹1200 per bag but being sold at ₹1500.Gwalior and Morena district administration raided warehouses of two traders in past two days and recovered more than 200 bags, which were being hoarded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-loot-fertilisers-amid-shortage-in-mp-govt-to-invoke-nsa-against-hoarders-101634238234471.html
15-10-2021||India||India slips to 101st rank in Global Hunger Index 2021; behind Pak, Bangladesh||India has slipped to 101st position in the Global Hunger Index (GHI) 2021 of 116 countries, from its 2020 position of 94th and is behind its neighbours Pakistan, Bangladesh and Nepal.Eighteen countries, including China, Brazil and Kuwait, shared the top rank with GHI score of less than five, the website of the Global Hunger Index that tracks hunger and malnutrition said on Thursday.The report, prepared jointly by Irish aid agency Concern Worldwide and German organisation Welt Hunger Hilfe, termed the level of hunger in India “alarming”.In 2020, India was ranked 94th out of 107 countries. Now with 116 countries in the fray, it has dropped to 101st rank.India’s GHI score has also decelerated -- from 38.8 in 2000 to the range of 28.8 - 27.5 between 2012 and 2021.The GHI score is calculated on four indicators --undernourishment; child wasting (the share of children under the age of five who are wasted i.e who have low weight for their height, reflecting acute undernutrition); child stunting (children under the age of five who have low height for their age, reflecting chronic undernutrition) and child mortality (the mortality rate of children under the age of five).The share of wasting among children in India rose from 17.1 per cent between 1998-2002 to 17.3 per cent between 2016-2020, according to the report.“People have been severely hit by COVID-19 and by pandemic related restrictions in India, the country with highest child wasting rate worldwide,” the report said.Neighbouring countries like Nepal (76), Bangladesh (76), Myanmar (71) and Pakistan (92) are also in the ‘alarming’ hunger category, but have fared better at feeding its citizens than India, according to the report.However, India has shown improvement in other indicators such as the under-5 mortality rate, prevalence of stunting among children and prevalence of undernourishment owing to inadequate food, the report said.According to the report, the fight against hunger is dangerously off track. Based on the current GHI projections, the world as a whole -- and 47 countries in particular -- will fail to achieve a low level of hunger by 2030.Food security is under assault on multiple fronts, it said, adding that worsening conflict, weather extremes associated with global climate change, and the economic and health challenges associated with the COVID19 pandemic are all driving hunger.“Inequality -- between regions, countries, districts, and communities -- is pervasive and, (if) left unchecked, will keep the world from achieving the Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) mandate to “leave no one behind,” the report said.Further, the report noted that it is difficult to be optimistic in 2021 because the forces now driving hunger are overpowering good intentions and lofty goals.Among the most powerful and toxic of these forces are conflict, climate change, and COVID-19—three Cs that threaten to wipe out any progress that has been made against hunger in recent years, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-slips-to-101st-rank-in-global-hunger-index-2021-behind-pakistan-bangladesh-and-nepal-101634238112321.html
15-10-2021||India||Death in a Prayagraj math: Tension, confusion linger on the Ganga’s banks||In the heart of Prayagraj city lies the sprawling 10-acre campus of the Baghambadi Gaddi math. On the banks of the Ganga and just 3km from the Sangam – the confluence of the Ganga, Yamuna and the mythical Saraswati, one of Hinduism’s holiest sites – the campus’s high walls fence off around 100 ascetics and students of Hindu theology from the rest of the noisy city.Mango, guava, lemon and neem trees abound on the leafy campus, which also houses a temple and a Sanksrit college. Days begin at 5am with prayers and chanting of hymns, and end around 8.30pm with communal meals at the dining hall that can seat 500 people.Despite the unassuming appearance, the math is one of the most powerful seats of Hinduism and controls property and assets upwards of ₹1,000 crore – including plots, maths, temples and educational institutions in Prayagraj, Mirzapur, Haridwar, Ujjain, and Bhopal. Its chief priest controls several influential shrines, including the Bade Hanuman Temple, the most popular pilgrim spot in Prayagraj.Nowadays, however, the mood at the math is subdued. Many ascetics in residence have left, and classes suspended. Armed policemen stand guard outside and math workers, called sevadars, don’t greet outsiders anymore.The death of the powerful chief priest, Mahant Narendra Giri, on September 20 by alleged suicide, the controversies surrounding his former number 2, Anand Giri, the whispers of tussle over property and power, and the arrest of three people for allegedly pushing him to the brink of collapse, have left seers stunned and the atmosphere vitiated.A new chief priest, Balbir Giri, was appointed on October 5 but speculation over the veracity of Giri’s last will, suicide note, and the circumstances before his death, continue to swirl. The tension has even prevented the Akhada Parishad—the apex body of Hinduism’s 13 monastic orders – from naming its next chief.“There is palpable tension with workers, seers and saints being repeatedly questioned by CBI and every past and present dealings under the scanner,” said a sewadar, a worker at the math, who has been living on campus for eight years.The fateful dayOn September 20, Giri woke up as usual at 5am and spent an hour in mediation and yoga, according to his disciples. At 6.30am, he led all saints, disciples, servitors and staff of the math in offering prayers at the Lord Baghambeshwar Mahadev temple to Shiva located within the math. These prayers, held daily, were attended by around 250 students on the premises.But then he broke the routine and didn’t head to the Bade Hanuman temple at 8.30am. “He seemed normal and engrossed in his work as usual on his last day and no one had any inclination of what was to come,” said a second sewadar who has worked at the math for nine years.After lunch, he retired to his room around 1pm, and asked not to be woken him for tea, usually served at 4pm in his room.By 5pm, his disciples were growing uneasy. Evening prayers were upon them but there was no sign of Giri. Sumit Kumar, a sewadar, walked up to Giri’s room on the ground floor and knocked. There was no response.“When even loud knocking failed to evoke the response, the door which was bolted from inside was broken and we found him hanging from the hook of the ceiling fan by a rope,” said Sumit Kumar.He, along with other sevadars Sarvesh Dwivedi and Dhananjay cut the rope and laid him on the ground. “Despite our efforts, Maharaj remained unresponsive and we then informed the police,” he said. It was 5.25pm.Around 6pm, inspector general of Prayagraj range, KP Singh, reached the math and found a suicide note in the room. Almost immediately, the controversy began.Deeper conspiracy?On September 22, a post-mortem examination by a five-member panel of doctors concluded death by asphyxiation with no marks of external injuries. The same day, top seers dismissed the suicide note, hinting towards a deeper conspiracy.The eight-page note blamed three people: Giri’s once-protégé Anand Giri, the Bade Hanuman temple priest Aadya Tiwari and his son Sandeep. Giri wrote that Anand Giri fabricated some compromising photos and videos of the head priest with a woman, and planned to release them to mar his reputation.This set off suspicion. “This is not a letter written by the Maharaj (Mahant Narendra Giri) as he never used to pen anything so long,” said Niranjani Akhada chief Kailashanand Giri. Another top seer Ravindra Puri said Giri had a head injury and couldn’t have penned this note.Three weeks on, the doubts persist.Some seers say that the appointment of Balbir Giri – Giri named him as his successor in the note and in a video clip found on his mobile phone – indicated that people in the ashram were coming to terms that the top priest died by suicide.But others are not sure. Ravindra Puri said the seers reached a consensus to treat the note and Giri’s will as his last wish but felt the need to form a supervisory committee to decide on all future financial deals – from where the math draws its might.“It is still difficult to believe that a strong and outspoken person like Mahant Narendra Giri who had access to rich and powerful people got so upset and stressed by actions of his disciples that he took his own life. All eyes are now on CBI which hopefully would unravel the mystery once and for all,” said a senior saint of Niranjani Akhada on condition of anonymity.Officially, Giri’s cause of death is under probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation. A second investigation by the Akhada Parishad, too, remains inconclusive. Handwriting reports and forensic analysis of the note have not been made public.Questions remainGiri left his home in Chautauna village of Prayagraj district when he was 22 and joined the math. He quickly rose through the ranks, courtesy his strong ties to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and his math’s decisive influence during the Kumbh Mela, one of Hinduism’s holiest events. In 2019, when Prime Miniser Narendra Modi took a dip at the Sangam, Giri led the rituals.Giri burnished his credentials by advocating key political causes – the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya, a national population control bill, and cracking down on fake godmen.Giri’s advocate Rishi Shankar Dwivedi said the head priest made the first will on January 7, 2010 where he named Balbir Giri as his successor. But he made a revised will on August 29, 2011 and replaced Balbir with Anand. A third will was made on June 4, 2020 where Balbir was again named as the successor.“The will dated June 4, 2020 was signed by Narendra Giri in my presence and that is his last will, which is registered,” said Man Singh, one of the two witnesses to Giri’s last will.Still, many seers are waiting for CBI to make a final pronouncement on the death, and verify the note as genuine, before going back to usual chores at the math.Many say they are shaken by the death of the powerful godman, and admit that the scandal associated with Anand— he was expelled from the math in May by Giri for indiscipline, financial anomalies and breaking the rules of the monastic order — has hurt the math’s standing. “The recent developments have taken the focus away from the service being performed by it,” said Kailashanand Giri.The 35-year-old Balbir Giri faces a tough task in restoring calm.“I was pained by the sudden demise of my guru but I want to say that with the country’s top investigating agency probing the death, the truth behind it would come out, sooner or later,” he said. “I will put my decisions in front of my senior seers in the Akhara, and if they don’t agree, I will seek their guidance. If I am right, they would bless my decisions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/death-in-a-prayagraj-math-tension-confusion-linger-on-the-ganga-s-banks-101634237933299.html
15-10-2021||India||Gujarat: Woman tortured to death during exorcism ritual; five arrested||Dwarka: A 25-year-old woman was allegedly thrashed to death with a hot iron chain by an exorcist and some of her relatives during an exorcism ritual to “free her from the influence of an angry deity” in Gujarat’s Devbhumi-Dwarka district, police said on Thursday. The police have arrested all five accused involved in the alleged incident that took place on Wednesday, inspector P B Gadhvi said.According to the FIR, the victim Ramila Solanki and her husband Vala, who were residents of Arambhada village of Mithapur taluka, had come down to Okhamadhi village near Dwarka town to celebrate Navratri.“When the victim suddenly started shaking and behaving as if she had been possessed, exorcist Ramesh Solanki told others to beat her in order to free her from the influence of an angry deity. He warned that Ramila would kill everyone if they did not beat her. The accused started branding her with firewood,” the official said. The accused then allegedly took turns to thrash the victim using a hot iron chain, and eventually killed her, he said. Based on a complaint lodged by the victim’s husband, the police have arrested Ramesh Solanki and the woman’s relatives Arjun Solanki, Versi Solanki, Manu Solanki and Bhavesh Solanki on the charges of murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-woman-tortured-to-death-during-exorcism-ritual-five-arrested-101634237812321.html
15-10-2021||India||India backs fresh WHO probe into Covid origin||India on Thursday backed the World Health Organization’s (WHO) decision to create an expert group to examine the origins of new pathogens, including the coronavirus that causes Covid-19, and said all countries should cooperate with the probe.WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus announced the launch of the Scientific Advisory Group for the Origins of Novel Pathogens (Sago) at a news briefing on Wednesday, and Michael Ryan, executive director of WHO’s health emergencies programme, said this represented the “last chance” to determine the origins of Sars-CoV-2.Responding to WHO’s announcement, China warned against any “political manipulation” of the renewed probe into the origins of Covid-19.India has consistently backed all moves by WHO to establish the origins of the Covid-19 pandemic, which first emerged in Wuhan, China, and called on all stakeholders, including China, to cooperate with such efforts. External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi reiterated this position when he was asked about the new expert group at a regular news briefing on Thursday.“Let me just reiterate what we have stated till now – we have our interest in further studies and data on this issue of the origin [of the coronavirus] and the need for understanding and cooperation by all concerned,” he said, without naming China.The Indian side, he said, was gathering details of what the new move by WHO would entail.Raman Gangakhedkar, the Dr CG Pandit National Chair at the Indian Council of Medical Research in India, and Yungui Yang of the Beijing Institute of Genomics at the Chinese Academy of Sciences, are among the 26 members of Sago.Almost two years after it was first reported from Wuhan, the origins of Covid-19 are unclear, with scientists not being able to even find the so-called intermediary animal that was infected by the zoonotic virus, before it jumped to humans. In the case of the Sars epidemic in 2001-02, a bat virus first spread to civets, and then to people. In 2012, the Mers virus in West Asia similarly jumped from bats to camels to humans.The so-called lab-leak hypothesis has also gained currency because Wuhan is home to the Wuhan Institute of Virology, one of the world’s top coronavirus research facilities. While scientists were quick to endorse a natural origin theory early on, with Beijing seemingly stonewalling a proper enquiry, and an intermediary not being found, some experts started questioning the science behind the endorsement.Indeed, it is still not clear which of the two theories is the correct one — which makes the role of the new expert group that much more important.Asked about the new probe, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said it should be conducted in the “spirit of science” and not used as a political tool.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-backs-fresh-who-probe-into-covid-origin-101634237632539.html
15-10-2021||India||Govt makes elaborate plans to celebrate 1 billion jabs||Public announcements at airports, railways stations, shipping ports, bus stations and metro rails will be made at the moment when India administers a billion Covid-19 vaccine doses, said Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Thursday, highlighting elaborate plans by the government to mark the occasion.“The way the vaccination drive is going, we expect one billion-mark to be achieved either on October 18 or 19. There are a lot of activities planned to commemorate this momentous occasion,” Mandaviya said at a press meet. He kick-started the one billion doses celebrations by launching a coffee table book, documenting the efforts of Covid-19 warriors who contributed in India’s Covid fight.The total vaccine doses administered in the country crossed 970 million on Thursday, with 73% of all adults having received at least the first vaccine dose, and 30% having been fully vaccinated against Covid-19, said the health minister.The moment to mark the 1 billion doses is likely to be made more easier to track by a countdown that will likely be incorporated onto the Co-WIN dashboard, people aware of the plans said.The health ministry is also creating a dedicated hashtag— #VaccineCentury— to promote the occasion on social media. Also, a location is being finalised to install the tallest Indian flag created by the Khadi Board in the national Capital — the shortlist includes the Red Fort and the area between the North and the South Block.“People are excited about this milestone not just in India but globally also as many countries have shown interest in knowing how India has made it possible to jab so many people. The number of doses that we have already administered is even greater than the population of many countries,” said the minister.To be sure, India will need to deliver nearly 1.9 billion doses to the over 940 million estimated adult population eligible for a Covid-19 vaccine at the moment.Mandaviya said that private airline, Spicejet, will wrap its planes with posters of one billion vaccine doses with images of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and healthcare workers on the day the target of 1 billion doses is achieved.He also launched videos documenting efforts of Covid-19 warriors. From eight states, 13 Covid warriors, including doctors, ambulance drivers, volunteers and other healthcare workers have been identified as ‘Sentinels of the Soil’ and their experiences published in the book and through the videos.“As the vaccination drive picked up in India, the challenge was not only demographic but also topographic. The credit goes to the team of healthcare and frontline workers who took it upon themselves to ensure that everyone was covered. It was not an easy task as deep-rooted hesitancy had to be overcome and rampant myths about vaccination had to be countered. People have been working very hard to make this happen, and these people are an integral part of India’s Covid vaccine success story,” said the minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/announcements-at-airports-railways-stations-ports-govt-makes-elaborate-plans-to-celebrate-1-billion-covid-vaccine-doses-101634237392263.html
15-10-2021||India||Decision on Aryan’s bail plea in drug case on Oct 20: Court||A special court on Thursday posted the bail applications of Aryan Khan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmum Dhamecha to October 20, nearly 10 days after the three were arrested during a raid on a cruise ship by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB).Special Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) court judge V V Patil, who heard arguments over October 13 and 14, said he would pronounce his order on October 20.Khan, 23, son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan, was among eight people arrested on October 3 from Cordelia, a holiday cruise ship anchored in Mumbai that was set to leave for Goa later that evening.Following the raid in which 13 grams of cocaine, 5 grams of mephedrone, 21 grams of charas, and 22 pills of MDMA (ecstasy) and a sum of ₹1.33 lakh in cash was recovered, 20 people were arrested under various sections of the NDPS Act.Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Anil Singh, representing the NCB, argued that there was evidence to show that Khan was a regular consumer of drugs for the past few years. “They were going to the cruise and had planned to have a blast. The quantity of hard drugs that is found can’t be for personal consumption. It’s not a case for bail as the accused are influential and might tamper evidence,” Singh said.Drug abuse is affecting youngsters, and being college-going boys should not be a consideration for bail, Singh said, adding that the future of the country depends on this generation.“This is not what our freedom fighters had in mind. This is the land of Mahatma Gandhi and Buddha. The investigation is at preliminary stage, this is not the stage for grant of bail,” he added.The NCB has maintained that though nothing was recovered from Khan personally, his WhatsApp chats reveal his links with drug peddlers. Singh claimed Khan’s WhatsApp conversations revealed that he was in touch with a person abroad who appeared to be part of an international drug trafficking network. The NCB was in touch with the external affairs ministry to identify people in the network, the ASG said.“Though there are independent recoveries they can’t be taken in isolation. They (all the arrested accused) are all part of illicit drug chain. Whether you are found with drugs or not found with drugs or found with minor quantity of drugs, you cannot say nothing was found on you. We have found commercial quantity from one of the accused... Charge of conspiracy has been applied, so accused can’t be segregated,” Singh said.Senior advocate Amit Desai who represented Khan argued that WhatsApp chats on which the federal investigative agency relied needed to be seen in context of the language of the youth, which may seem to be a “torture” for the older generation. “By no stretch of imagination, the boy can be said to be involved in illicit drug trafficking or international drug racket. These allegations are false. The chats... needs to be seen in complete context, and checked [whether] they are jokes or banter.”“Today’s generation youth are different, they chat, they joke. A casual communication can sometimes look suspicious to the agencies. He was out of India for long. In a lot of other countries, such consumption is legal,” Desai said. He countered Singh’s argument stating that NCB was pointing to an international trafficking racket, but if the consumer stated from where he procured drugs, then “the chain was complete”.The NCB itself had alleged that Khan disclosed the name of Achit Kumar, another arrested accused, Desai said. The agency can continue the probe, but the allegation of links to international racket against Khan is “inherently absurd and false,” he said.Desai said that NCB was claiming that they have seized commercial quantity of contraband material from one Abdul Kadir, but Khan was not in touch with him.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/decision-on-aryan-khan-s-bail-plea-in-drug-case-on-october-20-ndps-court-101634237096754.html
15-10-2021||India||Wishes pour in for Manmohan Singh’s speedy recovery||Political leaders across party lines, on Thursday, sent their best wishes to the former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh who is admitted to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi after he complained of fever, weakness and general uneasiness, according to people familiar with the developments.Union Health Minister, Mansukh Mandaviya visited Dr. Manmohan Singh at the hospital and inquired about his health. Later, in a tweet, he said, “I wish him a speedy recovery.”Prime Minister Narendra Modi also took to Twitter to send his best wishes to his predecessor, “I pray for the good health and speedy recovery of Dr. Manmohan Singh ji,” he tweeted.In a tweet from the official part handle, Congress said, “The nation collectively prays for the speedy recovery and good health of our dear former Prime Minister, Dr. Manmohan Singh.” This was followed by Congress Leader Rahul Gandhi visiting him in the hospital on Thursday.The 89-year old is currently a Rajya Sabah member and was the first Prime Minister not belonging to the Nehru-Gandhi family who successfully completed two consecutive terms in the office, amounting to 10 years. Dr. Manmohan Singh also spearheaded the 1991 economic reforms and has held various political and non-political portfolios throughout his career.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wishes-pour-in-for-manmohan-singh-s-speedy-recovery-101634236976090.html
15-10-2021||India||Row over expansion of powers of BSF escalates||The row over the Union government’s amendment of the Border Security Force (BSF) Act — extending the Border Security Force’s effective jurisdiction to 50 km from the international border up from 15 km in the border states of Punjab, West Bengal, and Assam — continued with the Congress, which governs Punjab, and the Trinamool Congress, which governs West Bengal, ascribing political motives to the change.Assam, ruled by a Bharatiya Janata Party government, has not complained about the change. The changes in the law have standardised the jurisdictional area under BSF to 50 km in other border states too, reducing it from 80 km to 50 km in Gujarat, and maintaining it at 50 km in Rajasthan.On Wednesday, a BSF spokesperson said the decision would enable “improved operational effectiveness in curbing trans-border crime.”Officials in India’s security establishment point to the increasing threat posed by drones, especially in terms off dropping money, drugs, explosives, and small arms well into Indian territory from across the border, and explain that this necessitated the change.But the Congress, Trinamool Congress and the Shiromani Akali Dal hit out at the Centre for what they called an infringement on the state land. The Congress added that the move curbs the power of state police and its senior leader Manish Tewari, an MP from Punjab, even suggested the chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi “not accept” the new rules.West Bengal has the longest and one of the most porous international borders. The state shares 2216 km international border with Bangladesh. It also shares around 100km border with Nepal and 183 km border with Bhutan. Punjab shares international border with Pakistan.The Congress’ chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala too criticised the move, tweeting that it went against “federalism”.Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, the Congress floor leader in the Lok Sabha termed it as a “brazen infringement” and warned union home ministry that if they don’t stop “Chherkhani” (interfering), they will face the consequences”.Some SAD leaders, including party chief Sukhbir Singh Badal, were briefly detained by police on Thursday when they tried to march towards the governor’s residence to protest the Centre’s decision. Badal later met Punjab Governor Banwarilal Purohit and apprise him that the Centre’s move to “attack the federal structure” is not good.The Akali leader later claimed, “Through this order, Amritsar city, Tarn Taran, Ferozepur, Fazilka and virtually half of Punjab will come under their (BSF’s) domain. Law and order will eventually come under the Centre’s control.”Punjab CM Channi on Wednesday dubbed it as “unilateral decision” and a “direct attack on federalism”.“This is a condemnable decision. This is infringing upon the state’s land through the back door. The party is seriously looking into this,” said Kunal Ghosh, TMC spokesperson and the party’s state general secretary on Thursday.The Bengal BJP supported the new system, “We welcome this decision. The BSF should be given more teeth so that they can work independently and also should be given more man power,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesperson in West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/row-over-expansion-of-powers-of-bsf-escalates-101634236672783.html
15-10-2021||India||Police take minister’s son to site of Lakhimpur violence||The Investigation Committee probing the Lakhimpur Kheri violence on Thursday took four accused, including Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra’s son Ashish, arrested in the case to recreate the sequence of events leading to the violence in Tikunia village here.Amid tight security, the four accused — Ashish Mishra, Ankit Das, his gunner Latif alias Kaale and his driver Shekhar Bharti — were taken to the site of the incident on the Tikunia-Banbirpur road, around 60 km from Lakhimpur city, said police.Eight people, including four farmers, were killed in Lakhimpur Kheri’s Tikunia village on October 3. The farmers were allegedly knocked down by vehicles driven by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers travelling to welcome deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to the area. Two BJP workers – Shubham Mishra and Shyam Sundar – and Mishra’s driver Hari Om Mishra were allegedly pulled out of the vehicles and lynched by angry protesters. A local journalist, Raman Kashyap, was also killed in the violence.The investigators recreated the scene by placing mannequins as per the information collected by eyewitnesses before making three four-wheelers run on the narrow road of Banbirpur village, where the four farmers were allegedly mowed down, leading to the violence killing four others, said a police official privy to the investigation. Three vehicles were placed one after the other to repeat the sequence of events on the day of violence, said the official. The entire exercise was video recorded for thorough analysis, the official added.The police official said the investigation committee later visited the minister’s village, Banbirpur, where the wrestling competition was to be inaugurated by Maurya during his visit to Kheri on the day of incident.So far, police have arrested six accused, including Mishra’s son, his two accomplices, Luv Kush and Ashish Pandey, Das, Bharti and Kaale, in connection with the case. The minister’s son was arrested on October 9 after 12 hours of questioning, and a court sent him to police custody from October 12 to 15. Das, Latif and Bharti were in police custody from October 14 to 17.On Thursday, relatives of deceased BJP worker, Shubham Mishra, reached the crime branch office and demanded arrest of his killers. Shubham’s uncles — Anoop Mishra and Sanoop Mishra — along with defence lawyer Awdhesh Singh reached the police lines to lodge their complaint.Anoop Mishra told reporters on Thursday that no arrest had been made in connection with the killing of Shubham Mishra and others by mob.Two FIRs were registered in Tikunia violence. The first FIR on October 4 was against Ashish Mishra and 15-20 others while the second FIR was registered the same day against unidentified miscreants in the murder of Shubham and Hari Om Mishra.Meanwhile, BJP MLA from Lakhimpur, Yogesh Verma, demanded a thorough probe into the role of Kheri police in the violence alleging that police’s negligence led to the death of BJP worker Shyam Sundar and journalist Raman Kashyap.Talking to reporters, Verma said: “The death of BJP workers at the hands of goons had caused resentment among the families of these workers and also among the masses.” Police did not react to Verma’s allegations till late in the evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-take-minister-s-son-to-site-of-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-to-recreate-sequence-of-events-101634236612410.html
15-10-2021||India||Jamaat-e-Islami behind the pandal violence in Bangladesh, say officials||The needle of suspicion for the violent attacks against Durga Puja pandals in southern Bangladesh points towards the Jamaat-e-Islami (JEI), people familiar with tyhe matter said, with the motive being to embarrass the Sheikh Hasina government and stoke communal fires over the alleged desecration of the Quran in Cumilla, southeast of Dhaka.According to diplomats in Dhaka and New Delhi, there were attacks on mandaps, pandals and temples in Cumilla, starting the afternoon of October 13 after rumours started circulating that a copy of the Quran was placed near the feet of the idol of Durga at a pandal. There are more than 3,000 pandals in Bangladesh observing Durga Puja, one of the biggest festivals on both sides of the border in Bengal -- in Bangladesh as well as West Bengal. As the news spread through digital media, there were violent attacks on pandals in Noakhali, Chandpur, Cox’s Bazaar, Chattogram, Chapainawabganj, Pabna, Moulvibazara and Kurigram. However, there were none in Dhaka, Brahmanbaria, Jashore and other major cities.The police were initially slow to react but after the high commissioner of India spoke to the government, there was heavy deployment of armed police and local enforcement agencies. Three people, including two of those involved in the attacks, were killed in Chandpur and dozens were injured after the forces fired with rubber bullets in Cumilla.While Dhaka has ensured that heavy police deployment will continue till Friday, when the Durga Puja ends, it is quite evident that communal flames were being fanned by the opposition JEI, which, analysts say, has been encouraged by the Taliban taking over Afghanistan. JEI coined the slogan “ Bangladesh Banega Afghanistan” in a bid to radicalise the youth towards ultra-conservative Islam to achieve political objectives.“The basic idea behind October 13 incident was to embarrass Bangladesh’s government and force a reaction from India,” said a diplomat based in Dhaka. The Jamaat thrives on radicalised youth to oppose the Sheikh Hasina government and is networked with other pro-Taliban outfits in Bangladesh, this person added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jamaateislami-behind-the-pandal-violence-in-bangladesh-say-officials-101634236492307.html
15-10-2021||India||JCO, soldier critically injured in encounter in J-K’s Poonch||Jammu: Two army personnel, including a Junior Commissioned Officer (JCO), were critically injured in an encounter with terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch district on Thursday night, officials said. “In an ongoing counter terrorist operation in general area Nar Khas forest in Mendhar sub-division there has been exchange of fire between army troops and terrorists during evening hours today”, PRO defence said. During the ensuing exchange of fire, one JCO and one soldier have been critically injured, he said. The operations are under progress, PRO said.  On October 12, five army personnel, including a Junior Commissioned Officer (JCO), were killed in an encounter in Dera Ki Gali (DKG) in Surankote area of Poonch district. On September 12, an unidentified militant was killed in an encounter with security forces following a search operation in the upper reaches of Manjakote in Rajouri district. On August 19, a Junior Commissioned Officer (JCO) of the Army was killed in an encounter with terrorists in Thanamandi area of Rajouri district.  Two Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorists were killed in an encounter with security forces in Thanamandi belt on August 6. PTI AB HDA||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jco-soldier-critically-injured-in-encounter-in-j-k-s-poonch-101634236372447.html
15-10-2021||India||India re-elected to UN Human Rights Council with ‘overwhelming endorsement’||NEW DELHI: India was on Thursday elected for a sixth term at the United Nations Human Rights Council and will now be among the body’s 47 members for the next three years.A tweet from the Indian mission in Geneva said India was elected by “an overwhelming endorsement of UN Member States”. India bagged 184 out of 193 votes cast in its category.India was among five countries elected to the UN Human Rights Council from the group of Asia-Pacific states, the others being Kazakhstan, Malaysia, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates.
15-10-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: October 15, 1998 — Amartya Sen bags Nobel for economics||Stockholm. Philosopher-economist Amartya Sen of India won the Nobel Economics Prize today for his contribution to welfare economics, and in particular his research into the causes of famine and poverty, report agencies. Prof. Sen, 64, is the first Asian to win the coveted prize since it was inaugurated in 1969. In its citation, the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences, which adjudged the prize said that Prof. Sen had made "several key contributions to the research on fundamental problems in welfare economics. His contributions range from axiomatic theory of social choice, over definitions of welfare and poverty indexes, to empirical studies of famine," it said. Economists described Sen as a leftwing Professor who nevertheless pursued an independent line, leading him, for example, to his Nobel-winning work on famine. Speaking to PTI from a New York hotel, Prof. Sen said he was “very pleased" to receive the award, particularly because the subject for which he had been honoured touched the lives of ordinary people. "What pleases me most is that the subject has received recognition," he said. Prof. Sen said he had been woken by an early morning telephone call to be told he had won the award. "I thought there was some emergency when the phone rang," he said. He had flown into New York late on Tuesday to deliver a lecture. Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee said the whole of India would revel in the award. "The country is proud of your achievement," Vajpayee said in a message, expressing his "profound sense of joy" at the news.  The economics Nobel has been almost the private domain of American academics, with only the occasional win for their counterparts in Western Europe. For an Asian economist to be awarded the prize represents a radical departure for the Nobel Committee.  From the start of his career, Prof. Sen showed a "particular interest in the most impoverished members of society," the academy said.  He was born in Bengal in 1933 and received his doctorate from University of Cambridge in 1959. He has been a Professor in India, Britain and the United States. Currently a Professor at Trinity College, Cambridge, he is the first solo winner of the economics prize since 1995. Prof. Sen will be presented with a medal and a cheque for 7.6 million Swedish kronor (9,38,000 dollars) at an official ceremony in Stockholm on December 10, the 102nd anniversary of the death of the creator of the prizes, Swedish inventor and industrialist Alfred Nobel.  4TH CALCUTTAN TO WIN NOBEL: Calcutta today took pride at having its fourth Nobel laureate in Prof Sen after Rabindranath Tagore, Prof C. V. Raman and Mother Teresa, a report from Calcutta said.  Prof Sen is the sixth Indian Nobel laureate and the country's first economist to win the coveted award.  Since 1913 when Tagore won Nobel Prize for literature, it was another 17 years before physicist C. V. Raman, who based his research here, won the Nobel.  In 1979, Albania-born Mother Teresa, who based her missionary activities in Calcutta bagged the Nobel for Peace. Now it is the turn of Prof Sen, who was initially educated in the city and conducted his basic research here. It was from Calcutta's premier Presidency College that Prof Sen graduated in 1953. From here, he went to Cambridge University for higher education and engaged in the study of welfare economics.  SEN'S MOTHER STOICAL: After several nominations and refusals from the Royal Swedish Academy for Science, Prof. Sen's selection for the Nobel Prize has come as a surprise to his mother Amita Sen. "When he called me earlier in the day to give the news, I told him I am not going to discuss this with anyone unless I see it in the newspapers tomorrow. Bablu (Amartya's pet name) laughed and told me this time the news was real," she told PTI. Asked with whom she would have liked to share this hour of joy, Amita said, "my husband. When he died in 1971, there already were talks of Bablu's chances of winning the Nobel." On his deathbed, her husband had regretted not being able to survive long enough to see their son win the Nobel Prize, she said.  Prof. Sen's mother said at the age 19, her son was diagnosed as having oral cancer and doctors gave him only five years to live. "It was then that I sent him to Cambridge for treatment."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-october-15-1998-amartya-sen-bags-nobel-for-economics-101634234145874.html
15-10-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh shows why MLAs do not matter in politics in states||What does it take to win a state election in India? Charismatic chief ministerial candidates or a committed, yet grounded set of MLAs? Logically, the answer should tilt towards the latter. After all, legislative majorities are gained or lost at the level of assembly constituencies.However, an analysis of incumbency level datasets prepared by the Trivedi Centre for Political Data suggests that becoming an MLA does not bestow much power, at least beyond the current term, to a person in the politics of states. This also means that state legislatures are structurally weak when it comes to keeping a check on the executive, the central doctrine of separation of powers in the Indian constitution.Part of the explanation lies in a political culture that favours the concentration of power in the hands of chief ministers. But there are aspects of electoral politics and features of the political class that contribute to weakening political representation.Uttar Pradesh, India’s biggest state, which goes to polls in early 2022, is a good case in point.Why has Yogi Adityanath dwarfed everyone else in UP BJP?The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) secured a massive victory in the 2017 Uttar Pradesh elections, winning 312 out of the 403 assembly constituencies (ACs). The current chief minister Yogi Adityanath was only named after the elections; he did not even contest on an MLA ticket. However, Adityanath has been winning as a Lok Sabha MP from Gorakhpur continuously since 1998. His long stint as an MP is in sharp contrast to the profile of the average MLA, both within and outside the BJP, in the state.Out of 403 elected MLAs, a staggering 314 were elected for the first time. 59 MLAs were elected for a second time and only thirty MLAs, across parties, were elected for a third time or more. The Assembly counts only 7 four-time MLAs, 2 five- and six-term MLAs and so on. This pegs Uttar Pradesh’s stable political class (defined as all politicians who have been elected more than twice) at barely 7.4% of all MLAs.Of the 312 BJP MLAs who won their seat in the 2017 assembly election, only 19 had won twice or more times previously. Of these 19 MLAs, 9 come from other parties, including Biharilal Arya, a five-time Congress MLA from Mauranipur, Mayankeshwar Sharan Singh, from Tiloi(previously elected on an SP ticket,and a BJP one before that), and Fateh Bahadur, from Caimpiyarganj, who has been party-hopping between the Congress, BJP and BSP since 1989.The situation is not different with other parties. Only five of the current 47 SP MLAs have been elected more than twice, a score also held by 3 of the 19 BSP MLAs, and Raghuraj Pratap Singh, aka ‘Raja Bhaiya’, who won from Kunda as an Independent candidate.The current UP assembly is not an aberrationIt can be argued that the lack of experience in the current Uttar Pradesh assembly is a result of the massive BJP victory, which led to a loss of the more experienced MLAs from other parties. Historical data shows that this is not the case.Since 1977, the share of first-time MLAs has never been lower than 65%, and the share of experienced politicians (elected more than twice) has never been more than 15% of the assembly. Since 1977, 444 of the 4577 seats won were occupied by MLAs serving a third term of more. These 444 MLAs boil down to 274 unique individuals, scattered across parties and time: 73 with the BJP, 61 with Congress, 21 with the BSP and 105 with the SP and its previous socialist incarnations.What explains the un-experienced MLA syndrome?Both parties are voters are responsible for this. At the party level, most sitting MLAs do not even get a chance to keep their seat. In 2017, only 40% of all 403 sitting MLAs re-ran. And only 30% of those who re-ran got re-elected. This is what the voter-induced effect refers to. Once again, 2017 was not an exception on this count. Here again, historical data shows that this is another longstanding trend of UP politics. From 1977 to 2017, an average of 38% of all sitting MLAs get to re-run, and an average of 41% of these re-running incumbents manage to keep their seat.Upper caste men have a disproportionate presence in the rank of stable political classThe profile of this political class is also quite elitist. 45.3% of them belong to upper castes, against 22% of SCs and OBCs. Muslims make up only 9% of UP’s professional class, that is to say 24 individuals. Over the period, only four Jat politicians have made it to this list. This is also a male-dominated list, as only 9 women figure among these 274 professional politicians.Does a high political turnover in assembly help democracy?The high turnover of UP’s political class has implications for democratic processes. First, the UP assembly is and has for long been an assembly of newcomers. Such a large turnover of political elites translates into a loss of cumulative experience in the assembly. MLAs who come in with the knowledge that they will not be occupying their seat for long have little incentive to learn the ropes of the legislative aspect of their job. This weakens the legislative check on the executive. The extraordinary concentration of power in the hands of a small class of politicians, which includes of course party leaders, faction leaders, local dynasts and strongmen, who succeed in lasting in politics by dint of their grit and talent, but also at times through the control they exert over their constituency.Uttar Pradesh is not the only state when it comes to a high turnover of MLAs. In most states, this turnover hovers around fifty percent.This analysis helps put in perspective the phenomenon of concentration of power that we see in states across India. It reveals that the rise of strong, populist, chief ministers is not the sole factor behind the presidentialisation of state politics. There are factors that are structural to electoral competition that are also at play, across political parties. The high probability of defeat for re-running incumbents also reveals the difficulty of meeting voters’ expectations.The author is Assistant Professor of Political Science and Co-Director of the Trivedi Centre for Political Data. Views are personal. Data used in this article is available at https://lokdhaba.ashoka.edu.in/pct/?e=VS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-shows-why-mlas-do-not-matter-in-politics-in-states-101634230309877.html
15-10-2021||India||India cautious as Bhutan, China sign pact||Bhutan and China on Thursday signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) on a “three-step roadmap” for expediting negotiations on their boundary dispute, prompting a cautious response from India against the backdrop of the standoff on the Line of Actual Control (LAC).“We have noted the signing of the MoU between Bhutan and China today [Thursday],” external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said during a regular news briefing to a question about the MoU.“You are aware that Bhutan and China have been holding boundary negotiations since 1984. India has similarly been holding boundary negotiations with China,” he said, without offering a response to a query on whether Bhutan kept India in the loop about the agreement with China.Bhutan’s foreign minister Tandi Dorji and China’s assistant foreign minister Wu Jianghao signed the MoU during a virtual ceremony earlier in the day. China’s ambassador to India, Sun Weidong, and Bhutan’s envoy to India, Maj Gen Vetsop Namgyel, also joined the event.The agreement came four years after Indian and Chinese troops were involved in a 73-day face-off within Bhutanese territory at Doklam. That face-off began in June 2017 after India sent in its troops to prevent the construction of roads and infrastructure by Chinese troops in violation of agreements between Bhutan and China.Given the extremely close coordination between India and Bhutan on foreign policy issues, it is unlikely that New Delhi was caught off-guard by Thursday’s development. Experts said India’s cautious response was understandable in view of the implications the MoU could have for New Delhi’s already fraught relations with Beijing because of the LAC standoff.China does not have a diplomatic presence in Bhutan’s capital Thimphu, and the Chinese embassy in New Delhi coordinates ties between the two sides.Following the standoff in eastern Ladakh, China claimed for the first time in July 2020 that it had a boundary dispute with Bhutan in the eastern sector, a region that borders Arunachal Pradesh, which is also claimed by Beijing. The text of the MoU was not made public by Thimpu or Beijing.A statement from Bhutan’s foreign ministry said the MoU on the “three-step roadmap for expediting the Bhutan-China boundary negotiations” will “provide a fresh impetus to the boundary talks”.“It is expected that the implementation of this roadmap in a spirit of goodwill, understanding and accommodation will bring the boundary negotiations to a successful conclusion that is acceptable to both sides,” the statement said.In response to questions on the LAC standoff, Bagchi said India expects China to work towards the speedy resolution of all remaining issues in eastern Ladakh while fully abiding by bilateral agreements . The situation on the LAC was due to China’s unilateral attempts to alter the status quo, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cautious-response-from-india-as-bhutan-and-china-sign-mou-on-boundary-negotiations-101634229770387.html
15-10-2021||India||Surgical strike showed era of talks is over, we now hit back at terror: Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday referred to the 2016 surgical strikes conducted across the Line of Control (LoC), the de facto border between India and Pakistan in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K), and said the era of talks is over and that of “a fitting response” has started.India carried out the strikes in September 2016 by sending special forces to pre-empt more attacks from across the LoC days after 19 soldiers were killed after infiltrators crossed over from the Pakistani territory and attacked an Indian Army camp in Kashmir.Shah’s reference to the strikes came days after five soldiers were killed in an exchange of fire with heavily armed terrorists in a forested area at Surankote in J&K’s Poonch district on Monday amid a spike in violence in the region. The casualties came after a series of targeted attacks left seven civilians dead in the Valley this month. Shah cited the strikes and said for years, attackers from across the border would come and cause carnage. “But from the leadership in the Delhi durbars, there was no decision forthcoming,” said Shah after laying the foundation stone for the National Forensic Sciences University’s Goa campus. He added the surgical strikes were conducted under Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s leadership and during Manohar Parrikar’s tenure as defence minister for the first time when there was an attack and Indian soldiers were killed along the border. “...For the first time, we told the world that it was not without consequence that you can attack India’s borders.”He said the message that India retaliates when attacked from across the border will stick around for generations, restoring India’s pride in the sanctity of its frontiers. “A new era was established in which no sooner they asked us questions from across the border, we gave them a fitting response.”Shah also credited Parrikar, who passed away in 2019 and also served as the Goa chief minister, for finalising the One Rank One Pension (OROP) scheme under which the armed forces personnel retiring in the same rank with the same length of service get the uniform pension, regardless of their date of retirement. He added it brought much relief to the soldiers guarding the borders. Shah said the soldiers could rest easy that their families will be well-taken care of after the finalisation of the scheme. He said Parrikar will always be remembered for OROP as well as the surgical strikes. “The former defence minister will be remembered for two things. Under the leadership of Modi, he did something that no one could do prior to him. (He) gave the OROP to the three services. Today, the jawans, who spend the best years of their lives under conditions ranging from -43 degrees Celsius to 43-degree census, are now confident that their families will be taken care of,” said Shah, who is on a two-day visit to poll-bound Goa. Shah is also scheduled to interact with the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party’s state leadership ahead of the elections that are due early next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shah-recalls-surgical-strikes-says-era-of-fitting-response-has-started-101634212667645.html
15-10-2021||India||Malabar Devaswom Board takes over Mattannur temple amid protest||Amid protest by a section of devotees, the Malabar Devaswom Board on Thursday took control of the famous Mattannur Mahadeva temple in Kannur district in north Kerala. Fearing the takeover, the temple’s current board locked the main gate and office but Devaswom board officials took the help of the police to break open the gate. Some of the devotees poured petrol and threatened to set themselves on fire but were prevented from taking the extreme step. Over the last decade, the board has been trying to take over the temple but devotees and the temple trust have foiled their attempts. Protestors said the board took over the temple without any consultation with stakeholders, but the Board said it has done so with the blessings of the Kerala high court. But the president of the temple committee, CH Mohandas, said the case was pending in the Supreme Court. “The takeover was quite arbitrary and we will inform the apex court about this,” he said. The Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) and Hindu Aikya Vedi have protested the takeover and said they will organise a week-long protest outside the temple. In Kerala, all Hindu shrines come under different boards controlled by the government. The Travancore, Cochin, Guruvayur and Malabar Devaswom boards are prominent among them and usually, those allied with the ruling party become chairmen of these boards. Many Hindu groups have been opposing government control of temples and argued that mosques and churches are controlled by independent bodies. BJP leader Subramanian Swamy’s petition questioning the government control over Hindu shrines is also pending before the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/malabar-devaswom-board-takes-over-mattannur-temple-amid-protest-101634212488969.html
15-10-2021||India||Women officers to soon command army units: Rajnath Singh||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday said women officers will soon command army units and battalions following being accepted for permanent commission (PC), while listing contributions of women in all spheres of security and nation-building, including that of former prime minister Indira Gandhi and former President Pratibha Patil.Addressing a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) webinar on the role of women in the armed forces, Singh Said, “Our approach to the induction of women in the police, central police, paramilitary and armed forces has been progressive. We have taken the evolutionary path of moving from support to combat support and thereafter to combat arms within the armed forces.”The opportunity to command battalions forms part of natural career progression for women officers after the army began granting them PCs following a Supreme Court ruling last year.The armed forces are preparing to induct women into the National Defence Academy (NDA), thus far a male preserve, following a landmark verdict by the apex court. “Women will be able to join India’s premier tri-service pre-commissioning training institute NDA from next year,” Singh said.One of the turning points for women in the military came in 2015 when the Indian Air Force decided to induct them into the fighter stream. Earlier this year, the Indian Navy deployed four women officers on warships after a hiatus of almost 25 years. But tanks and combat positions in infantry are still no-go zones for women.“We have found that the process of induction, given its broad-based and progressive path, has also simultaneously prepared the society and the armed forces for this change. This is an important aspect to ensure a smooth and successful transition,” the minister said.He added that women had proved themselves in every field and excelled in the duties assigned to them. “Many barriers have been broken and many more imagined barriers should break in the years to come,” he said.Singh added, “There are a number of examples of women taking up arms to protect their country and the rights of the people through history. Rani Laxmi Bai is amongst the most revered and respected amongst them.”“India’s former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi not only led the country for a number of years, she also did so during times of war. And more recently, Pratibha Patil was the President of India and the Supreme Commander of the Indian Armed Forces,” Singh said.The headcount of women in the military has increased almost three-fold over the last six years, with more avenues being opened to them at a steady pace. As of February 2021, there were 9,118 women serving in the army, navy and air force.In his welcome address at the SCO seminar, chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat said cyberspace and outer space were the new “revolutionary domains” of war fighting. He said the distinction between the roles of men and women in modern day war fighting was getting blurred by the day. “The notion of gender gap is passé. Women are no less suited to braving such challenging conditions and have proven themselves in the past,” Rawat said.In August, the army announced that a selection board had cleared the promotion of five women officers to the time-scale rank of colonel after the completion of the mandatory 26 years of service.It was the first time that women officers were promoted to the rank outside the medical, legal and education wings of the army.“With PC being approved, women are now picking up the rank of colonel and it shows they are no less than their male counterparts,” Captain Shalini Singh (retd), a former short-service commission officer had said in August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/women-officers-to-soon-command-army-units-rajnath-singh-101634211586570.html
15-10-2021||India||Acer India servers breached? Hackers claim over 60GB data accessed||In what could be a second data breach at technology company Acer this year, a hacker group has claimed it has accessed over 60GB of data from its India servers. Desorden, the group, claimed the data includes individual customer information, corporate customer data, information of sensitive accounts, and financial data. It added the breach gives it access to over 3,000 login detail sets of Acer’s retailers and distributors in India.“We have hacked and breached Acer India servers (www.acer.co.in). We have stolen over 60GB of files and databases from their servers. This include their customer, corporate, accounts and financial data. Affected customer data are in the millions,” said Desorden on a popular hacker forum. Desorden added the data sets published so far do not include emails. “More data will be published.”"We have recently detected an isolated attack on our local after-sales service system in India. Upon detection, we immediately initiated our security protocols and conducted a full scan of our systems. We are notifying all potentially affected customers in India," confirms an Acer spokesperson, to HT."The incident has been reported to local law enforcement and the Indian Computer Emergency Response Team, and has no material impact to our operations and business continuity," the company confirms.Desorden said the affected users are mostly from India. It added Acer management will be able to verify the data to prove the authenticity of the breach.Researchers at Privacy Affairs said they have analysed the data sets publicly released. “We have found customer data that appears to be accurate and genuine after contacting multiple affected individuals from the released data,” said Miklos Zoltan, Founder, and CEO of Privacy Affairs, a data privacy and cybersecurity research firm.In March, a ransomware attack by the REvil group led to a data breach at Acer, with the demands for a ransom of $50,000,000. It was the biggest ransom demand till then. Acer initially denied any breach at its servers.It is unclear if Desorden is also demanding a ransom. Desorden, in a recent ransomware attack, accessed over 200 GB data from the Malaysian servers of ABX Express, a subsidiary of Kerry Logistics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/acer-india-servers-breached-hackers-claim-over-60gb-data-accessed-101634188425385.html
15-10-2021||India||Renewal of transport docs must from Oct 31||The Centre has decided not to extend the validity of expired transport documents such as driving licences beyond October 31 and has advised state transport departments to clear the backlog of applications within a month.State governments, however, can offer further extensions at their level if they deem it fit, people aware of the matter said. The Delhi government has already decided to extend the validity of expired transport documents till November 30 provided they were issued by the city government.The Union ministry of road transport and highways has already extended the validity of the transport documents that expired on or after February 1, 2020, seven times to ensure that the movement of goods and passengers was not impacted due to the Covid-19 pandemic induced lockdowns and restrictions.In an October 11 letter to transporters who requested the relaxation when the first national lockdown was imposed on March 25, 2020, the ministry said the relaxation granted last month to extend the validity of expired documents till 30 October was going to be the last one. Officials clarified that the current relaxation, which covers driving licences, registration certificates, fitness certificates and all permits, does not exempt people from driving vehicles with valid pollution under control certificates.Driving without a valid licence attracts a penalty of ₹5,000, while the penalties for other invalid documents are ₹5,000 (registration certificate), ₹10,000 (permit for commercial vehicles), ₹2,000-5,000 (fitness certificate for goods vehicles).Due to the pandemic, the ministry extended the validity of all transport-related documents for the first time until June 2020. The validity was subsequently extended to August 2020, December 2020, March 2021, June 2021, September 2021, and October 31, 2021.The ministry said due to the continuous extensions, there is a long backlog of applications awaiting clearance for renewal of such documents. “States and union territories (UTs) have also been advised to complete all the pending services in mission mode and a time-bound manner to achieve this,” the letter said.The letter added that state governments have been advised to “put extra resources” to complete the processes related to pending cases of renewal and reissue of documents such as fitness permits, DLs, RCs, etc. within one month.Also, states have been told to implement regulations such as online processing of documents, dealer point registration, online national permit for goods and passenger vehicles, contactless or faceless services through Aadhaar authentication to minimise the requirement for citizens to visit transport department offices and reduce physical interactions between citizens and officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-further-extension-to-expired-transport-documents-after-oct-31-centre-101634187345762.html
