16-10-2021||India||BJP only knows how to provide lip-service, says Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday took pot-shots at the ruling BJP over the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, saying the ruling party only knows lip service and how to mow down people. His criticism of the BJP came days after eight people, including four farmers, were killed in violence during a farmers’ protest in Lakhimpur Kheri. Though BJP leader and Union minister of state for home, Ajay Mishra’s son Ashish Mishra has been arrested after he was accused of mowing down farmers with his vehicle, Akhilesh had been demanding sacking of the minister. “The truth is the BJP knows only two things – ‘jeebh chalana’ (lip service and lofty talk) and ‘jeep chadhana’ (mowing down people). Crushing people and suppressing their voice is their (BJP) agenda,” Yadav said while addressing party workers at the Samajwadi Party state headquarters in Lucknow. Ashish Mishra and others have been named in the FIR filed in this connection and the latter was arrested last week. Claiming that the BJP government’s tenure was “full of failures”, Yadav alleged that because of “wrong policies” of the ruling party, the state was lagging behind and there was no control on inflation and unemployment. The law and order situation also got worse, said a party statement, quoting Yadav. “The BJP government has not done any work in public interest. It is a strange party, which is making tall claims without doing anything. The double-engine government of the BJP has harassed every section of society and has not done anything itself but has been appearing in advertisements claiming the work of the Samajwadi Party government as its own,” he said. Speaking about the 2022 assembly elections, he said it would decide the direction of national politics and would also be a testing time for democracy. Cautioning the workers, the SP chief said, “We have to be careful of the possible conspiracies of the BJP. Since the BJP is very clever, this time there should be no mistake and SP workers and leaders need to mobilise themselves up to the booth level.” He said people’s problems will end and the interest of farmers and youth will be protected only when the SP forms a government in the state. (With inputs from PTI).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-only-knows-how-to-provide-lip-service-says-akhilesh-yadav-101634408346898.html
16-10-2021||India||Two more Nihangs held for murder of man at farmers’ protest site at Singhu border||Haryana Police have detained two more Nihangs in connection with the killing of the Tarn Taran man at the farmers’ protest site at Delhi’s Singhu border. According to a video shared by news agency ANI, Nihangs can be seen touching the feet of the new detainees with the latter being garlanded.
16-10-2021||India||Street vendor killed in Kashmir left Bihar only 3 months ago for work, says father||Arbind Kumar Sah, who was shot dead in Srinagar’s Eidgah, used to park his golgappa cart near a park in the area everyday without fail, hoping to lift his family back home in Bihar out of poverty, a resident of the area told news agency PTI on Saturday.“He was a hardworking man. He had dreams of getting his family out of poverty back in Bihar. But that dream has died today," a middle-aged resident said.Sah, a native of Bihar’s Banka, met his tragic end after a pistol-bearing militant stopped near his cart and shot him at point-blank range, killing him on the spot.He left for Jammu and Kashmir three months ago looking for work, his father told news agency ANI. Prior to his death he often remembered his family back home and had even made a few friends among the visitors who would come to the park.Also Read: ‘All he did was…’: Omar Abdullah, Mufti react after terrorists kill another vendor from Bihar"His business was brisk. He was a likeable man, maybe that's why he had good business. He would often talk about his folks and poverty in his hometown," the resident further said.The 29-year-old was found lying in a pool of blood and taken to Shri Maharaja Hari Singh hospital where doctors declared him dead. He was identified by his Aadhar card.In another part of Kashmir, militants gunned down a carpenter Sagir Ahmad in Pulwama. Ahmad hailed from Uttar Pradesh and even though he was rushed to a hospital he later succumbed to his injuries.Sah is the second migrant vendor from Bihar to be killed in Kashmir this month and the seventh civilian to be killed by militants in the last two weeks. Street vendor Virender Paswan from Bihar’s Bhagalpur, was also gunned down by militants at Lal Bazar area on October 5. His last rites were performed in Srinagar.Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar has announced an ex gratia of ₹2 lakh for Sah’s next of kin, news agency ANI reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/street-vendor-killed-in-kashmir-left-bihar-only-3-months-ago-for-work-says-father-101634404714871.html
16-10-2021||India||CWC passes resolution on political situation, says India has earned label of electoral democracy||The Congress Working Committee (CWC), the party’s highest executive body, has passed a resolution on the political situation in India suggesting they will “resolutely oppose” the Modi government.“The Congress Working Committee has reviewed the political situation in the country. The CWC is deeply distressed to note the multiple challenges that face the country and the all-round failure of the Modi government in dealing with these challenges. In fact, the catastrophic policies of the Modi government have exacerbated the situation and have placed enormous burden on the people of the country,” the resolution read.After listing the multiple failures of the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government, territorial disputes with China, drug trafficking through the Mundra port, “sharp decline” in the economy and the three controversial agricultural laws, they said, “The Congress Party will resist every sinister attempt to convert the country into a surveillance and police state”. The CWC members further elaborated, “Under the Modi government, the Constitutional promise of Liberty and Justice for all has receded into a vain hope.”The CWC’s resolution concluded by issuing a public call to all democratic parties to resolutely oppose the Modi government’s unjust actions. “The CWC believes that it is its duty to sound the alarm bells. We do so and call upon all democratic parties and forces to join hands to resolutely oppose the Modi government in order to protect the values on which our country was founded and to advance the causes of the people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cwc-passes-resolution-on-political-situation-says-india-has-earned-label-of-electoral-democracy-101634404928181.html
16-10-2021||India||'Court said it was not ganja but some plant': Sharad Pawar on NCB action||Nationalist Congress Party president Sharad Pawar in his press conference on Saturday commented on the ongoing drives of the Narcotics Control Bureau without naming Shah Rukh Khan or Aryan Khan. However, he mentioned the arrest of NCP leader Nawab Malik's son-in-law and said that in his case, the court highlighted that he was not possessing ganja but it was some kind of plant, Pawar said, as quoted by news agency PTI.“Since Nawab Malik who is the spokesperson of the NCP cannot be attacked directly, his son-in-law was targeted by the Centre with the help of the agency (NCB). His son-in-law was arrested and kept in jail for possession of ganja. But fortunately, a few days ago his bail was approved. The court highlighted that he was not possessing ganja but it was some kind of plant. This is the second example of the misuse of power and investigating machinery", Pawar said.Are you on the side of drug sellers, consumers? Fadnavis' question to Uddhav ThackerayA day after Uddhav Thackeray assailed the NCB saying that they are only interested in catching celebrities, taking photos with them, the NCP supremo said the NCB catches anyone and alleges that a banned substance has been found from his possession."People who are involved in crimes have been made panch (witness). In Malik's son-in-law's case, the witness is having a criminal record. In a recent raid too (on a cruise ship in Mumbai) one Gosavi, who was a witness of the NCB, is found to be a criminal on record,” he claimed.The Pune Police have recently issued a lookout circular against KP Gosavi, the man who took the viral photo with Aryan Khan after the latter's arrest. The police said he has been absconding in a 2018 cheating case. The NCB earlier clarified that the agency requires independent witnesses in each case. These witnesses are not known to the agency and fielf verification of such independent witnesses is not possible on a real-time basus as the main focus is on the operation.Pawar said when a constituent party under the MVA speaks on the action taken by the NCB or other agencies, BJP leaders jumped in to defend these agencies. “When there are allegations against agencies like NCB ideally its official or a spokesperson should come forward to present their side. However, it is found that former CM Devendra Fadnavis and other BJP leaders are coming forward to defend them,” he alleged.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/court-said-it-was-not-ganja-but-some-plant-sharad-pawar-on-ncb-action-101634403498391.html
16-10-2021||India||J&K separatist leader Geelani's grandson sacked from govt duty over alleged terrorism charges||Grandson of Jammu and Kashmir’s separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani was on Saturday dismissed from government service “with immediate effect” for allegedly aiding terrorism in the union territory. Anees-ul-Islam alias Altaf Fantoosh, late Geelani’s grandson, was working as a research officer in Sher-e-Kashmir International Convention Centre in Srinagar.The expulsion comes in accordance with the special provisions under Article 311 (2) (c) of the Constitution, which states that the retention of a person in public service is “prejudicial to the security of the State”.
16-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan case: Why did NCB refer to Showik Chakraborty case? Explained||During the hearing of the Aryan Khan case this week, the Narcotics Control Bureau referred to the case of Showik Chakraborty, who was arrested by the agency in September 2020 on charges of procuring drugs for Sushant Singh Rajput, who was found dead. Showik and his sister Rhea Chakraborty, Sushant's friend, were accused of procuring drugs for the deceased actor. Showik spent almost three months in jail after he was granted bail in December last year. The case was mentioned by additional solicitor general Anil Singh as he opposed Aryan Khan's bail plea.What is the connection between the two cases?The ASG referred to the case to cite the Bombay high court's earlier judgment denying bail to Showik Chakraborty. In October 2020, the Bombay high court refused bail to Showik Chakraborty saying that he was a part of the drug dealers' chain. As in the case of Aryan Khan, no drug was recovered from Showik Chakraborty as well, but this could not be the ground for his bail, the NCB counsel in the Aryan Khan case said this to the court."Showik's contention was that nothing was recovered from him. However, the court said the matter is being investigated and you were in touch with a drug dealer. Here, Achit and Shivraj are the drug dealers. Therefore, in this case also, no bail can be granted," NCB counsel argued before the court.One point on which Aryan Khan's lawyer has strongly stressed is the fact that no drug was found from Aryan Khan. Referring to Showik Chakraborty's case, the NCB counsel argued that the quantity of recovery is immaterial as the accused is part of a drug chain.What did Aryan Khan's lawyer say on this?Aryan Khan's lawyer Amit Desai, who are arguing for Aryan Khan on that day said Showik's case can not be compared with Aryan Khan's as the charge against Showik was not that of consumption but dealing with drugs. "Showik's case has to be distinguished from an end consumer's case because Showik didn't consume but dealt in drugs," Desai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aryan-khan-case-why-did-ncb-refer-to-showik-chakraborty-case-explained-101634400853944.html
16-10-2021||India||Two elderly sisters found murdered in Goa flat||Two senior citizens, both sisters living together, were found murdered in their flat in Goa’s Ponda town, around 30-km from the capital city of Panaji, police have said. The victims identified as Mangala Kamat, 76, and Jeevan Kamat, 68, were found dead in their flat on Saturday morning leaving the police with very few pointers on who might be behind the murder or what could be the possible motive. “We are currently investigating the case and have obtained some initial leads,” a police spokesperson said also adding that the post mortem report would provide further clues on the manner and time of the murder,” said a police officer who declined to be named saying he was not authorised to speak due to the ongoing nature of the investigation. The murder is the second in as many days that Goa has witnessed after a parking attendant was killed on Friday after he was assaulted by tourists from Karnataka during an argument leading to the arrest of the five tourists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-elderly-sisters-found-murdered-in-goa-flat-101634400730596.html
16-10-2021||India||Kerala govt issues guidelines for rescue work amid heavy rain||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan issued guidelines to facilitate rescue and relief operations as the southern state is battered by torrential downpour since Friday night. “Situation is really serious in some parts of the state. We will do everything possible to save lives. We have sought the army, navy and air force help. Relief camps have been set up in affected districts,” he told reporters on Saturday.At least 10 people have lost their lives, while 18 people have been reported missing in Kottayam as heavy rains lashed various districts of Kerala from Friday night. The Indian meteorological department has issued red alerts in the districts of Kottayam, Pathanamthitta, Thrissur, Ernakulam, Idukki, and Palakkad. The weather forecasting agency has also warned of possible thunderstorms and strong winds all through the state.The state government has issued the following directives to concerned authorities:-1. One team each of National Disaster Rescue Force (NDRF) has been deployed in Pathanamthitta, Thrissur, and Malappuram districts. Both Pathanamthitta and Thrissur have been put under red alert and Malappuram under orange alert by IMD.2. Army teams have been deployed in both Thiruvananthapuram and Kottayam. IMD has issued an orange alert for the former and a red alert for the latter. The Air force has also been asked to be prepared to help out in conducting emergency rescues in Kottayam.3. Red alerts have been issued for Kaki dam in Pathanamthitta district, Sholayar dam in Thrissur district, Kundala dam and Kallarkutty dam in Idukki district. An orange alert has been issued in Mattupetty dam in Idukki district and Peringalkuthu dam in Thrissur district, all these dams are under the authority of the Kerala state electricity board. Sluice gates of many of these dams have been opened to help ease pressure built up by heavy rainfall.4. The chief minister has asked the state police force to be ready to help out in rescue operations in coordination with the district collector and the district disaster management authority, and district police chiefs have been asked to open control rooms and provide proper security at relief centres.5. Pilgrimage to Sabarimala hill temple has been stopped and schools and colleges have asked to remain closed till Wednesday as an added precaution.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-govt-issues-guidelines-for-rescue-work-amid-heavy-rain-101634399273560.html
16-10-2021||India||IMD alerts: Besides Kerala, heavy rain with lightning and hailstorm forecasted in 16 states/UTs till Oct 19||Even as the monsoon has withdrawn from many parts of India, rain has been lashing some states and Union territories (UTs) in the country. A total of five districts in Kerala are on red alert for Saturday, while an orange alert has been issued in at least seven other districts as well. Meanwhile, several people lost their lives in Kerala’s Idukki, while many are missing following multiple incidents of landslides in Kottayam.Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has sought the Indian Air Force’s help in the rescue operation.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) in its latest bulletin has predicted more rain not only for Kerala but also 16 additional states and UTs, including Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh, among other regions.Also Read | 10 killed, 18 missing as heavy rain pounds KeralaThe rain in all the aforementioned regions and more will be triggered due to a low-pressure area. According to the latest bulletin by the IMD, a low-pressure area lies over the southeast Arabian Sea and adjoining Kerala. Another low-pressure area lies over north coastal Andhra Pradesh and its nearby areas. “[This] low-pressure area/remnant cyclonic circulation is likely to move generally northwestwards towards west Uttar Pradesh,” the IMD bulletin adds.Apart from these low-pressure areas in India, “a western disturbance lies as a cyclonic circulation over southern parts of Afghanistan and its neighbourhood.”Here are the key IMD alerts for all the 17 states and UTs owing to these conditions:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-just-kerala-heavy-rain-with-hailstorm-forecasted-in-16-states-uts-imd-101634398353777.html
16-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: India's electricity demand in October up amid coal crisis and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India's electricity demand rises by 4.9% in early October amid coal crisisAmid an acute coal shortage, India's electricity demand surged 4.9% during the first half of October as supply fell short of demand by 1.4%. With economic activity bouncing back at an unprecedented rate after the horrifying second wave of coronavirus pandemic, the country's electricity demand has touched soaring heights. Read moreBadal urges Centre to raise Taliban's entry in Kabul gurdwara at global forumShiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Saturday strongly condemned the forcible entry into a Kabul gurdwara by heavily armed officials claiming to be from a “special unit” of the Taliban government in Afghanistan. Read more‘Water supply in Delhi won’t be affected for Ganga canal maintenance', says DJBThe Delhi Jal Board (DJB) on Saturday said the water supply in the national capital will not be affected following the closure of Ganga canal for maintenance till November 5. Read moreAkshay Kumar reacts as ex-Army officer points out mistake in Gorkha poster: ‘We’ll take utmost care’After a retired Indian Army officer pointed out an error in the poster of Akshay Kumar’s upcoming film, Gorkha, the actor promised to ‘take utmost care’ to maintain authenticity during shoot. Read moreGautam Gambhir answers whether MS Dhoni is IPL's all-time best captain, names 3 players CSK should retain for next yearMS Dhoni is the second most successful captain in the history of IPL, having won four titles, next only to Rohit Sharma's record five wins. However, if a cursory glance is to be given at Dhoni's captaincy record, he would well be the best overall captain, having led CSK to the playoffs of every edition of the IPL, barring last year. Read moreBreast Cancer Awareness Month: 5-step self-examination guide you must followThe number of breast cancer cases have been rising at an alarming rate across the globe. One of the most common cancers in women, breast cancer can be treated successfully if detected at an early stage. Read moreWatch: Bus half-submerged in flood water; car pulled out with rope | Kerala rainHeavy rains lashed southern and central parts of Kerala on Saturday. A red alert was sounded in five districts predicting extremely heavy rainfall. Landslide was reported from Kottayam following which at least 1 person died and 12 are missing. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-india-s-electricity-demand-in-october-up-amid-coal-crisis-and-all-the-latest-news-101634395302480.html
16-10-2021||India||10 killed, 18 missing as heavy rain pounds Kerala||At least ten people died and 18 are missing as heavy rain pounded many parts of Kerala on Saturday with a worried state government seeking the help of the army, air force and navy for rescue and relief operations. “The situation is really serious in some parts of the state. We will do everything possible to save lives. We have sought the army, navy and air force’s help. Relief camps have been set up in affected districts,” Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said in a statement after an emergency meeting in the state capital. He also said the government is monitoring the water level in all dams. The Kerala government has also decided to stop the ongoing pilgrimage to the Sabarimala hill temple due to inclement weather. All colleges and higher education centres in Kerala will be opened only on Wednesday. Three districts of the state have been the worst hit -- Kottayam, Pathanamthitta and Idukki. Eighteen people are feared missing after a landslide in Kottayam and in Idukki two persons travelling in a car were washed away and later their bodies were retrieved. Both are yet to be identified. Four other rain-related deaths were reported from Pathanamthitta and Kottayam. The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has sounded red alerts in the six districts of Kottayam, Pathanamthitta, Thrissur, Ernakulam, Idukki and Palakkad. Many of these districts have been getting heavy rainfall since Friday night and many dams in the vicinity are also filled to the brim and sluice gates of some of them have been opened to ease pressure. Some of the areas in Kottayam got 30 cm of rainfall in the last 24 hours said the IMD adding some areas will also witness high velocity winds. Weather experts said Saturday night is crucial for the state. In Kootickal in Kottayam district, three houses were destroyed in a major landslide and unconfirmed reports said six bodies have been retrieved but the district administration is yet to confirm it. Initial reports suggest 18 people are missing. Since the area is marooned after the landslide the district administration has sought the help of an army team. A senior district official who did not want to be named said the toll may go up after witnessing the intensity of the landslide. “At least four landslides have been reported in Kottayam and the one is Kootickal is major. Many people are stranded and we have have sought the help of Air Force choppers to shift them,” said state cooperation minister V N Vasavan hailing from the district. Earlier the CM said six teams of the National Disaster Response Force were deployed in affected areas and two teams of the Army will be deployed and Air Force teams have been asked to stand by. State Revenue Minister K Rajan said the government is closely monitoring the situation and least 5,000 families have been shifted to relief camps across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-killed-18-missing-as-heavy-rain-pounds-kerala-101634396526157.html
16-10-2021||India||‘All he did was…’: Omar Abdullah, Mufti react after terrorists kill another vendor from Bihar||Former chief ministers of Jammu and Kashmir strongly condemned the targeted killing of yet another civilian in the Eidgah area of Srinagar on Saturday. Arbind Kumar Sah from Bihar’s Banka, who worked as a street vendor in Srinagar, was shot by terrorists at around 6.40pm and was rushed to Shri Maharaja Hari Singh Hospital where he was declared brought dead.Calling the act “reprehensible”, Jammu and Kashmir National Conference leader Omar Abdullah said all Sah did was to come to Srinagar in search of earning opportunities.“Strongly condemn the killing of street vendor Arvind Kumar in a terror attack in Srinagar today. This is yet another case of a civilian being targeted like this. All Arvind Kumar did was come to Srinagar in search of earning opportunities & it’s reprehensible that he was murdered,” tweeted Abdullah.People's Democratic Party (PDP) chief Mehbooba Mufti also condemned the attack on the non-local street vendor, saying such incidents reinforce the need to reach out to the people of Jammu and Kashmir.“Strongly condemn today’s attack on a street vendor who sadly succumbed. Such unfortunate incidents only reinforce the immediate need to reach out to the people of J&K by initiating a constructive dialogue,” she tweeted.Also Read | Vendor from Bihar shot dead by terrorists in Srinagar; non-native killed in PulwamaAnother non-local labourer, identified as Sagir Ahmad from Uttar Pradesh, succumbed to his injuries after terrorists fired upon him in Pulwama. Kashmir Zone Police said they have started search and cordon operations in the areas where two non-locals were killed the same day.The targeted killings in Kashmir, with victims particularly from minority communities, have increased in recent days. Sah was murdered in the same area where terrorists killed a Sikh principal and a Hindu teacher of Government Boys Higher Secondary School last week.Meanwhile, the security forces have also intensified counterterrorism operations in Kashmir after firm direction from the Centre to protect the minorities.On Saturday, Vijay Kumar, IGP Kashmir, said that 13 terrorists have been killed in nine encounters since the targeted attacks started in Kashmir. Kumar noted that two terrorists affiliated with Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taliba (LeT), involved in several civilian killings, have been neutralised in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-he-did-was-omar-abdullah-mufti-react-after-terrorists-kill-another-vendor-from-bihar-101634395909926.html
16-10-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: October 17, 1968 — Indian shares Nobel prize for medicine with 2 Americans||Stockholm- India-born Hargobind Khorana was today named co-winner of the 1968 Nobel prize for medicine and physiology with two other American nationals for their interpretation of the genetic code and its function in protein synthesis. The other two are Robert Holley of Cornell University and Dr Marshall Nirenberg of the National Heart Institute, Bethesda, Maryland. The citation said the three scientists, who will get a record cash value this year of $70,000 ( ₹5.25 lakhs), had worked independently, but their investigation converged towards the solution of a common problem. Dr Khorana and Mr. Holley, who probed the structure of the genetic code, explained how it is used by the cell for the biosynthesis of proteins Dr Khorana, 46 started his career as an organic chemist. During 1950-52 he worked with Nobel prize winner A. Todd in Cambridge, England, on building a complex biological substance, called nucleotides. In the late 1950s, he was ready to take the next step, starting experiments to combine several nucleotides. His final aim was to be able to synthesize in the test tube nucleic acids containing a known sequence of nucleotides. The synthetic nucleic acids he managed to produce made it possible for Dr Khorana to investigate the genetic (hereditary) code for all amino acids in all the details. Ingenius experiment The Royal Caroline Institute of Medicine and Physiology, which took the decision to award the prize to the three scientists, said that Dr Nirenberg, 41, of New York, opened up this research area by a very simple but ingenious experiment By following up his breakthrough he could clarify the general character of the genetic code. Dr Nirenberg, who heads the section for biochemistry and genetics at the Bethesda Institute, had received the National Medal of Science from President Johnson in 1965. The Caroline Institute explained that the decoding of the genetic code, which Dr Nirenberg did, provides the key to a translation of one biological language into another. It translates the language of nucleid acids into the language of proteins, and thereby explains how the genes of cell direct the function of a cell.Asked for an explanation in layman terms of what the awarded experiment meant, Prof Hugo Theorell, Swedish medicine prize winner in 1955, said: “This means that we suddenly have got to understand the alphabet of life as fat as heredity is concerned. Some illnesses result from misprints in this process. There could be something wrong with the haemoglobin (the red colouring of the blood corpuscles), but also with the enzymes (active proteins) , which could be constructed wrongly, something that is in the body prone to certain illnesses.” “The three Nobel prize winners have not provided any remedy for such illnesses, but their great feat in research lies in that they have shown what it is we have to attack to combat such hereditary illnesses,” Prof Theorell said. “You can say that the three winners independently have managed to break the genetic code, Dr Nirenberg providing the very key to its structure and Dr Khorana and Mr Holley by proving its structure in detail.” he added. Dr Melvin Cohn of Salk Institute of Biochemical Research, California, who has closely worked with the Nobel Prize winner, Dr Hargovind Khorana, said in New Delhi today that if you ask any American student of elementary biochemistry he would tell you who Dr Khorana is. Dr Cohn, who is on a lecture tour of India, said Dr Khorana was one of the only 500 members of the American National Academy of Sciences. ‘This is rare honour conferred on any American scientist.” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-october-17-1968-indian-shares-nobel-prize-for-medicine-with-2-americans-101634396348925.html
16-10-2021||India||‘If govt upsets farmers from border states, there will be ramifications’: Sharad Pawar||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) supremo Sharad Pawar urged the Union government to deal with the ongoing farmers protest with sensitivity."My advice to the Union government is, do not let farmers of Punjab get upset, it is a border state. If we upset the farmers and people from border regions, then there will be other ramifications," Pawar cautioned.Also Read: ‘Will meet Amit Shah to know his thoughts’, says NCP's Sharad Pawar on extension of BSF’s jurisdictionPawar also said that the stand taken by the Union government does not seem "rational", and referring to Indira Gandhi’s assassination, he warned that the country had to pay a hefty price for upsetting Punjab once."Our country has paid the price of upsetting Punjab, even (then prime minister) Indira Gandhi lost her life. On the other hand, farmers of Punjab, irrespective of whether they are Sikh or Hindu, have contributed to the food supply," he told reporters on Saturday.Indira Gandhi was assassinated by her personal bodyguards Satwant Singh and Beant Singh on October 31, 1984, at her residence in New Delhi, allegedly in retaliation for Operation Blue Star. Her death was followed by large scale anti-Sikh riots across the country, in which thousands of Sikhs lost their lives.The NCP chief stated that the border areas like Punjab face several security issues and therefore "when a person who is making sacrifices is sitting in protest with some demands for a long time, paying attention to him is what the nation requires".The Union government and protesting farmer unions have held several rounds of talks but the government has not accepted their demand of a total repeal of all three farm laws. The government has insisted that the new laws will help farmers enhance their incomes but farmers claim they are exploitative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-govt-upsets-farmers-from-border-states-there-will-be-ramifications-sharad-pawar-101634395472567.html
16-10-2021||India||Jashpur incident: BJP MP sits on Dharna, demands Chhattisgarh CM Baghel’s visit, SIT, judicial inquiry into incident||Raigarh BJP MP Gomati Sai on Saturday sat on a dharna along with the local population over the Jashpur incident in Chhattisgarh, a day after one person died and several others were injured after a running car rammed into a religious rally. The minister also claimed that the police and the administration were involved in the incident and demanded a special investigation team (SIT) and a judicial inquiry regarding the incident, news agency ANI reported.“This incident (in Jashpur) has happened with [a] well thought out strategy. Police and administration are involved in this. Smuggling is happening because of government,” ANI quoted Gomati Sai as saying.Further she also questioned state chief minister Bhupesh Baghel for not visiting the place and mentioned that the CM went and visited Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh. “If CM (Bhupesh Baghel) can go to Lakhimpur Kheri then why he can't come here?” she asked. “We demand SIT, judicial inquiry of this incident and culprits should be punished,” she added.Also read | Jashpur incident: 1 dead, 17 injured; 2 cops suspended. What we know so farThe incident happened in Pathalgaon town in Jashpur district and a speeding vehicle ran over a group of people, who were on a procession to immerse idols of goddess Durga, HT had previously reported. Videos emerged of the incident, in which the car could be seen to proceed without stopping after it had rammed into the crowd. Also, the vehicle was later found at a short distance away from the side of the road.However, Babloo Vishwakarma, 21, and Shishupal Sahu, 26, both residents of Madhya Pradesh, were arrested on Friday regarding the incident. Also, CM Baghel announced a compensation of ₹50 lakhs to the dead victim’s family.“The Jashpur incident is very sad and heartbreaking. The culprits were immediately arrested. Prima facie action has also been taken against the police officers who appeared guilty. An inquiry has been ordered. No one will be spared. Justice will be done to all,” he had tweeted on Friday.The Jashpur incident has been compared to a similar one in Lakhimpur Kheri, Uttar Pradesh, where a vehicle ran over a group of protesting farmers. Eight people, including four farmers, were killed and Union minister of state Ajay Mishra’s son Ashish Mishra has been arrested regarding the violence. Farmers allege that the junior Mishra was present in one of the cars at the site, a claim which has been denied by the minister and his son.Baghel reacted to the comparison with the Lakhimpur incident and said that the Uttar Pradesh police was shielding the minister’s son but in the Jashpur case the accused have been arrested and compensation was announced. The Uttar Pradesh government had previously asked Lucknow Airport to not allow the arrival of Baghel, who was scheduled to visit Lakhimpur Kheri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jashpur-incident-bjp-mp-sits-on-dharna-demands-chhattisgarh-cm-baghel-s-visit-sit-judicial-inquiry-into-incident-101634394711278.html
16-10-2021||India||Sri Lanka, India to enhance cooperation in defence, trade and energy: Envoy||High-level visits from the Indian side to Sri Lanka, including by foreign secretary Harsh Shringla and army chief Gen MM Naravane, have helped bridge a trust deficit and prepare the ground for re-energising relations, Sri Lankan high commissioner Milinda Moragoda said on Saturday. Moragoda described the feeling in some quarters in New Delhi that China has strengthened its position in Sri Lanka at the cost of India as only a “perception”, and said in an interview that New Delhi and Colombo were close to enhancing cooperation in areas ranging from trade to defence and energy. Bilateral ties were buffeted in February when Sri Lanka scrapped a trilateral agreement with India and Japan for developing the east container terminal of Colombo port. Delays in several other projects and lack of forward movement in efforts to devolve powers to Sri Lanka’s Tamil minority added to problems between the two countries. An “integrated country strategy” document prepared by Moragoda before he assumed office in India acknowledged that bilateral ties were dominated by a “transactional approach” because of geo-political changes that had resulted in a “growing trust deficit”. Moragoda said on Saturday recent high-level visits and the presence of leaders in the Indian government who understand Sri Lanka, such as external affairs minister S Jaishankar and petroleum minister Hardeep Puri, have helped address this trust deficit. “The foreign secretary’s visit has helped a lot...The senior officials on the Indian side...understand us warts and all and that helps. We have the basis now to start building through the transactions on to a strategic relationship,” he said. A visit by 100 Buddhist monks and senior ministers led by sports minister Namal Rajapaksa to Kushinagar in Uttar Pradesh on October 20 will also boost people-to-people contacts. The delegation will participate in the inauguration of an international airport that is meant to put Kushinagar, the site of Lord Buddha’s parinirvana, on the Buddhist tourism circuit. Moragoda referred to the integrated country strategy, which has been described as a roadmap for building relations over the next two years, and said the two countries will have to “evolve from a transactional stage to a strategic and then a special relationship”. He added, “The transactional stage is also a trust-building phase because both sides need to learn to do business with each other.” He said the scrapping of the agreement on the east container terminal at Colombo port because of pressure from trade unions was part of the “untidiness of democracy”. He also noted President Gotabaya Rajapaksa had come up with the proposal for developing the west container proposal as an alternative, and the recent deal on this project between state-owned Sri Lanka Ports Authority and Adani Group will be more advantageous for the Indian firm. “From a commercial point of view, the west terminal is a better transaction because the investor has more control over it,” he said. “The west terminal shouldn’t be underestimated as 80% of the cargo in Sri Lankan ports is trans-shipment cargo. Out of this, 70% goes to India, and even from this, 35% goes to Adani Group-linked ports.” Moragoda acknowledged there is a “Chinese investment footprint” in his country but said the feeling that Sri Lanka is moving faster on Chinese investment proposals is just a “perception”. He also pointed out India’s sizeable presence in several sectors such as energy, transportation and railways. Indian Oil controls one-third of petroleum distribution in Sri Lanka, and there are plans for collaborating on an oil tank farm and exploration, while the two sides are in discussions on development of renewable energy. Indian Railways has done “immense work” to develop Sri Lanka’s rail network and there are more than one million Bajaj three-wheelers on the island nation’s roads, he said. “We are also studying whether the Aadhar Card can be used as a template in Sri Lanka,” he said, adding Sri Lanka plans to import nano-nitrogen fertiliser from India as part of a move towards organic agriculture. Moragoda said Sri Lanka will have to “work harder” because the bilateral relationship is asymmetrical. “On the trade and economic side, one of the reasons why we may not be able to make progress as quickly as possible is some of our industries feel maybe sort of overwhelmed by India,” he added. India, he hoped, will be willing to accommodate such an asymmetrical relationship in trade with opportunities for market access without looking for reciprocity. The two countries are also talking about the possibility of a bilateral currency swap and are in advanced discussions on a maritime surveillance system, Moragoda said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sri-lanka-india-to-enhance-cooperation-in-defence-trade-and-energy-envoy-101634394846197.html
16-10-2021||India||Vendor from Bihar shot dead by terrorists in Srinagar; UP labourer killed in Pulwama||In two separate incidents in J&K, two non-local civilians were attacked on Saturday by terrorists, one in Srinagar and the other in Pulwama. Both succumbed to their injuries. The deaths add to the series of civilian deaths that the Valley has been witnessing in the past two weeks. The Srinagar incident involved a vendor identified as Arvind Kumar, who came from Bihar to work as a street hawker in Srinagar. The attack took place at around 6.40pm. Arvind was rushed to Government Medical College Srinagar where doctors declared him dead.
16-10-2021||India||SAD chief urges Centre to raise Taliban's forcible entry in Kabul gurdwara at global forum||Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Saturday strongly condemned the forcible entry into a Kabul gurdwara by heavily armed officials claiming to be from a “special unit” of the Taliban government in Afghanistan. Badal called on the Central government to raise the issue of alleged attacks against Sikhs and other religious minority communities at an international forum.On Friday, Puneet Singh Chandhok, head of Delhi-based think tank Indian World Forum, said that heavily armed Taliban officials forcibly entered Gurdwara Dashmesh Pita at Karte Parwan, Kabul, in presence of around 20 members of the Sikh community.Chandhok claimed that the officials intimidated the community members at the gurdwara and abused the sanctity of the holy place, according to news agency ANI. He further alleged that the Taliban not only raided the gurdwara but also the community school premises attached next to it.“The private security guards of the gurdwara initially prevented them from entering but they were also threatened with dire consequences and also manhandled,” ANI quoted Chandhok as saying.“They've also simultaneously raided the erstwhile residence and office of MP Narinder Singh Khalsa located adjacent to the gurdwara,” he added, urging the Indian government to immediately raise the issue with their counterparts at the highest level.This is not the first time that Taliban officials or fighters have forcibly entered a gurdwara in Afghanistan. Earlier, they had removed Nishan Sahib, the Sikh holy flag, from the roof of a gurdwara in Afghanistan's eastern Paktia province. The concerns over the safety and security of religious minorities in Afghanistan have increased after the Taliban’s takeover.Amid the Taliban’s quest for recognition from the international community, the Sunni Pashtun group has repeatedly promised that they’ll respect human rights and won’t harm minorities.Badal said that the Taliban government should not be recognised since the minorities are not safe in Afghanistan under their rule.“The matter of the recognition of Taliban is going on. It's a State where the minority is not safe, they should not be recognised. International pressure should be created on them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sad-chief-urges-centre-to-raise-taliban-s-forcible-entry-in-kabul-gurdwara-at-global-forum-101634390952851.html
16-10-2021||India||‘Will meet Amit Shah to know his thoughts’, says NCP's Sharad Pawar on extension of BSF’s jurisdiction||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief and senior politician Sharad Pawar on Saturday said that he would meet with Union home minister Amit Shah to discuss Centre’s decision to extend the Border Security Force’s (BSF) operational jurisdiction. “I will be meeting Home Minister Amit Shah to know his thoughts about it,” news agency ANI quoted Pawar as saying on the day.Pawar’s remarks came as some border states like Punjab and West Bengal have criticised the Union government’s contentious decision to extend BSF’s jurisdiction in the border states as a violation of the country’s federal structure and infringement on states’ rights.Earlier this week, Pawar had criticised the Union government for “misusing” central agencies such as the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), the Enforcement Directorate (ED), Income tax department and the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB).Also read | ‘Union minister Ajay Mishra should step down taking responsibility of Lakhimpur Kheri incident’: NCP chief Sharad Pawar“We oppose this decision. This is an infringement on the rights of the state,” news agency PTI quoted TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh as saying, earlier on October 14. Meanwhile, Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi tweeted, “I strongly condemn the GoI's unilateral decision to give additional powers to BSF within the 50 km belt running along the international borders, which is a direct attack on federalism. I urge the Union Home Minister @AmitShah to immediately roll back this irrational decision.”The Union government amended the Border Security Forces act to allow the BSF to search, seize and arrest within a larger 50kms stretch from the international border in West Bengal, Assam and Punjab. The earlier limit for this was 15km and the Union ministry of home affairs issued a notification on October 11 amending the act, several news agencies reported.Despite the criticism by West Bengal and Punjab, Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said that he welcomed the Centre’s decision. “Assam welcomes the extension of BSF’s operational jurisdiction. In coordination with state police, this move will serve as a strong deterrent for defeating cross border smuggling and illegal infiltration. It strengthens national security and national interest,” ANI quoted the CM as saying earlier.In July, Pawar, a former defence minister himself, along with Congress leader AK Antony met Union defence minister Rajnath Singh for an informal discussion regarding the border situation with neighbouring Pakistan and China and also the situation in Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-meet-amit-shah-to-know-his-thoughts-says-ncp-s-sharad-pawar-on-extension-of-bsf-s-jurisdiction-101634390865521.html
16-10-2021||India||Congress finalizes organizational poll schedule, to choose new chief in Aug-Sep 2022||The Congress party is set to get its new president between August and September 2022, the CWC has decided, as it finalized the long-drawn poll schedule of the party on Saturday. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has been urged by “nearly all” CWC members to take over the charge of the party from interim president Sonia Gandhi, party’s general secretary KC Venugopal told the media. Till the new president is not elected, Sonia Gandhi would continue in the post. The Congress has also announced a schedule for the elections in Congress Working Committee and other bodies. “It would be held during the AICC plenary session in September or October 22. The dates would be announced later,” said Venugopal. The election process in CWC and other bodies would be significant as G23 leaders wanted election in these bodies. Rahul Gandhi had stepped down in 2019 following the dismal performance of the party in the last general elections. The Congress was unable to find a replacement and Sonia Gandhi, who had already served the longest term in the history of the party as Congress president, had to reluctantly return as interim chief. The schedule has been carefully chosen as the party faces key elections in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Uttarakhand in March-April next year. As the first step to the election, enrollment drive for members would begin from November 1 and continue till March 22. The exercise also helps the Congress to enroll new members ahead of the 2024 general elections. The membership drive, spread over five months, is significant as the party has lost considerable electoral space to the BJP and other parties in the recent few years. The District Congress Committees will publish the list of members and the eligible candidates for various party bodies between April 1 to April 15, followed by the election of president and executive committees at the block levels. This process would be completed between April 16 to May 31next year. Venugopal announced that elections at the District Committee levels—to decide the local presidents, vice presidents and treasurers will happen from June 1 and July 20. The PCCs would face election between July 21 to August 22 next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-finalizes-organizational-poll-schedule-to-choose-new-chief-in-aug-sep-2022-101634386865460.html
16-10-2021||India||Nihang Baba Narain Singh surrenders to killing of man with severed arm at Singhu border||Nihang Baba Narain Singh on Saturday surrendered before Amritsar rural police at Amarkot village near Jandiala Guru in Amritsar district in connection with the gruesome murder of the 35-year-old Tarn Taran man at Singhu border. The man, identified as Lakhbir Singh, was found dead with at least 10 wounds and a severed left arm early Friday morning at Singhu border near Delhi.Narain Singh, the second accused in the matter, was subsequently arrested by the Punjab Police from Rakh Devidass Pura in Amarkot village.Residents and panchayat of Cheema village, where the deceased lived, have resolved to cremate the man in the village. However, no one except the family will attend the cremation and no last rites as per Sikh maryada will be performed, as per the resolution.Lakhbir Singh was lynched for allegedly desecrating a Sikh holy book. His body was found tied to an overturned police barricade at the Singhu border protest site.The incident was blamed on the Nihangs on Friday, a Sikh order identified by their blue robes and swords. The police registered an FIR in this case yesterday.Meanwhile, speaking to reporters, a man wearing the blue robe, claimed that he had "punished" the victim for "desecrating" the Guru Granth Sahib, the Sikh holy book. His video of claiming responsibility for the killing went viral on social media platforms.Facing flak over the brutal murder at the popular protest site, farmer leaders said that they will upgrade security by installing CCTV cameras and increasing the number of volunteers at the protest sites. However, they asserted that the incident will have no impact on the year-long agitation against the Centre's three farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nihang-baba-narain-singh-surrenders-to-killing-of-man-with-severed-arm-at-singhu-101634384024910.html
16-10-2021||India||Congress to hold ‘massive training programmes’ for party workers, leaders on poll management, grassroot outreach||Congress will be holding mass training programmes for party workers and leaders at all levels to coach party members in grassroot messaging, election management, countering propaganda, party ideology amongst other things, party general secretary KC Venugopal, said on Saturday.“We're going for a massive training programme from top to bottom. Workers and leaders at all levels will be trained in party ideologies, policies, expectations of a Congress worker, grassroots messaging, election management, failure of present government, and countering propaganda,” Venugopal announced during a press conference.Venugopal’s announcement comes hours after the party's top decision-making body, Congress Working Committee’s (CWC), met in-person on Saturday, for the first time since the pandemic started, to discuss key issues like upcoming assembly polls and organisational elections.The grand old party has also “passed resolutions on the political situation, inflation and 'diabolical attack' on India's farmers” during the CWC meet, Venugopal told reporters.Also Read: ‘I’m a full-time, hands-on Cong president’: Sonia Gandhi hits out at G23 leadersCongress, which has not had a full-time president since Rahul Gandhi stepped down after the party’s defeat in 2019 general elections, also decided to hold an election for the post of All India Congress Committee (AICC) president between August 21 and September 20, 2022. AICC is in charge of holding regular elections to elect the CWC members.Sonia Gandhi has been serving as the interim president since Rahul stepped down. At the CWC meet she reportedly urged party leaders to not speak to her through the media, insisting that she has always “appreciated frankness”. Gandhi also said that the elections for the post of AICC president would have been held by June 30 "but the second wave of Covid-19 overtook the country and this deadline was extended indefinitely by the CWC in its meeting held on May 10, 2021.”Congress has been in turmoil in several states where it is in power, with the recent crisis being brought by the resignation of veteran leader Amarinder Singh, after he was asked to step down from the post of Punjab chief minister. The party has also witnessed high profile exits of leaders like Sushmita Dev, Jitin Prasada, and Luizinho Faleiro in the last few months. The party has also performed rather poorly in assembly elections held in Bihar, West Bengal, Kerala, and Puducherry.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-to-hold-massive-training-programmes-for-party-workers-leaders-on-poll-management-grassroot-outreach-101634385913932.html
16-10-2021||India||Jaishankar to visit Israel next week to meet key leaders of new coalition||External affairs minister S Jaishankar will visit Israel during October 17-21 for meetings with members of the new coalition government led by Prime Minister Naftali Bennett and to take forward cooperation in diverse fields. This will be Jaishankar’s first visit to Israel since he became foreign minister in 2019. Besides holding talks with his Israeli counterpart Yair Lapid, he will also meet the Prime Minister, President Isaac Herzog and Knesset Speaker Mickey Levy. Jaishankar is visiting at the invitation of Lapid, who is also the alternate prime minister of the new coalition. Lapid, the head of the centrist Yesh Atid party, is set to take over the role of premier from Bennett in 2023 under the agreement that led to the formation of the coalition government. The Indian government had forged a very close relationship with former premier Benjamin Netanyahu, and the visit will be an opportunity for New Delhi to take forward relations with the new dispensation in Israel. The new government was formed after months of political turmoil, with Israel witnessing five elections in just two years. India and Israel elevated their ties to a strategic partnership when Narendra Modi became the first Indian prime minister to travel to Israel in July 2017. The relationship between the two countries has focused on expanding knowledge-based partnership, including collaboration in innovation and research and boosting the “Make in India” initiative, the external affairs ministry said. Jaishankar will interact with the Indian-origin Jewish community in Israel, Indologists, Indian students pursuing their education in Israeli universities and businesspeople, including representatives of hi-tech industries. The visit will also be an occasion to pay tribute to Indian soldiers who laid down their lives in the region, especially during World War 1, the ministry said. Alon Ushpiz, Director General of the Israeli foreign ministry, had announced Jaishankar’s visit on Twitter on Friday, describing India as a “strategic partner and a very close friend”. Modi had spoken over the phone with Bennett in August and both leaders agreed to expand cooperation, especially in hi-tech and innovation. They also decided the two foreign ministries would prepare a roadmap for enriching the bilateral strategic partnership. Modi also invited Bennett to visit India in 2022, when the two sides will mark the 30th anniversary of diplomatic ties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-to-visit-israel-next-week-101634385434119.html
16-10-2021||India||Kerala rain: 1 dead in Idduki, 13 missing in Kottayam, Vijayan seeks IAF help||Heavy rain battered Kerala leading to incidents of landslides in Kottayam district where at least 12 people are missing. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has sought the help of the Indian Air Force in the rescue operation as the extent of the damage has not yet been ascertained. Four incidents of landslides have been reported from various parts of Kottayam, according to reports. One death has been reported from Idduki."At least four landslips have been reported from various parts of Kottayam district. We have sought the assistance of the Airforce to rescue people who are stranded in Koottikal area. We have received information about some people missing and over 60 waiting to be rescued as water entered their homes," Kerala minister for cooperation and registration VN Vasavan told PTI.Heavy rains started on Friday night and are still continuing with a red alert issued for five districts including Pathanamthitta, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Idukki, and Thrissur.A video of a KSRTC bus stuck in floodwater and locals trying to rescue passengers from it has gone viral on social media. A CMO release said six teams of NDRF have been deployed in Pathanamthitta, Idukki, Alappuzha, Ernakulam, Kottayam and Idukki. Two teams of the Army have been directed to be deployed in Thiruvananthapuram and Kottayam districts while the air force has been requested to be on standby in case of any emergencies.A red alert has also been issued for Chulliyar dam in Palakkad and Peechi dam in Thrissur, which are under the irrigation department., PTI reported. Vijayan will chair a meeting of all district collectors and other officials concerned in the evening.  "All necessary precautions have been taken. We have asked the district collectors to issue warnings to people residing along the river banks," revenue minister K Rajan told PTI. The India Meteorological Department has warned of widespread heavy rain in the state due to the low-pressure area formed over the Arabian Sea. The heavy rain continuing for over 12 hours have damaged roads in many places including in Kollam and Kottayam districts. The water level is rising steadily in many rivers including Meenachal and Manimala in the district. The Kerala State Disaster Management Authority has warned people living in low-lying areas to exercise extreme caution and prepare to move out.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-rain-1-dead-in-idduki-12-missing-in-kottayam-vijayan-seeks-iaf-help-101634384065575.html
16-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: NSG deploys anti-drone systems at J&K air force stations and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.NSG provides anti-drone cover at Srinagar, Jammu air force stations; looks out for tiffin bombsThe National Security Guard (NSG) has deployed anti-drone systems at Srinagar and Jammu air force stations to counter any drone attacks, the Director General of specialized commando force – M A Ganapathy said on Saturday. The development comes in the backdrop of a twin-drone attack at the Jammu Air Force Station on June 27. [Read more…]2 Hindu men killed in Bangladesh in fresh attack on a temple: ReportTwo Hindu men were killed in Bangladesh amid ongoing violent attacks against the religious minority community in the neighbouring country. The latest spate of violence occurred in the southern town of Begumganj as more than 200 protesters attacked a temple when Hindu devotees were performing the last rituals on the final day of Durga Puja, reported news agency AFP citing police. [Read more…]Nawab Malik hits out at Aryan Khan case investigator, says Sameer Wankhede's 'friend' used as witnessMaharashtra minister Nawab Malik, whose son-in-law has been accused in a drug case by the Narcotics Control Bureau, on Saturday brought new charges against teh agency and its zonal director Sameer Wankhede, who is also the chief investigator of the Aryan Khan drug case. In a series of tweets, the minister alleged that Wankhede uses his 'friends as a 'panch' (witness) in different cases. [Read more…]‘Those who have sacrificed their lives should get a place in history’: Amit Shah on renaming Ross IslandUnion home minister Amit Shah who’s on a three-day visit to Andaman and Nicobar Islands talked about the government’s decision to rename one of the islands after Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, stating that it was done so that “people who have sacrificed their lives should get a place in history”. [Read more…]'I am a...': Sonia Gandhi slams G23 rebels, praises Rahul amid Punjab Cong dramaThe Congress Working Committee met on Saturday and interim President Sonia Gandhi lashed out at the G23 or senior rebels of the Congress. Gandhi said that the revival of the Congress requires “self-control, discipline, unity and keeping the Party’s interests paramount.” She also said that the party has started preparations for the upcoming elections but “Undoubtedly, we face many challenges.” Watch HereSteyn fumes as CSA congratulates Ngidi on winning IPL title but leaves out du Plessis, TahirDale Steyn was not impressed with Cricket South Africa, whose Instagram account congratulated Lungi Ngidi for winning the IPL 2021 title with Chennai Super Kings, but had no mention of star batsman Faf du Plessis and veteran bowler Imran Tahir. CSA put out a post, captioning: "Congratulations @lungingidi on claiming the 2021 IPL title with Chennai Super Kings." [Read more…]Fardeen Khan’s lawyer recalls what Feroz Khan said during 2001 cocaine case: ‘We don’t want any false defence’Advocate Ayaz Khan, who defended Fardeen Khan in a drug-related case, recalled how the actor’s father, late actor Feroz Khan, was against ‘false defence’. Fardeen was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in May 2001 while allegedly attempting to purchase one gram of cocaine. [Read more…]Soon, manage your WhatsApp reactions notificationsWhatsApp has long been known to be working on a feature called Message Reactions. Now, word is that the Facebook-based messaging app is developing a feature that will give WhatsApp users more granular control over their Message Reactions and Message Reaction notifications. [Read more…]Eye strain due to long working hours? Here are yoga tips to improve eye healthMany of us may be taking our eyes for granted in pandemic times when our days begin and end staying glued to screens. If you are experiencing headaches, burning, watery or dry eyes or blurred vision after long hours of looking at your computer, laptop or phone screen, you should immediately take measures to improve your eye health. [Read more…]||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-nsg-deploys-anti-drone-systems-at-j-k-air-force-stations-and-all-the-latest-news-101634380688408.html
16-10-2021||India||13 terrorists neutralised in 9 encounters since civilian killings: Army||At least 13 terrorists have been killed in as many as nine encounters between security forces and the militants in Jammu & Kashmir, inspector general of police Vijay Kumar said on Saturday.“We have neutralised three out of five terrorists of Srinagar city within less than 24 hours,” Vijay Kumar was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.On Friday, two soldiers from Uttarakhand were killed in an encounter with terrorists in Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir while a junior commissioned officer was missing, taking the number of Army personnel killed in the counterterrorism operations in the area to seven this week.The development comes a week after unidentified men entered a school in Srinagar's historical old town Eidgah on October 7 morning and gunned down its principal and another teacher.Two days before the incident, terrorists belonging to an outfit affiliated to Lashkar-e-Taiba killed three people, including a prominent pharmacist, in three separate incidents.The Indian Army launched a massive search operation in Uri last month, after it detected suspicious movement along the Line of Control on the intervening night of September 18 and 19. Three terrorists were killed during their infiltration bid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/13-terrorists-neutralised-in-9-encounters-since-civilian-killings-army-101634382260563.html
16-10-2021||India||NSG provides anti-drone cover at Srinagar, Jammu air force stations; looks out for tiffin bombs||The National Security Guard (NSG) has deployed anti-drone systems at Srinagar and Jammu air force stations to counter any drone attacks, the Director General of specialized commando force – M A Ganapathy said on Saturday. People familiar with the development said that the NSG’s anti-drone measures have been successful so far as they have managed to detect a few drones in last few months and alert the relevant agencies on time. The development comes in the backdrop of a twin-drone attack at the Jammu Air Force Station on June 27, in which two unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) travelled from across the border and dropped two 3 kg to 5 kg improvised explosive devices (IEDs) at the air facility, damaging a portion of the building. An offshoot of Lashkar-e-Taiba – The Resistance Front (TRF) – has been found to be involved in the drone attack and the case is being investigated by the National Investigation Agency (NIA). Since then, the government has had a series of meetings with various agencies, private players, Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) etc to have robust anti-drone systems across the western border. Both Srinagar and Jammu Indian Air Force (IAF) stations are categorized as ‘sensitive’ installations. Ganapathy, during the 37th raising day function of NSG on Saturday, said that the federal counter-terrorist and counter-hijack commando force is enhancing its counter-terrorism profile and preparing itself to meet emerging security challenges. “The NSG has been deployed at the Srinagar and Jammu IAF stations to provide security cover to the facilities against drone attacks and this system is working successfully,” he said. People cited above said the deployment of this system will continue till full-fledged counter-drone weapons and gadgets are deployed at these two bases by the government. He said the NSG has an array of anti-drone equipment, radars, jammers and drone killer guns that essentially work for perimeter security. The DG further said that soon after the drone attack on the Jammu IAF base, an NSG ‘technical surveillance’ team was sent to the station which deployed its equipment there and the arrangement was stationed at the base. Ganapathy added that the NSG’s bomb disposal expert team has also managed to successfully intercept ‘tiffin bombs’ dropped from across the border. Indian agencies have noted that a large number of drones are being used by Pakistan army and terrorist groups to drop tiffin bombs into Indian territory, which are then picked up by the sleeper cells or overground workers (OGWs) of the outfits. The NIA is already probing the dropping of several tiffin bomb incidents in Punjab. As reported by HT on August 20, the federal anti-terror probe agency filed a case to investigate the delivery of a sophisticated tiffin bomb along with hand grenades and 100 pistol cartridges using a drone by Pakistan backed Khalistani terrorists at Daleke village in Lopoke sub-division of Amritsar district on August 9. Minister of state for home affairs, Nityanand Rai, who was present at the NSG raising day as chief guest, lauded the commando force, known as ‘Black Cats’, for its operations and said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has brought in an independent security policy for the country. The NSG was raised as a federal counter-terrorist force in 1984 to undertake surgical commando operations to neutralise terrorist and hijack threats. It is also a special squad that provides armed security cover to at least 13 high-risk VIPs at present. The NSG has five hubs in the country, apart from its main garrison in Delhi, and in each of them, a team of commandos is stationed in readiness 24x7 to respond to any threat situation within a 30-minute mobilisation timeframe. The five NSG hubs or bases are located in Gandhinagar, Mumbai, Kolkata, Hyderabad and Chennai and they were created post the 2008 Mumbai terror attacks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nsg-provides-anti-drone-cover-at-srinagar-jammu-air-force-stations-looks-out-for-tiffin-bombs-101634382664827.html
16-10-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi said he will consider becoming Congress president: Reports||In the Congress Working Committee meeting on Saturday, as Rahul Gandhi was requested by senior leaders to become the president, he said he will consider, news agency ANI reported crediting sources. He said he needs clarity at the level of ideology from the party leaders, the report said. Some leaders suggested that until a new president of the party is being elected, Rahul Gandhi should be made the working president, it said.In a reference to the recent rebellion of the G-23 leaders who questioned the Congress leadership in the aftermath of the Punjab crisis, Sonia Gandhi at the CWC meeting said she is a full-time and hands-on Congress president.“I have always appreciated frankness. There is no need to speak to me through the media. So let us all have a free and honest discussion. But what should get communicated outside the four walls of this room is the collective decision of the CWC,” she said.Also Read | ‘I’m a full-time, hands-on Cong president’: Sonia Gandhi hits out at G23 leaders“In the last two years, a large number of our colleagues, particularly the younger ones, have taken on leadership roles in taking party policies and programmes to the people - whether it is the agitation of farmers, provision of relief during the pandemic, highlighting issues of concern to youth and women, atrocities on Dalits, Adivasis and minorities, price rise, and the destruction of the public sector," Sonia Gandhi added.The Congress Working Committee on its nearly five-hour-long meeting on Saturday decided that the elections to the post of Congress president will be held between August 21 and September 20, next year. At the CWC meeting, everyone was of the opinion that Rahul Gandhi should become the party president, Ambika Soni told ANI. However, it was also agreed that the decision is up to him. "Everybody agreed unanimously, whether he (Rahul Gandhi) will become (the party president) or not is up to him. Everybody is of the opinion that Rahul Gandhi should become the party president," Ambika Soni said.Rahul Gandhi had stepped down from the post of the party president after the 2019 general elections taking responsibility for Congress's defeat. Since then, Sonia Gandhi has been the interim president of the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-said-he-will-consider-becoming-congress-president-reports-101634381007615.html
16-10-2021||India||Are you on the side of drug sellers, consumers? Fadnavis' question to Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra BJP leader and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on Saturday asked chief minister Uddhav Thackeray whether he is on the side of the drugs consumers, sellers or on the side of those who want to destroy the evil, a day after Thackeray commented on the ongoing drug-related arrests by the Narcotics Control Bureau in Maharashtra in his Dusshera speech."Today, drugs are cancer that has afflicted our youth. I want to ask you (Thackeray) if you are on the side of drugs consumers, drugs sellers or on the side of those who want to destroy this evil," Fadnavis said, as reported by ANI.Thackeray reacted to the ongoing drug probe for the first time after the arrest of Aryan Khan on Friday and without taking the name of the Narcotics Control Bureau, he said that their interest is to catch celebrities, get their pictured clicked and make some noise.They catch a celebrity, click photos and make noise: Uddhav Thackeray's dig at NCB after Aryan Khan's arrestThe agency is recovering pinch of drugs but making a lot of noise while the Maharashtra cops have recovered drugs worth ₹150 crore. "They have painted a picture that Maharashtra has become a drug capital. That is not the case. In Mundra, there was a drug haul of crores. While your agencies are recovering pinch of ganja, the Maharashtra cops have recovered drugs worth ₹150 crore. You are interested in is to catch celebrities and get their pictures clicked," Uddhav said.While Fadnavis attack comes in regard to Uddhav's statement on drugs, Fadnavis also took on Thackeray on his comment on central agencies being after Maharashtra leaders. "If we had to use central agencies, then half of your ministers would have been in jail. But we believe in democracy. Our Prime Minister believes in ethical politics. There has never been a misuse of agencies through his medium," Fadnavis said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/are-you-on-the-side-of-drug-sellers-consumers-fadnavis-question-to-uddhav-thackeray-101634378637478.html
16-10-2021||India||‘Those who have sacrificed their lives should get a place in history’: Amit Shah on renaming Ross Island||Union home minister Amit Shah who’s on a three-day visit to Andaman and Nicobar Islands talked about the government’s decision to rename one of the islands after Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, stating that it was done so that “people who have sacrificed their lives should get a place in history”.Shah claimed that for years “efforts were made to diminish the image of many leaders” but it is time to create space for them in the history of this nation.“This year we're celebrating Azadi ka Amrit Mohotsav and the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose. When we see the life of Netaji, we feel that injustice happened to him. The place he deserves was not given to him in history,” the home minister added.Also Read: Amit Shah to address public rally in Jammu on October 24Ross Island, one of the islands in the archipelago of Andaman and Nicobar, was renamed Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose Island by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in December 2018 while on the occasion of 75th anniversary of Tricolour hoisting by Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose in Andaman.“The country draws inspiration from Andaman. That is why the government has issued a notification and I am proudly announcing that henceforth, Ross Island will be known as Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Dweep,” the Prime Minister had said on the occasion. He also announced that Neil Island will be known as Shahid Dweep and Havelock Island as Swaraj Dweep henceforth.Shah, who is in Andaman to review development projects, also visited Cellular jail, a colonial jail used to exile political prisoners by the British, and laid a wreath at the martyr’s column, and talked about the importance of this colonial structure in Indian history."There cannot be a greater pilgrimage than this cellular jail. This place is a 'mahatirth' where Savarkar experienced inhuman torture for 10 years but did not lose his courage, his bravery," he said.Shah urged youth to visit Andaman and Nicobar, referring to it as the “pilgrimage place of Independence”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/those-who-have-sacrificed-their-lives-should-get-a-place-in-history-amit-shah-on-renaming-ross-island-101634378408384.html
16-10-2021||India||Income tax department searches laptop firm, finds large-scale under-invoicing of imports||The Income Tax Department (ITD) carried out a search and seizure operation on several electronics importers and traders in the National Capital Region, Haryana and West Bengal which commenced on October 10, 2021, said the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) on Saturday.“The evidence found and seized during the course of the search reveals that the payments for such under-invoiced goods to the foreign cosigners have been made through hawala channels,” stated the press release issued by PIB.During the I-T department’s search, compromising documents, diaries and digital records were found, revealing that the group is neck-deep into “large scale under-invoicing and wrongful declaration of goods imported by it.” Apart from this, evidence of unrecorded transactions, bogus loans were taken and unaccounted investments in properties were also gathered in the search. Imports worth 20 crores were declared at the port of entry in the past three years, however, the estimated value of the imports is possibly more than 2,000 crores. ₹2.75 crores in cash were also found, which has been unaccounted for.Moreover, while probing containers at the Kolkata Port, a bill lading declared the goods as “HDMI cables” worth ₹3.8 lakhs was found, however, upon further investigation, “the actual goods imported are high-value items like laptops, mobile phones etc which are valued at ₹64 crores,” stated the press release.Lastly, the statement suggests that the illegitimate wealth “has been used for acquisition of high-value immovable properties, disguising of cash introduced in the form of bogus rental income, bogus unsecured loans and deposits in foreign bank accounts.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/income-tax-department-searches-laptop-firm-finds-large-scale-under-invoicing-of-imports-101634377924324.html
16-10-2021||India||New agreement to boost vaccine production under Quad partnership for Indo-Pacific in the offing||An agreement on a new vaccine manufacturing facility in Hyderabad to support the Quad’s plan of delivering one billion doses of Covid-19 shots will be signed during an upcoming visit to India by the US development bank’s chief.US International Development Finance Corporation (DFC) chief operating officer David Marchick will travel to South Africa and India during October 18-26 to take forward investments to boost global health and expand Covid-19 vaccine production across the developing world.Marchick and his delegation will travel to Hyderabad after arriving in India on October 24 to visit Biological E, which has been selected to produce one billion doses of vaccines to be rolled out by the end of 2022 under the vaccine partnership launched by the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad.The US delegation will “participate in a signing ceremony to open a new facility with substantial capacity for vaccine manufacturing”, according to a statement from the DFC. “This work is in support of the historic commitment set out by President [Joe] Biden and his counterparts in the Quad – Australia, India, Japan, and the United States,” the statement added.In South Africa, the DFC delegation will visit Africa Data Centres, which is developing critical technology infrastructure across Africa, and meet pharmaceutical manufacturers critical to the Covid-19 response.Biden had said at the first in-person Quad leaders’ summit in Washington on September 24 that the vaccine partnership is on track to produce one billion doses in India to boost global supply.Aid from the DFC is aimed at boosting vaccine manufacturing capacity in several regions of the world. This support is projected to facilitate capacity expansion to produce nearly two billion Covid-19 vaccine doses around the world by the end of 2022. A joint statement issued at the conclusion of the Quad leaders’ summit last month said additional production will come on line in India later this year due to the Quad vaccine partnership’s financing of increased manufacturing capacity at Biological E. These doses will be exported to countries in the Indo-Pacific and other parts of the world to overcome a continuing global supply gap. The Quad will coordinate with multilateral initiatives such as the WHO-backed COVAX Facility to procure safe and quality-assured vaccines for low and middle-income countries. The Quad has also launched a vaccine experts group that is working to align the plans of India, Australia, Japan and the US to support health security and the Covid-19 response across the Indo-Pacific. This includes coordination of efforts to support the production of safe, effective and quality-assured vaccines and equitable access. The members of the Quad have pledged to donate more than 1.2 billion vaccine doses globally, and they have so far delivered nearly 79 million jabs to countries in the Indo-Pacific.The Quad summit also welcomed India’s announcement on resuming vaccine exports, which had been halted in March after the country was hit by a devastating second wave of infections. Since vaccine exports resumed recently, India has sent one million doses of Covishield to Bangladesh, Nepal and Myanmar, and 300,000 doses of Covaxin to Iran. Japan will help regional partners purchase vaccines through a Covid-19 crisis response emergency support loan of $3.3 billion, and Australia will provide $212 million in grants to purchase vaccines for Southeast Asia and the Pacific. Australia will also allocate $219 million to support last-mile vaccine rollouts and lead Quad’s last-mile delivery efforts.Besides the Covid-19 response and pandemic preparedness, the Quad is also working on infrastructure, resilient supply chains, clean energy, maritime security, approaches to deploy 5G infrastructure that use open and interoperable network architectures, and emerging technologies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-agreement-to-boost-vaccine-production-under-quad-partnership-for-indo-pacific-in-the-offing-101634376846029.html
16-10-2021||India||Eight Surat tuition centre students test positive for Covid-19, classes sealed||At least eight students from a tuition centre in Gujarat's Surat city tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after their samples were diagnosed. The tuition centre has been sealed as a precautionary measure, an official told news agency PTI on Saturday.One of the students at the tuition centre, who was regularly attending classes, had tested positive for Covid-19 on October 7, and as a result samples of all the 125 students were tested for the viral disease. Of them, seven samples came out positive, deputy municipal commissioner (health) Ashish Naik said.This is the second time in October that an educational institution in Gujarat reported a surge in Covid-19 cases. Earlier this month, a private school in Junagadh district of the state was shut temporarily after a few students contracted the virus.Even as Gujarat has managed to contain the coronavirus pandemic, many students have been testing positive as educational institutions have started reopening in the state.Surat has so far reported 1,11,669 cases of infection and 1,09,975 recoveries. The city's recovery rate stands at 98.48% as of now. A total of 1,629 Covid-19 patients have died of the viral disease in Surat, as per the latest bulletin released by the municipal corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eight-surat-tuition-centre-students-test-positive-for-covid-19-classes-sealed-101634374212196.html
16-10-2021||India||Nawab Malik hits out at Aryan Khan case investigator, says Sameer Wankhede's 'friend' used as witness||Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik, whose son-in-law has been accused in a drug case by the Narcotics Control Bureau, on Saturday brought new charges against teh agency and its zonal director Sameer Wankhede, who is also the chief investigator of the Aryan Khan drug case. In a series of tweets, the minister alleged that Wankhede uses his 'friends as a 'panch' (witness) in different cases. Malik shared the details of some Fletcher Patel, who apparently was the witness in three cases of the NCB. To prove this Fletcher Patel's link with Sameer Wankhede, the minister shared Fletcher's Instagram photo with Sameer Wankhede's sister.This accusation is not directly linked with the Aryan Khan case but comes as part of the series of allegations that the minister has hurled on the agency after it arrested Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan among others from a cruise on October 3 on charges of drugs consumption. Breakfast at 7am, weekly video call: What N956 Aryan Khan's life in Arthur Road Jail looks like Here are the front pages of 3 Panchnamas where Fletcher Patel is a Panch. pic.twitter.com/NOMv5mv1CBFletcher Patel seen in this picture with someone who he calls 'My Lady Don'.Who is this 'Lady Don' ? pic.twitter.com/epTRSopDcH Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in his Dusshera speech on Friday attacked the NCB and said they are only interested in catching celebrities, getting photos clicked and making some noise, while the Maharashtra Police are recovering drugs worth of crores.Since the arrest of Bollywood actor Rhea Chakraborty in a drug case associated with the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, the film industry has come on the radar of the agency with many Bollywood actors called for interrogation in the past year. In his speech, Uddhav said there has been an effort to make Mumbai look like the drug capital while a massive drug haul has been reported from Mundra port in Gujarat. Aryan Khan's arrest has created a political storm in Maharashtra and NCP leader Nawab Malik has been assailing the NCB. Earlier, he revealed details of Manish Bhanushali and KP Gosavi who were present during Aryan Khan's arrest and claimed that these two have questionable backgrounds -- KP Gosavi having fraud cases against him and Bhanushali being a BJP leader. Malik also alleged that the NCB released some people with powerful associations who were detained from the same cruise raid. The NCB countered all these allegations and said it did nothing illegal hinting at the minister's personal issues with the agency because of action against his son-in-law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nawab-malik-hits-out-at-aryan-khan-case-investigator-says-sameer-wankhede-s-friend-used-as-witness-101634373724455.html
16-10-2021||India||Red alert in 5 Kerala districts as rain lashes state||As many as five districts in Kerala are on red alert as heavy rainfall lashed the state on Saturday. An orange alert has been issued in at least seven other districts, too.Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan called an emergency meeting in the evening to take stock of the situation while the state authorities have banned night-time movement in hilly areas of the state.The Indian Meterological Department has forecast extremely heavy rainfall in five districts of Kerala, including Pathanamthitta, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Idukki, and Thrissur. While a red alert has been issued in these districts, seven others, including Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Alapuzha, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode and Wayanad have been placed on orange alert, which signals “heavy to very heavy rainfall.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/red-alert-in-5-kerala-districts-as-rain-lash-state-101634371644438.html
16-10-2021||India||IMF hails India for ‘swift and substantial’ response to Covid-19 crisis||Describing the Indian government's response to the Covid-19 situation as "swift and substantial", the International Monetary Fund (IMF) has said the country continued with labour reforms and privatisation despite the pandemic.The IMF in its report based on "consultations" among members, however, sounded a note of caution saying that the economic outlook remains "clouded" due to pandemic-related uncertainties, contributing to both downside and upside risks.In its "Article IV" consultations report, it further said that a persistent negative impact of Covid-19 on investment and other growth drivers could prolong the economic recovery.On the Indian government's handling of the pandemic, the multilateral agency said it was "swift and substantial...has included fiscal support, including scaled-up support to vulnerable groups, monetary policy easing, liquidity provision, and accommodative financial sector and regulatory policies"."Despite the pandemic, the authorities have continued to introduce structural reforms, including labour reforms and a privatisation plan," the report said.The IMF has projected India's economic growth at 9.5 per cent in FY2021-22 and 8.5 per cent in 2022-23. Headline inflation is projected at 5.6 per cent in 2021-22, amid elevated price pressures."The economic outlook remains clouded due to pandemic-related uncertainties contributing to both downside and upside risks. A persistent negative impact of Covid-19 on investment, human capital, and other growth drivers could prolong the recovery and impact medium-term growth," the IMF said.It further said that while India benefits from favourable demographics, disruption to access to education and training due to the pandemic could weigh on improvements in human capital.At the same time, the recovery could also be faster than expected, it said adding that faster vaccination and better therapeutics could help contain the spread and limit the impact of the pandemic.In addition, successful implementation of the announced wide-ranging structural reforms could increase India's growth potential, the IMF noted.Under Article IV of the IMF's Articles of Agreement, the IMF holds bilateral discussions with members, usually every year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imf-hails-india-for-swift-and-substantial-response-to-covid-19-crisis-101634369853503.html
16-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: Report shows UK MP David Amess was stabbed 17 times in planned attack and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.UK MP David Amess was stabbed 17 times, attack was planned, says reportBritish lawmaker David Amess was stabbed 17 times, The Sun reported quoting two female staff members. The 69-year-old Conservative leader was talking with voters at a church in the small town of Leigh-on-Sea east of London when the incident took place. Read moreIPL 2021 Awards: Ruturaj Gaikwad wins Orange Cap, Rahul awarded for most sixes - Here's the full list of winnersThe 14th edition of the Indian Premier League (IPL) came to an end on Friday after Chennai Super Kings (CSK) registered a 27-run win over Kolkata Knight Riders (KKR) in Dubai to clinch their 4th title. Read moreKBC 13: Amitabh Bachchan asks question on Aishwarya Rai-Abhishek's Guru, teases Hema Malini ‘I know but I will not tell’Kaun Banega Crorepati 13 host Amitabh Bachchan had a Sholay reunion with guests Hema Malini and director Ramesh Sippy in Friday's Shaandaar Shukravaar episode. Read moreMaruti Suzuki teases new off-road car. Likely to be upcoming 2022 JimnyMaruti Suzuki has rolled out a teaser through Nexa's social media handles of an upcoming car which is most likely the much-awaited Jimny SUV. Read moreKatrina Kaif drops major wedding fashion cues in a silk floral lehengaWith the Dussehra wish, she also reminded her fans about the release of her upcoming film Sooryavanshi. “May this day be an auspicious and happy beginning for all, and for us as we begin our Sooryavanshi journey,” Katrina wrote in the caption. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-report-shows-uk-mp-david-amess-was-stabbed-17-times-in-planned-attack-and-all-the-latest-news-101634369288417.html
16-10-2021||India||Jashpur incident: 1 dead, 17 injured; 2 cops suspended. What we know so far||A speeding car rammed into a religious procession in Chhattisgarh Jashpur on Friday, killing one person and injuring 17 others. The police said two of the injured are undergoing treatment for critical wounds.The incident has triggered a political storm, with Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel slamming his Uttar Pradesh counterpart Yogi Adityanath over "quick action" in the Jashpur case in comparison to Lakhimpur Kheri, where eight people were killed on October 3.What happened in Chhattisgarh's Jashpur?According to the police, a Durga idol immersion procession was being taken out in Chhattisgarh's Jashpur when a vehicle crossing over to Madhya Pradesh suddenly dashed into the crowd at Pathalgaon. "One died, two were critically injured, while 15 received minor injuries," superintendent of police (SP) Vijay Agrawal was quoted as saying by the ANI news agency.Two cops suspended from dutyElaborating on police action in the incident, the SP added that two cops – the Pathalgaon Station House Officer (SHO) and the Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) – have been suspended from duty.Two occupants of the SUV, Bablu Vishwakarma (21) and Shishupal Sahu (26) have been arrested and the police said that they will face charges under sections 302 (murder) and 304 (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).Both Vishwakarma and Sahu are residents of Singrauli in Madhya Pradesh. They were passing through Chattisgarh and trying to cross over to the neighbouring state when the incident occurred, said the police.Comparisons with the Lakhimpur Kheri incidentMeanwhile, the Jashpur incident has triggered comparisons with the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in Uttar Pradesh. Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Friday targeted his UP counterpart Yogi Adityanath and pointed out that while the latter failed to immediately arrest the accused in his state - the son of a Union minister - the persons behind the Jashpur incident were held within one day.“Yogi Adityanath did not succeed in arresting the accused instead Uttar Pradesh Police was shielding the son of the Union MoS (Home) in Lakhimpur Kheri violence,” Baghel told reporters in Jashpur.Hitting back, Uttar Pradesh minister Sidharth Nath Singh on Friday said that there seems to be a “conspiracy” behind the Jashpur incident and asked when Congress “brothers and sisters” are going there (to meet the victims). “The chief minister, who sat on protest at the airport during the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, should also tell if he will sit on protest over the incident,” Singh told ANI, taking a dig at Baghel.The Uttar Pradesh Police has now arrested three people, including Ashish Mishra, who is the son of Ajay Mishra, Union minister of state for home affairs. Ashish was arrested six days after he was accused in the incident in Lakhimpur Kheri's Tikunia village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jashpur-incident-1-dead-17-injured-2-cops-suspended-what-we-know-so-far-101634361996044.html
16-10-2021||India||‘I’m a full-time, hands-on Cong president’: Sonia Gandhi hits out at G23 leaders||Outgoing Congress president Sonia Gandhi hit out at the G23 leaders on Saturday who have questioned the party’s functioning and recent decisions. At the Congress Working Committee meeting, she said, “I have always appreciated frankness. There is no need to speak to me through the media.”In what is seen as a clear snub to the disgruntled senior members who questioned the party’s decision-making process, indicating that while Sonia Gandhi is the interim president, it is Rahul Gandhi and others who are taking key decisions, Gandhi underlined, “I am, if you will allow me to say so, a full-time and hands-on Congress President.”She also pointed out that it is the younger colleagues, without any mention of the senior leaders, who have taken “leadership roles” in taking party’s policies and programmes to the people— a reminder that while seniors have been asking for changes, the young leaders, including Rahul Gandhi, have hit the road. Also read: At CWC, Sonia Gandhi calls for unified effort, keeping party first“In the last two years, a large number of our colleagues, particularly the younger ones, have taken on leadership roles in taking party policies and programmes to the people - whether it is the agitation of farmers, provision of relief during the pandemic, highlighting issues of concern to youth and women, atrocities on Dalits, Adivasis and minorities, price rise, and the destruction of the public sector.”“Never have we let issues of public importance and concern go unaddressed. You are aware that I have been taking them up with the Prime Minister as have Dr. Manmohan Singh and Rahul ji. I have been interacting with like-minded political parties regularly. We have issued joint statements on national issues and coordinated our strategy in Parliament as well,” she said. “I have always appreciated frankness. There is no need to speak to me through the media. So let us all have a free and honest discussion. But what should get communicated outside the four walls of this room is the collective decision of the CWC,” she cautioned as the meeting started to discuss the current political situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/im-a-full-time-hands-on-cong-president-sonia-gandhi-hits-out-at-g23-leaders-101634366283381.html
16-10-2021||India||At CWC, Sonia Gandhi calls for unified effort, keeping party first||In a clear message to the G23 or senior rebels of the Congress on Saturday, party president Sonia Gandhi at the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting said the revival of the Congress requires “self-control, discipline, unity and keeping the party’s interests paramount.” She also said that the party has started preparations for the upcoming elections but “Undoubtedly, we face many challenges.” She also underlined that if “we are united, if we are disciplined and if we focus on the party’s interests alone, I am confident that we will do well.” The CWC meeting will decide the new schedule for the party’s long-pending organizational elections even as a large section of the party wants Rahul Gandhi as the president. Also read: I’m a full-time, hands-on Cong president’ - Sonia Gandhi hits out at G23 leadersSonia Gandhi’s comments on discipline, unity and self-control are significant in the context of the disquiet among the G23 leaders and their bid to gain more space in the decision-making process of the Congress. Last month, one of the G23 leaders, Kapil Sibal, launched an indirect attack on Rahul Gandhi and said, “we know and yet we don’t know how decisions are taken.” The senior leaders also raised questions about how the Punjab situation was handled by the party. “Let me now turn to the forthcoming Vidhan Sabha elections. Our preparations had already begun a while back. Undoubtedly, we face many challenges but if we are united, if we are disciplined and if we focus on the party’s interests alone, I am confident that we will do well. The respective general secretaries and in-charges will be briefing us on the states individually, so I will not like to say anything more now on this subject,” she said. “The entire organization wants a revival of the Congress but this requires unity and keeping the party’s interests paramount. Above all, it requires self-control and discipline,” she said. She also underlined that she is aware of the fact that she has been “ the interim Congress president” and announced in her opening remarks that a new schedule for organizational elections would be held. “You may recall, we finalized a roadmap for electing a regular president by June 30th 2021 but the second wave of Covid-19 overtook the country and this deadline was extended indefinitely by the CWC in its meeting held on May 10, 2021. Today is the occasion for bringing clarity once and for all. A schedule for full-fledged organizational elections is before you. general secretary, organization, Venugopal will brief you on the entire process later.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-are-united-at-cwc-sonia-gandhi-calls-for-unified-effort-keeping-party-first-101634365082839.html
16-10-2021||India||MP man distributes free petrol to celebrate birth of girl child in family||People usually celebrate a happy occasion in their lives by buying or gifting expensive things. And when petrol and diesel prices are making new records daily, what better way to offer the fuels as gift.A man in Madhya Pradesh did exactly that to celebrate the birth of a girl child in his family. Rajendra Sainani, who owns a petrol pump in Betul, gave extra fuel to customers elated over the fact that his hearing and speech-impaired niece gave birth to a girl."I am overwhelmed with joy as my hearing and speech-impaired niece gave birth to a girl child on October 9," he was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Explaining his ‘scheme’, Sainani said 10 per cent extra petrol was distributed from 9am to 11am and from 5pm to 7 pm between October 13 and October 15. He also said that customers buying petrol worth ₹100 were offered 5 per cent extra fuel, while those who bought petrol worth ₹200-500 were given 10 per cent extra.Petrol and diesel prices continued to rise across the country for the third consecutive day on Saturday.In Delhi, petrol and diesel prices were raised by 35 paise to ₹105.49 per litre and ₹94.22 per litre respectively. In Mumbai, petrol prices increased by 34 paise to ₹111.43 while the cost of diesel increased by 37 paise to ₹102.15.Petrol was retailing at ₹113.99 in Betul.Oil companies started raising auto fuel prices over a week ago. The pause on the prices on October 12 and 13 came after a seven-day consecutive rise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-man-distributes-free-petrol-to-celebrate-birth-of-girl-child-in-family-101634363356914.html
16-10-2021||India||New chapter in India-Israel relations: Jaishankar to cement post-Netanyahu ties||With an eye towards cementing diplomatic and political ties in post-Benjamin Netanyahu era, external affairs minister S Jaishankar is visiting Israel for three days via another strategic ally, the United Arab Emirates. EAM Jaishankar is reaching Dubai on Sunday and will leave for October 19-21 three-day Israel trip. The security relationship with both UAE and Israel are handled by National Security Advisor Ajit Doval.As Prime Minister Narendra Modi has restricted travel due to Covid pandemic and domestic commitments, it has been left to Jaishankar and Doval to connect with close allies on a constant basis. The focus of Indian diplomacy at present is also to directly connect with countries, which have been missed by the previous regimes like Mexico, Greece, Armenia, Kyrgyzstan apart from small nation states.While EAM Jaishankar is scheduled to meet Prime Minister Naftali Bennet, alternate PM and foreign minister Yair Lapid in Israel, the basic purpose of the trip is to engage the new coalition government and provide a fresh impetus to bilateral ties with Tel Aviv. “Israel and UAE are one of India’s closest allies like Japan and Singapore apart from big partners like US and Russia. With the new government now firmly ensconced in Israel, it is time that both close partners exchanged notes on global issues like Afghanistan, Middle East, Indo-Pacific and terrorism,” said a former foreign secretary. India has very close security relationship with Israel that ranges from top-of-the-line drones, loitering ammunition, radars, state-of-the-art missiles and border sensors.It is understood that EAM Jaishankar will be halting in Dubai for a day to meet the leadership over regional environment, including situation in Afghanistan and central Asia. The UAE is home to nearly four million Indian diaspora and has forged diplomatic ties with Israel under the Abraham Accord signed on August 13, 2020. This was the first normalisation of relations between an Arab country and Israel since that of Jordan in 1994. India wholeheartedly supported the normalisation of the ties between UAE and Israel.Afghanistan and on-going incidents of terror attacks on minorities will be a major point of discussion with EAM Jaishankar also sharing the perspective of Central Asian Republics, whom he visited last week. It is understood that Afghanistan is headed for a food crisis with drought expected in the region including Iran and Central Asia in the coming months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-to-firm-up-political-ties-with-israel-via-dubai-101634361927560.html
16-10-2021||India||Covid-19 active cases in India set to go below 2,00,000-mark||The active cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India is set to go below the 2,00,000-mark. The number of active cases stood at 201,632 on Saturday, the lowest in 217 days, according to the Union health ministry data. A decrease of 2,046 cases was recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in the last 24 hours, the data showed.India logged 15,981 new coronavirus infections, taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 34,053,573, while the death toll climbed to 451,980 with 166 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8am.The active cases comprise 0.60 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.07 per cent, the highest since March last year, the ministry said.The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 333,99,961, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent.As many as 9,23,003 tests were conducted on Friday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the nation to 58,98,35,258.The cumulative doses administered in the nation so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 97 million. More than 10 million Covid-19 vaccine doses have been provided to states and UTs so far, the Union health ministry said on Friday. Over 10,53,11,155 balance and unutilised vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs to be administered, it said.The Covid-19 vaccination drive has been ramped up through the availability of more vaccines, advanced visibility of vaccine availability to states and union territories (UTs) for enabling better planning by them and streamlining the vaccine supply chain. As part of the nationwide vaccination drive, the Centre has been supporting the states and UTs by providing them Covid-19 vaccines free of cost. The latest phase of universalisation of vaccination commenced on June 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-active-cases-in-india-set-to-go-below-200000mark-101634357554233.html
16-10-2021||India||Singhu lynching: Man's family claims he was innocent and lured to the site||Family members and relatives of Lakhbir Singh, whose body was found at Singhu border, claimed he was an addict and lured to the border site, where farmers are protesting against the Centre’s three new farm laws since November last year. His family members demanded justice at the earliest and punishment for the guilty.Lakhbir Singh, 35, was a resident of village Cheema Khurd in Tarn Taran district of Punjab and used to work as a labourer. His body with multiple wounds and severed left hand was discovered early in the morning at Singhu border on Friday. The gruesome incident has been blamed on Nihangs, a Sikh order identified by their blue robes and swords. The police have registered an FIR in this case.Also Read| Singhu border killing: Vital clues collected from spot, cops say headway soon“We do not know how he reached the Singhu border and who took him there. I received a call from my daughter in the morning and she told me that Lakhbir was found dead at the Singhu border,” Baldev Singh, Lakhbir’s father-in-law told news agency ANI on Friday.“He has three daughters and a wife in his family. How will they survive now without him? We demand justice for him and the guilty should be punished soon,” Baldev Singh added.Lakhbir’s sister, Raj Kaur, meanwhile, said that her brother had no criminal history and was innocent. “He took ₹50 from me and said that he will return in a week after doing some work. But he did not return and was found dead in this manner. We do not know why he was killed and hanged in such a situation and who is responsible for it,” Kaur told ANI.A video that started doing the rounds on social media showed men in blue turbans and robes surrounding the body of Singh while he was still alive with his severed hand close to his head. The men can be heard accusing Lakhbir of desecrating the Guru Granth Sahib.Also Read| Singhu lynching: Nihang who surrendered says 'no regrets', SKM demands probeThe video purportedly shows the Nihangs asking the man where he had come from and who sent him to commit the “sacrilege”. Lakhbir is heard pleading with the group in Punjabi. The source and authenticity of the video couldn’t be verified.News agency PTI reported on Friday that hours after the crime, a man named Sarabjit Singh, donning the robes of the Nihang order, claimed that he punished Lakhbir for desecrating the holy book. “Sarabjit Singh, the son of Kashmir Singh, a resident of Vitwha in Punjab’s Gurdaspur district has been arrested,” the police said. He will be produced before a court in Sonepat today.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/singhu-lynching-man-s-family-claims-he-was-innocent-and-lured-to-the-site-101634357112157.html
16-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: CWC to meet today, decision on internal polls likely and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.CWC meet today, decision on internal elections likelyThe Congress Working Committee (CWC), the party’s highest executive body, will meet on Saturday to give another try to fix the schedule for long-pending organisation elections — an exercise that will have to keep in mind upcoming assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand and Goa, according to people aware of the matter. Read moreNight curfew, Covid-19 restrictions extended in Puducherry till Oct 31The Puducherry government on Friday extended the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) restrictions till October 31. The restrictions also include a night curfew which is place from 11pm to 5am, an order from the government said. Read moreSasikala to visit Jayalalithaa memorial. Know why it's politically significantVK Sasikala, the former interim general secretary of the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK), who has been lying low for the past few months, is set to visit former Tamil Nadu chief minister J Jayalalithaa's memorial in Chennai on Saturday. Read moreUS opening its borders for fully vaccinated Indians: 5 things to knowFully vaccinated foreigners can travel to United States from November 8, the White House announced on Friday, a move which will also benefit Indians who have received both the shots of a coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine. Read more'Well… I still haven't left': MS Dhoni's cheeky response adds further suspense to his IPL and CSK futureMS Dhoni did what only MS Dhoni can… leave things on a cliffhanger. We are not talking about the match. There was no cliffhanger there as Chennai Super Kings defeated Kolkata Knight Riders by 27 runs to win their fourth IPL title. Read moreKartik Aaryan, amidst the hills, is taking a break to ‘breathe’Kartik Aaryan is having a great time. The actor recently took off to an unnamed location to chill with himself and the pictures coming in from his vacation are soothing our eyes. Read moreSardar Udham movie review: Vicky Kaushal is bewitching in one of the boldest, most traumatising Hindi films ever madeThere are undeniable parallels in the stories of director Shoojit Sircar and the subject of his latest film, Sardar Udham. Shoojit burned almost 20 years to make this film, clearly the most passionate of his passion projects. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-cwc-to-meet-today-decision-on-internal-polls-likely-101634353181489.html
16-10-2021||India||Delhi CP conducts security audit, withdraws 500 personnel from protection duties||Under the guidance of Union home minister Amit Shah, Delhi Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana has undertaken a series of reforms to make law enforcement effective and accountable in the national capital.While as many as 500 Delhi Police personnel have been freed from security duties after audit conducted in consultation with the home ministry, instructions have been given to each police station to give details of those on active duty with the unit for force rationalisation. No less than 79 police station heads have been transferred with restructuring of special police units like special cell and law and order chiefs.While the security audit was conducted, it was found that some serving and retired officers of Delhi Police had 24X7 personal security officers guarding not only the officers but also their wives and grown-up children. The security to some of these police officers including ex-police commissioners, ex-home secretaries and others were given without threat assessment. Security of many others has also been downgraded by Delhi Police as there was no perceived threat, only status symbols.Apart from this, CP Asthana has asked all police units to report the number of personnel on active duty with the intention of doing away with senior police officers carrying their staff with them to new postings. It was found that some officers moved around 20 to 30 staff with them to their new postings, leaving the previous unit understaffed. So rather than the staff, including inspectors, were accountable to the posted unit, they had become personal staff of the officer they were working for. These staff members were used for personal duties like buying vegetables and dropping off children to school by these officers.The police commissioner has also decided restructure the top heavy force with more than 14 Special Commissioners and several joint commissioners now heading departments with thin work load. It is understood that consultations are on with the MHA to post several senior officers out to newly created union territories of Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh for on-field experience rather than moving files around.The special cell of Delhi Police has also been restructured and made more accountable with induction of three senior IPS officers. It is understood that the special cell has been asked not to undertake any solo operations without the knowledge of immediate superiors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-cp-conducts-security-audit-withdraws-500-personal-from-protection-duties-101634354006243.html
16-10-2021||India||Jacqueline Fernandez summoned again today after she skips ED questioning in money laundering case||Actor Jacqueline Fernandez has been asked by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to appear before the agency and record her statement on Saturday after she skipped her summons on Friday in connection with a money laundering case being probed against alleged conman Sukesh Chandrashekar, officials said. Fernandez, 36, once appeared before the federal agency in August and recorded her statement under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in this case.The officials said that after she skipped her fresh summons for Friday, the Bollywood actor has been asked to depose before the investigating officer of the case on Saturday. It is understood that the agency wants to confront her with Chandrashekhar and his actor wife, Leena Maria Paul. The agency, they said, wants to understand some trail of funds and transactions that are allegedly linked to Fernandez in this case.Actor and dancer Norah Fatehi, 29, recorded her statement with the ED on Thursday in this case. "Nora Fatehi has been the victim around the case and being a witness, she is co-operating and helping the officers in the investigation," her representative said. The spokesperson maintained that Fatehi has not been a part of "any money laundering activity" and urged the media to "refrain from slandering her name"."She does not know or have any personal connection with the accused and has been called by the ED to strictly help with the investigation," the spokesperson said.Chandrashekhar and Paul were recently arrested by the ED while they were already lodged in a local jail after being taken into custody by the Delhi Police on charges of cheating some people, including some high-profile individuals like former Fortis Healthcare promoter Shivinder Mohan Singh's wife Aditi Singh. In August, the ED had raided some of Chandrashekhar's premises and seized a sea-facing bungalow in Chennai, ₹82.5 lakh cash, and over a dozen luxury cars.  It had claimed in a statement that Chandrashekhar is a "known conman" and is being probed by the Delhi Police in a case of alleged criminal conspiracy, cheating, and extortion to the tune of about ₹200 crore."Chandrasekhar is the mastermind of this fraud. He has been part of the crime world since the age of 17. He has multiple FIRs against him and is presently lodged in Rohini jail (in connection with the Delhi Police case)," the ED had said.Despite being in the jail, it said, Chandrashekhar "did not stop conning" people. "He (using a cellphone procured illegally in prison) with the help of technology, made spoofed calls to dupe people as the numbers displayed on the called party's phone number belonged to senior government officers. "While speaking (from prison) to these persons, he claimed to be a government officer offering to help people for a price," the ED had claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jacqueline-fernandez-summoned-again-today-after-she-skips-ed-questioning-in-money-laundering-case-101634352084484.html
16-10-2021||India||Daily cases in India below 20k, Maha to reopen colleges: Top Covid-19 updates||India has so far recorded over 34 million cases and 451,814 deaths due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) since the beginning of the pandemic last year. As many as 33,382,100 patients (more than 98 per cent) have recovered from the viral disease and the active cases stand at 203,678 and constitute 0.60% of the caseload.For the past few days, the daily cases in the country have remained below the 20,000-mark, indicating an improvement in the overall pandemic situation. States and union territories (UTs) are further easing their existing restrictions and allowing reopening of religious places and educational institutions including schools and colleges.The cumulative vaccination coverage in India has exceeded 971.4 million with 3,026,483 doses administered to eligible beneficiaries in the last 24 hours.Here are the top Covid-19 updates across India during this week:> The highest number of cases reported this week was on Thursday when 18,987 people were detected as Covid-19 positive. The lowest number of cases this week was on Tuesday at 14,313.> The highest single-day deaths were on Friday at 379 while the lowest were on Tuesday at 181.> The Drugs Controller General of India (DGCI) is yet to approve Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech’s vaccine Covaxin for emergency use in children despite a recommendation from the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) earlier this week.> More than 30 countries across the globe, including the United Kingdom, Germany and France, have now agreed to recognise India’s Covid-19 vaccination certificate.> The Tamil Nadu government announced on Thursday that all places of worship in the state can now remain open on all days of a week. Beaches will open on Sundays from November. Shops, restaurants and other commercial establishments can now remain open till 11pm.> Maharashtra will reopen colleges from October 20 given the improved pandemic situation. However, physical classes will only resume for students who have received both vaccine doses.> The Centre said on Tuesday that all domestic flights in India will be allowed to operate at full capacity from October 18.> Schools in Himachal Pradesh reopened for Class 8 from Monday by following all Covid-19 norms. In September, the state government allowed resumption of physical classes for students of classes 9 to 12.> The Rajasthan government announced further relaxations in its existing Covid-19 restrictions, allowing permission to hold religious events with not more than 200 people. Shops and other commercial establishments can now remain open in the state till 10pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/daily-cases-in-india-below-20k-maha-to-reopen-colleges-top-covid-19-updates-101634349762598.html
16-10-2021||India||What are green crackers? Know which states imposed rules on fireworks this year||In view of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) related situation and concerns surrounding the rising level of pollution due to firecrackers during the festive season, several states have imposed certain rules on fireworks this year. These vary from either a complete or a partial ban on firecracker sales in these respective states to permitting the sale of ‘green crackers’ instead. Here are the various mandates imposed in states across India over the use of firecrackers amid the ongoing festive season:What are green crackers?‘Green crackers’ are low-emission fireworks permitted by the Supreme Court for celebrations to a moderate degree during festivals, relaxing the ‘complete ban’ on fireworks previously imposed in 2017. These green crackers, researched and developed by experts at the CSIR-NEERI (Council of Scientific & Industrial Research - National Environmental Engineering Research Institute), a government-funded research instutite in the field of environmental science, have a small shell size compared to normal crackers.Also Read | In a first, Delhi marks ‘virtual’ Dussehra with electronic fireworksThese green crackers are produced with less harmful raw materials, in accordance with instructions issued by the top court, and are made in a way that suppresses the dust when they are burnt – thus reducing emissions. They also do not contain harmful chemicals such as lithium, arsenic, barium, and lead and instead release water vapour that does not allow the dust to rise. Although still impactful on the climate to an extent, these green crackers are believed to cause 30 per cent less particulate matter pollution than traditional crackers and are thus considered generally less harmful than their conventional alternatives.Rajasthan to allow ‘only’ green crackersThe Ashok Gehlot-led Rajasthan government on Friday reversed a decision to ban the sale and use of crackers in the state and instead in a revised advisory said that “only” the green crackers would be allowed. The government also issued the restricted timing for the bursting of crackers during the festive season.According to the revised advisory, green crackers can be burst from 8pm to 10pm during festivals like Diwali and Guruparb, from 6am to 8am on Chhath puja, and from 11:55pm to 12:30am on Christmas and New Year. The use of crackers would continue to be banned, however, at places having air quality index in the “poor” zone or below. The advisory further informed that the crackers could be verified as "green" by scanning the QR code on the box issued by the CSIR-NEERI.Complete ban on bursting, sale of firecrackers in DelhiThe Delhi Pollution Control Committee has ordered a complete ban on the sale and bursting of firecrackers in the national capital till January 1, 2022. According to the order, several experts have indicated a possibility of another surge of Covid-19 and largescale celebrations by bursting of firecrackers will result not only in agglomeration of people in violation of social distancing norms but also a high level of air pollution leading to serious health issues in Delhi.Also Read | Uncertainty prevails over firecracker wholesalers in LudhianaThe bursting of firecrackers under the prevalent pandemic crisis is not favourable for the cause of larger community health given the significant relationship between air pollution and respiratory infections, it said.Meanwhile, the Delhi Police was reported to have initiated crackdowns on the distribution of illegal fireworks, the sale of which has increased as Diwali is just around the corner. According to the ANI news agency, the cops raided a godown in north Delhi's Sadar Bazar area this week seizing more than 470kg of illegal fireworks, arresting the owner of the property in the process.Tamil Nadu CM MK Stalin urges counterparts to relax ban, allow green crackersTamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin, on the other hand, has urged his Delhi, Rajasthan, Haryana, and Odisha counterparts to seriously consider the sale of green crackers in their respective territories, following which Rajasthan eased its norms.In a letter to Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik, Stalin had requested to lift the ban and allow the sale of firecrackers that fall within the norms set by the Supreme Court and National Green Tribunal.What did the Supreme Court say?Earlier in July, the Supreme Court dismissed a plea challenging the National Green Tribunal's order for the imposition of a complete ban on the sale and use of all firecrackers during the Covid-19 pandemic in cities and said that no further clarification or deliberation was required. The apex court said that the authorities may permit the sale and use of firecrackers as per the category of AQI in the cities.Also Read | ‘Right to life above right to employment’: SC on firecracker banThe bench said that manufacturing or production of firecrackers was allowed and those who wanted to use firecrackers could do so with permission depending upon the category of AQI. It clarified that the ban is in places where air quality is poor and there is no ban on the manufacture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-are-green-crackers-know-which-states-imposed-rules-on-fireworks-this-year-101634348648353.html
16-10-2021||India||Singhu lynching: Nihang who surrendered says 'no regrets', SKM demands probe||In a shocking incident, the body of a man with hand chopped off and marks of at least 10 wounds caused by sharp-edged weapons was found tied to a barricade at a farmers' protest site at on the outskirts of Delhi. The incident was reported at the Singhu border on Friday.The gruesome incident has been blamed on Nihangs, a Sikh order identified by their blue robes and swords.Also Read | What happened at Singhu border?Hours after the macabre crime, a man wearing the blue robes of Nihangs appeared before the media, claiming that he had "punished" the victim for "desecrating" the Guru Granth Sahib, the Sikh holy book.Saravjeet Singh later surrendered to the police, but not before addressing the group of mediapersons where he and his associates said they are ready to do things like these again if someone "dares to do crime like sacrilege again". When asked if he had any regret, Singh replies in the negative.Singh was taken in custody by the police amid chants of 'Jo Bole So Nihal'. He will be produced before a court today. His video of claiming responsibility of the killing went viral on social media platforms.In the purported video clip of the crime, some men in blue turbans and robes are seen standing around the injured man with his severed left hand close to his head.The group is heard accusing him of desecrating a Sikh holy book.The video purportedly shows the Nihangs asking the man where had he come from and who sent him to commit the “sacrilege”. Lakhbir is heard pleading with the group in Punjabi. The source and authenticity of the videos couldn’t be verified."An FIR has been registered in the case," said Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Hansraj. Haryana Police said the body was found tied to a metal barricade near the Singhu protest site stage around 5.30am on Friday.The victim has been identified as Lakhbir Singh, a Dalit farm labourer and a resident of village Cheema Khurd in Tarn Taran district of Punjab. Aged 35, Singh used to work as a labourer, and had no criminal record or affiliation with any political party, the police said.The family of the deceased man, however, said that he could not have committed sacrilege.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), the umbrella body of 43 unions coordinating the 11-month-long protest against three central agriculture laws, condemned the 'gruesome killing' of the man. In a statement, it said that "both the parties to the incident, the Nihang group and the deceased person, have no relation with SKM".The SKM has also demanded that the culprits should be punished after a lawful investigation into the allegation of murder and conspiracy behind sacrilege and they will "cooperate with the police and administration in any lawful action."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/singhu-lynching-nihang-who-surrendered-says-no-regrets-skm-demands-probe-101634351170517.html
16-10-2021||India||US opening its borders for fully vaccinated Indians: 5 things to know||Fully vaccinated foreigners can travel to United States from November 8, the White House announced on Friday, a move which will also benefit Indians who have received both the shots of a coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine. The curbs on non-essential travelers at land borders have been in place since March 2020 due to the pandemic.It will be a beginning to the end of unprecedented restrictions imposed early last year, a White House official said, adding that the policy is guided by public health, stringent, and consistent.The US officials had previously outlined the policy in September, saying that vaccinated air passengers will need to be tested within three days before travel and airlines will be required to put in place a contact tracing system.Here are the five things to know:1. Beginning November 8, the United States will admit fully vaccinated foreign air travelers from 26 countries in Europe, including France, Germany, Italy, Spain, Switzerland and Greece, as well as Britain, Ireland, China, India, South Africa, Iran and Brazil.2. The US health authorities have said that all Covid-19 vaccines approved by the Food and Drug Administration and the World Health Organization would be accepted for entry by air.3. Unvaccinated foreigners will be barred from entry, while unvaccinated Americans will need a negative Covid-19 test.4. Indians travelling to the United States will need to show proof of Covid-19 vaccination before boarding a flight and will need to show proof of a recent negative Covid-19 test. The foreign visitors crossing a land border will not need to show proof of a recent negative Covid-19 test.5. The move to a vaccine-based entry system brings the United States into line with the European Union, which started using Covid-pass apps at the onset of summer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-opening-its-borders-for-fully-vaccinated-indians-5-things-to-know-101634348056128.html
16-10-2021||India||Sasikala to return to Jayalalithaa memorial today. Know why it's politically significant||VK Sasikala, the former interim general secretary of the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK), who has been lying low for the past few months, is set to visit former Tamil Nadu chief minister J Jayalalithaa's memorial in Chennai on Saturday. Observers say this politically significant move could be Sasikala's bid to reclaim her position in the AIADMK. Sasikala will be visiting the 14,100-square feet-wide Jayalalithaa memorial situated at the Marina Beach in the city today, a day ahead of the golden jubilee celebration of the founding of the AIADMK.Also Read | DMK set to sweep Tamil Nadu local body polls in 9 areasThe AIAMDK is currently being led by former Sasikala loyalists-turned-foes O Paneerselvam and Edappadi Palaniswami, who was once handpicked by Sasikala as the chief minister. In 2017, hours before she left for Bengaluru prison after being sentenced in a disproportionate assets case, she was removed from the post of AIADMK's interim general secretary. Since then, both Palaniswami and Panneerselvam have maintained that she is not part of AIADMK anymore.Sasikala, before being lodged at a Bengaluru prison, had stopped by at Jayalalithaa's grave, where the memorial has come up now, and in a dramatic gesture - thumped her palm to the ground taking a vow. Years later, she is now set to return to the same spot, her first visit to the memorial after being released from prison.Sasikala, according to people familiar with the matter, is also expected to drop by today at the residence of ex-Tamil Nadu chief minister and party founder MG Ramachandran (MGR), who formed the AIADMK in 1972 after splitting from the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) under M Karunanidhi.Sasikala, now considered a threat to the AIADMK's current leadership, had earlier proclaimed to her fellow cadres that she would “set the party right” and re-establish the rule of MGR and Jayalalithaa. Although she lay low for a few months after her release from prison, she roared back after the loss of the AIADMK in the Tamil Nadu assembly elections earlier this year, releasing a series of recorded phone conversations with AIADMK members and announcing a splinter faction formed by her nephew TTV Dhinakaran - the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK). It is at this time that political strategists believe Sasikala is making use of the opportune moment to seize control of the party from her rivals.Meanwhile, the AIADMK's leadership, for its part, has released a statement urging the party cadre to celebrate the historic golden jubilee by following Covid-19 safety norms. Starting from October 17, when it turns 50, the party plans to hold a year-long celebration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sasikala-to-return-to-jayalalithaa-memorial-today-know-why-it-s-politically-significant-101634344242331.html
16-10-2021||India||Sabarimala Ayyappa temple to open today for ‘Thula masam’ poojas: Check SOPs here||Sabarimala temple, the hill shrine of Lord Ayyappa, will open on Saturday at 5pm for 'Thula masam' poojas and on the next day a draw of lots would be held to select its next 'melshanti' (head priest), the Travancore Devaswom Board said on Thursday, reports news agency PTI.According to a release by the board, lamps will be lit by present melshanti VK Jayaraj Potti in the presence of the Thanthri Kandararu Mahesh Mohanaru and subsequently, the Upadevata temple would be opened and a lamp would be lit there also.A fire would also be lit in front of the 18th step of the path leading to the shrine, it said. It also said that there would be no poojas on the day the temple is opened.The board further said that melshantis for Sabarimala and Malikappuram temples will be selected via draw of lots on Sunday after the 'Ushapoojas' get over. The lots would be drawn by two boys above 10 years of age from the Pandalam Palace. Both melshantis would continue for the next one year, the release said.Check latest SOPs here:1. Devotees will be allowed to enter Sabarimala temple from October 17-21 (Sunday-Thursday) and entry would be permitted only through virtual queue booking.2. Devotees arriving at the temple must have a two-dose Covid vaccine certificate or an RT-PCR negative report with them, the board said, adding that 'Neyyabhishekam', 'Udayasthamana Pooja', 'Kalabhabhishekam', 'Padipooja' and 'Pushpabhishekam' would be the rituals performed during this period.3. The temple would be closed on October 21 and then reopen on November 2 as part of the 'Chithira Attavishesham'. Thereafter, on November 3 the temple would be closed again and reopen on November 15 for the annual Mandalam-Makaravilakku festival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sabarimala-ayyappa-temple-to-open-today-for-thula-masam-poojas-check-sops-here-101634341019610.html
16-10-2021||India||Two terrorists behind civilian and cop killings eliminated: cops||Two terrorists involved in the recent killings of a civilian and a police officer in Srinagar were gunned down in an encounter with security forces in Jammu & Kashmir’s Pulwama district on Friday, police said.According to the police, Shahid Bashir Shiekh and Tanzeel Ahmad, both residents of Srinagar, were killed during two separate search and cordon operations in Kashmir’s Wahibugh and Bemina areas. “One #terrorist of #Srinagar City involved in recent civilian killing, neutralised in #Pulwama #encounter,” IGP, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar, said in a Twitter post.“He (Sheikh) was involved in the killing of a civilian, Mohammad Shafi Dar -- an employee of the Power Development Department, on 2/10/21. One AK rifle along with magazine and ammunition was recovered,” a police spokesperson added.Meanwhile, in a separate encounter in Srinagar’s Bemina area, security forces eliminated Tanzeel Ahmad, who was involved in the killing of sub inspector Arshid Ahmad at Khanyar in September. Tanzeel was affiliated with The Resistance Force, said Singh.So far this year, security forces have killed 123 terrorists during encounters across Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-terrorists-behind-civilian-and-cop-killings-eliminated-cops-101634334633921.html
16-10-2021||India||Fully vaccinated foreign visitors can enter US from November 8: White House||The United States announced Friday that it will allow entry to foreign travellers who are fully vaccinated against Covid-19, by both land and air, starting November 8.“This policy is guided by public health, stringent, and consistent,” tweeted White House assistant press secretary Kevin Munoz in announcing the news.In an effort to slow the spread of the coronavirus, US borders were closed after March 2020 to travellers from much of the globe, including the European Union, Britain and China, India and Brazil. Overland visitors from Mexico and Canada were also banned.The months of restrictions led to both personal and economic suffering.Under the new policy that was outlined last month, vaccinated air passengers will need to be tested within three days before travel, and airlines will be required to put in place a contact tracing system.Earlier this week, a White House source said the land border opening would happen in two phases.Initially, vaccines will be required for “non-essential” trips -- such as visiting family or tourism -- though unvaccinated travellers will still be allowed into the country for “essential” trips as they have been for the last year and a half.A second phase beginning in early January 2022 will require all visitors to be fully vaccinated to enter the United States by land, no matter the reason for their trip.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fully-vaccinated-foreign-visitors-can-enter-united-states-from-november-8-white-house-101634324280207.html
16-10-2021||India||DCGI yet to approve Covaxin’s emergency use in children||India’s apex drugs regulator is yet to approve Bharat Biotech’s coronavirus vaccine Covaxin for emergency use in children despite a recommendation from the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) earlier in the week, people familiar with the matter said on Friday, attributing the delay to additional technical opinion that is being sought.The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) gives the requisite approval (including emergency approval) before a pharmaceutical product can be used in India and in the case of Covid-19 vaccines, the authority has typically taken a day or two at most to clear an SEC recommendation.“The drugs controller general of India (DCGI) is taking more technical opinion on vaccinating children even though the expert panel has recommended its use,” said a senior official in the Union ministry of health and family welfare, asking not to be named.The SEC is part of the central drugs standard control organisation (CDSCO). “We will have to be extremely careful when talking about Covid-19 vaccination in children as even the developed countries that have begun vaccinating their children, are treading cautiously. The whole world is watching and we cannot afford to slip,” said the official cited above.On Tuesday, the expert group looking into vaccine approvals gave its clearance for the use of Covaxin in the 2-18 age group, raising the possibility that children could soon begin to receive doses since Bharat Biotech’s shot is already being administered in India. For the vaccine to be included formally in the government’s coronavirus immunisation campaign for children, DCGI’s approval is mandatory.This is the second vaccine to have received clearance in this age group. The first was Zydus Healthcare’s ZyCoV-D, which was tested in volunteers aged 12 and above and is likely to be rolled out for recipients no younger than that. The product is yet to be included in the vaccination campaign. Officials last week said health workers are at present being trained to use a special needle-free applicator that is used to deliver the vaccine. An official from the health ministry said that the decision on when to begin administering Covaxin to children will depend on government the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19 (NEGVAC) and the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI). Experts, however, have been saying that there is no immediate need to vaccinate all children as it has been proven that severe disease in children is not common. “The focus should be on vaccinating our adult population that is at high risk; children, especially the healthy ones, should not be our immediate priority. Eventually we will have to vaccine everyone but there is no pressing need to vaccinate all children,” said a senior public health expert, requesting anonymity. WHO chief scientist, Dr Soumya Swaminathan, has similar views on booster doses. “There is more than enough evidence now that the currently used vaccines are highly effective in preventing serious illness and death due to #COVID19. We need to focus on expanding primary vaccination coverage worldwide, before boosters!,” Swaminathan tweeted on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dcgi-yet-to-approve-covaxin-s-emergency-use-in-children-101634324100205.html
16-10-2021||India||‘All issues resolved’: Sidhu to stay on as Punjab Congress chief||Days after resigning as Punjab Congress chief, Navjot Singh Sidhu on Friday said his concerns have been resolved and the party asserted that he will continue as the head of the state unit.AICC general secretary incharge Punjab Harish Rawat told reporters that Sidhu has withdrawn his resignation and will continue in his post as the matter of the resignation is now over for the party.Resolution to the issue came after Sidhu met former party chief Rahul Gandhi at his residence here and raised his concerns.“Whatever concerns I had, I have shared with Rahul Gandhi ji. All my concerns have been sorted out,” he told reporters after the over half-an-hour-long meeting with Gandhi.He later tweeted, “I have shared my concerns with Rahul Gandhi ji, was assured they will be sorted out.” Rawat, who was also present at the meeting, later said the issue of his resignation is over now.“He has assured Rahul Gandhi that he is withdrawing his resignation and resuming his duty as PCC chief,” he told reporters.Sidhu told Gandhi that he is working hard and will work harder now, and that he will join his duty as Punjab Congress president, Rawat said.“Navjot Sidhu has shared his concerns with party leaders and it is our duty to talk to the chief minister and resolve the remaining issues. We have told him his concerns will be taken care of very soon,” he also said.Sidhu had met Rawat and party leader KC Venugopal on Thursday and shared his concerns. Sidhu later said he has full faith and confidence in the party leadership.He had posted his resignation on Twitter on September 28.He was not happy with the appointment of the new Punjab Police chief and the advocate general, besides some portfolio allocations to ministers after the new cabinet formation.The Punjab government has already replaced the DGP and his other concerns are being sorted out. During the meeting with Venugopal and Rawat, the Punjab Congress leader raised his concerns over the 18-point agenda taken up by the leadership on which actions are pending. These included action against those involved in the sacrilege issue and the drugs mafia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-issues-resolved-sidhu-to-stay-on-as-punjab-congress-chief-101634323920634.html
16-10-2021||India||CWC meet today, decision on internal elections likely||The Congress Working Committee (CWC), the party’s highest executive body, will meet on Saturday to give another try to fix the schedule for long-pending organisation elections — an exercise that will have to keep in mind upcoming assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand and Goa, according to people aware of the matter.The meeting, to be held offline for the first time in more than 18 months, will also discuss the current political situation, with a focus on UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri, where eight people died when a car mowed down protesting farmers, and in the violence that followed. The incident led to major political protests, and several Congress leaders including Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra met the families of the victims after initially being disallowed by the UP Police.The CWC expected to back the demands of the Congress delegation that met President Ram Nath Kovind, and asked for dismissal of junior minister of state Ajay Mishra, and a probe in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident by sitting judges of the Supreme Court or high court.But bigger challenges for the CWC lie elsewhere.A schedule proposing organisation elections in June this year was rejected because it was close on the heels of the five assembly polls in April-May. Now, the new schedule must take into account the upcoming elections in four states expected in the next six months, the people cited above said.They added that a majority of the Congress leaders want Rahul Gandhi to return to the helm and assume the formal position of the president of the party, particularly since he is deeply involved in nearly all key decisions of the party now. A senior leader, however, added: “If Rahul Gandhi or any active Congress leader is chosen as the president, there might not be an immediate election at all. Rahul was the last president and he resigned after the Lok Sabha elections on July 3, 2019.”But organisational polls will be necessary for election to various bodies such as CWC and the Central Election Committee. Last year, at the CWC, when demands were made to hold elections for these two important bodies, Gandhi had agreed and assured party colleagues that an internal polls would be held at least for the working committee.The other key issue in the meeting will be how issues raised by a group of Congress leaders, referred to as G23, are tackled. Last month, senior Congress leader and one of the top members of the G23, a group of 23 that wrote letter to party chief Sonia Gandhi asking for sweeping changes in the organisation, demanded a CWC meeting to discuss the Punjab and Goa situations and the “exodus” of leaders leaving the party in those two states.Two party leaders aware of the matter added that loyalists of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi were expected to thwart any criticism over Punjab (where there has been a change of guard with Charanjit Singh Channi stepping in as chief minister after a bitter feud between former CM Captain Amarinder Singh and state unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu) with the argument that the situation is under control.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cwc-meet-today-decision-on-organisation-elections-likely-101634323680626.html
16-10-2021||India||Modi: India on track for a self-reliant defence sector||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said one of the country’s key goals under the Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India) campaign was to emerge as one of the most powerful militaries and develop a modern defence industry in the country on its own steam.The steps taken by the government during the last seven years were driven by this self-reliance mantra, he said, and the “transparency, trust and technology-driven approach” that the defence sector is witnessing at the moment was never seen before.“For the first time after Independence, big reforms are taking place in the defence sector. Instead of policies that were a hindrance, a single-window system has been put in place, leading to an increase in the industry’s confidence. Indian companies are looking for opportunities in the defence sector, and now the private sector and the government are working together to achieve the national security mission,” Modi said.Policy changes have resulted defence exports shooting up to more than 325% over the last five years, he added.The PM’s comments came while dedicating to the nation, on the occasion of Dussehra, seven new defence companies carved out of the now-dissolved Ordnance Factory Board (OFB). He said the new entities would play a critical role in helping the country cut down military imports in line with the vision of Atmanirbhar Bharat.In the 21st century, the growth and brand value of any country or company will be determined by its research and innovation, Modi said.“From software to the space sector; India’s growth, its new identity, is the biggest example of this (research and innovation). I ask all companies and these seven new firms to make research and innovation a part of their work culture,” he said.“You have to not only match the big companies in the world, but also take lead in future technologies. That’s why it’s important that you have a new thinking, give maximum opportunities to research-oriented youth and give them freedom to think. I also ask Indian start-ups to be a part of this new journey in the defence sector.”He said that while cost competitiveness was India’s strength, high quality and reliability should be the country’s identity.Last month, in a public function in Aligarh, Modi said that India was shedding its image of being a major importer of military hardware and carving out an identity for itself as a defence exporter.“I am confident that these seven companies will form a strong base for the military strength of the country in the times to come,” he said on Friday in a video address, adding that the corporatisation of OFB had been hanging fire for nearly two decades.The Union Cabinet, headed Modi, cleared the board’s corporatisation in June with an aim to boost efficiency and competitiveness.OFB, which earlier controlled 41 ordnance factories, has been split into seven government-owned entities that will produce ammunition and explosives, vehicles, weapons and equipment, troop comfort items, opto-electronics gear, parachutes and ancillary products. The government issued an order last month dissolving OFB with effect from October 1.The new companies are Advanced Weapons and Equipment India Limited, Troop Comforts Limited, India Optel Limited, Munitions India Limited, Armoured Vehicles Nigam Limited (AVANI), Gliders India Limited and Yantra India Limited.The restructuring will provide more autonomy to the new companies to nurture innovation and expertise, Modi said.Ordnance factories were engaged in the production of tanks, armoured personnel carriers, mine protected vehicles, bombs, rockets, artillery guns, anti-aircraft guns, parachutes, small arms, clothing and leather equipment for soldiers.The government expects the seven new entities to increase their share in the domestic market through better capacity utilisation and also tap new export opportunities. During the last two decades, various high-level committees underlined the need to improve the functioning of OFB and making its factories vehicles of self-reliance for the country’s defence preparedness.Modi said the ordnance factories had a glorious past, but their upgradation was ignored in the post-Independence period, leading to the country’s dependence on foreign suppliers. “These seven defence companies will play a major role in changing this situation,” he said.Defence minister Rajnath Singh said the corporatisation of OFB will help overcome various shortcomings in the previous set-up and provide the new companies incentive to become competitive.“The objective of this restructuring is to transform Ordnance Factories into productive and profitable assets, improve expertise in product range, increase competitiveness, improve quality, enhance cost-efficiency and ensure self-reliance in defence preparedness,” Singh said.All the indents previously placed on OFB by various services, CAPFs and state police have been converted into deemed contracts. These deemed contracts numbering 66 have a cumulative value of more than ₹65,000 crore, as previously reported by HT.The PM said the government has ensured that the interests of the employees are fully protected.The All-India Defence Employees Federation (AIDEF) and three other workers’ associations, however, boycotted the official inauguration of the new companies. “We wore black badges and boycotted the function along with our families. We will decide the future course of our protests shortly,” said AIDEF general secretary C Srikumar.In a major push to the self-reliance campaign in the defence sector, India has signed contracts and cleared projects worth almost ₹54,000 crore during the last month-and-a-half to boost the military’s capabilities with locally produced weapons and systems including transport planes, tanks, helicopters, airborne early warning systems and counter-drone weapons.India has set aside ₹70,221 crore this year for domestic defence procurement, accounting for 63% of the military’s capital budget. Last year, the ministry spent over ₹51,000 crore, or 58% of the capital budget, on domestic purchases.The country has also decided to ban the import of 209 weapons and systems to boost self-reliance. The ban, to be implemented progressively till 2025, covers artillery guns, missile destroyers, ship-borne cruise missiles, light combat aircraft, long-range land attack cruise missiles, basic trainer aircraft, and different types of helicopters.“Self-reliance in the defence sector has to be seen against the backdrop of the threats India faces, and the need to build military capabilities. Atmanirbhar Bharat is also about cutting down critical imports and filling capability gaps indigenously,” said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General BS Jaswal (retd).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-india-on-track-for-a-self-reliant-defence-sector-101634322491256.html
16-10-2021||India||Former PM Manmohan Singh’s health condition improving||The condition of former Prime minister Manmohan Singh, who is undergoing treatment at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here, is stable, and he is recovering well, said people familiar with the development on Friday.“His condition is better and progressing well. He is responding to treatment and that is a good sign. He is being taken care of by a team of specialists,” said a senior staff member from the hospital, on condition of anonymity.The 89-year-old was on Wednesday evening admitted to New Delhi’s AIIMS after complains of fever, weakness and general uneasiness. He was admitted into the hospital to be evaluated for high-grade fever. The former prime minister is admitted in a private ward of hospital’s Cardiothoracic and Neurosciences Centre under the care of a team of specialists led by Dr Nitish Naik. Dr Naik is a professor in the department of cardiology, and has been former PM’s personal physician for many years now. On Thursday, political leaders across spectrum sent their best wishes for his speedy recovery. Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya and senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi visited the former PM in the hospital. Singh has a history of cardiac ailments, and even underwent a revision heart bypass surgery at AIIMS in 2009. Earlier in April this year, Singh was admitted to the hospital’s trauma centre (functioning as Covid care centre) after he tested positive for the cCoronavirus disease (Covid-19). Singh is also a member of the Rajya Sabha.Family objects to photographers’ presenceManmohan Singh’s daughter Daman Singh in a statement on Friday said that her mother, Gursharan Kaur had objected to the presence of a photographer when Mandaviya paid a visit to Singh in AIIMS but it was ignored. Photographs of Mandaviya in Manmohan’s cabin have surfaced on social media.“My father is being treated for Dengue at AIIMS. His condition is stable but his immunity is low. We have restricted visitors due to the risk of infection. It was nice of the Health Minister to visit and express his concern. However, my parents were in no state to be photographed at the time,” the statement said. The statement further said that her mother Gursharan Kaur had objected to the presence of a photographer when the minister paid a visit to Singh in AIIMS but her objection was ignored.The Congress also demanded an apology from the Union health minister over the issue after Daman Singh’s objection.“Everything is a ‘Photo Op’ for BJP. Shame on Health Minister, who made a visit to meet Former PM in AIIMS, a ugly ‘PR Stunt’ This is..Negation of every ethical norm, Breach of EX PM’s privacy, Insult of established tradition, Reflects absence of basic decency. Apologise Now!” said Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala in a tweet. Mandaviya wasn’t immediately available for a comment. There was no clarification from the health ministry but government officials said that the minister went to meet Singh out of his sense of responsibility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-pm-manmohan-singh-s-health-condition-improving-101634323634814.html
16-10-2021||India||British lawmaker David Amess stabbed to death||London: Conservative British lawmaker David Amess was killed on Friday after being stabbed “multiple times” during an event in his local constituency in southeast England, in the second death of a UK politician while meeting voters since 2016.Local police did not name Amess but said a man had been arrested “on suspicion (of) murder” after the stabbing in Leigh-on-Sea.“We are not looking for anyone else in connection with this incident,” said Essex police, adding that the man in custody was aged 25, and a knife was recovered.The force said officers had earlier responded to “reports of a stabbing” shortly after 12:05 pm (1105 GMT). British media, including Sky News and the BBC, identified the victim as the 69-year-old politician from Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s ruling Conservative Party.Transport Secretary Grant Shapps called Amess “a dedicated, thoughtful man and a true Parliamentarian, who lost his life while serving the constituents who he worked relentlessly for throughout his career”.Amess is the latest British MPs to have been attacked at his weekly constituency “surgery” with voters, which are typically held on Fridays when parliament is not sitting.Pro-EU lawmaker Labour MP Jo Cox was murdered by a far-right extremist in 2016 in the run-up to the Brexit referendum.The Jo Cox Foundation, which was set up in her memory, tweeted that it was “horrified to hear the news of the attack” on Amess. “We are thinking of him, his family and loved ones at this distressing time,” it added.Cox’s widower Brendan described the stabbing of Amess was “as cowardly as it gets”. “Attacking our elected representatives is an attack on democracy itself. There is no excuse, no justification.”Another Labour MP, Stephen Timms, was stabbed multiple times during an event in 2010, but recovered from “potentially life-threatening injuries” and is still an MP.Timms said he was “appalled” at the latest attack.In January 2000, Liberal Democrat MP Nigel Jones was injured and his assistant killed by a man wielding a ceremonial sword at a constituency surgery in Cheltenham, western England.- Security concerns -Former Conservative leader Iain Duncan Smith expressed concern about the security risk of the local MP “surgeries”.“When you’re not in your office, and you’re in a public place... that means essentially, that the levels of security that sometimes you’re advised to take can’t be taken,” he tweeted.Amess, a lawmaker since 1983, had advertised his upcoming surgery at the Belfairs Methodist Church in the small town of Leigh-on-Sea.Paul Gardiner, 41, a barber at One Barbers Leigh-On-Sea, told AFP that “armed police and an ambulance” were on the scene.“There’s a couple of choppers around the place,” he said. There was no immediate comment from Johnson, who was leading an away-day for senior ministers in the west of England.But his wife Carrie, a former Conservative head of communications, tweeted: “Absolutely devastating news about Sir David Amess.“He was hugely kind and good. An enormous animal lover and a true gent. This is so completely unjust. Thoughts are with his wife and their children.”David Cameron, one of his Tory predecessors in Downing Street, said: “Very alarming and worrying news reports coming from Leigh-on-Sea. “My thoughts and prayers are with Sir David Amess and his family.”Opposition Labour leader Keir Starmer called the news “horrific and deeply shocking”.An eye-witness, identified only as Anthony, told radio station LBC that the scene was “completely and utterly swamped by police, ambulance, armed police.“I saw someone get taken out the building, put into the back of a police car. Apparently he was stabbed quite a fewtimes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/british-lawmaker-david-amess-stabbed-to-death-101634323440053.html
16-10-2021||India||Kerala globe-trotting tea vendor couple to restart travel as restrictions ease||After two years of Covid-19 pandemic-induced restrictions, Kerala’s tea vendor couple famous for their globe-trotting adventure is busy packing their bags again – this time to Russia. They want to witness the anniversary of the October Revolution, in which the Bolshevik Party seized power in Russia in 1917. KR Vijayan (71) and his wife Mohana (69) are well known, and many celebrities like industrialist Anand Mahindra, actors Amitabh Bachchan, Anupam Kher and writer-politician Shashi Tharoor have lauded them. The couple has already put up a noticeat their tea stall, announcing the much-awaited trip because they don’t want to put their regular customers in the lurch from October 21 to 28. The Kongani couple’s first trip was to Israel in 2007 and has since visited 25 countries. “In many Russian books (translated into Malayalam years ago due to the communist influence in the state), Volga river is a favourite theme. I am anxious enough to see the quiet flowing Volga,” said Vijayan, while preparing tea for his morning customers and his wife busy peeling coconut to make ‘Puttu,’ a cylindrical- shaped steamy breakfast made of rice powder. Their last trip was to Australia in 2019. “Since our hotel remained closed most days for the past two years, this time I took a loan from the travel agency for tickets. Once I come back, I will pay ₹15,000 monthly and start saving for the next,” Vijayan said, adding after every trip, he turns wiser and stronger. “It is often said to experience is the best teacher. Travel is the best experience that makes you richer. Travel is in my blood. First, I visited all religious and tourist places in the country and later turned global. I visited Lord Balaji temple more than 100 times,” he said. He named his hotel in Gandhi Nagar, Kadavanthara, after his favourite deity, Sree Balaji Coffee House. “Look, money will come and go. But these memories will remain forever. Both of us will continue to travel as long as our health permits. After every trip, we feel younger. That keeps us ticking,” said wife Mohana. Vijayan said he is happy that off late Indians have also started travelling in a big way like the westerners. According to the UN World Tourism Organisation, 50 million Indians travelled abroad 2019, an increase from 23 million in 2017. Vijayan said their two daughters and sons-in-law have always supported the couple’s undying passion for travel. After Russia, they have set their eyes on Japan. Amid this, the elderly couple has a wish. “We would like to meet Prime Minister Modi once. He has a humble origin and started his life as a tea seller. We admire him a lot,” they said, adding that they are ready to go to New Delhi for the visit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-globe-trotting-tea-vendor-couple-to-restart-travel-as-restrictions-ease-101634323380382.html
16-10-2021||India||Jaipur resident tops JEE Advanced with record 96.6% score||Eighteen-year-old Mridul Agarwal scored 96.6% in the Joint Entrance Examination (Advanced), setting a new record for the test that admissions seekers must clear to enter the country’s prestigious Indian Institutes of Technology (IIT).Agarwal, who is a resident of Jaipur scored 348 out of 360 to ace the test, far surpassing the 88.8% scored by last year’s topper. Delhi residents Dhananjay Raman and Anant Lunia were ranked second and third, respectively, in the results announced on Friday.A total of 141,699 candidates appeared for the exam, and 41,862 cleared it, including at least 6,000 female students.Speaking to HT, Agarwal said the Covid-19 pandemic gave him a further push to focus on his preparation. “The lockdown gave us extra time to study and go through more study material and solve more test papers. The online tools became fun,” he said.Agarwal, who won several Olympiads over the years, credited his family for supporting him through out his preparation.Agarwal studied at Jaipur’s St Xavier’s School.Agarwal’s mother, Pooja Agarwal, said the All India Rank-1 holder was always hardworking. “He has always been clear-headed about all his goals.”Agarwal plans to pursue B.Tech in Computer Science from IIT Bombay.Only the candidates who meet the cut-off set by the National Testing Agency (NTA) after qualifying the JEE(Mains) can appear for JEE(Advanced). This year’s cut off was set at 87.89% for the unreserved category.The minimum qualifying marks for the entrance remained 17.5%, the same as last year. The qualifying marks dropped to 17.5% last year from 35% in 2019.Officials attributed the decrease to the changes in the exam pattern.“This is because students have been given marks out of 360 this year while last year they were marked out of 396. It was decided to make some changes in the exam pattern keeping in mind the Covid-19 situation,” said Debashish Chakraborty, chairman of JEE(Advanced),In Friday’s results, another candidate from the Delhi zone — Kavya Chopra — emerged the top-ranked female candidate with the Common Rank List of 98, scoring 286 marks out of 360.A student of the Delhi Public School, Vasant Kunj, Chopra said, “I have been inclined towards mathematics from a young age. So I decided that engineering is a good discipline where I can channel those skills and have financial stability as well.”She plans to pursue Computer Science from IIT-Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaipur-resident-tops-jee-advanced-with-record-96-6-score-101634323320758.html
16-10-2021||India||Top Maoist leader dies of kidney ailments in Bastar||The Communist Party of India (Maoist) on Friday confirmed the death of its senior leader and central committee member Akkiraju Haragopal, alias Rama Krishna (RK), due to kidney-related ailments.A statement released by Maoist party central committee official spokesman, Abhay, said Haragopal (65) died at around 6am on Thursday. Though he did not mention any location, police in Chhattisgarh claimed that Haragopal died in the jungles of South Bastar, and that his last rites were performed on Thursday evening.“He suddenly developed complications in functioning of kidneys. Though he was immediately kept on dialysis, the party could not save him as he had suffered from multiple health issues,” the party spokesman said.“ We got information that Haragopal died in the forests of South Bastar... In last couple of years two other central committee members, Ramanana and Haribhushan, have also died due to illness in the forests of South Bastar. This is an outcome of the chocking of supply network and safe corridors for Maoist cadres by opening up of forward base camps in erstwhile Maoist stronghold areas,” said inspector general of police , Bastar range , Sunderaj P.Maoism, once described by former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh as India’s gravest internal security threat, has its origins in the teachings of the Mao Zedong, the first premier of the People’s Republic of China. While the Maoists had separate organisations that have existed for several decades, primarily the PWG(People’s War Group) and the MCC(Maoist Communist Centre), the two wings came together to form the CPI(Maoist) in 2004. The organisation is now a banned organisation by the Government of India, and carry the stated objective of overthrowing the state through revolution. The Maoists believe that the system of governance in India is “imperialist”, and want “revolution” through the use of arms, attacking state security wings. The organisation now operates chiefly in the forests of Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh, and varying estimates put the number of fighting cadre in and around ten thousand cadre, in a structure that mirrors military formations. The highest cadre are the Politburo and the Central Committee, who stay in the forests for years on end, evading the forces, and attempting to widen the organisation.Haragopal was born in Tumrugoti village of Macharla block in the Palnad area of Andhra Pradesh’s Guntur district in 1956. He did his postgraduation, and later worked as a teacher. He was attracted towards revolutionary politics while he was working as a teacher in 1978, and became a member of CPI (Marxist-Leninist), People’s War Group in 1982. He went underground and operated from Nallamala forests adjoining Guntur, Prakasam and Kurnool district and later became the secretary of CPI (ML) Guntur district committee in 1986.In 1992, he got elected as the member of the party’s state committee and led the South Telangana movement from Nallamala forests for about four years. In 2000, he was elevated as the Andhra Pradesh state committee secretary of the party and in January 2001, he was nominated to the party’s central committee.In 2004, Haragopal, also known in the party with several other names including Saketh, Madhu and Srinivas, led a delegation of the CPI (ML) to hold discussion with then government of combined Andhra Pradesh.“He put forth the people’s demands before the government and held discussions with the government representatives effectively. Through these dialogues, Haragopal could successfully take the party’s agenda among the people all over the country,” the spokesman said in the statement.After the failure of talks with the government, Haragopal went back into the forests to lead the movement of the party, which had by then converted to CPI (Maoist) with the merger of the CPI (ML) People’s War with the Maoist Communist Centre of India (MCCI).Following repression from the police forces in Andhra Pradesh, Haragopal was shifted to Andhra-Odisha border. He worked as the party’s Andhra Pradesh Odisha Border (AOB) committee secretary till 2014, and then moved to the Bijapur area, from where he was guiding the party’s AOB committee.“In 2019, Haragopal was nominated to the CPI (Maoist) party’s politburo. Since then, he had been effectively handling the party activities, protecting the party and the cadre from the severe repression from the government. In the process, he had suffered health complications that ultimately led to his demise,” the spokesman added.Haragopal was married to Kandula Nirmala, alias Sirisha alias Padma, also a Maoist party activist as a division committee member. His son Munna was also in the movement, and was killed in an encounter with the police at Ramaguda. Sirisha, who was later arrested by the police and released on bail, has been staying at Alakurapadu village of Tanguturu block in Prakasam district.Haragopal was named in more than 80 cases, including the attack on Telugu Desam Party president and former Andhra Pradesh chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu in October 2003, besides the killing of over 40 jawans at Balimela reservoir in Odisha in late 2000.“ Hargopal’s death would certainty deplete the strength of the Naxal movement in Bastar.. He was one of the main ideologue of Maoists movement in this part. Now a very few senior cadres are left here and I believe security forces would make an all-out attempt to soon bring an end to five decade long mindless violence by Naxals in Bastar region,” said Sunderaj P.Sirisha said her husband had dedicated his life to the people. “He was a great warrior in the people’s movement and a selfless revolutionary. He did not lose his heart even when our son sacrificed his life for the sake of the people,” she told the reporters.Notably , Ravula Srinivas alias Ramanna (56), who was Central Committee member of CPI ( Maoist ) and was also the secretary of the Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee (DKSZC) -- died of heart attack in 2019 in Bastar jungles. Similarly, another CC member and Telangana state committee secretary Yapa Narayana alias Haribhushan (59) due to Covid-19 in June this year.( With inputs from Ritesh Mishra )||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-maoist-leader-dies-of-kidney-ailments-in-bastar-101634323265934.html
16-10-2021||India||One killed as speeding car mows down pedestrians in Chhattisgarh||A person was killed and at least 16 others were seriously injured when a car ploughed into a religious procession in Chhattisgarh’s Jashpur district on Friday.Locals caught hold of the two accused, alleged drug smugglers, around five kilometres from the site of the incident and handed them over to the police, officials said. The locals also torched the vehicle, a Mahindra Xylo, they said. News agency PTI, citing locals, reported that the accused set the vehicle on fire themselves to destroy evidence of drug trade.The incident took place when a group of at least 150 people was headed for the immersion of a Durga idol in the district’s Pathalgaon town, officials said.Chilling videos of the incident, which have since been widely shared on social media, show the speeding car emerge out of nowhere, hit the people from behind and run them over. While many people were thrown away from the impact, some were dragged along with the car for some distance before it sped away.The deceased was identified as Gaurav Agarwal, 22.“One death has been reported so far. Gaurav Agarwal died on the spot. Around 16 injured are shifted to a government hospital,” Jashpur superintendent of police Vijay Agarwal said.The two men in the vehicle, Babloo Vishwakarma, 21, and Shishupal Sahu, 26, have been arrested, the SP said.There was no confirmation on who was driving the vehicle.Both the accused are residents of Madhya Pradesh’s Singrauli district, and suspected to have been smuggling drugs at the time of the incident, he said.“The primary investigation suggests that the accused were smuggling cannabis from Sabhalpur (Odisha) to Singrauli (Madhya Pradesh). When they reached Pathalgaon, they got stuck in the religious procession at around 1.30pm. Suddenly, they saw policemen around the vehicle and sped the SUV in panic,” said SP.Protests erupted in the district soon after the incident, with locals assembling at the Pathalgaon police station, demanding the suspension of assistant sub-inspector KK Sahu for his alleged involvement in the drug trade.The protesters also blocked the Gumla-Katni highway after the incident, with the body of the deceased, and sought compensation. They also raised slogans against the police and the district administration.The ASI has been suspended, SP Vijay Agarwal said after the protests.Describing the incident as “saddening and painful”, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel said that the accused have been arrested and action has also been initiated against police officials “who prima facie appeared guilty”.“An inquiry has been ordered. No one will be spared. Justice will be done to all. May the departed soul rest in peace. I pray for the speedy recovery of the injured,” the Congress leader tweeted in Hindi.Former chief minister Raman Singh hit out at the Congress, seeking ₹50 lakh compensation for the next of kin for the deceased. He said, “This video is very painful. In Chhattisgarh, the drug mafias have no fear of anyone. Will those taking out religious processions be crushed like this now?”The incident has come close on the heels of the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, where a group of protesting farmers was mowed down by vehicles allegedly driven by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers travelling to welcome Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to the area on October 3.Union minister of state for home Ajay Kumar Mishra Teni’s son, Ashish Mishra, has been named as the main accused in the incident, in which four farmers and a journalist were killed.In the violence that erupted after the incident, three BJP workers were killed by an angry mob at the site.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-killed-as-speeding-car-mows-down-pedestrians-in-chhattisgarh-101634323260736.html
16-10-2021||India||Protests erupt across Kerala after patient’s kin attack doc||A doctor working with a government taluk hospital in Kerala’s Kollam district was allegedly attacked by a group of people, who claimed that he came late to confirm the death of a patient, police said on Friday. After the incident, government doctors in many parts of the state boycotted the out-patient wing to register their protest. According to the police, the incident took place at the government taluk hospital at Sasthamkotta in Kollam district on Thursday night. In his complaint, the injured doctor, L Ganesh, said a group of people came to the hospital late on Thursday night with a woman who fell into a well. As he was busy with another patient, he reportedly asked them to get the woman’s ECG done to confirm the death. Infuriated with the doctor’s response, the group that came in an ambulance allegedly attacked the doctor, police said, adding that the doctor is admitted in the hospital with minor injuries. Police said they have registered a case under non-bailable provisions against Sooranad panchayat president K Sreekumar and others in connection with the attack. While no one has been arrested yet, police said the case has been registered under Section 353 (preventing an official from carrying out his duty) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the state pandemic control act among others. Later in the day, the panchayat chief also got admitted in the hospital alleging he was manhandled by the doctor and hospital staff. Soon after the incident came to light, the Kerala Government Medical Officers’ Association on Friday called for a protest, saying they would boycott the out-patient wards till the arrest of the accused. Kerala health minister Veena George on Friday spoke with the injured doctor and promised strict action against the accused. At least 10 such cases have been reported in recent months in Kerala, prompting the state government to issue an order demanding immediate arrest of those who attack overworked doctors and nurses. Last month, the Kerala high court also directed the government to take strong action against those who turn against health workers. The court observed that unless health workers, doctors and nurses were not allowed to function peacefully, “it will be impossible to contain the deleterious consequences of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protests-erupt-across-kerala-after-patient-s-kin-attack-doc-101634323204134.html
16-10-2021||India||School teacher arrested for raping 11-year-old in Rajasthan||Jaipur: A 31-year-old government school teacher has been arrested for allegedly raping an 11-year-old girl in Rajasthan’s Jhunjhunu district, police said on Friday. According to the police, the minor girl in her statement said the teacher asked her to stay back after the school on October 5 and sexually assaulted her. “He threatened her not to report the incident,” said Bhajana Ram, station house officer (SHO), Singhana police station. After staying quiet for about nine days, the Class VII student on Thursday called a child helpline number she found on her school textbook and narrated her ordeal, police said. The teacher was on leave on Thursday. “She narrated the entire incident to them. Soon after, members of the Child Welfare Committee reached out to the girl and approached the district superintendent of police, who directed immediate action,” the SHO said. The minor girl told the police that the teacher had been sending her obscene messages and photos for some time, but made sure they were deleted after the rape. The SHO said a police team was sent to the teacher’s family home in Alwar district from where he was arrested on Thursday evening. The officer said the accused is from a family of educationists and married to a school teacher posted in another district. He is the son of a retired teacher, while his sister and brother-in-law are also lecturers in a government college.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/school-teacher-arrested-for-raping-11-year-old-in-rajasthan-101634323080056.html
16-10-2021||India||Oil, gas extraction in forest not mining: Wildlife board||Oil and natural gas extraction in forest areas and wildlife sanctuaries is not “mining”, said the standing committee of the National Board for Wildlife (NBWL) with regard to the proposals for six projects in Trishna Wildlife Sanctuary in Tripura. However, experts raised concerns over the move and termed it a “complete contradiction in the ministry of mines’ position”.In a meeting on January 10, 2019, the NBWL, the apex body on wildlife, tentatively recommended six proposals for diversion of forest land from Trishna Wildlife Sanctuary in Tripura subject to the condition that Tripura government obtains a legal opinion from the state advocate general on whether oil and gas extraction can be categorised as mining activity.Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) also sought the Solicitor General of India’s view on the matter and asked whether a Supreme Court order dated August 4, 2006 in the TN Godavarman Vs Union of India and others case, which says temporary working permissions for mining cannot be granted inside any National Park or Sanctuary notified under the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972) also applies to oil and gas extraction.However, according to minutes of NBWL meeting held on September 24 and uploaded on environment ministry’s Parivesh website this week, the advocate general of Tripura has observed that extraction of natural gas/oil is not a mining activity under the provisions of Mines and Minerals (Development & Regulation) Act, 1957 while Solicitor General of India has opined that extraction of natural gas and oil (which includes exploration and development) is not a mining activity when compared to a traditional open cast mining carried out upon large tracts of land and it cannot be considered as mining in terms of SC’s 2006 order.In NBWL’s September 24 meeting, the standing committee of NBWL has approved all six extraction projects in Tripura.Experts pointed out that NBWL’s latest decision could have far-reaching implications.“This is yet another instance of regulation by exemption. Even though the interpretation in NBWL minutes is in the context of a Supreme Court order dealing with temporary working permits (TWP) for mining, it raises some fundamental questions around oil and natural gas extraction not being a mining activity in general. This is in complete contradiction of the ministry of mines position which considers natural gas and petroleum as minerals to be regulated through mining laws. In fact, the ministry’s own forest advisory committee has referred to these sectors as being bound by the 1957 mineral legislation,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher at Centre for Policy Research.The Mines and Minerals Act 1957 regulates the mining sector and covers mineral oils including petroleum and natural gas.“The central government’s interpretation also should be read and analysed in conjunction with decisions to exempt oil and gas exploration from public hearings in 2020 or compensatory measures against forest diversions in 2021. The most recent proposal from the environment ministry is part of the draft amendments to the forest conservation act. It seeks to free specific kinds all survey and investigation and specific technological applications of oil and natural gas from the requirement of prior central government approvals,” added Kanchi.In another matter related to oil and gas exploration in forest areas, the ministry of mines has sought exemptions on compensatory afforestation norms according to minutes of the Forest Advisory Committee’s meeting on September 17. The minutes suggest that the ministry of mines had written to the environment ministry on May 18,2021 requesting that the norm of planting 110 trees per borehole in case of mineral exploration projects be relaxed to 20 trees per borehole.“The Ministry of Mines has constantly maintained the view that mineral exploration is only a temporary scientific activity in the forest area with little or no change in land use. Whatever little changes occur due to exploration in forest areas is restored back by nature within a few months. Therefore, exploration, which is a scientific activity by which possibility of existence of natural resources within a land parcel is evaluated, should not be equated with mining activity,” the letter from mines ministry states adding that “it appears that the revision in requirement towards compensatory afforestation from 20 tall trees per borehole to 110 trees per borehole in case of mineral exploration projects, where no felling of trees is involved, is very high. I would request that the FAC may consider the matter and the earlier requirement of planting 20 tall trees per borehole may be restored.”The FAC declined the request stating that detailed guidelines have been issued by the ministry based on impact of the activity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oil-gas-extraction-in-forest-areas-and-wildlife-sanctuaries-not-mining-nbwl-101634322903557.html
16-10-2021||India||‘Be ready for all possibilities:’ RSS chief Bhagwat on Taliban talks||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh chief Mohan Bhagwant listed all the perils India faces, and the ills plaguing the country in his customary Vijayadashami speech: Taliban, China, Pakistan, terrorism, drugs, OTT platforms, over-use of mobile phones, and cryptocurrency.With New Delhi preparing to participate in talks with the Taliban, being hosted by Russia next week, Bhagwat has cautioned that even as it engages in talks, India must be “prepared for all possibilities”.The RSS is the ideological fount of the BJP and the annual Vijayadashami speech of its sarsangchalak (delivered on Dusherra day) are closely followed by analysts and experts to understand issues that could become priorities for the government in the future. Friday’s speech by Bhagwat revolved around the theme of population control (and having a uniform and universal population policy), a long-standing demand of the Sangh that is now beginning to make an appearance in population laws in some BJP-ruled states, but it also focused on other current issues. That included the Taliban, and Kashmir.Bhagwat advocated “accelerating” the process of “emotional integration” of the people of Jammu and Kashmir with the rest of the country in the wake of targeted killings of minorities in the union territory. “Terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir have restarted the spate of targeted violence of national-minded people, especially Hindus to lower their morale and re-establish the reign of terror in the Valley. Efforts for curbing and finishing off the terrorist activities needs speeding up,” he said.He also called for stepping up vigilance along borders from where intrusions and attacks have happened stealthily, along the sea routes and ramp up internal security. “Taliban may have changed, but has Pakistan changed? Has China changed its intent towards India? Considering the possibility of a change of heart, of dialogue solving issues, we still need to be prepared,” he said.India has opted for a wait-and-watch policy and stressed that Afghanistan should not become a safe haven for terrorists. It has, however, announced that it will participate in the meeting being hosted by Russia involving Taliban next week. China, Pakistan and Iran will also attend the talks with the Taliban in Moscow.The Sangh has been a votary of a strong muscular policy to deal with China and Pakistan.The RSS chief also urged the government and society to together snuff out the menace of drugs. In the backdrop of the focus on drugs with the arrest of film star Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan after a raid on a rave where drugs were being consumed, Bhagwat said drugs are being sent into India from certain bordering countries with the money generated from their sales is being used for anti-national activities and destabilising the country.He also expressed concern over the misuse of technology, particularly mobile and OTT platforms. “…. There is no regulation of the content being shown on OTT platforms, which could harm the country,” he said.Notably, in February, the Centre notified Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules 2021,. The guidelines are applicable on social media intermediaries such as Twitter and Facebook, and OTT platforms such as Netflix, Hotstar and Amazon Prime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/be-ready-for-all-possibilities-rss-chief-bhagwat-on-taliban-talks-101634322425832.html
16-10-2021||India||Madhya Pradesh police bust adulterated petrol, diesel racket; 2 arrested||Madhya Pradesh police on Friday claimed to have busted a gang allegedly involved in supplying adulterated petrol and diesel to fuel stations in Indore and adjoining districts, and arrested two persons in connection with the case.According to Indore police, on Thursday they sealed Shivam Industry at Pithampur Industrial Area, where oil for the purpose of adulterating petrol and diesel was being manufactured. Ingredients for this oil would come from Maharashtra and Gujarat, police said.Superintendent of police, Indore, MC Jain said two accused — Chandra Prakash Pandey, manager at the factory and Suresh Kushwaha, a driver who used to transport the fuel to fuel stations — were arrested. “They had been supplying this concocted fuel at petrol pumps for the past four years...,” Jain said. Vijay Kumar Mundda, the owner of the fuel station, is absconding, police said.“The matter came to light after a vehicle owner filed an anonymous complain at Kishanganj police station that Munda Petrol Pump in the area was supplying sub-standard fuel. A joint team of police and food & civil supplies officials raided the petrol pump and took fuel samples, which were found to be adulterated,” another police officer said.The officer added that Suresh Kushwaha was supplying fuel mixed with some chemical and his arrest led to Chandra Prakash Pandey, who took the lid off the whole operations.Police said around 9,000 litre of petrol and 9,000 litre of diesel have been seized. Indore deputy inspector general of police Manish Kapuria said, “The adulteration caused loss of revenue to the state government as they used to mix 10,000 litre of petrol with 10,000 litre of chemical... They used to save ₹48 per litre on diesel and ₹43 per litre on petrol.”Madhya Pradesh Petrol Pump Association president Ajay Singh said, “This is over ₹10,000 crore scam and petrol pump owners are supplying adulterated fuel without any bill at ₹10 or ₹5 less than the notified price. A probe should be done...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-police-bust-adulterated-petrol-diesel-racket-2-arrested-101634322419989.html
16-10-2021||India||Bhagwat urges Hindus to take over reins of temple boards||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat on Friday said Hindus must take over the reins of management of temples and ensure proceeds from collections are put to use for the welfare of the community alone, weighing in on an issue that has gained momentum in recent years, reached the courts, even acquired political overtones.“The wealth of Hindu temples is used for non-Hindus – who have no faith in Hindu Gods. Even Hindus need it, but it is not used for them,” Bhagwat said.Speaking at the annual Vijayadashmi address, he stressed on the need for a holistic management system of places of worship, pointing out how temples in southern India are fully controlled by the state governments, while in the rest of the country they are either managed by the government or by the devotees themselves. “…Besides the internal and external threats to the nation’s unity, integrity, security, development, prosperity and peace there are some concerns of the Hindu society; efforts to resolve the same is also a necessity. State of the Hindu temples today is one such concern,” Bhagwat said.The statement comes in the wake of the Malabar Devaswom Board taking control of the Mattannur Mahadeva temple in Kannur district in Kerala amid protests by the the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) and Hindu Aikya Vedi on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hindus-must-get-control-of-temple-management-bhagwat-101634322179458.html
16-10-2021||India||1 killed, 3 injured as Jodhpur policeman’s minor son loses control of car||A 30-year-old man was killed and three others sustained injuries when a speeding car, allegedly driven by the 17-year-old son of a circle inspector in Jodhpur, hit multiple vehicles in Jodhpur, police said on Friday.According to the police, the incident took place around 11.30 pm on Thursday at Jodhpur’s Chaupasani Road. The deceased has been identified as Sadakat Ali, who was sitting on a scooter parked off the road, police said.The accused allegedly borrowed the Audi car from his neighbour to go on a long drive with two of his friends, aged 17 and 23, an official added.Police said the accused lost control of the speeding vehicle while jumping speed breakers. “The out-of-balance high speeding car first hit a street-side vendor, then a scooter, and finally a motorcycle. One person identified as Sadakat Ali, who was sitting on a scooter near the vendor died on the spot while two others got badly injured, one of whom is said to be in a serious condition,” a senior police officer told news agency PTI. Police have identified the injured as Vinod and Raju.Later, the accused was allegedly thrashed by passers-by, who handed him over to the police.Confirming the incident, Station House Officer Likhma Ram said medical examination of all three accused has ruled out any trace of alcohol, and police are checking the CCTV footage to ascertain who was on the driving seat. A case has been registered against the three under sections 279, 337 and 304A of the Indian Penal Code, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-killed-3-injured-as-jodhpur-policeman-s-minor-son-loses-control-of-car-101634321821495.html
16-10-2021||India||‘Shocking, unscientific methodology’: India slams Global Hunger Index||New Delhi: The Union government on Friday said the fall in India’s rank on Global Hunger Index was “shocking”, and alleged that the methodology used for the report was “unscientific”. The remarks came a day after India dropped to the 101st position in the Global Hunger Index (GHI) 2021 of 116 countries, down seven places from 94th in 2020. India is now behind neighbours Pakistan, Bangladesh and Nepal, according to the report that is based on estimates by the UN’s FAO (Food and Agriculture Organization).In a statement issued on Friday, the Union ministry of women and child development (WCD) said, “It is shocking to find that the Global Hunger Report 2021 has lowered the rank of India on the basis of FAO estimate on proportion of undernourished population, which is found to be devoid of ground reality and facts and suffers from serious methodological issues. The publishing agencies of the Global Hunger Report, Concern Worldwide and Welthungerhilfe, have not done their due diligence before releasing the report.”Claiming that the methodology used by FAO was “unscientific”, the ministry said the assessment was done “telephonically” by Gallup -- an American analytics and advisory company that conducts opinion polls globally.“The scientific measurement of undernourishment would require measurement of weight and height, whereas the methodology involved here is based on a Gallup poll based on a pure telephonic estimate of the population. The report completely disregards the government’s massive effort to ensure food security of the entire population during the Covid period, verifiable data on which are available. The opinion poll does not have a single question on whether the respondent received any food support from the government or other sources. The representativeness of even this opinion poll is doubtful for India and other countries,” it added.The ministry further said that it was surprised by FAO’s ‘State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World 2021’ report, which said that Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Nepal and Sri Lanka have not been affected by the Covid-19 pandemic.The WCD ministry said there were as many as 13 factors that were “completely ignored” in the report. These included government’s initiatives such as Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojna (PMGKAY) and Atmanirbhar Bharat Scheme, and the increase in MNREGA wages, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shocking-unscientific-methodology-india-slams-global-hunger-index-101634321820150.html
16-10-2021||India||Can’t question Savarkar’s patriotism and bravery: Amit Shah||VD Savarkar’s patriotism and bravery cannot be questioned, Union home minister Amit Shah said on Friday, as he slammed those questioning the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) ideologue’s commitment to the freedom struggle.The comments come amid a controversy over Union defence minister Rajnath Singh’s remark that Savarkar filed mercy petitions before the British at the advice of Mahatma Gandhi.“How can you doubt the life, the credentials of a man who was sentenced to two life imprisonments, made to sweat like a plodder bullock (kolhu ka bail) to extract oil at this prison and tortured for 10 years,”  Shah said, addressing an event to mark 75 years of India’s Independence, at the Port Blair Cellular Jail.Asserting that the sobriquet ‘Veer’ was bestowed on Savarkar by the people of this country, and not by any government, Shah said :“No one can take it away”.“He (Savarkar) had everything for a good life. He was a learned person, knew multiple languages and a great orator, which tells us he was gifted. The British proscribed his book (referring to The Indian War of Independence, 1857) even before it was published…it was the first such book in history. Those who banned his thoughts have gone, but that book is still inspiring us all. Such a scholar, thinker and brave person, and we are trying to create a controversy in his name?,” he added.Urging the youngsters to travel to the Cellular Jail to see what freedom fighters went through, Shah said: “All of us were born after the Independence, so we didn’t get to die for the country. Can we at least live for the country? There cannot be a better opportunity... Many died here, lost their mental balance here but they didn’t give up. They didn’t let the freedom flame douse.”Shah also laid a wreath at a memorial to the martyrs of the freedom struggle.On October 12, a row erupted after Rajnath Singh targeted the critics of Savarkar, saying that the freedom fighter was being defamed over mercy petitions. “Time and again, it was said that he filed mercy petitions before the British government seeking his release from jail...The truth is, he didn’t file mercy petitions to get himself released. It is a regular practice for a [jailed] person to file mercy petitions. It was Mahatma Gandhi who asked him to file mercy petitions,” Singh had said, drawing criticism from the Opposition parties who called it an “attempt to rewrite history”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cant-question-vd-savarkar-s-patriotism-and-bravery-amit-shah-visits-cellular-jail-in-andamans-101634321700800.html
16-10-2021||India||Govt determined to end terror ecosystem: J-K LG Manoj Sinha||The Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir, Manoj Sinha, has described the targeted killings of civilians, mainly from the minority communities in the Valley (Kashmiri pandits, Sikhs, Dogras) by terrorists in the Valley as an attempt by subversive forces in the neighbourhood to create fear and destabilise peace.In an interview, he said the government is determined to demolish the terror ecosystem, and that security forces have been given full freedom to carry out anti-terror operations and have intensified their crackdown against terror groups.Edited excerpts:What do you think is the reason for this sudden revival of targeted killings in the Valley and the increase in terror activities?I don’t think there has been an increase, but yes, some unfortunate incidents have occurred in the past few days. These are selective and targeted killings. It is evident that this is an attempt to change the narrative and give out the impression that all is not well in J&K, which is absolutely incorrect. The situation in the Valley had begun to normalise. In July, we had over 1 million tourists, in August the number went up to 1.128 million, and in September over 1.28 million came to the UT. There was an atmosphere of peace and tranquillity.Since a government portal (for reclaiming properties of minorities that were sold under duress or illegally occupied) has been launched, about 6,000 complaints have already been filed in a month and about 2,500 cases resolved.I feel subversive forces outside India were perturbed and changed their policy with an aim to destabilise the peace and developmental agenda. First, they targeted political workers and security forces, and then they decided to focus on the soft targets in the Valley so as to send out a message to the world.There are a few other reasons that can be attributed to these killings too. Virendra Paswan from Bihar had nothing to do with politics. He had come from a faraway place to earn his livelihood. I feel that since a large volume of investments… between ₹25,000-26,000 crore is coming into the Valley, these forces outside of India and their stooges here, were trying to send out a message that ‘we will not allow an outsider to even set up a stall and earn ₹100 a day’.As for ML Bindroo (the pharmacist who was killed), people say that even if someone called at midnight for medicines, he would help them. What is the purpose behind killing such a popular person?It is an attempt to create fear, but the government is determined to demolish the terror ecosystem and fully committed to take all the steps that are required to do so.What steps have been taken in the wake of these killings?In the last 5-7 days a number of anti-terror operations have taken place on the ground. Efforts are underway to uproot and eradicate the ecosystem of terrorism in the valley-- those who hold guns and even those who offer them safe haven.Some security analysts and experts link these targeted killings to developments in Afghanistan after the Taliban takeover. Do you agree with this assessment?Our information suggests this is the handiwork of forces in the neighbourhood who have been running terror networks and for long trying to create unrest in J&K. However, there are certain elements in the Valley who work on their instructions and such people will not be spared . We are making sure that law enforcement agencies take appropriate actions. Those aiding and abetting terrorists will have to pay a very heavy price for the killing of innocent people.It is alleged that the government and the security forces were warned of the possibility of such attacks and therefore, this is a security lapse.It is difficult to offer security to individuals in such a set-up. I don’t agree that this was a security failure. There are certain elements who want to change the discourse by making it a law-and-order issue, which it isn’t.The discourse in this country should be about the poor man (Paswan) who had travelled over a 1,000km to earn his livelihood and was killed. We should be condemning the killings of the entrepreneur (Bindroo) who used to supply medicines even at midnight, and the woman (Satinder Kour) who taught children and looked after an orphan by spending ₹14,000 from her own salary. I feel there should be widespread condemnation of these killings in Kashmir and in the rest of the county too.As LG, I take responsibility for these killings; the onus of protecting life and property rests on us. It is our responsibility to create a strong and agile security grid in such a way that everyone feels safe and there is no atmosphere of fear; and we promise to do so.The targeted killings have compelled some Kashmiri Pandits in the Valley to migrate again. They complain they don’t have secure living quarters and were forced to rejoin work after the killings.Strong measures are being taken to ensure the security and safety of minority communities in the Valley. I have had detailed discussions with the DGP and the IGP, Kashmir Division; they have been asked to remain alert so that all minorities, whether they are Pandits or Sikhs, feel safe and such events don’t recur. I also want to tell the community that we are responsible for their security, and they should not fall for the conspiracy [to create fear].What were the takeaways from your meetings with the Union home minister and the National Security Adviser?We want to assure the people that we have taken all the steps to strengthen the security grid. All (government) agencies are also supporting us in this. I also want to assure the people that we have given full freedom to the security forces, and they have intensified operations to crush terror.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/government-is-determined-to-demolish-the-terror-ecosystem-jammu-kashmir-lg-manoj-sinha-101634321641866.html
16-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri probe team recovers weapons from accused’s house||LUCKNOW The Investigation Committee probing the Lakhimpur Kheri violence on Friday took two of the six accused to the capital from Lakhimpur to search for the weapons allegedly used in the incident, in which eight people, including four farmers were killed on October 3.. On Friday, the team took the friend of junior home minister’s son Ashish Mishra, Ankit Das and his gunner Latif alias Kaale back to Lucknow in search of the weapons. “The committee recovered a pistol and a repeater gun from the Lucknow residence of Ankit Das,” said a senior police officials on condition of anonymity. The pistol is registered in name of Ankit Das while the repeater gun is registered in the name of gunner, police officials added. Officials also visited a hotel where Ankit stayed for two days after the incident. They collected CCTV recording of the hotel.The protesting farmers had claimed that shots were fired by the minister’s son Ashish Mishra, the main accused, at the site of incident. Deputy Inspector General Upendra Agarwal had earlier said that two misfired cartridges were recovered from the incident site.But the investigators were yet to recover the firearms from which the bullets were fired. Eight people died in the October 3 violence and of them, four were farmers, allegedly knocked down by a vehicle carrying Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers. Infuriated farmers then allegedly lynched some people in the vehicles. The other dead included two BJP workers and their driver. In the incident, a journalist was also killed.So far, the police have arrested six accused, including the Union minister’s son, his two accomplices, Luv Kush and Ashish Pandey, Das, his gunner and his driver Shekhar Bharti, in connection with the case.Meanwhile, the three-day police custody remand of Ashish Mishra ended on Friday. Mishra was lodged in Lakhimpur jail on Thursday night, where he will remain in judicial custody. The police will appeal again in the court for the custody remand of Ashish on Monday, said senior prosecution officer, SP YadavAvdhesh Kumar Singh, the counsel of Ashish Mishra, reiterated that his client was not present on the spot when the incident occurred. “We will apply for his bail before the court on Monday, basing our argument on the fact that my client Ashish Mishra was not present on the spot when the incident occurred,” said Singh. On Thursday, the four accused, including Ashish Mishra, Das, Latif and Bharti — were taken to the site of the incident to recreate the crime scene. The data of the crime scene recreation will be examined by forensic experts, said the officials on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-probe-team-recovers-weapons-from-accused-s-house-101634321522560.html
16-10-2021||India||32-year-old man hacked to death at farmer protest site, 1 arrested||Members of a Sikh group allegedly killed a 32-year-old farm labourer, hacked off his left arm, and tied his body to a metal barricade near the Singhu farm protest site on the outskirts of the Capital in the early hours of Friday, police said.Sonepat Police said Nihangs, a Sikh order identified by their blue robes and swords, targeted the man for allegedly desecrating the Guru Granth Sahib, the Sikh holy book. The family of the deceased man, however, said that he could not have committed sacrilege.The victim was identified as Lakhbir Singh, a Dalit farm labourer from Punjab’s Tarn Taran district. A purported video clip of the incident -- which happened at Kundli on the Delhi-Haryana border -- went viral on social media.“We have registered a case under sections 302 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code. The forensic team has examined the scene of the crime,” Rohtak additional director general of police, Sandeep Khirwar.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), the umbrella body of 43 unions coordinating the 11-month-long protest against three central agriculture laws, said a group of Nihangs claimed responsibility for the brutal killing after the man allegedly tried to desecrate the holy book.“Both the parties to the incident, the Nihang group and the deceased person, have no relation with the Morcha. As always, the SKM will cooperate with the police and the administration in any lawful action,” the group said in a statement, adding that the peaceful farm movement was opposed to any violence.A senior Sonepat police official said the accused, Saravjeet, surrendered before a team led by DSP Virender Rao visited the Nihangs’ camp.“He will be presented before the local court on Saturday. He had surrendered after his video of claiming responsibility of the killing went viral on social media platforms,” the official added.The victim’s post-mortem examination has been conducted and an autopsy report is awaited, said Kundli Station House Officer (SHO) Ravi Kumar.Haryana Police said the body was found tied to a metal barricade near the Singhu protest site stage around 5.30 am on Friday.“When the police reached there, the person had died. Some people were standing there. When the police tried to take the body away, the people at the spot protested ...the body was brought to the civil hospital Sonepat for post-mortem examination,” said a police spokesman .Village chief Awan Kumar said Singh could not have committed sacrilege on his own.“He might have been manipulated by some people ...we have heard that he was wearing some of the Sikh religious symbols...”He said their panchayat (village council) will investigate the matter to find out who was behind the sacrilege.“We sent him to a drug de-addiction centre several times, but to no avail,” said Kumar.Tarn Taran deputy police superintendent Sucha Singh Ball said Singh had no criminal background but that he was an alcoholic. “He went to the Singhu border alone.”“Around a week ago, Lakhbir took ₹50 from his sister on the pretext of going to the village’s grain market for labour work, but he never returned. He couldn’t have gone to Delhi alone. He was taken there by someone. So far, we don’t know who was behind it, but he couldn’t have committed sacrilege,” said Lakhbir’s brother-in-law Sukhchain Singh.In the purported video clip of the crime, some men in blue turbans and robes are seen standing around the injured man with his severed left hand close to his head.The group is heard accusing him of desecrating a Sikh holy book.The video purportedly shows the Nihangs asking the man where had he come from and who sent him to commit the “sacrilege”. Lakhbir is heard pleading with the group in Punjabi.The source and authenticity of the videos couldn’t be verified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/body-with-severed-hand-found-hanging-at-farmer-protest-site-at-singhu-101634281978995.html
16-10-2021||India||2 soldiers killed, JCO remains missing after J-K encounter||Two soldiers from Uttarakhand were killed in an encounter with terrorists in Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) while a junior commissioned officer (JCO) was missing, taking the number of Army personnel killed in the counterterrorism operations in the area to seven this week, the Army said on Friday.Defence spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Devender Anand said the two soldiers — 26-year-old Vikram Singh Negi and 27-year-old Yogambar Singh — were killed during a search and cordon operation, in the Nar Khas forest area of Poonch’s Mendhar on Thursday evening.“During the operation, there was heavy exchange of fire and in the ensuing gunfight, Rifleman Vikram Singh Negi and Rifleman Yogambar Singh were critically injured and later succumbed to their injuries,” he said.“(The two)...displayed exemplary courage, devotion and made the supreme sacrifice in (the) line of duty. The nation will always remain indebted to these brave hearts for their supreme sacrifice for the nation.”Negi hailed from village Viman Gaon, Narendra Nagar, in Uttarakhand’s Tehri Garhwal district while Singh was from village Sankari in the state’s Chamoli district.An army official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said the JCO was presumed dead initially, but later he was found missing.Efforts are on to trace him, the official added.On October 11, five army personnel, including a JCO, were killed in an encounter in Dera Ki Gali in the Surankote area of Poonch district.The casualties in that encounter were the worst security forces have suffered in anti-insurgency operations in Jammu and Kashmir this year and came days after a series of targeted attacks left seven civilians dead in the region.A second army officer said the terrorists involved in the Nar Khas gunfight are likely to be part of the same group involved in the October 11 encounter.The army has launched a search operation in a forest area between the mountainous border districts of Rajouri and Poonch. The area is treacherous, making the operation difficult and dangerous, an officer said.A third Army officer said the loss of seven soldiers within four days showed that infiltration attempts were on and some of them were successful.The officer said infiltration attempts usually increase in October right before the onset of winter and closure of routes due to heavy snowfall.J&K Police chief Dilbag Singh in August said that infiltration resumed after a brief lull following a renewed ceasefire agreement between the director general of military operations (DGMOs) of India and Pakistan in February. He, however, added that terror camps across the border remained intact.The DGMOs on February 25 announced the two countries agreed to strictly observe the ceasefire along the LoC.The J&K Police have said that the terrorists involved in October 11 attacks on security forces in Poonch were present in the area for the last two to three months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-soldiers-killed-in-j-k-s-poonch-101634278797906.html
16-10-2021||India||RSS chief renews demand for a national population policy||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat on Friday expressed concern over India’s growing population, calling it a “predicament” that could give rise to “many problems in the near future” and renewed his demand for a national population policy.Delivering his annual Vijaydashami speech in Nagpur, Bhagwat said, based on the “demographic changes and imbalance” that is being noticed worldwide, there is a need for a policy “applicable to all”.“There should be a population policy. There has been some discussion on the issue before. Based on the view of experts, the government agreed to a 2.1 children per family formula. But we feel there is a need to revisit the issue,” Bhagwat said.He said the country will need a policy that will take into account the next 50 years and strike a balance – even assessing how many people will be needed to feed the aging population after 30 years.Bhagwat referred to a resolution passed by the Sangh in 2015 demanding a population policy; and said it was in line with a resolution on population control passed in Cairo in 2005 when Manmohan Singh was the Prime Minister.This is not the first time that the Sangh chief has voiced the demand for a law to check population. In 2018, he underscored the need for a common law to ensure “demographic balance”, pivoted on the principle of a uniform policy that would be applicable to all and implemented without exception. The Sangh’s repeated mention of a population policy, while mentioning the perils of a large population, is also built around the belief that the Hindu population of the country isn’t growing as fast as the Muslim or Christian population, one reason why Bhagwat’s older comments on this, as well as those from his speech on Friday, emphasise terms such as demographic imbalance and universal applicability of any policy.Such a policy, the Sangh says, will serve the multiple purposes of checking illegal infiltration, conversions through coercion and ensure an equal right to natural resources.A 2019 report by the UN Department of Economic and Social Affairs said that India would add around 273 million people to its population between 2020 and 2050, around 13.7% of the increase in the world’s population in the same period. The report put India’s population in 2050 at 1.64 billion. India’s population is expected to exceed China’s by 2027.India will retain a demographic advantage till the middle of the century with the median age of its population increasing to 38 from 29; by then, China’s median age is expected to be 55-56 and the US’s 44-45.In 2004, at the Akhil Bhartiya Karyakarini Mandal or the executive board meeting, the Sangh referred to Census 2011 to buttress its claims of changes in numbers of Hindus and other communities.According to census data, the population growth rate in the decade 2001-2011 was lower than in the 1991-2001 decade. The overall 17.7% growth rate in 2001-2011 was 0.82 times of the 21.5% growth rate in the 1991-2001 decade.While growth rates of all major religions also decreased, they did not decrease in the same degree. The Hindu population grew by 0.87 times as it had the previous decade, while in the case of the Muslim population, the growth was slightly slower: 0.84 times of the previous decade.In case of Christians and Sikhs, the dip was larger. The Christian population grew at 0.69 times the previous decade and the Sikhs’, the increase was nearly half.To be sure, these figures are dependent on 1991 projections for Jammu and Kashmir, where the census was not conducted in 1991 due to unrestIn 2015, a year after the BJP-led NDA government came to power at the Centre with a clear majority, the Sangh at its Akhil Bharatiya Karyakari Mandal held in Ranchi, passed a resolution demanding that the government should “reformulate the national population policy keeping in view the availability of resources in the country, future needs and the problem of demographic imbalance” and that this policy should be “applied uniformly.”It was this resolution that Bhagwat read from in his speech.Following the Sangh’s concerted campaign for a population policy, at least three BJP-ruled states -- Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Assam -- recently announced their intent to introduce the population control policy.SS Jodhka, professor of sociology at the Jawaharlal Nehru University however, said the anxiety about changing demography is a mechanism that the Sangh uses to push its ideology.“Changes in demography have been one of the foundational anxieties of the Sangh. It is a political strategy to mobilise anxiety among the Hindus that they are a persecuted majority. There is no data-based evidence to suggest that Muslims are outnumbering the Hindus. The birth rate of Hindus in the lower socio-economic demographics has been nearly equal to the Muslims in the comparable stratum...” Jodhka said.BJP’s Rajya Sabha MP, Rakesh Sinha said Bhagwat’s demand was an “expression of the collective sentiments of 130 crore Indians who face the challenges imposed by the growing population on a day-to-day basis”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sangh-renews-demand-for-population-policy-101634277599540.html
16-10-2021||India||250 prospective parents write to Irani seeking reforms in old adoption norms||A group of 250 prospective adoptive parents (PaPs) and adoptive parents has written to Union women and child development minister Smriti Irani, seeking various reforms in the existing adoption norms in the country so that the process becomes faster and transparent. While PaPs are those who have registered with the Central Adoption Resource Authority (CARA) — a statutory body under the ministry of women and child development (WCD) — and are yet to receive a child, the adoptive parents are those who have already received a child through the authority. The group of parents, who have reached out to the ministry through an advocacy group known as ‘Adoption Action Group’, include both resident and non-resident Indians. In a letter dated October 7, the group highlighted several issues, including the delay in getting referrals (notification issued after CARA finds a suitable match for any PaP), lack of information and transparency from CARA, lack of clarity on the new processes or plans adopted during the pandemic, increased threat of illegal adoptions and trafficking of children orphaned by Covid-19, among others. “These issues have a direct impact on the process and current waiting time for PaPs...From an already long wait of two and a half years, we are now into a three-year-long process and heading towards a waiting period of more than three years,” the group said in the letter.“We need to acknowledge that the delay has a mental, financial and emotional impact on adoptive families. It has put the future of adoptive families at stake with debilitating concerns like the increasing age gap between parents & adoptees and the struggle to give children a normal and happy family life...,” it added.According to the standard process of adoption in the country, when a child is orphaned or abandoned, he or she must be produced (by anyone) before a district child welfare committee (CWC). The committee, in the interim period, sends the child to a children’s home and then passes an order conducting a social investigation to check the background of the child and the family in a structured format. Once it’s established that the parents are either unwilling to support, or simply unable to, or the child has been orphaned and nobody is coming forward, the committee declares the child legally free for adoption. Then the CWC directs the appropriate authority in CCI (childcare institution) and DCPO (district child protection officer) to complete the medical examination report and register the child on CARA. Only after following this procedure, the child is referred to any PaP. The group has put forward several demands, including acceleration of the referral process; a system to ensure that CWCs bring every possible child into the legal adoption pool; fixing delays in kids being declared adoptable by CWCs; and better coordination between the ministry, the states and CARA to plug the loopholes in the system to achieve the ultimate purpose of a centralised system, among others.“The paperwork and process involved in bringing orphaned or abandoned children to the adoption pool is very slow and fragmented between different parties. The whole system of CARA was evolved to streamline things. But the system itself has become such a deterrent in getting children inside the pool that now parents are waiting on one side for three-four years and children are waiting on another side in childcare centres. So, we decided to write to the ministry to raise all these issues,” said a member of the the Adoption Action Group. When contacted, a senior official in the WCD ministry said on condition of anonymity, “The CARA officials will soon hold a virtual meeting with this group of PaPs and discuss their concerns. The ministry is committed to addressing all the issues and make the adoption process easier, smoother and hassle-free.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/250-prospective-parents-write-to-smriti-irani-seeking-reforms-in-old-adoption-norms-101634239913104.html
