17-10-2021||India||Kashmiris not involved in recent civilian killings: Farooq Abdullah||Srinagar: National Conference president Farooq Abdullah Sunday said Kashmiris were not involved in the recent civilian killings in the union territory and that these attacks were carried under a conspiracy to defame Kashmiris.He also termed these incidents an attempt to disrupt the peaceful atmosphere in the union territory.“These killings are unfortunate and done under a conspiracy. Kashmiris are not involved in these killings. It is an attempt to defame Kashmiris,” Abdullah told reporters here. The Lok Sabha member from Srinagar said these killings were an attempt to disturb the peaceful atmosphere in the valley. Two non-locals were shot dead by militants in Srinagar and Pulwama districts of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday. Before that, seven civilians, including four from minority communities, were killed by terrorists in Kashmir, triggering fear among the people in the Valley and criticism of the security apparatus by political parties.Asked about the NSA level talks between India and Pakistan, Abdullah said any initiative that leads to friendship is welcome.“We should pray and hope that there is friendship between the two countries and we can live (in peace),” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmiris-not-involved-in-recent-civilian-killings-farooq-abdullah-101634495302729.html
17-10-2021||India||Kashmir police look to move migrants to ‘safer areas’||Srinagar The Jammu & Kashmir Police late on Sunday were moving non-local labourers in several areas to “safer areas”, hours after two civilians from outside the Union Territory were killed in the latest of a string of such attacks in the Valley, people aware of the matter said.An official, who asked not to be named, said that many non-local workers were being moved to safer places in Ganderbal district and some areas of south Kashmir. The official added that in some areas, the police were asked to remain ready for any such evacuation.While news agency Reuters quoted inspector general of police Vijay Kumar as saying that he instructed his officers to move workers, the top official separately said no formal order had been issued. “I have directed officers to shift the vulnerable urgently,” he told Reuters.
17-10-2021||India||Violence in Bangladesh part of ethnic cleansing, alleges BJP; demands CAA, NRC in Bengal||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Sunday alleged that the communal violence during Durga Puja in Bangladesh is part of a systematic attack on religious minority groups and the situation calls for implementation of the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and National Register of Citizens (NRC) in West Bengal. Amid protests in Kolkata and district towns, the BJP’s chief state spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said, “What we are witnessing in Bangladesh is part of a systematic ethnic cleansing that started decades ago. Instead of acknowledging the rights of these Hindus, West Bengal’s erstwhile Left Front government offered ration cards and voting rights to infiltrators from Bangladesh. The Trinamool Congress (TMC) carried this forward, resulting in a radical change in demography in certain parts of the state and pressure on local economy.” “To evade responsibility, the CPI (M) and TMC are claiming that the recent incidents were stray in nature. They are wrong. Millions of Hindus fled Bangladesh after its birth in 1971 and in the subsequent years to escape religious persecution. BJP is the only party that differentiates between refugees and infiltrators and wants to enforce the CAA and NRC,” said Bhattacharya, referring to the killings and alleged rapes in different parts of Bangladesh. CAA offers citizenship to non-Muslims who entered India from Afghanistan, Pakistan and Bangladesh before 2015. Its critics, among whom chief minister Mamata Banerjee is a prominent face, insist that it is discriminatory as it leaves out Muslims and links citizenship to faith in a secular country. The BJP made CAA an issue during the March-April assembly polls. Union home minister Amit Shah said during campaign that if BJP came to power the new government would give a green signal to the implementation of CAA and the Centre would decide when and how to enforce the new law. However, in Assam, where state polls were held around the same time, the BJP made no such announcement although a chunk of the state’s population comprise refugees from Bangladesh. The BJP won in Assam but bagged only 77 of Bengal’s 294 seats. The TMC countered the BJP, saying only the Centre should deal with the situation in Bangladesh. TMC state general secretary Kunal Ghosh said, “The BJP should not indulge in politics and create communal tension. Minority communities in both countries need protection. Let Prime Minister Narendra Modi deal with this and interact with the Sheikh Hasina government.”Protests were held by the BJP and several religious groups in Kolkata and the districts on Sunday. The party’s state president Sukanta Majumdar will lead a rally in Kolkata on Tuesday, the party announced. A senior state police official said on condition of anonymity that all police stations in Bengal have been put on alert in view of the violence in Bangladesh since Eid Milad un Nabi, which marks the birthday of Prophet Muhammad, will be celebrated on Monday and Tuesday. Radharaman Das, vice-president of the International Society for Krishna Consciousness (ISKCON) unit in Kolkata, led a protest outside the Bangladesh deputy high commission’s office in Kolkata on Sunday evening. Citizens also took part in it. “The violence is continuing for nine days but the international community is not saying a word. Two hundred miscreants stormed into our temple in Noakhali on Friday and vandalized all the idols. Two of our monks were killed. Why are international human rights groups and United Nations silent? We will organise protests across the globe” Das said. BJP’s former national secretary Rahul Sinha demanded the arrest of Indian Secular Front leader and cleric Abbasuddin Siddiqui after a video went viral on social media. In the video, Siddiqui, with whom the CPI (M) forged an alliance in the March-April polls, was purportedly heard referring to the Bangladesh violence and saying that he will kill anyone who insults his faith. The ISF attempted to play down the controversy by issuing a statement that called for communal harmony and demanded punishment for the perpetrators of the violence in the neighbouring country. The ISF also wrote to Sheikh Hasina. The incidents in Bangladesh triggered rumours of communal tension and vandalism in Bengal. One such incident took place at Durgapur in West Burdwan district where some local youths clashed on Saturday night over share of money for drinking alcohol. They damaged three vehicles. Since some of these youths were Muslims, the incident was given a communal colour on social media. Abhishek Gupta, deputy commissioner (east) of Asansol-Durgapur police district said, “Some social media posts are showing fabricated reports that some puja pandal has been damaged in Durgapur. This is totally false. Action will be taken against rumour mongers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/violence-in-bangladesh-part-of-ethnic-cleansing-alleges-bjp-demands-caa-nrc-in-bengal-101634494763237.html
17-10-2021||India||2mn hectares of tree cover lost in 20 years in India, 3/4th of it in NE||India lost almost 2 million hectares (Mha) of tree cover between 2001 and 2020, a decrease of nearly 5% since 2000, according to a study of satellite images conducted by researchers at University of Maryland. Seven states in the northeast accounted for three-fourths of that loss, the study found.In past two decades, India’s northeastern states accounted for 76.7% of the 1.93 Mha of lost tree cover, showed research done at University of Maryland in the United States using over a million satellite images.“Tree cover loss is not the same as deforestation. Tree cover can refer to trees in plantations as well as natural forests, and tree cover loss is the removal of tree canopy due to human or natural causes, including fire,” said the study released by Global Forest Watch, an open data initiative of non-profit World Resources Institute.The seven northeastern states were among top 10 states with maximum tree cover loss in past 20 years. Odisha (7th), Kerala (9th) and Chattisgarh (10th) made up the rest.Assam accounted for the highest share of national tree cover loss in past 20 years at 14.1%, the study said. From 2001 to 2020, the state lost 269 kilohectare (kha) of tree cover, equivalent to a 9.8% decrease in the state’s overall tree cover since 2000. In Assam, two hill districts of Karbi Anglong (97.4 kha) and Dima Hasao (63.2 kha) accounted for the majority share (60%) of tree cover loss. On the other hand, from 2001 to 2012, Assam added 29.9 kha of tree cover, equal to 12% of tree cover gain across India during that period.The small state of Mizoram, which lost 247 kha of tree cover, contributed 13% of India’s total tree-cover loss. The three districts of Champhai (67.6 kha), Lunglei (46 kha) and Aizawl (42.1 kha) accounted for 63% of the loss. Mizoram’s tree cover gain between 2001 and 2012 was 26.3 kha, the study said. Nagaland lost 225 kha of tree cover, which was 11.9% of India’s total loss during that period. Significantly, the state lost 17% of its total tree cover in those 20 years — the sharpest decline in the country. Mon, Tuensang, Mokokchang and Peren districts accounted for 57% of the state’s total loss. Nagaland witnessed 44 kha of tree cover gain from 2001 to 2012. From 2001 to 2020, Arunachal Pradesh, the largest state in northeast, lost 222 kha of tree cover, which was 11.6% of India’s total loss. The state saw 3.5% decline in its tree cover in that period. The districts of West Siang, Lohit, Changland, Longding and Lower Dibang Valley accounted for 51% of Arunachal’s total loss. The state gained 47.8 kha of tree cover from 2001 to 2012. With a loss of 196 kha, Manipur was the 5th highest contributor of tree-cover loss among all states, accounting for 10.3% of the total. There was a 12% decrease in the state’s tree cover in past 20 years. Charachandpur and Tameglong districts contributed 52% of the total loss. The state gained 33.8 kha of tree cover from 2001 to 2012, which was 13% of the country’s total gain in that period. Meghalaya lost 195 kha of tree cover in past 20 years, which was 10.3% of the country’s overall loss. The state lost 12% of its tree cover in that period and the three districts of South Garo Hills, East Khasi Hills and South West Khasi Hills were responsible for 56% of that. Meghalaya gained 19.1 kha of tree cover from 2001 to 2012. With 102 kha of tree cover loss (or 5.5% of India’s total loss), Tripura was the lowest contributor among the northeastern states to the national figure. But from 2001 to 2020, the state lost 15% of its tree cover, the second highest after Nagaland (17%). Dhalai and South Tripura districts accounted 53% of the state’s total loss. The state gained just 1.18 kha of tree cover from 2001 to 2012.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2mn-hectares-of-tree-cover-lost-in-20-years-in-india-3-4th-of-it-in-ne-101634493442459.html
17-10-2021||India||3 more non-locals shot by terrorists in Kashmir||Srinagar: Two non-local labourers were gunned down by terrorists in Wanpoh area of Kulgam district on Sunday evening, as killings of civilians -- 11 have been killed in October -- continued in Jammu and Kashmir. Another grievously wounded labourer was being treated for multiple injuries.All three hailed from outside the Union Territory. The terrorists fired indiscriminately on a group of people, killing two and injuring one, a police spokesperson said soon after the attack. Raja Reshi and Joginder Reshi from Bihar died on the spot. Chun Chun Reshi Das, also from Bihar, sustained multiple injuries and was being treated at the Government Medical College in Anantnag. The incident on Sunday was the third attack on non-locals in Kashmir in two days. A street vendor from Bihar was killed in the Eidgah area of Srinagar on Saturday evening. A carpenter from Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh was killed at Litter in Pulwama district on the same day.So far, 11 people have been killed in targeted attacks in Kashmir, including five hailing from other states. “The gruesome murder of non-locals is nothing but inhuman, and reveals the frustration of militants, which amounts to genocide,” Bharatiya Janata Party spokesperson Altaf Thakur said.Nasir Aslam Wani, provincial president of the National Conference party, condemned the murders. “This cycle of killing innocent people is unending,” Wani said in a tweet. “Strongly condemn the barbaric act of terrorism. My heartfelt condolences to their loved ones.”Srinagar mayor Junaid Azim Mattu of the Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party also condemned the killings. “In the strongest of terms condemn yet another barbaric terror attack in Kulgam resulting in the death of two non-local workers. Madness! Senseless and barbaric! My heart goes out to the families of the two deceased and I pray for the recovery of the third injured victim,” Mattu tweeted.Arvind Kumar Sah, a resident of Banka in Bihar, was shot at close range by militants in Srinagar’s Eidgah area on Saturday, while Sageer Ahmad, a carpenter from Saharanpur, was killed at Litter in Pulwama district.On October 7, two teachers – Supinder Kaur, principal of the Government Boys Higher Secondary School, and Deepak Chand, a teacher at the same school in Srinagar’s Eidgah – were shot dead by gunmen inside the school.On October 5, three civilians – Makhan Lal Bindroo, a Kashmiri Pandit and well-known pharmacist in Srinagar; Virender Paswan, a street vendor from Bihar’s Bhagalpur; and Mohammad Shafi Lone, head of a taxi union in Bandipora district – were killed in terror attacks. On October 2, two civilians, Majid Guroo and Mohammad Shafi, were shot dead by militants in Srinagar.The Resistance Front (TRF), an arm of the Lashkar-e-Taiba terror outfit, has claimed responsibility for most of the attacks.A total of 32 civilians have been shot dead in Kashmir so far this year.Nine soldiers have been killed in counterterror operations that began on October 11, the highest casualty the army has suffered in a week in the region in recent years. At least 13 terrorists, including a top Lashkar-e-Taiba commander, have been shot dead by security forces in October.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-more-non-locals-shot-by-terrorists-in-kashmir-101634493383939.html
17-10-2021||India||Last chance to deliver in Punjab: Sidhu to Sonia||Chandigarh In a letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, state party chief Navjot Singh Sidhu has sought directions to Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi to implement a 13-point programme as a “last damage control measure” ahead of the 2022 assembly polls due in four months. In the four-page letter, written on October 15, that Sidhu made public on Twitter on Sunday, the issues raised broadly included justice in sacrilege cases, tightening the noose around the drug mafia, improvements in the agriculture sector, cheap power, cancellation of power purchase agreements with privately owned thermal plants, welfare of SCs (scheduled castes) and BCs (backward classes), employment generation, easing processes for industry and empowerment of youth and women. It also stressed the need to end mafia in the cable, liquor, sand and transport businesses. “… give your august direction to the state government to act in the best interest of the people of Punjab immediately,” the letter said. Political observers said all efforts by the high command to placate Sidhu seemed to be failing, as he had written the letter the day he met former party president Rahul Gandhi and reportedly assured him to be back as the state unit president but a formal announcement is still awaited. A day before that he had met general secretaries Harish Rawat, state affairs incharge, and KC Venugopal, who deals with organisation matters, to sort out issues concerning the state government and the organisation. The meeting was necessitated by Sidhu’s resignation from the post of state unit head on September 28, showing displeasure over some appointments in Channi’s government. Even after the meeting, the matter seemed far from over. According to Sidhu’s letter, the 13 points are the priority areas, part of the 18-point agenda given to the previous chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh for implementation about three months back. Sidhu termed the suggestions in the letter as a “last chance for resurrection and redemption” for the state and said the government must deliver. For at least four months, the party’s state unit witnessed a prolonged political slugfest that led to the removal of Amarinder as chief minister and Channi was given the charge over a month ago. Sidhu had led the tirade against Amarinder. Despite being advised by the high command to desist from making his displeasures public, Sidhu continues to criticise the state government’s decisions and policies, even those taken after Channi took over. In the letter, Sidhu sought a “personal audience” with the party president to discuss the 13-point agenda for the party’s manifesto keeping in view the upcoming assembly elections. The high command is still to react to the letter. The communication sent to Sonia Gandhi was written on a letter head of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee from Navjot Singh Sidhu but without a designation. “He should clarify in what capacity he’s writing,” said a leader in the state unit, who did not wish to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/last-chance-to-deliver-in-punjab-sidhu-to-sonia-101634493382458.html
17-10-2021||India||These 7 states and UTs have vaccinated entire adult population with first Covid-19 dose||As India inches closer to achieving the feat of vaccinating 1 billion eligible beneficiaries against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Uttarakhand has managed to enter a list of Indian states and Union territories (UTs) that have administered the first dose to its entire adult population. On Sunday, chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami made the announcement, adding that the state has achieved the feat three months ahead of its target.With this, Uttarakhand has joined six states and UTs, which had earlier completed 100 per cent first dose vaccination against Covid-19 among its adult population.Here are the states and UTs that have achieved 100 per cent first dose vaccination:1.     Himachal Pradesh2.     Goa3.     Sikkim4.     Uttarakhand5.     Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu6.     Ladakh7.     LakshadweepThe northern hill state of Himachal Pradesh was the first Indian state or UT to have achieved the feat in August, state health minister Rajiv Saizal had told news agency ANI. He had also said that the state is aiming to inoculate the second dose to 100 per cent of the adult population by November 30.Goa also followed in September with chief Dr Pramod Sawant taking to Twitter to hail the achievement wherein he thanked the “doctors, nurses, and healthcare workers” and also the people of the beach state for the same.Both Himachal Pradesh and Goa had received praises from Prime Minister Narendra Modi as well for their accomplishment.Sikkim and the three UTs closely followed these states. To mark their achievement, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya also tweeted on his official profile. “Special appreciation for the health workers in these regions for their diligence and commitment,” his Twitter post read.
17-10-2021||India||Bihar scales up Covid-19 vaccination, 3 mega camps before Chhath Puja||Beginning Monday, Bihar will hold three mega vaccination camps to administer Covid-19 jabs to as many adults as possible before Chhath Puja, a major Hindu festival celebrated in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand, in which devotees worship the Sun God. The other two mega camps are scheduled for October 28 and November 7, said executive director of the State Health Society, Bihar, Sanjay Kumar Singh, also the nodal officer for vaccination in the state. The four-day Chhath Puja begins with “Nahaye Khaye” on November 8 this year. The state health department doesn’t want to slacken either its vaccination or testing tempo during the festival months of October and November. Bihar has set a target to vaccinate most of its 7.34 crore adult target population by December 31. Anticipating the fact that people would throng puja pandals during Dussehra, celebrated after a gap of two years after the pandemic in 2020, the state health department converted it into an opportunity to vaccinate those who flocked to puja pandals. A reasonable 17% (1,44,876 doses) of the state’s 854,979 Covid-19 shots between October 11 and 15 were administered at puja pandals. The state health department had tasked district magistrates and civil surgeons to set up special vaccination camps at major puja pandals in their respective districts. With 9,321 jabs, Muzaffarpur topped the districts in terms of doses administered at puja pandals during the five-day period. East Champaran (9,055 doses) and Gopalganj (8,272) came second and third, respectively. State capital Patna was sixth, having administered 7,530 doses, which was 10.55% of the 71,323 doses administered in the district during that period. Sheikhpura topped in terms of coverage percentage, having administered 52.66% of its 2,772 doses at puja pandals during the five-day period. Bhojpur came next, with 43.05% of the district’s 18,895 doses administered at pandals. East Champaran’s performance was good both in terms of number of vaccination doses administered to beneficiaries and coverage percentage (37.45%) at puja pandals during Dussehra. Jamui, with 1,070 doses administered at puja pandals against the district’s 12,402 shots to beneficiaries during Dussehra, Banka (1,007/12,056 doses), Jehanabad (944/13,914), Kishanganj (923/6,012) and Sheohar (179/3,396) were among the five most laggard districts. Bihar reported 495 new Covid-19 cases during the Chhath festival on November 20 last year, when the state’s tally of active cases was 5,603. The situation is better this year. The state did not report any new Covid-19 case during the last 24 hours on Saturday. The count of active cases had also come down to 43, as per the state Covid-19 bulletin released on Saturday. “We want to keep up the tempo and vaccinate the maximum number of the target population while also simultaneously testing as many people as possible to ward off the threat of Covid-19. Though the situation is better, we do not want to lower our guard. We will have three mega vaccination camps before Chhath and will try to vaccinate as many people as possible before the festival,” said Singh. As on Saturday, the state’s first dose vaccination achievement was 65% while that of Patna was 76%. Its second dose achievement against first dose is 30% against Patna’s 60%. Chief minister Nitish Kumar had on Saturday directed officials to test those coming from outside the state either by road or train during the festive season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-scales-up-covid-19-vaccination-3-mega-camps-before-chhath-puja-101634491235130.html
17-10-2021||India||The Week Ahead: Mumbai gears up to reopen colleges and cinemas; ICC Men’s T20 World Cup begins||Mumbai On the back of zero Covid-19 deaths in Mumbai on Sunday October 17, the city is gearing up for another round of unlocking this week – with colleges, universities, cinema halls and auditoriums reopening after 18 months of brick-and-mortar inactivity. The country’s worst-affected city with 751,659 cumulative cases and 16,180 deaths has been gradually reopening following a dramatic drop in both cases and deaths. BMC, the city’s civic body, allowed reopening of shops on all days up to 10 pm in the first week of August, followed by the reopening of local trains for fully vaccinated citizens on August 15. In September it allowed Ganesh festival celebrations for citizens following Covid-appropriate norms and restrictions. The city allowed schools to reopen for Grades 8 to 12 to reopen on October 4, with religious places allowed to start functioning from October 7. This week’s developments will be closely watched by the state’s Covid task force. Meanwhile, nationally, India will have vaccinated 75% of its adult population early next week. As of 9 PM on October 16, the number of persons that had received at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine was 695.36 million. India’s projected adult population is 940.2 million. In other data, Google mobility index on retail and recreation had reached 96% of baseline levels on October 11, the latest date for which the data is available, the highest since March 12, 2020. This is expected to rise when the data is available for the week that went by, thanks to the festive season. It will also be worth taking note of the trend in new Covid-19 cases, the seven-day average of which has been falling since May 9 this year. The average of 16,907 cases in the week ending October 15 is the lowest since the average in the week ending March 7 this year, when the seven-day average was 16,744. There is some cheer for cricket fans who may have felt deprived of fast-paced T20 action following the conclusion of this year’s IPL. The ICC Men’s T20 World Cup begins this Saturday, with two lip-smacking matches – Australia play South Africa and England face-off against defending champions West Indies. India plays its first match on Sunday against Pakistan, a team it has never lost to in any ICC tournament. Will the law of averages finally catch up? UEFA Champions League action returns after international football break. On Tuesday, Manchester City plays Club Brugge. In addition, there is Atletico vs Liverpool and PSG vs Leipzig. On Wednesday, there’s Benfica vs Bayern and Manchester United vs the Italian club Atalanta. In the Spanish La Liga, Barcelona play their first El Clasico on Sunday since Lionel Messi’s departure. In other leagues the same day, Manchester United face Liverpool in the English Premier League while Juventus play Inter Milan in Serie A in Italy. Meanwhile, let’s hope Olympic gold medallist Neeraj Chopra participates at the national javelin championships in Delhi this Friday and Saturday. Back to the more serious world of politics and law enforcement, though. A Muslim bangles seller’s bail plea will be heard in Indore on October 20. The four accused, who were arrested for thrashing him, have been granted bail and the seller Taslim Ali is still in jail for allegedly sexually harassing a minor girl. The Madhya Pradesh high court is likely to give its judgment on October 20 in an OBC reservation case where demand is to increase the quota from 14% to 27%. In Uttarakhand, the BJP will start Shahid Samman Yatra from October 18 from Garhwal to honour soldiers killed in action. Assam will start classroom teaching for students of Classes 1 to 8 on October 19, after a six-month break. In Kerala, Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan is expected to visit landslide-affected areas of Kottayam and Idukki on Tuesday after the water subsided on Sunday. The Congress is likely to announce the Pradesh Congress Committee list on Wednesday after much delay because of infighting within the party state unit. In Chhattisgarh, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi is likely to reach Raipur during the Chhattisgarh tribal festival, which starts from Friday. State Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel will reach there on Thursday on a two-day visit to Bastar. There is, however, no confirmation of Gandhi’s visit even though state Congress leaders are making all preparations for Friday, party leaders said. President Ram Nath Kovind will be in Bihar to participate in the centenary celebration of the Bihar Legislative Assembly building on October 21. It had hosted its inaugural session of the joint Bihar and Orissa Provincial Council on February 7, 1921. Goa will see a two-day session this week of the state Assembly, the final one for the current tenure. It will likely set the stage for the election season to begin in earnest. One of the bills listed is an amendment to the Goa Preservation of Trees Act to remove the need for having a mandatory tree census. In foreign affairs, external affairs minister S Jaishankar will visit Israel for meetings with leaders of the new government led by Prime Minister Naftali Bennett and to take forward cooperation in diverse fields. This will be the first major contact between the two sides following months of political turmoil that led to the ouster of former premier Benjamin Netanyahu. UK foreign secretary Liz Truss is expected to travel to New Delhi and Mumbai for meetings that will focus on an interim trade deal and broader security cooperation across the Indo-Pacific.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-week-ahead-mumbai-gears-up-to-reopen-colleges-and-cinemas-icc-men-s-t20-world-cup-begins-101634491233907.html
17-10-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: October 18, 1979 — Nobel Peace Prize for Mother Teresa||Oslo –The 1979 Nobel Peace Prize was today awarded to Mother Teresa, an Albanian-born nun, dedicating her life to the destitutes of Calcutta. The Norwegian Nobel Committee announced its decision to award the coveted prize to the 69-year old nun after considering 56 candidates, among them President Jimmy Carter of the United States, President Urho Kekkonen of Finland and Polish Cardinal Stefan Wyszynsky.Last year, President Anwar Sadat of Egypt and Israel Prime Minister Menachem begin shared the peace prize. President Carter was also proposed then, but the nomination was made after the February 1 deadline. The Nobel Peace Prize insignia, a gold medal and a diploma is presented at a ceremony in the Oslo University hall on Dec. 10 the day of the death of Alfred Nobel, inventor of dynamite. The prize money, amounting to 800,000 Swedish crowns ($191,400), is handed over in private. Giving the grounds for the award to Mother Teresa, Mr John, chairman of the five member committee said she left her position as a teacher to dedicate her life to the destitute of Calcutta. In her later years she extended her operation to other cities and countries and the committee decided to award her the Nobel Peace Prize for her work for humanity. The Committee said “The Roman Catholic order of which she is now the head has in recent years extended its activities to include a number of other Indians cities and other parts of the world.“In making the award the Norwegian Nobel Committee has expressed its recognition of Mother Teresa’s work in bringing help to suffering humanity. This year, the world has turned its attention to the plight of children and refugees, and these are precisely the categories for whom Mother Teresa has for many years worked as selflessly.”The committee placed special emphasis on “the spirit that has inspired her activities and which is the tangible expression of her personal attitude and human qualities”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-october-18-1979-nobel-peace-prize-for-mother-teresa-101634490443201.html
17-10-2021||India||WHO to meet on Oct 26 to consider Covaxin's emergency listing||India may have to wait slightly longer for the World Health Organisation (WHO) to grant the Emergency use approval to Bharat Biotech's Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin. Taking to Twitter, WHO chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan informed on Sunday that the technical advisory group, involved in examining the vaccine, will meet on October 26 to consider the Emergency use listing (EUL) for Covaxin. She further stated that the world health body is working closely with the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech to complete the formalities.“The technical advisory group will meet on Oct 26th to consider EUL (Emergency use listing) for Covaxin. WHO has been working closely with BharatBiotech to complete the dossier. Our goal is to have a broad portfolio of vaccines approved for emergency use & to expand access to populations everywhere,” Dr Soumya Swaminathan tweeted.On WHO's request, Bharat Biotech submitted additional information on the vaccine on September 27. On October 5, the world health body extended giving the EUL to Covaxin by a week. With this recent development, India can now expect the Emergency Use approval for the Covid-19 vaccine by the last week of October.The Emergency Use Listing process - done by WHO and the Technical Advisory Group of independent experts - is centred on determining if a manufactured product (e.g. a vaccine) is quality-assured, safe and effective, WHO informed in a tweet earlier.The indigenously developed Bharat Biotech's Covaxin is one of the six vaccines that have received emergency use authorisation from India's Drug Regulator and is being used in the nationwide anti-COVID-19 inoculation programme along with Covishield and Sputnik V. It was developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the National Institute of Virology (NIV).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-to-meet-on-oct-26-to-consider-covaxin-s-emergency-listing-101634489938335.html
17-10-2021||India||Delhi's air quality ‘steadily deteriorating’, says Kejriwal; reason to worry||Delhi’s air quality has dropped to ‘very poor’ levels and is “steadily deteriorating”, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday, raising the alarm for the national capital as a thick blanket of the dreadful smog envelopes the city sky. With winter approaching and pollution levels rising to dangerous levels like every year, people have turned their attention towards the air quality index (AQI), largely affected by unfavourable environmental factors, along with vehicular fumes and stubble burning.According to the pollution data by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) at 4pm today, Delhi’s air quality slipped to 298 in the ‘poor’ category, deteriorating day by day. Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai earlier pointed out that the AQI in the city was 171 till October 13 that rose to 284 due to stubble-burning in the neighbouring states.Hitting out at the neighbouring states of Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, the Kejriwal blamed them for the rise in pollution now and appealed to them to "understand" their responsibility and help the farmers dispose of their stubble.The chief minister said that the Delhi government controlled the air pollution and the rise in the air pollution in the city now is because of the stubble burning in the neighbouring states. Kejriwal had on Saturday shared a map showing stubble fires across north India.Stubble fires on 13 and 16 Oct - https://t.co/3bRLbCkiob pic.twitter.com/tsUZogUFHY"Delhi's own pollution, including vehicles and industries, is within the safe limit. I have been tweeting pollution data in Delhi for the last 1 month. Pollution has started increasing from the last 3-4 days, it is the pollution of stubble, which is burning in the surrounding states," Kejriwal said while inaugurating a hospital in Shalimar Bagh.The chief minister further highlighted the Delhi government’s efforts to control the pollution and said that the government made a solution which “if you sprinkle it on the stubble, there is no need to burn it thereafter".How to measure air quality index (AQI)In India, air quality is measured on a 500-point scale where a 0-50 rating is considered good, while anywhere between 301-500 is considered dangerous. Here are the categories:0-50: Good –  None to minimal impact51-100: Satisfactory – People prone to health conditions may experience slight difficulty in breathing101-200: Moderate – People with asthma, lung and heart diseases and other health conditions may experience difficulty in breathing. Children and the elderly may also face slight discomfort.201-300: Poor – Can cause breathing difficulties in people if exposed for longer durations. People with asthma, lung and heart diseases and other health conditions are advised to stay indoors as much as possible.301-400: Very poor – Prolonged exposure to these AQI levels can cause respiratory diseases. People with asthma, lung and heart diseases and other health conditions are particularly affected.401-500: Severe – Extremely unhealthy air, can cause breathing difficulty while light physical exertion too. It can cause respiratory diseases in healthy persons as well as people with lung and heart conditions. Best to stay indoors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhis-air-quality-steadily-deteriorating-says-kejriwal-reason-to-worry-101634489067453.html
17-10-2021||India||AIMIM ready for alliance with any party except BJP, Congress: Owaisi on plans for UP assembly polls||President of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) party Asaduddin Owaisi on Sunday said that his party was ready for an alliance with any party for the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls expected early next year, except the two national parties, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress. Further, the AIMIM chief also said that there was widespread resentment against the BJP and the opposition should face them together in the polls, if they were to defeat the ruling party.Reiterating his previous stance on alliances, Owaisi also said that the AIMIM was a part of the Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha, a political front comprising regional parties in the state.“We are a part of OP Rajbhar's Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha. We had also held two meetings with Shivpal Yadav at his residence. We have told both OP Rajbhar and Shivpal Yadav that we are ready for an alliance with any party except BJP-Congress,” news agency ANI quoted Owaisi as saying.Also read | ‘AIMIM to hold rallies in west UP after Dussehra’He also said that it would be beneficial for the opposition to contest together in the election and criticised the ruling BJP and said that the party has turned out to be a failure. “There is resentment against BJP in the entire UP, we believe that if we want to convert this resentment into BJP's defeat then we will have to face them together. BJP turned out to be a failure on all governance issues. If we contest together, it will be beneficial,” he further said.However, on October 15, Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) chief Om Prakash Rajbhar had said that he might form an alliance with the BJP, a position which Owaisi has clearly stated his party would not accept. “Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha was formed on the basis of various issues in the society. Whichever party accepts those issues, we will go with them,” news agency ANI quoted the SBSP chief as saying. Also, Rajbhar said that he would make a final call regarding the matter and an announcement to that effect would be made on October 27. He is scheduled to hold a rally in Mau district on that day.Earlier in June this year, Owaisi had announced that his party would contest in 100 seats of the total 403 assembly constituencies in UP and also confirmed his alliance with the Morcha. He had also called upon all like minded parties to come together to stop the BJP. The BJP had won a landslide 312 seats in the 2017 assembly elections in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aimim-ready-for-alliance-with-any-party-except-bjp-congress-owaisi-on-plans-for-up-assembly-polls-101634485669646.html
17-10-2021||India||J&K Police clarify no order issued to shift non-locals to security camps||Jammu and Kashmir Police on Sunday clarified it has not issued any advisory asking all its district chiefs in the valley to bring non-locals labourers to army, central paramilitary, and police camps in the wake of the attacks on outsiders in the Valley.It was earlier reported that an urgent advisory came hours after terrorists fired indiscriminately at non-residents in Wanpoh area of Kashmir’s Kulgam, killing two and injuring one. It said all non-locals have to be shifted to police camps. But later it was clarified that no such advisory was ordered.Police later identified those who were killed on Sunday as Raja Reshi Dev and Joginder Reshi Dev, while Chunchun Reshi Dev was left injured.The incident in Kulgam happened a day after a golgappa seller from Bihar’s Banka, Arbind Sah and a non-local labourer Sagir Ahmad were shot dead in Srinagar and Pulwama, respectively. Ahmad belonged to Uttar Pradesh and worked as a carpenter.The recent spate of attacks against non-locals brings the death toll of civilians killed by armed terrorists to nine in just two weeks. In the first week of October, Makhan Lal Bindroo, a well-known pharmacist in Srinagar, who belonged to the Kashmiri Pandit community, was killed by terrorists. That same evening Virendar Paswan, and Mohammad Shafi Lone were killed in two separate incidents in Srinagar and Bandipora. Paswan was a migrant vendor from Bihar. Following this, terrorists carried out an attack at Government Boys Higher Secondary School in Eidgah on October 8, killing principal Supinder Kaur, a Sikh, and a teacher Deepak Chand, a Hindu from Jammu.Terrorists have also shot dead two other Kashmiris Majid Ahmad Gojri and Mohammad Shafi Dar on October 2, claiming they were police informers.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-police-clarify-no-order-issued-to-shift-non-locals-to-security-camps-101634488175161.html
17-10-2021||India||Rail Roko today: Farmers to stop rail traffic for 6 hours over Lakhimpur Kheri violence||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha has decided to go on with their rail roko agitation on October 18, which was announced earlier in the aftermath of the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. The umbrella union of the farmers had announced mega protest plan if Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni is not removed from his post. The union on Sunday said it will hold a six-hour nationwide rail roko agitation pressing for the demand of the removal of the minister whose son Ashish Mishra has been arrested in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri violence."To press for its demand for Ajay Mishra's dismissal and arrest, so that justice can be secured in Lakhimpur Kheri violence, SKM has announced a nation-wide rail roko program on October 18," the union said in a statement.While the movement of trains is likely to be impacted, the union said that there will be no destruction or damage to any railway property. The rail roko agitation will be held between 10am and 4pm.On October 3, eight people, including four farmers, were killed in Lakhimpur Kheri as violence broke out after the Union minister's car allegedly ran over four farmers. The other four, including a journalist, died in the violence. Minister's son Asish Mishra is the main accused in the case as the FIR said he was inside the car when this happened. He was arrested by the SIT, though he maintained his stance that he was not in the car at the time of the incident. The Congress is also demanding removal of the minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rail-roko-tomorrow-farmers-to-stop-rail-traffic-for-6-hours-over-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-101634486691635.html
17-10-2021||India||'CM culprit': SAD chief targets Charanjit Singh Channi over BSF move in Punjab||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Sunday held Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi responsible for the Union central government's decision to extend the Border Security Force (BSF)'s jurisdiction in Punjab.Badal claimed the Punjab chief minister gave his “nod” for the extension of BSF powers in the state during his meeting with home minister Amit Shah. Notably, Charanjit Singh Channi met Amit Shah on October 5 to seek his intervention in sealing the international border in the state to prevent illegal trafficking of drugs and weapons.The SAD chief further likened the Centre's BSF move to an “army rule”, saying the security forces can now enter border areas and arrest anyone.“It (extension of BSF’s operational jurisdiction in Punjab) is like an Army rule. Now half of Punjab is under Centre's rule. BSF can enter Darbar Sahib, Valmiki Temple near border areas & arrest anyone. CM is the culprit. He met Union HM & gave nod," news agency ANI quoted Sukhbir Singh Badal as saying.Meanwhile, the Punjab Chief Minister criticised the Centre's over the move, dubbing it as an "attack on federalism". "I strongly condemn the GoI's (government of India) unilateral decision to give additional powers to BSF within the 50 km belt running along the international borders, which is a direct attack on federalism. I urge the Union Home Minister @AmitShah to immediately rollback this irrational decision," Channi tweeted on Wednesday.For the unversed, the central government has amended the BSF Act to authorise the force to undertake search, seizure and arrest within a larger 50 km stretch, instead of the existing 15 km, from the international border in Punjab, West Bengal and Assam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-culprit-sad-chief-targets-charanjit-singh-channi-over-bsf-move-in-punjab-101634479880729.html
17-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: Experts say cloudburst may have led to latest Kerala disaster and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Cloudburst may have led to latest Kerala disaster, say expertsFor the last four years Kerala has been witnessing a series of natural disasters. Every year, disasters seem to happen in the state. Read MoreCenter says it's trying to stabilise onion prices by releasing buffer stockThe Central government is trying to stabilise the price of onions by releasing buffer stocks in states where onions are being sold above the all-India average price. Read MoreIndia to host meeting of NSAs of regional countries to discuss AfghanistanIndia is expected to host a meeting of national security advisers (NSAs) of countries in the region, including Pakistan and China, next month to discuss the situation in Afghanistan. Read More'His mood suddenly changes and he steps out for big hits': Butt says 'predictable' India batter needs a 'mature' mindsetTeam India heads into the T20 World Cup as one of the favourites. The Virat Kohli-led side is laced with stars of T20 cricket, most of whom have done well in the recently concluded IPL 2021 season. Read MoreRhea Kapoor says strangers call her 'silly' for not celebrating Karwa Chauth: 'Not something Karan or I believe in'Filmmaker and stylist Rhea Kapoor has said a clear no to Karwa Chauth-related collaborations. Read MoreEvery girl should aspire for the top office: Nimaya founders Navya Naveli Nanda and Samyak ChakrabartyIt would be wrong to say there has been no progress on women empowerment in the country but there is a lot more to catch up given that regressive and patriarchal mindsets. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-experts-say-cloudburst-may-have-led-to-latest-kerala-disaster-and-all-the-latest-news-101634483039326.html
17-10-2021||India||‘Govt shouldn’t link it to farmers’ protest’: Rakesh Tikait on Singhu border lynching||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Sunday said that the government should not link the lynching of Lakhbir Singh at the Singhu border to the ongoing farmers’ protest against the three farm laws. Further, Tikait also claimed that the gruesome killing was a “conspiracy” and warned that the government could deteriorate the situation.He said that the Nihangs have told the farmers that the killing was a religious matter. “They (Nihangs) have said it is a religious matter and the government should not link it to farmers' protest. We are talking to them that they are not needed here as of now. Government can deteriorate the situation. The conspiracy was executed by governments,” news agency ANI quoted Tikait as saying.Also read | All three accused in Singhu border killing sent to six-day police custodyThe remarks from the BKU leader came as the three accused in the case -- Narayan Singh, Bhagwant Singh and Govind Preet Singh -- were produced before a Sonipat court earlier in the day and were then sent on a six-day police custody. Meanwhile, another accused named Sarvajeet Singh was arrested by Sonipat police earlier on Friday and was sent to a seven-day police custody.The Nihangs alleged that the victim Lakhbir Singh has desecrated a Sikh holy book for which he was reportedly killed. The killing has stirred up the tensions around the farmers protests as the deceased Lakhbir Singh was a Dalit farm labourer and is survived by his wife and three children. The Nihangs are an order within the Sikhs marked by their blue robes and swords.Meanwhile, the protesting farmer unions have distanced themselves from the incident. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmers unions spearheading the protests, said that the Nihangs and the deceased were both not related to the union. The BKU too said that more security cameras would be installed at the protest sites. In addition, the volunteers at work on these sites would now be appointed by the SKM, which was earlier done by the local farm unions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-shouldn-t-link-it-to-farmers-protest-rakesh-tikait-on-singhu-border-lynching-101634482810073.html
17-10-2021||India||India to host meeting of NSAs of regional countries to discuss Afghanistan||India is expected to host a meeting of national security advisers (NSAs) of countries in the region, including Pakistan and China, next month to discuss the situation in Afghanistan. This will be the first such meeting to be convened by India since the Taliban marched into Kabul in mid-August, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. There was no official word on the development. Besides China and Pakistan, regional countries such as Iran, Russia, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan have also been invited to the meeting, the people said. There are no plans to invite the Taliban to the meeting in line with the Indian side’s decision not to rush into recognising the current dispensation in Kabul. There was no word from the Pakistani or Chinese side regarding participation in the meeting, which is expected to be held during November 10-11.The Indian side earlier had plans to convene a similar meeting in April, with the participation of the former Ashraf Ghani government. However, this was scrapped due to the second wave of Coronavirus infections in India and rapidly evolving situation in Afghanistan at the time. It remains to be seen whether Pakistan’s NSA Moeed Yusuf will agree to join a meeting on Afghanistan at which the Taliban are not present. The Pakistani side, and particularly Yusuf, have been pressing the world community to recognise the Taliban setup. India last week confirmed its participation in the next round of the Moscow Format dialogue to be hosted by Russia on October 20. A joint secretary from the external affairs ministry will represent India at the meeting, which will be attended by a senior Taliban delegation. The Moscow Format also includes China, Pakistan and Iran. The Moscow Format meeting will be preceded by a meeting of the “Extended Troika” – which brings together the special envoys of Russia, the US, China and Pakistan – in Moscow on October 19.India had opened channels of communication with some Taliban factions and leaders last year. Sher Mohammed Abbas Stanekzai, a key player in the group’s political office in Qatar and the current deputy foreign minister, met India’s ambassador to Qatar, Deepak Mittal, at the Indian embassy in Doha on August 31, the first officially acknowledged contact between the two sides. India has stepped up efforts to forge a unified global response to the situation in Afghanistan amid concerns about terrorism spilling over into the region from Afghan soil. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has cautioned the world against rushing to recognise the current setup in Kabul as the change of power was not inclusive and done without negotiations. The Indian side has called for the creation of an inclusive government that delivers on counter-terrorism commitments and protects human rights, including those of women and minorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-host-meeting-of-nsas-of-regional-countries-to-discuss-afghanistan-101634482882030.html
17-10-2021||India||Centre says it's trying to stabilise onion prices by releasing buffer stock||The Central government is trying to stabilise the price of onions by releasing buffer stocks in states where onions are being sold above the all-India average price, and where price has been on the rise from last month, the ministry of food and consumer affairs said on Sunday.The ministry also said that onion stocks are being released on a first-in-first-out basis in the market since the last week of August to ensure prices remain moderate and loss due to storage can be minimised. Thus, the all-India average retail price of onion was at ₹37.06 per kg, while the average wholesale rate was ₹30 per kg on October 14, as a result of releasing onion stocks in a calibrated manner, the ministry added."Till October 12, a total of 67,357 tonnes have been released in major markets such as Delhi, Kolkata, Lucknow, Patna, Ranchi, Guwahati, Bhubaneshwar, Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Chennai, Mumbai, Chandigarh, Kochi and Raipur," the official release stated.Also Read: Food prices edge up, government keeps close watchThe government has also offered to sell states and union territories onion from its buffer stock at an ex-storage rate of ₹21 per kg.Onion, a basic and valuable ingredient in Indian households, is impacted by seasonal changes which can cause prices to increase. Centre built a record reserve of 200,000 tonnes of onions in August to help deal with any major spikes in prices, Hindustan Times had reported.Data collected in the past has shown that September marks the beginning of a three-month lean season as stocks from previous harvests are depleted by now and fresh harvest arrives in winter. Thus, the government maintained a robust buffer stock so they can release onions “as and when needed” from its own reserves to keep rates stable.The ministry also said that similar efforts are being made to soften the prices of potatoes and tomatoes.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/center-says-it-s-trying-to-stabilise-onion-prices-by-releasing-buffer-stock-101634481239805.html
17-10-2021||India||2 non-local labourers shot dead by terrorists in J&K's Kulgam, 4 deaths in 2 days||Terrorists fired at non-native labourers at the Wanpoh area of Kashmir's Kulgam on Sunday evening, killing two and injuring one. This is the third attack in two days as two non-local labourers were killed in two separate attacks on Saturday. The terrorists fired indiscriminately, J&K police said, though their target was labourers from outside of the state. The attack comes as the Valley is witnessing a spate of attacks on civilians, including people who have come to the Valley from outside.  The pattern of targetting outsiders has spread scare among the non-locals while J&K leaders say this is to malign Kashmiris.Those who were killed on Sunday have been identified as Raja Reshi Dev, Joginder Reshi Dev. Chunchun Reshi Dev is injured. All of them are from Bihar, ANI reported.   #Terrorists fired indiscriminately upon #NonLocal labourers at Wanpoh area of #Kulgam. In this #terror incident, 02 non-locals were killed and 01 injured. Police & SFs cordoned off the area. Further details shall follow. @JmuKmrPoliceOn Saturday, a golgappa seller from Bihar, Arvind Kumar was shot dead in Eidgah of Srinagar. A labourer from Uttar Pradesh, Sagir Ahmad, was killed in Pulwama.The incidents come after the heinous terrorist attack in the Government Boys Higher Secondary School in Eidgah in which the principal and a teacher were killed inside the school premises last week. Makhan Lal Bindroo, a Kashmiri Pandit, who was popular in Srinagar as a pharmacist and owned a well-known pharmacy was shot by the terrorists in the first week of October.National Conference president Farooq Abdullah Sunday these attacks were carried under a conspiracy to defame Kashmiris."These killings are unfortunate and done under a conspiracy. Kashmiris are not involved in these killings. It is an attempt to defame Kashmiris," Abdullah said before Sunday's attack was reported.In the wake of the killings of the civilians, several groups staged anti-Pakistan protests in the Valley on Sunday. The protesters belonging to different groups set ablaze effigies of the Pakistani government to denounce its continued support to the terror activities in the Union Territory, PTI reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-attack-on-non-locals-in-j-k-s-kulgam-4-killed-in-2-days-101634477794864.html
17-10-2021||India||Goa gets country’s first alcohol museum, dedicated to local delight feni||India’s first-ever alcohol museum has knocked the doors of the country’s unofficial party capital, Goa, as a Goan businessman and collector decided to educate travellers on the history and significance of the coastal state's unique culture. The ‘All About Alcohol’ museum has opened in Goa’s Candolim, the tourist destination popular for its locally distilled drink ‘feni’ --made with either coconut or cashews -- and is dedicated to the state’s rich heritage.The one-of-its-kind museum in Candolim displays a wide variety of centuries-old bottles of the alcoholic drink feni dating back to 1950s, glassware, old wooden dispensers and measuring equipment to enlighten tourists about the little known history behind the popular local drinks."The objective behind starting the museum was to make the world aware of Goa’s rich heritage, especially the story of feni, the strong local drink," said Nandan Kudchadkar, the founder of ‘All About Alcohol’ museum, while speaking to news agency ANI. A businessman by profession, Kudchadkar is an avid collector of antiques and also the owner of Club LPK in Candolim.Kudchadkar said that they do not promote the habit of liquor consumption, but the gallery has been set up to showcase the unique and rich legacy of brewing feni in the coastal state.
17-10-2021||India||Sun rays will illuminate Ram Temple's sanctum sanctorum every Ram Navami: Report||Every ram Navami, sun rays will fall inside the sanctum sanctorum of the under-construction Ram Temple in Ayodhya, a member of the Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust told PTI explaining how a model is being planned in consultation with scientists, astronomers and other technical experts to build the Ram Temple in such a way. The design will be inspired by Konark's Sun Temple, the report said. “The Sun temple at Konark in Odisha is an example where the sun rays reach inside the temple. In such a situation, all the technical aspects and state-of-the-art technology are being considered regarding how the rays of the sun reach the sanctum (of Ram temple),” Kameshwar Choupal told PTI. As efforts are on to throw open the main temple for visitors by December 2023, work is going on at a fast pace. The first phase of the foundation has been already completed and the second phase will be over by mid-November. Ram temple in Ayodhya: Bricks donated in 1980s likely to be preserved, displayedA committee consisting of experts from the National Institute of Building Construction, including Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Delhi, IIT Mumbai, and IIT Roorkee, has been brainstorming on the technical aspects related to the construction of the temple. The geological, geographical and ecological conditions are being taken into consideration, the report said. “From November 15, the work of construction of the plinth (the base part of the pillar) will also start. The construction of pillars and overhead structure on the plinth is expected to start from April 2022,”  the member said. Instead of two floors planned initially, three floors will be constructed. The member told the news agency that the temple will have a museum, archives room, research centre, auditorium, gaushala, tourist centre, administrative building, yoga centre and other facilities.The earthquake-prone nature of the area and the vicinity of a river are also being kept in mind, while the entire area comes under the Himalayan region.The temple will display the bricks which were donated between 1987 and 1989, during the Ram Mandir movement. “Bricks will not be used in the construction of Ram Mandir as they are not durable. But the shilas (bricks) donated by devotees during the Ram Mandir movement are of immense importance for us. They are likely to be preserved and displayed at Ram Janmabhoomi,” a Trust member said earlier.The structure of the upcoming Ram temple in Ayodhya would have a minimum life of 1,000 years as the Trust is aiming at an engineering marvel.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sun-rays-will-illuminate-ram-temple-s-sanctum-sanctorum-every-ram-navami-report-101634474380461.html
17-10-2021||India||Cloudburst may have led to latest Kerala disaster, say experts||For the last four years Kerala has been witnessing a series of natural disasters. Every year, disasters seem to happen in the state. In August 2018 a major flood, often touted as the flood of the century, claimed 483 lives. In August 2019, 48 people died after a portion of a hill came down in Kavalappara near Nilambur in Malappuram district and in August 2020, 74 people were killed in Pettimudi in Idukki district after a landslide wiped out a settlement of tea plantation workers. In October 2021, two landslides claimed many lives in Idukki and Kottayam districts. But inhabitants of Kootickal and Kokkayar, two affected hamlets, say tragedy visited them for the first time. Weather experts said cloud bursts must have triggered torrential rain at several places in Kottayam and Idukki districts. Cloud burst is a pattern of torrential downpour in a limited area in a short time. “The pattern of the rains shows it is a cloudburst. Some of the areas in Idukki and Kottayam received more than 20 cm downfall in two-three hours,” said Dr M G Manoj, head of the advanced centre for atmospheric radar research with the Cochin University of Science and Technology. “We need long and short term strategies to tackle such tragedies. Usually soil study or soil piping phenomena are not done while constructing houses. Proper geological studies are needed at least for new dwelling units now,” said Dr Manoj adding that in changing times everyone will have to expect the unexpected. “We can reduce the intensity of the disaster by listening to early warnings and disseminating them to targeted audience. We need more studies in hazard reduction areas,” he said adding in India there is no serious study on land use. After the Kavalappara tragedy in 2019 many experts said soil piping is rampant in many areas of the state but no serious study was done. “Soil piping and lateral spread (it occurs when soil starts moving downhill) are more visible in Kerala these days. These two are recipes for major disasters. Like cloud pattern, soil pattern is also undergoing a sea change,” said Dr V Nandakumar of the National Centre for Earth Science Studies. “We cannot control rain. But we can mitigate damage triggered by extreme rainfall. Human intervention plays a key role in multiplying damages at several places,” he said. Recently in Kozhikode (north Kerala) there was a mysterious sound and vibrations in a newly-built house. Later geologists and other experts examined the house and found that soil piping or lateral spread may have triggered them and asked occupants to shift from the area for more investigation. Though natural disasters are largely attributed to climate change many ecologists say human intervention is partly responsible for recurring mishaps. They say many landslides are triggered by unscientific developmental work carried out in ecologically-sensitive areas. They lament such pertinent issues come up for discussion only when a tragedy strikes and is forgotten till the next one occurs. Renowned environmental scientist Dr V S Vijayan, a member of the expert panel on Western Ghats, said Kerala was going through a man-made disaster and the impact would have been limited if the Gadgil Committee recommendations aimed at protecting the ecologically-fragile mountain range of the Western Ghats was implemented in earnest. He said if the situation continued like this, Kerala should get ready for more such disasters. “It is a fact nobody can stop rain or control floods. Due to climate change such tragedies are bound to increase. We have seen heat waves in some western counties. But we can take measures to lower the intensity of such tragedies. Quarrying and unbridled developmental activities are still rampant in many ecologically-sensitive areas of Kerala,” said Vijayan. In 2010, the Union Environment Ministry had set up an expert panel under noted environmental scientist Madhav Gadgil following an uproar that Western Ghats, a UNESCO world heritage site that plays an important role in breaking rain clouds over the subcontinent, was shrinking fast. When all six states falling under the Ghat region (Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Goa, Maharashtra and Gujarat) opposed recommendations of the Gadgil panel another committee was constituted under former ISRO chief Kasturirangan. Later many states also opposed the toned-down Kasturirangan report and both are now lying in government cupboards for many years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cloudburst-may-have-led-to-latest-kerala-disaster-say-experts-101634475501100.html
17-10-2021||India||Finishing off rivals through central agencies new policy: Sanjay Raut attacks Centre||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Sunday came down heavily on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Centre, alleging the misuse of investigative agencies. This attack came after a few ministers in the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government faced the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Income Tax raids.Raut alleged that Central investigating agencies are working at the behest of the ruling party to finish off political rivals in Maharashtra. "Is there a rule of law or (a rule of) raids in Maharashtra? This is the question which comes to one's mind considering the record-break raids being conducted through Central investigating agencies," news agency PTI quoted Raut as writing in the Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' of which he is the executive editor.Earlier, Delhi rulers used to lie but now (ordering) frequent raids have become a new business without any capital investment, PTI reported him saying further.Finishing off the unwanted political rivals through these agencies seems to have become a new policy, Raut stated."Use people's money, government machinery to remove political opponents. In the past, contract killings were the order of the day in Mumbai (when Underworld was active). Hitmen were hired on contract to kill rivals (by gangs). This is now replaced by 'government killing'. Central investigating agencies are working as contract killers for the party in power in Delhi," Raut was quoted as saying.Speaking over the arrest of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik's son-in-law Sameer Khan by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), Raut said that anti-drug agency could find only herbal tobacco in Khan's possession even though he was arrested under the pretext of his involvement in a drug racket and put in jail for eight months."Now the court has granted him bail. The court said herbal tobacco was found in the possession of Khan and not drugs. Malik should file cases against NCB officials," Raut said in the write-up.The Sena leader then went on to attack the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) for raiding homes of former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh instead of finding out the whereabouts of Param Bir Singh, the former commissioner of Mumbai police, who had accused Deshmukh of corruption with the help of some police officers when he was serving as the home minister of the state.Raut also slammed the raids conducted recently by the Income Tax department on the family members of NCP leader and Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/finishing-off-rivals-through-central-agencies-new-policy-raut-attacks-centre-101634462141229.html
17-10-2021||India||‘Priyanka Gandhi will be Congress’ face in UP elections’: Party leader PL Punia||Congress leader PL Punia on Sunday said that Priyanka Gandhi Vadra would be the party’s face in the election campaign for the assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh next year. He said that Vadra, the general secretary of the All India Congress Committee (AICC), was the most popular political figure in the state.Further, he also claimed that a CM candidate not being declared would not affect the party’s chances in the polls as a personality like Vadra would head the charge against the Bharatiya Janata Party, which is currently in power in the state.“So, the people are impressed by her and currently in the entire state, no politician is more popular than Priyanka Gandhi. As far as around whom the campaign will be centred, we are fortunate that Priyanka Gandhi is available for (campaigning) all the time,” Punia said during an interview with news agency PTI.Also read | Congress to elect new president in Aug-SeptHe also ascertained that the election campaign would revolve around her. “People talk about a CM face as votes are sought on that face, for us the biggest face is that of Priyanka Gandhi and the affection that people have for her cannot be matched by any person who is declared a CM face. So for us we have such a personality who will be helpful for us in polls in every way,” he further said.Describing the polls as a direct contest between the BJP and the Congress, he said that the local parties such as the Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) have “fallen behind” and “were not in the fight anymore.”Following the recent violence in Lakhimpur Kheri, where eight people, including four farmers, were killed, Vadra visited the families of the farmers and offered them her condolences. She was detained on her way to the district, a move for which she had heavily criticised the Yogi Adityanath government. Lauding her for this, Punia said that she had fought for truth regarding the Lakhimpur violence and other issues such as the Sonbhadra, Unnao or the Hathras incidents.Watch | 'I am a...': Sonia Gandhi slams G23 rebels, praises Rahul amid Punjab Cong dramaPunia, on October 15, was appointed as the chairman of the Congress party’s election campaign committee in UP, according to an order from the party’s interim president Sonia Gandhi. He would lead a 20-member team that would oversee the party’s campaign for the assembly elections next year.Meanwhile, the ruling BJP in the state is in the process of preparations for an address by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his constituency of Varanasi, with the state unit working on the dates for the rally with the PM’s office (PMO), news agency ANI reported earlier on Saturday. On October 10, Vadra had addressed a huge gathering in the same place.While the party had maintained that no leader could match Modi’s popularity, it also conceded that the significant crowd in Vadra’s rally has concerned some leaders, ANI reported quoting a senior BJP leader.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-gandhi-will-be-congress-face-in-up-elections-party-leader-pl-punia-101634474007723.html
17-10-2021||India||‘Politics of votes’: Bihar deputy CM slams opposition for not ‘coming together’ over J&K civilian killings||A day after another vendor from Bihar was killed by terrorists in Jammu & Kashmir, the state’s deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad lashed out at the opposition parties on Sunday, alleging that they are not “coming together” even in “such killings.”“It is surprising that even in such killings, the opposition parties of India are not coming together. This proves where the politics of votes has taken those parties,” Prasad was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.He added that the people of India are aware of everything” and they are together against “Pakistan-backed terrorism which is behind these killings.”Also Read | Street vendor killed in Kashmir left Bihar only 3 months ago for work, says fatherHis statements come after Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Saturday announced an ex-gratia of ₹2 lakh from the CM relief fund for the kin of the man who was murdered by terrorists in Srinagar’s Eidgah region. The deceased, identified as Arbind Kumar Sah, hailed from Bihar’s Banka area and sold gol gappas in the valley.The 29-year-old was rushed to Shri Maharaja Hari Singh hospital but doctors declared him dead on arrival. He was identified by his Aadhar card.The Jammu and Kashmir Police on Saturday said that terrorists fired shots at two non-local labourers in independent cases in Srinagar and Pulwama. Sagir Ahmad of Uttar Pradesh’s Saharanpur was the other civilian who was shot at in Pulwama, and later succumbed to his injuries. “Areas have been cordoned and searches started,” J&K Police tweeted.The targeting killing of civilians, especially those belonging to the minority communities, have been rocking the valley since the beginning of this month. Vijay Kumar, IGP Kashmir said on Saturday that as many as 13 terrorists have been killed in a total of nine encounters since these killings commenced. He further stated that two Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorists, involved in many civilian killings, have been neutralised in the past 24 hours till Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-deputy-cm-hits-out-at-opposition-for-not-coming-together-over-j-k-killings-101634470190614.html
17-10-2021||India||PM Modi speaks to Pinarayi Vijayan, says Kerala landslide situation saddening||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has spoken to Kerala chief minister Pinrayi Vijayan and discussed the rain and landslide situation in the state in which about 18 have died.  Offering condolences to the bereaved families, PM Modi said the loss of lives due to heavy rain and resultant landslide in saddening. “Spoke to Kerala CM Shri @vijayanpinarayi and discussed the situation in the wake of heavy rains and landslides in Kerala. Authorities are working on the ground to assist the injured and affected. I pray for everyone’s safety and well-being,” PM Modi tweeted. Latest updates of Kerala rain situationSpoke to Kerala CM Shri @vijayanpinarayi and discussed the situation in the wake of heavy rains and landslides in Kerala. Authorities are working on the ground to assist the injured and affected. I pray for everyone’s safety and well-being.It is saddening that some people have lost their lives due to heavy rains and landslides in Kerala. Condolences to the bereaved families.Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday assured of all possible central help and said the Centre is continuously monitoring the situation in Kerala."We are continuously monitoring the situation in parts of Kerala in the wake of heavy rainfall and flooding. The central govt will provide all possible support to help people in need. NDRF teams have already been sent to assist the rescue operations. Praying for everyone's safety," tweeted Shah.Heavy rain battered the state since Friday night leading to fatal landslides in Idduki, Kottayam. With the rescue work on, the toll is going up, while the rain has subdued in the state. The India Meteorological Department said yesterday’s low-pressure area over Southeast Arabian Sea and adjoining Kerala has become less marked and now seen as a trough from south interior Karnataka to south Tamil Nadu at lower levels. "Under its influence, isolated heavy rainfall very likely over Kerala and Mahe on 17th October 2021 and significant reduction thereafter," it said.The overnight rain created havoc in the state with heart-rending videos emerging from the state. As of now, a yellow alert has been issued by the IMD for the districts of Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, kottayam, Idukki, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Palakkad, Malappuram and Kozhikode."NDRF teams have been deployed to Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Idukki, Ernakulam, Thrissur and Malappuram districts. Directions have been issued to deploy five additional teams to Idukki, Kottayam, Kollam, Kannur and Palakkad districts. Two choppers of the Air Force from Coimbatore have reached Thiruvananthapuram," chief minister Vijayan said.In the wake of the crisis, the state government has postponed the higher secondary exams which were scheduled to begin on October 18.   In an early morning operation, NDRF teams have rescued nearly 80 people who were stranded in waterlogged areas of Pathanamthitta district. Weather officials had said Peerumedu in the hill district of Idukki received 24 cm rain till 5.30pm on Saturday. Automatic weather stations in North Paravur reported 38mm rain, Muvattupuzha (89.5mm), Palluruthy (34 mm) and Neeleswaram in Northern Kerala district had received 125.5mm of rain till 8.30 PM on Saturday.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-speaks-to-kerala-cm-says-kerala-landslide-situation-saddening-101634471449546.html
17-10-2021||India||‘Grim situation in J&K fallout of strategic blunders by Modi govt’: Cong's Mallikarjun Kharge||Senior Congress leader and leader of opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge on Sunday criticised the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for the “grim” situation in the Union territory of Jammu & Kashmir. He pointed to the spurt in the civilian killings in the Valley and raked up issues such as unemployment rate and inflation.“Situation in J&K is grim. It's a fallout of the failed policies & strategic blunders by Modi govt. No course correction in sight,” Kharge tweeted.He said that the unemployment rate was “highest” across all states and Union territories at 21.6% and in Kashmir the inflation was at 7.39%, which Kharge said made the place “one of the costliest” to live in. The senior Congress leader further said that as many as 30 civilians, including local residents, minorities and the immigrants from other states have been victims of terrorist attacks this year. In the past week, at least nine soldiers have lost their lives, he added.Jammu & Kashmir under BJP rule:- Highest unemployment rate of 21.6 % across all states - At-least 30 civilians, including locals, local minorities & immigrants from other states, have been killed by terrorists this yr- 9 soldiers have lost their lives in the last week (1/2)In a subsequent tweet, Kharge also said that there was a lack of safety and protection in the Union territory due to which there has been a “mass exodus of J&K’s minorities.”- Mass exodus of J&K's minorities for lack of safety and protection.- Inflation at 7.39% making Kashmir one of the costliest places to liveSituation in J&K is grim. It's a fallout of the failed policies & strategic blunders by Modi govt. No course correction in sight. (2/2)Earlier on Saturday, the Congress Working Committee (CWC) said that it was alarmed by the “rapid deterioration” in the country’s internal and external security. “Unabated infiltrations by Pakistan have resulted in a dramatic deterioration of the security of Jammu & Kashmir,” a resolution by the CWC on the country’s political situation said.Also read | Centre intensifies CT ops in Kashmir, 9 terrorists killed in six days“Terrorist attacks have increased and both the security forces and innocent citizens have lost their lives. The administration of J&K, or whatever goes in the name of administration, is incompetent, paralyzed and in shambles,” the resolution further said. It also said that restoration of full statehood and holding democratic elections was the “way forward” in Jammu & Kashmir.The sharp criticism from Kharge came a day after terrorists killed two migrant labourers in the Valley. On Saturday, Arvind Kumar Shah from Bihar and Sagir Ahmad from Uttar Pradesh fell victims to two separate shootouts by terrorists in Srinagar and Pulwama, respectively, the Kashmir Zone police announced. The two incidents took place within a span of one hour, HT previously reported, and the police said that the areas were cordoned off and search operations were on to nab the killers.Also read | Govt determined to end terror ecosystem: J-K LG Manoj SinhaSeveral political leaders condemned the killings on Saturday, which were the latest in a series of attacks by militants on minorities in the Valley in the recent past. Nine personnel from the armed forces have also been killed in the counter-insurgency operations that began earlier this week.Meanwhile, Union home minister Amit Shah is scheduled to address a public rally in Jammu on October 24, Kashmir BJP president Ravinder Raina said earlier in the week. Shah will hold his first rally there after the Union government abolished Articles 370 and 35-A from Jammu and Kashmir on August 5, 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/grim-situation-in-j-k-fallout-of-strategic-blunders-by-modi-govt-cong-s-mallikarjun-kharge-101634470098169.html
17-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: NE states contributed 76% to India's tree cover loss in last 20 years and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘NE states accounted for 76% of India’s tree cover loss in past 20 years’: StudyIndia lost nearly 2 million hectares (Mha) of tree cover between 2001 and 2020, an overall decrease of nearly 5% tree cover since 2000. Seven states in the northeast accounted for three-fourth of that loss, a study showed. Read moreAll three accused in Singhu border killing sent to six-day police custodyAll three accused in the Singhu border murder case – Narayan Singh, Bhagwant Singh and Govind Preet Singh – were on Sunday sent to a 6-day police custody after being produced before a local court earlier in the day. Read moreDavid Amess killing: Priti Patel considering measures to boost security of lawmakersPriti Patel, the UK's home secretary, is likely to introduce additional measures for the security of British parliamentarians following Friday's fatal stabbing of Conservative MP David Amess in his constituency of Southend West. Read more'Don’t think PAK will pose much of a challenge': Agarkar says IND has upper hand but shouldn't take 'neighbours lightly'The highly-awaited and highly-anticipated India-Pakistan T20 World Cup clash is still a week away but the buzz surrounding the match has been in existence ever since the schedule was announced. Read moreJoe Russo shares details about Priyanka Chopra's Citadel, Indian sister-series by Raj and DKJoe Russo, one half of the director-producer duo Russo Brothers, has divulged new details about their upcoming Amazon Prime series, Citadel. The spy series will star Priyanka Chopra in the lead with Game of Thrones' Richard Madden. Read moreDelhi govt launches massive drive to mandate PUC certificate ahead of wintersThe Delhi Transport department has launched a massive enforcement drive against those vehicles which do not have a valid Pollution Under Control (PUC) certificate, as per a notice issued by the Pollution Control Division of the department. Read moreAditi Rao Hydari, in a ₹52K kurta-gharara set, is slaying ethnic fashion goalsAditi Rao Hydari’s Instagram profile is replete with cues on ethnic fashion. The actor is busy with the promotional activities of her recently-released film Maha Samudram, and the attires adorned by her are making their way on social media – of course we are drooling. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-ne-states-contributed-76-to-india-s-tree-cover-loss-in-last-20-years-finds-study-and-all-the-latest-news-101634468996507.html
17-10-2021||India||‘NE states accounted for 76% of India’s tree cover loss in past 20 years’: Study||India lost nearly 2 million hectares (Mha) of tree cover between 2001 and 2020, an overall decrease of nearly 5% tree cover since 2000. Seven states in the northeast accounted for three-fourth of that loss, according to a global study. Research by the University of Maryland in the United States, using over a million satellite images, found that in the past two decades, northeastern states accounted for 76.7% of the 1.93 Mha of tree cover lost in that period. “Tree cover loss is not the same as deforestation. Tree cover can refer to trees in plantations as well as natural forests, and tree cover loss is the removal of tree canopy due to human or natural causes, including fire,” the study released by Global Forest Watch, which partners Google, USAID among others, said. Significantly, all seven states in the northeast were among the top 10 states with maximum tree cover loss in the past 20 years. Odisha stood seventh, Kerala came ninth while Chattisgarh was at the tenth spot. According to the results of the study seen by HT, with 14.1%, Assam accounted for the highest share of tree national tree cover loss in the past two decades. From 2001 to 2020, the state lost 269kha of tree cover, equivalent to a 9.8% decrease in the state’s overall tree cover since 2000. The two hill districts of Karbi Anglong (97.4kha) and Dima Hasao (63.2kha) accounted for the majority share (60%) of tree cover loss in Assam. The small state of Mizoram, which lost 247 thousand hectares (kha) of tree cover, contributed 13% of India’s total tree cover loss. The three districts of Champhai (67.6kha), Lunglei (46kha) and Aizawl (42.1kha) accounted for 63% of the loss. Mizoram’s tree cover gain between 2001 and 2012 was 26.3kha, the study said. Nagaland lost 225kha of tree cover, which was 11.9% of India’s total loss during that period. Significantly, the state lost 17% of its total tree cover in those 20 years—the sharpest decline among all states. Mon, Tuensang, Mokokchang and Peren districts accounted for 57% of the state’s total loss. Nagaland witnessed 44kha of tree cover gain from 2001 to 2012. From 2001 to 2020, Arunachal Pradesh, the largest state in the northeast, lost 222kha of tree cover, which was 11.6% of India’s total loss. The state saw a 3.5% decline in its tree cover in that period. The districts of West Siang, Lohit, Changland, Longding and Lower Dibang Valley accounted for 51% of Arunachal’s total loss. The state gained 47.8kha of tree cover from 2001 to 2012. With a loss of 196kha, Manipur was the 5th highest contributor of tree cover loss among all states accounting for 10.3% of the total. There was a 12% decrease in the state’s tree cover in the past 20 years. Charachandpur and Tameglong districts contributed 52% of the total loss. The state gained 33.8kha of tree cover from 2001 to 2012, which was 13% of the country total gain in that period. Meghalaya lost 195kha of tree cover in the past 20 years which was 10.3% of the country’s overall loss. The state lost 12% of its tree cover in that period and the three districts of South Garo Hills, East Khasi Hills and South West Khasi Hills were responsible for 56% of the tree cover loss. Meghalaya gained 19.1kha of tree cover from 2001 to 2012. With 102kha of tree cover loss (or 5.5% of India’s total loss), Tripura was the lowest contributor among northeastern states to the national figure. But from 2001 to 2020, the state lost 15% of its tree cover, the second-highest after Nagaland (17%). Dhalai and South Tripura districts accounted for 53% of the state’s total loss. The state gained just 1.18kha of tree cover from 2001 to 2012.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ne-states-accounted-for-76-of-india-s-tree-cover-loss-in-past-20-years-study-101634468182379.html
17-10-2021||India||All three accused in Singhu border killing sent to six-day police custody||All three accused in the Singhu border murder case – Narayan Singh, Bhagwant Singh and Govind Preet Singh – were on Sunday sent to six-day police custody after being produced before a local court in Sonipat earlier in the day. The trio have been convicted for lynching Lakhbir Singh, a 35-year-old Tarn Taran man, whose body was found at the farmers' protest site near Delhi border with at least 10 wounds and a severed left arm on Friday morning.The Amritsar Rural police arrested Nihang Baba Narayan Singh from Amarkot village on Saturday evening after he surrendered to cops. Subsequently, two more Nihangs were detained by the Haryana Police in connection with the incident.Another accused in the case, identified as Sarvajeet Singh, who was nabbed by police from Sonipat’s Kundli on Friday evening, has already been sent to seven-day police custody by the court.Lakhbir Singh, a farm labourer, was allegedly lynched for “desecrating” a Sikh holy book. The Nihangs – a Sikh order known for their blue robes and swords — were blamed for killing the labourer. Police lodged a First Information Report (FIR) in the case on Friday.Singh was cremated in the dark on Saturday. The district administration had sent a vehicle to Sonipat to bring back his body, which reached the village about 7pm.No Sikh priest was present to perform the Ardas (Sikh religious prayer) and no one from his village Cheema Kalan, apart from the family, attended the cremation, police officers familiar with the development informed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-three-accused-in-singhu-border-killing-sent-to-six-day-police-custody-101634464644127.html
17-10-2021||India||AIIMS students' body apologises for viral Ramleela skit which 'mocked' Ramayana||The students' association of AIIMS issued an apology after a skit performance by the students of AIIMS went viral on social media platforms for all the wrong reasons, drawing flak. The students' association said the skit performance was not meant to hurt anyone's sentiments and the association will ensure that no such activity takes place in future, news agency ANI reported.“Video clip of a Ramleela skit by some students of AIIMS has been circulating on social media. On behalf of the students, we apologise for the conduct of this skit which wasn't meant to hurt anyone’s sentiments. We'll ensure that no such activity takes place in future,” the statement read.The skit gave a modern spin of the Ramayana where, in a viral clip, Shurpanakha was seen singing 'tu cheez badi hai mast mast' to Lakshman. After Lakshmana cut the modern Shupanaka's nose, she is heard saying, ‘Tu janta nahi mera bhai kaun hai (Do you know who my brother is?)’. The speeches are accompanied by peals of laughter, as evident in the videos that are being circulated on social media. The modern take of the Ramayana was chastised by social media users as they said that in its attempt to become humorous, the students have actually insulted the Hindu religion. Reports said the show was hosted by first-year MBBS student Soyeb Aftab and an education app, previously criticised for many questionable moves sponsored the show. Ramayana mocked & insulted by the youth at Delhi AIIMS during #Ramleela. Reportedly the show was Hosted by a 1st-year MBBS student Soyeb Aftab. Education app @unacademy is blatantly supporting all the disrespect and mockery of Sanatan dharma by showing the videos on its platform. pic.twitter.com/EWwebRTPVNMany snippets from the performance were flagged by social media users as problematic while many pointed out the religious identity of the host of the show. 'Many actors performing must be Hindus,' a social media user wrote, making the point that not only the maker, but the actors of the show were equally responsible.  The video was posted by the education app in its vlog. This is not the first time that Aftab Soyeb has done it.He is a repeat offender and has mocked Hindu Gods in past in utterly disgusting way.Good that Unacademy removed the video asap.Strong action against Aftab is needed. #ArrestAIIMSCulpritsBJP spokesperson Suresh Nakhua said this is not the first time that Aftab Soyeb has done it. "He is a repeat offender and has mocked Hindu Gods in past in utterly disgusting way. Good that Unacademy removed the video asap. Strong action against Aftab is needed," he tweeted.
17-10-2021||India||Assam Congress working president writes to UN on Bangladesh violence||Working president of opposition Congress in Assam, Kamalakhya Dey Purkayastha, has written to United Nations about the series of violence that took place in Bangladesh during the Durga Puja festival following a social media post about the alleged desecration of the Quran at a Durga Puja pandal in Comilla district.The MLA from the Karimganj district has written to the Human Rights Council branch office of the UN, asking them to intervene. Dey, who represents North Karimganj, has also written to Bangladesh prime minister Sheikh Hasina and requested her to set an example by taking strong actions against the miscreants.In his letter to the UN, Purkayastha wrote, “I am intending to shed some light about the barbaric incidents that happened in Bangladesh. There are wide-scale reports of vandalism at the pandals during Durgapuja and created havoc. The media reports and viral videos are suggesting that miscreants not only demolished the Durga idols but also attacked the devotees. This has resulted in outrage in India. People here are worried about those staying and facing this kind of situation in the neighbouring country. Hence, I request you to immediately intervene in this matter and kindly ensure the safety of the people there.”In his opinion, the attacks on minorities in Bangladesh will provoke other countries to mistreat their religious minorities.Talking to Hindustan Times, Kamalakhya said, “In Bangladesh, Hindus are minorities but there are other countries where Muslims are minorities too. If the majority of Muslims in Bangladesh keep mistreating the minority Hindus, it’ll provoke people in other countries to do the same with Muslims. I think the government of Bangladesh needs to address this issue properly and give a message to the world.”Karimganj shares a large border with Bangladesh and locals are connected to each other socially and culturally. In his letter to Bangladesh PM, he mentioned how people in India are looking at the violence against minorities in Bangladesh.Kamalakhya Dey Purkayastha has been vocal on several issues and is critical of several decisions of the state and the central government. He also wrote to prime minister Narendra Modi, requesting him to intervene.People in Barak Valley have condemned the violence against religious minorities in Bangladesh.Hindu Chatra Sangha from Cachar district has written to the PM of India, PM of Bangladesh, Ministry of External Affairs and Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Bangladesh, to ensure the security of the general Hindu populace of the neighbouring nation and compensate those who lost their homes, lives of close ones and got injured in the violent attacks.Subhashis Choudhary from the student organisation said, “During the religious festival, almost every year, we see Hindus getting harassed and sometimes killed in Bangladesh. But being a more powerful country, India keeps watching. The leaders speak about Hindutva during elections but they hardly take a stand against such violence when it is actually required.”Dilbagh Hussain, a resident of Lailapur said, “It is very shameful and unfortunate. I feel ashamed after seeing this. How can a human treat another this way? Those who are involved in this act of violence must be punished so that no one can dare the same in future. We all should respect others’ beliefs.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-congress-working-president-writes-to-un-on-bangladesh-violence-101634464281303.html
17-10-2021||India||India looks to host NSA-level meet on Afghanistan next month; China, Pakistan invited: Report||India is likely to host a national security advisor-level meeting on Afghanistan in New Delhi next month, which will be the first-of-its-kind dialogue to be hosted by New Delhi, ANI reported. The tentative dates of the proposed in-person dialogue are November 10-11 and the format will be similar to the regional security conference held in Iran in 2019, the reports said. Pakistan and China are likely to be invited to take part in the meeting, apart from Russia, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan.The ANI report said that the invitation has been extended to Pakistan's NSA Moeed Yusuf, though there is no official confirmation.Also Read: India to participate in Moscow Format dialogue on AfghanistanReports said that the conference was on the cards even before the Taliban takeover of the country. New Delhi was planning to hold a conference on Afghanistan before, but the move was derailed during the pandemic and then the Afghanistan government was toppled by the Taliban.If Pakistan agrees to attend the NSA-level conference, it would mark the first visit by incumbent NSA Yusuf to India, the report said. It is, however, contrary to Pakistan's policy to attend a conference on Afghanistan where there will be no representation from the Taliban. The conference will take place after New Delhi and Taliban representatives meet face-to-face in Russia on the Moscow Format, to be held on October 20. There will be no Taliban representative attending New Delhi's conference as reports said that India is wary of hosting the Taliban as the group is yet to address international concerns of inclusivity on the government and human rights by the government.On the question of recognising the Taliban rule in Afghanistan, India has clarified its stance that it will stand by the Afghan people. PM Modi has urged the international community to ensure that Afghan territory does not become a source of radicalisation and terrorism.The first official contact between New Delhi and the Taliban was on August 31 when the ambassador of India to Qatar, Deepak Mittal, met Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanekzai, the head of Taliban's political office in Doha. That meeting took place at the Embassy of India in Doha at the request of the Taliban side.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-looks-to-host-nsa-level-meet-on-afghanistan-next-month-china-pakistan-invited-report-101634461651823.html
17-10-2021||India||Rains subside in Kerala, massive search on for missing people||Heavy downpour, triggered by low pressure in the Arabian Sea, subsided a bit on Sunday but the unseasonal rain has left a trail of destruction in two central Kerala districts claiming 18 lives while many are still missing. Defence forces are helping the district administrations in removing the mound of slush and boulders to locate the missing. Kottayam and Idukki district administrations have confirmed the death of 14 people so far but local people said the death toll is higher than 20 and at least 14 people are still missing from two worst-affected areas in Kottickal in Kottayam and Kokkayar in Idukki district.“I was playing outside the house when I heard a deafening noise. When my father and others came out, we saw gushing water and boulders coming down from the nearby hill. Our house was decimated in no time and we were swept away in seconds. I got hold of a tree branch and later fell into a stream and swam across it,” said 11-year-old Jabin, who had a miraculous escape. He is undergoing treatment in a hospital in Poonjar for a minor fracture. Search is on for his missing father and other relatives. In Kottickal, three generations of a family of six were washed away in surging waters. Bodies of grandmother Claramma Joseph (65), her daughter-in-law and a grandchild were recovered. Survivors in Kottickal said even in the worst flood of 2018 they were least affected and the area has no history of landslides or flash floods. Heavy rains began in Kottickal area on Friday night and a landslide took place around 10 in the morning on Saturday. The whole area was cut off after roads were damaged, local residents said. Water and slush travelled around 12 kms to hit human settlements. Though rains subsided, the threat of landslides and severe waterlogging across multiple districts continues, according to rescue officials. Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan in a Facebook post on Sunday said the government will do everything possible to save lives and rescue operation is in full swing. He said 105 relief camps have been set up and asked people in camps to adhere to Covid-19 protocol to ward off the pandemic threat.Weather experts said cloud bursts triggered torrential rains at several places in Kottayam and Idukki districts. Cloud burst is a pattern of torrential downpour in a limited area in a short span.“The pattern of the rains shows it is a cloudburst. Some of the areas in Idukki and Kottayam received more than 20 cms rainfall in two to three hours,” said Dr M G Manoj, Cochin University of Science and Technology. Union Home Minister Amit Shah has assured all help to Kerala. “We are continuously monitoring the situation in parts of Kerala in the wake of heavy rains and flooding. The central government will provide all possible help to the state,” he tweeted on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rains-subside-in-kerala-massive-search-on-for-missing-people-101634460379388.html
17-10-2021||India||Navjot Sidhu writes to Sonia Gandhi listing 13 major issues, seeks time to present agenda for 2022 polls||A day after interim Congress president Sonia Gandhi reprimanded the G 23 leaders for using the media to voice their opinions, Punjab unit president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday used the same platform to list out issues facing the party in the state. He wrote a letter to Sonia Gandhi and shared a copy of the same on Twitter.Further, with an eye on the upcoming assembly polls next year, Sidhu also asked for a personal meeting to present his 13-point agenda which is to be part of the poll manifesto.“I further request you to kindly give me a personal audience to present to you the Punjab Model with a 13-Point Agenda to be part of the Congress Manifesto for the 2022 Assembly Elections, which is separate from this by means of its long-term vision to be implemented over a longer period of time, have crafted it through years of consultations with academics, civil society, party workers and feedback from the People of Punjab,” Sidhu said.pic.twitter.com/IvOO72wjxeSidhu recently resigned as the president of Punjab Congress Committee, however, following the Congress central leadership’s intervention, he was asked to withdraw the resignation and continue with his duties, a decision by which he followed.Starting afresh, Sidhu in his letter wrote, “Punjab for decades was the richest state of the country and today it is the most indebted state of India. Punjab is submerged under Lakhs of crores of Debt due to gross financial mismanagement over last 25 years and diversion of public resources making a few powerful people rich and having left the state Debt-distressed.”Also read | ‘Full faith in Congress president,’ says Navjot Sidhu after AICC meetingHe further said that the BJP government at the Centre for the past seven years has “supplemented” the issues by “discriminating against Punjab while paying its financial dues such as GST payments, Rural Development Fund payments, Post-Matric Scholarship for Scheduled Castes payments etc.”Calling the list of problems as “issues of justice for the soul of Punjab”, Sidhu also lauded Rahul Gandhi, who he claimed was the “torch-bearer” of these issues. As far as the issues, Sidhu touched upon the topics of justice for sacrilege, drug menace in the state, agriculture, electricity and power purchase agreements (PPA), employment, welfare of scheduled castes and backward castes, single window system for improving business environment in the state, liquor and sand mining issues, transport infrastructure, “cable mafia” and women and youth empowerment.“It might be the last damage control exercise or else, Mafia-Raj ruling the State patronized by the Badals will take the state to the extend [extent] of financial emergency, joblessness, corruption and agrarian crisis, from which, there will be no return. Thus, I request you please kindly consider these points and give your august direction to the State Government to act in the best interests of the People of Punjab immediately,” he wrote in the letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navjot-sidhu-writes-to-sonia-gandhi-listing-13-major-issues-seeks-time-to-present-agenda-for-2022-polls-101634457275026.html
17-10-2021||India||In pictures: Floods wreck havoc in Kerala, rescue operations in full swing||Floods and landslides in Kerala, triggered by heavy rainfall, have wrecked havoc across the southern state. As many as 18 people have lost their lives while dozens are still missing. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), there will be isolated heavy rain in parts of the state over the next 24 hours.Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Sunday that hectic rescue and relief operations are on, adding relief camps have been opened in all affected regions. Vijayan directed authorities to ensure that these camps function as per Covid-19 norms. Meanwhile, Union home minister Amit Shah said on Sunday that the Centre is monitoring the situation in Kerala and has assured of all possible support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-pictures-floods-wreck-havoc-in-kerala-rescue-operations-in-full-swing-101634453310691.html
17-10-2021||India||Food prices edge up, government keeps close watch||Vegetable prices, especially of tomato and onion, have risen in urban centres, including the national capital, on the back of higher fuel prices and damage to summer crops due to heavy rains, wholesale and retail trade data showed on Sunday. Edible-oil prices continue to be dearer due to high global prices, prompting the Union government last week to tighten measures such as requiring traders to reveal stocks. On October 13, the Union government wrote to states to ensure prices of edible oils are brought down after cuts in import duty until March 22. The Union government has built a record reserve of 200,000 tonnes of onions to deal with potential spikes in onion prices during the current lean season. Prices of some food items, where seasonality plays a big role, tend to be volatile. Onion is one of them. Its rates often stoke food inflation and knock the monthly budgets of consumers, poor or rich, because the vegetable is a base ingredient of most Indian dishes. Past data shows onion prices usually tend to rise during September because the month marks the beginning of a nearly three-month lean season when stocks from previous crops deplete. Fresh harvests usually arrive in markets in the winter. Tomato prices shot up to ₹60-65 a kg, while onions were selling for ₹50-55 per kg in Delhi, Patna, Kolkata and Mumbai, up from ₹20-25, price data from agricultural produce market committees showed. Rains in Karnataka and Maharashtra have upended supply lines and damaged crops in key growing regions, said Arun Solanki of Nashik-based Solanki India Ltd, a major supplier of vegetables grown in Maharashtra. “There is ₹10-15 increase in prices of these vegetables as supply has slowed. Back-end suppliers say this is because of heavy rains this summer,” SP Gupta of New Delhi’s Ghazipur wholesale vegetable and fruit market said. Maharashtra, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh are major onion-producing states, accounting for over 75% of total summer onion output. All of these states witnessed delays or damage to summer onion crops. Price rise is a key determinant of monetary policies. Moderate inflation helps the Reserve Bank to keep interest rates low to spur economic activity, which has been hit by the pandemic. “Onions, a staple in most Indian households, are likely to make consumers cry again with erratic monsoon leading to an eventual delay in harvest,” Crisil Ltd, a rating firm, said in a recent research note. The Crisil Ltd’s “on-ground report” said onion seed transplantation suffered critical lags due to on-off rains during the June-September monsoon period, potentially delaying the time the onion crop takes to mature. Summer onions account for no more than 30% of India’s annual supply but they are critical to price stability because they replenish supplies during the lean September-November period. “The buffer size (of onions) has been enhanced from 5,137MT in 2017-18 to 100,000MT in 2020-21, which has been further enhanced to 200,000MT in 2021-22 to ensure a more effective intervention to control prices,” a government document reviewed by HT said. The official cited above said on condition of anonymity that the government is “monitoring prices of all essential commodities as always”. If prices rise, the government hopes to step in by releasing onions “as and when needed” from its own reserves to keep rates stable, the official added. Market watchers point to a familiar pattern in India’s onion-price spirals every alternate year or so. In the first half of 2017, for instance, wholesale onion prices plunged, leading to widespread protests by farmers in Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. Then, in the second half of that year, when the government intervened in the markets to buy out excess stocks, prices began rising. In 2019 and 2020 too, retail rates soared past ₹90 a kg between September and November in many cities. Onion trade in the country suffers from classic price volatility. This is caused mainly by supply-disrupting factors such as extreme weather, losses from inadequate or improper storage or frequently shifting production levels, all of which can cause supplies to go from surplus to scanty in a matter of weeks. Experts hold that longer dry spells followed by short periods of heavy rainfall are tell-tale signs of a changing climate’s impact on the monsoon, which waters 60% of the country’s net-sown area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/food-prices-edge-up-government-keeps-close-watch-101634456961377.html
17-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: Amit Shah assures Centre's support to flood-hit Kerala and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Will provide all possible support’: Amit Shah says Centre continuously monitoring Kerala flood situationUnion home minister Amit Shah on Sunday assured all possible support for the people in need in Kerala, where heavy rain on Saturday, in the state's south and central regions, resulted in at least 18 people losing their lives, with the toll likely to go up. Read more'You don't become champions easily': BCCI President Sourav Ganguly gives advice to Indian team ahead of T20 World CupFormer India captain and current BCCI President Sourav Ganguly gave advice to the Indian team ahead of the T20 World Cup and said that they must focus on the process and take the competition one game at a time. India, led by Virat Kohli, will be looking to win their first T20 World Cup trophy since 2007. Read moreNeena Gupta says grey-eyed ‘biker’ she saw in college turned out to be Shakti Kapoor laterNeena Gupta has talked about her college life in Delhi in her autobiography Sach Kahun Toh. The actor did her graduation from Janki Devi Mahavidyalaya (now Janki Devi Memorial College) which was an all-girls college. She has revealed that one of the two biker boys eyed by her and her friends was none other than actor Shakti Kapoor. Read moreTata Punch to launch tomorrow: Here's what to expect from the SUVTata Punch micro SUV is scheduled to be officially launched tomorrow (October 18), days after being unveiled in the country earlier this month. With its smallest SUV Punch, Tata Motors is looking to carve a niche in the SUV space here as there has been a rising preference for SUVs in the country. Read moreHealthy eating guide: 9 tips to eat right and digest betterEating a balanced diet is important in order to provide body with the necessary nutrients and release the harmful toxins. What we eat is as important as how we eat our food, as per Ayurveda. Read moreSachin Tendulkar shares video of kid playing cricket, Ranveer Singh reactsA video shared by Sachin Tendulkar has turned into a source of amusement for many on Instagram, including actor Ranveer Singh. There is a chance that the video involving a kid playing cricket will wow you too. Read morePM and the Gods: Vijay Kumar on India getting its gods back | The InterviewVijay Kumar of the India Pride Project talks about how he helped Prime Minister Narendra Modi in getting 157 artifacts from the United States. Hindustan Times’ Kumkum Chadha spoke to Kumar, who is from the India Pride Project, a group of art enthusiasts who uses social media to identify stolen religious artifacts from Indian temples and secure their return. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-amit-shah-assures-centre-s-support-to-flood-hit-kerala-and-all-the-latest-news-101634454130756.html
17-10-2021||India||WATCH: India-US soldiers play Kabaddi, American football in Alaska as part of 'ice-breaking' activities||As part of “ice-breaking activities”, Indian and American soldiers played friendly matches of Kabaddi, American football, soccer (regular football), and volleyball on Saturday. Four mixed teams, comprising troops from both the countries, played a number of friendly matches with true sportsmanship spirit, said the Indian Army.#WATCH | As part of 'Ice-breaking activities', Indian Army contingent and American contingent participated in friendly matches of Kabaddi, American Football and Volleyball at Joint Base Elmendorf Richardson, Anchorage, Alaska (US)(Video Source: Indian Army) pic.twitter.com/Xe6uM0NigTBoth contingents learned from each other's games. Whereas the Indian troops tried their hand at American football, the US troops participated with equal zeal and vigour in Kabaddi. These sports activities enabled the troops to know each other closely, which will be important in the coming activities such as firing, rappelling and the final validation exercise added Indian Army.This comes amid the 17th Edition of India-US joint training exercise “Ex Yudh Abhyas 21” that commenced at Joint Base Elmendorf Richardson, Alaska (US) on Friday. The 14 days exercise includes joint training for operations under the United Nations mandate, said the Indian Army.According to the ministry, 300 US Army soldiers belonging to First Squadron (Airborne) of the 40th Cavalry Regiment and 350 soldiers of 7 Madras Infantry Battalion Group of Indian Army are participating in the exercise. The 14 days training schedule includes activities on joint training in a Counter Insurgency/Counter Terrorism environment under the United Nations mandate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-india-us-soldiers-play-kabaddi-american-football-in-alaska-as-part-of-ice-breaking-activities-101634452747317.html
17-10-2021||India||‘Will provide all possible support’: Amit Shah says Centre continuously monitoring Kerala flood situation||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday assured all possible support for the people in need in Kerala, where heavy rain on Saturday, in the state's south and central regions, resulted in at least 18 people losing their lives, with the toll likely to go up. Taking to Twitter, Shah said that the Centre was keeping a close watch on the situation.Follow all live updates on Kerala rain here“We are continuously monitoring the situation in parts of Kerala in the wake of heavy rainfall and flooding. The central government will provide all possible support to help the people in need. Teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have already been sent to assist in the rescue operations. Praying for everyone's safety,” the home minister tweeted. We are continuously monitoring the situation in parts of Kerala in the wake of heavy rainfall and flooding. The central govt will provide all possible support to help people in need. NDRF teams have already been sent to assist the rescue operations. Praying for everyone’s safety.Also Read | 18 dead, dozens missing in Kerala after floods; IMD says rain to subsideMeanwhile, as the rainfall subsided marginally in central Kerala on Sunday morning, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said in a bulletin that during the next 24 hours, there was a possibility of “light to moderate” rainfall at many places in the state. The weather department further projected that “heavy” rainfall will occur only over isolated places in Kerala during this period.  Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan described in a Facebook post as “hectic,” the ongoing relief and rescue operations, while his cabinet colleague, revenue minister K Rajan, said that the situation was “under control.” Also, besides the NDRF, the three wings of the armed forces--Army, Navy and Air Force--have been pressed into service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-provide-all-possible-help-amit-shah-says-centre-monitoring-kerala-floods-101634451384647.html
17-10-2021||India||India sees marginal dip in daily Covid tally at 14,146; lowest in 229 days||India saw a marginal dip in its daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Sunday after 14,146 new cases were recorded in the last 24 hours—the lowest in more than seven months—taking the country’s caseload to 34,067,719, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. Sunday's case count is 1,835 lesser than that of Saturday's when 15,981 people were detected as Covid-19 positive. The toll on Sunday is also 22 lesser than that of Saturday's when 166 deaths were recorded.As many as 19,788 patients of Covid-19 recovered and 144 others succumbed to the viral disease in the same period. With this, the cumulative count of recoveries and deaths has climbed to 33,419,749 and 452,124 respectively. Active cases went below the 200,000-mark at 195,846—5,786 less than Saturday—and constitute 0.59 per cent of the caseload. On the other hand, the Covid-19 recovery rate is at 98.10 per cent, the highest since March, the health ministry said, adding the daily positivity rate, which is at 1.29 per cent currently, has been less than 3 per cent for the last 48 days.According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 590,935,381 samples have been tested for Covid-19 so far of which 1,100,123 were tested in the last 24 hours.On the vaccination front, authorities have administered 976,589,540 vaccine doses to beneficiaries so far of which 694,733,920 have received the first dose and the remaining 281,855,620 are fully vaccinated. More than 4.12 million doses were administered in the last 24 hours.The health ministry said on Saturday that 1.01 billion vaccines have been provided to states and Union Territories through the Centre's (free of cost channel) and direct state procurement category.“More than 104.2 million balance and unutilized vaccine doses are still available with the States/UTs to be administered,” the ministry added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sees-marginal-dip-in-daily-covid-tally-at-14-146-lowest-in-229-days-101634442713939.html
17-10-2021||India||Possibility of light to moderate rainfall in Kerala during next 24 hours: IMD||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday projected “only light to moderate rainfall" over Kerala during the next 24 hours as the state, on Saturday, was pounded by heavy rain, which claimed at least 18 lives, while 22 people were feared missing due to landslides triggered by the showers in hilly areas of the Kottayam and Idukki districts.Click here for all live updates on Kerala rain“The low pressure area over the southeast Arabian Sea and adjoining Kerala has become less marked. There is a possibility of light to moderate rainfall at many places with only isolated heavy rainfall over the state during the next 24 hours and further decrease thereafter,” news agency ANI reported, citing an IMD bulletin for the southern state. The low pressure area over southeast Arabian Sea & adjoining Kerala has become less marked. There is a possibility of light to moderate rainfall at many places with only isolated heavy rainfall over the state during next 24 hours and further decrease thereafter: IMD pic.twitter.com/2j2THkysNOAlso Read | Photos, videos show extent of damage after Kerala rainThough the rainfall subsided on Sunday morning, the toll is likely to rise, as rescuers recovered another body from a village in the Idukki district. The armed forces--Army, Navy and Air Force--have been pressed into service, with choppers of the Navy, earlier today, dropping food packets for those left stranded due to the rain. The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), too, is carrying out rescue operations in the badly affected south and central parts of the state.Additionally, authorities have urged devotees not to visit the renowned Sabarimala temple in the Pathanamthitta district on Sunday and Monday.Also Read | Lord Ayappa devotees told to not visit Kerala’s Sabarimala temple amid rainfall, floodsKerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said in a Facebook post that “hectic” relief and rescue operation is underway, while K Rajan, who holds the revenue portfolio, said that the situation was “under control.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/possibility-of-light-to-moderate-rainfall-in-kerala-during-next-24-hours-says-imd-101634443356730.html
17-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: S Jaishankar to start Israel tour today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Jaishankar to start Israel tour today with an aim to cement bilateral tiesExternal affairs minister S Jaishankar will begin a three-day Israel visit from Sunday, with a day-long halt in Dubai to hold discussions with the UAE leadership over a host of issues. Read moreRain lashes parts of Delhi-NCR, likely to continue for next few hoursResidents in several parts of Delhi on Sunday woke up to cloudy skies, which soon made way for rain, as projected by the Regional Met Centre, New Delhi. Read moreVirat Kohli addresses rumours of Rahul Dravid's appointment as India head coach: 'I have no idea what is happening'The T20 World Cup marks the end of Shastri's tenure as the team's head coach and if rumours are to be believed, India batting legend Rahul Dravid is likely to replace him. Read moreApple Watch Series 7 first impressions: Bigger is better, right?Apple follows its core formula of “make crucial aspects bigger” with the watch after applying it on the iPhone 13 models. No, the battery doesn’t go big but it is the display. Read moreBharti Singh-Haarsh Limbachiyaa’s lawyer on how his strategy was different from Aryan Khan’s case: ‘I got jail custody'Advocate Ayan Khan has said his clients Bharti Singh and Haarsh Limbachiyaa had much more higher quantity of drugs on them than what Aryan Khan’s friend Arbaaz Merchant had on him. Read more‘Pilates girl’ Sara Ali Khan’s workout video is all the fitness inspo we need for todayThe weekend is here. In case you are looking for some fitness motivation to get out of bed and hit the gym, let Sara Ali Khan serve you with the same. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-s-jaishankar-to-start-israel-tour-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101634438011734.html
17-10-2021||India||‘No leader’: Congress party has become a circus, says Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Taking a dig at the Congress party over the recent crisis, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said the party has become a circus. While speaking at a rally in Burhanpur, the chief minister said, "Rahul Gandhi is not the Congress Party. It is being run by an interim president Sonia Gandhi. But Rahul Gandhi has complete rights to remove a chief minister of a state."Mentioning the Congress party crisis in Punjab and the surprise resignation of Captain Amarinder Singh, he said, “Singh was the chief minister of Punjab and was running a government very smoothly. But he was removed and Charanjit Singh Channi was made the chief minister.”He also charged Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu for resigning as the state party president and putting the party in a spot.Talking about the rift in Congress in Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh, he said, “Ashok Gehlot and Sachin Pilot are not happy with each other while Bhupesh Baghel and TS Deo Singh are involved in a tug of war over the post of the chief minister.”He also attacked Kamal Nath, the former chief minister of Madhya Pradesh. Chouhan said, “In Madhya Pradesh, if the Congress party wants to appoint then it chooses Kamal Nath, for the leader of opposition position, it again depends on Kamal Nath. For star campaigners, it falls back on Kamal Nath. For the president of Youth wing, the party appoints Nakul Nath, who is the son of Kamal Nath.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-leader-congress-party-has-become-a-circus-says-shivraj-singh-chouhan-101634438973722.html
17-10-2021||India||Cross-LoC infiltration and drone pistol deliveries scale up violence in Valley||Targeting of two non-Kashmiris, including a Muslim, by Takfiri terrorists in the Kashmir Valley on Saturday is part of Pakistani plan to raise the violence levels so that normalcy is disturbed, and the tourist economy is hit in the Union territory. Takfiri is a term used for those Islamic terrorist groups, Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed in this context, who have no qualms targeting their Muslim brothers for political objectives. They are termed apostates.According to national security planners and security officials, the recent spate of violence against non-Kashmiris is a result of infiltration from across the Line of Control (LoC) of LeT terrorists in the Poonch-Rajouri sector. The second reason is increased drone delivery of Chinese Star pistols to overground workers (OGW) of LeT in the Valley because of which targeted killing is taking place in Srinagar.In the UT of Jammu and Kashmir, the scene of terror action is in the Krishnaghati sector, where the Indian Army has lost seven personnel while engaging already infiltrated LeT terrorists in the forests on Rajouri-Poonch district borders. This infiltration is said to have taken place towards the end of August 2021. The second theatre is the Valley where the OGWs with recently acquired pistols are targeting non-Kashmiris to spread terror in the region and hit the booming tourist sector economy. According to J-K police officials, many pistol consignments have reached the Valley due to drone flights from across the border with the Indian security forces hampered due to lack of functioning anti-drone systems.Despite Indian security forces deployed in large numbers both on the LoC and the hinterland with sensors and fencing, there is still no foolproof mechanism to prevent Pakistan based terrorist groups from infiltrating the Valley. The weapon and ammunition supplies through drones have added to the concern of security forces as there is no human cost to the terrorist groups based in Pakistan.While the J-K police have neutralised 11 terrorists in the past week after the first round of targeting earlier this month, Union home minister Amit Shah spoke to top security officials on Saturday night from Port Blair with implicit instructions of bringing the guilty to book. The state DGP Dilbagh Singh also held discussions with security agencies for actionable intelligence against the perpetrators of attacks on innocent non-Kashmiris.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crossloc-infiltration-and-drone-pistol-deliveries-scale-up-violence-in-valley-101634436488161.html
17-10-2021||India||Lord Ayappa devotees told to not visit Kerala’s Sabarimala temple amid rainfall, floods||Authorities in Kerala have urged devotees of Lord Ayyappa to refrain from visiting the Sabarimala temple in the Pathanamthitta district on Sunday and Monday as heavy rainfall pounded the state and as many as 18 people lost their lives to rain-related incidents.The Travancore Devaswom Board has urged devotees not to visit the Sabarimala temple, which had only just reopened its doors for the ‘Thula Masam’ poojas on Saturday, as the Pathanamthitta district witnessed heavy rain and the subsequent rise in the water level to dangerous extents in the Pamba river.Also Read | 18 dead, dozens missing in Kerala after floods; IMD says rain to subsideWith the shrine situated upon a hilltop amid mountains and dense forests, it will expectedly be difficult for devotees to climb the Sabarimala hill in view of the intense rainfall and fear of frequent landslides.Four people have died in landslides in Koottickal in Kottayam and Kokkayar in the Idduki district of Kerala. According to Kerala minister VN Vasavan, who is camping in Kottayam, the bodies of three people, all of who perished in the landslide in Koottickal, have been found so far. Meanwhile, state officials have advised people against visiting tourist spots and going near rivers and other water bodies; roads were reported to have been damaged due to the rains in several districts while severe waterlogging has made life miserable for citizens in others.According to the latest updates, personnel of the Indian Army, Indian Air Force, and the Indian Navy are currently on their way to the hilly villages where an overflowing river has swept through houses, displacing and isolating many. The Southern Naval Command of the Indian Navy also said that it is “fully ready” to assist the local administration in rescue operations.Sabarimala temple reopening guidelines, issued earlier this week, noted that devotees could enter the shrine from October 17 to October 21 (Sunday-Thursday), although entry was only to be permitted through virtual queue booking and conditional upon negative RT-PCR coronavirus disease (Covid-19) reports. The temple will reopen again for the Atta Chithira pooja on November 2 and will be closed the next day.Also Read | Check SOPs on Sabarimala Ayyappa temple reopening for ‘Thula Masam’ poojasThe Sabarimala temple complex, a venerable hill shrine for millions of Lord Ayappa devotees, is located inside the Periyar Tiger Reserve at Perinad village in the Pathanamthitta district. It is also considered one of the largest annual pilgrimage sites in the world, with an estimated 40 to 50 million devotees visiting every year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lord-ayappa-devotees-told-to-not-visit-kerala-s-sabarimala-temple-amid-rainfall-floods-101634432468445.html
17-10-2021||India||18 dead, dozens missing in Kerala after floods; IMD says rain to subside||As many as 18 people were killed and dozens of others went missing on Saturday as heavy rain lashed south and central Kerala causing flash floods and landslides in many parts of the southern state, officials said. “The situation is really serious in some parts of the state. We will do everything possible to save lives. We have sought help from the army, navy and air force. Relief camps have been set up in the districts,” Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said in a statement after chairing an emergency meeting in the state capital.Kottayam, Pathanamthitta and Idukki districts were worst affected due to the torrential rains. Chief minister Vijayan said all government agencies have been directed to take necessary steps to rescue people from the affected regions and evacuate those living in areas prone to landslides and floods. Vijayan also directed the district collectors to open relief camps to relocate the affected people and said the camps should function strictly adhering to Covid-19 protocol.Also read | Kerala govt issues guidelines for rescue work amid heavy rainOfficials have said several people have also been injured and displaced in rain-related incidents in Kerala where dams in many districts are nearing their full capacity and small towns and villages in the hilly areas are totally cut off. Authorities have said everything was under control and there was no need for any panic even as the high ranges of central and south Kerala are experiencing a similar situation the state faced during the devastating floods of 2018 and 2019.Here's what we know so far:1. The India Meteorological Department issued a red alert for Pathanamthitta, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Idukki and Thrissur districts and an orange alert for Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Alapuzha, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode and Wayanad districts of the southern state.2. However, the IMD said in a tweet late on Saturday that intense rainfall activity over Kerala will “reduce significantly from tomorrow, the 17th”. “Main activity to remain confined between 17th afternoon to 18th forenoon,” it added.3. Officials have advised people against visiting tourist spots and going near rivers and other water bodies in view of heavy rain in Thiruvananthapuram. Destruction of roads was reported in many places including in Kollam and Kottayam districts while severe waterlogging made life miserable in the Kuttanad region, popularly known as the 'rice bowl' of the state spread in Alappuzha and Kottayam districts.Also read | Not just Kerala, heavy rain with hailstorm forecasted in 16 states/UTs: IMD4. A defence spokesperson said that Mi-17 and Sarang helicopters are already on standby but they could not start operations as the weather at Kottayam is still bad. Air Force assets are still at Sulur in a standby mode, she said. "All the bases under Southern Air Command have been put on high alert in view of the prevalent weather situation at Kerala," the spokesperson said in a statement.5. “The Indian Army has already deployed army personnel to the flood affected areas. One column consisting of One Officer, 2 JCOs and 30 other ranks of army personnel already moved to Kanjirappally, Kottayam District from Pangode Military Station...," she said.Also watch: Bus half-submerged in flood water; car pulled out with rope6. The Southern Naval Command of the Indian Navy said it is fully ready for assisting local administration in rescue operations. "Diving&Rescue teams are ready to be deployed at short notice.Helicopters stand-by to be launched once weather is conducive for Air Ops," it tweeted.7. Officials said personnel of the Indian Army, Indian Air Force and the Indian Navy were on their way to Koottickal and Peruvanthanam—the two hilly villages under Kottayam and Idukki districts respectively—where an overflowing river swept through houses, displacing and isolating many.8. State cooperation minister VN Vasavan, who reached the neighbourhood of these landslide-hit villages, said the bodies of two women and a child who died, were recovered while search was on to recover that of a man who also lost his life. He said at least 12 people are missing from these villages.9. The state government has decided not to allow pilgrims to trek to the Ayyappa temple in Sabarimala, situated in a dense forest in Pathanamthitta district, till October 18. The temple was opened at 5pm on Saturday for 'Thula masam' poojas.10. All colleges and higher education centres, which were scheduled to reopen on October 18, will now start on October 20, the government statement said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/18-dead-dozens-missing-in-kerala-after-floods-imd-says-rain-to-subside-101634431831808.html
17-10-2021||India||Jaishankar to start Israel tour today with an aim to cement bilateral ties||External affairs minister S Jaishankar will begin a three-day Israel visit from Sunday, with a day-long halt in Dubai to hold discussions with the United Arab Emirates (UAE) leadership over a host of issues. Jaishankar will then fly to Tel Aviv, the capital of Israel, and meet prime minister Naftali Bennet, foreign minister and alternate prime minister Yair Lapid, and other members of the new coalition government in a bid to cement the diplomatic ties between India and Israel that begun to take shape in the Benjamin Netanyahu era.This time, Jaishankar is visiting Israel at the official invitation of Lapid, who is the head of the centrist Yesh Atid party and is also slated to take over the role of the premier from Bennett in 2023 under the agreement that led to the formation of the coalition government.Also Read | New chapter in India-Israel relations: Jaishankar to cement post-Netanyahu tiesThis is Jaishankar’s first visit to Israel since he took charge of his office in 2019. Notably, the Narendra Modi government always maintained a close relationship with the Netanyahu regime, with both the premiers touring each other's countries in highly televised visits and signing key defence deals and military agreements. The ties also expanded into a “knowledge-based partnership”, with collaboration in innovation and research and boosting the “Make in India” initiative.According to analysts, Jaishankar's latest visit is aimed at cementing the groundwork in bilateral ties laid earlier and an opportunity for New Delhi to take forward further relations with the new dispensation in Israel, which assumed power after months of political turmoil during which the country witnessed as many as five elections in just two years.During his three-day visit to the West Asian country, Jaishankar will hold talks with his Israeli counterpart Lapid and also meet prime minister Bennet, president Isaac Herzog and Knesset speaker Mickey Levy.Jaishankar will also interact with the Indian-origin Jewish community in Israel, Indologists, Indian students in Israeli universities, and business people, including representatives of hi-tech industries. The visit will also be an occasion to pay tribute to Indian soldiers who laid down their lives in the region, especially during World War 1, said the ministry of external affairs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-to-start-israel-tour-today-with-an-aim-to-cement-bilateral-ties-101634428192104.html
17-10-2021||India||Centre misusing probe agencies to ‘destabilise’ non-BJP govts: Pawar||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) president Sharad Pawar on Saturday accused the Centre of misusing central probe agencies and trying to “destabilise” non-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) governments.“Investigative agencies like CBI (Central Bureau of Investigation), ED (Enforcement Directorate), I-T (Income Tax department), NCB (Narcotics Control Bureau) are being misused. The Centre is trying to destabilize non-BJP governed states,” the 80-year-old said but added that the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition government in Maharashtra “will complete its five years term and will come again in power in the next elections”.Addressing a press conference in Pune, Pawar said that Uddhav Thackeray was reluctant to become the Maharashtra chief minister but he convinced him. Pawar’s statement came hours after former Maharashtra CM and senior BJP Devendra Fadnavis said the MVA government was formed through dishonesty and that Thackeray had “ambitions to be CM”.“[Thackeray] was reluctant for the post and had conveyed it to me. A few other names were discussed for the post as well, but I asked him to take up the responsibility. It is not proper to say that Thackeray was eyeing the post,” Pawar said.Pawar also said that he will soon meet Union home minister Amit Shah on the expansion of the Border Security Force’s jurisdiction.The Union government amended the BSF Act to authorise the force to undertake search, seizure and arrest within a larger 50 km stretch, instead of the existing 15 kms, from the international border in Punjab, West Bengal and Assam. The decision triggered protests in Punjab and Bengal, the states with non-BJP governments.“I will be meeting Home Minister Amit Shah to know his thoughts about it,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-misusing-probe-agencies-to-destabilise-non-bjp-govts-pawar-101634412245273.html
17-10-2021||India||‘J&K IAF bases guarded against drones’: NSG DG||The National Security Guard (NSG) has deployed anti-drone systems at Srinagar and Jammu air force stations to counter drone attacks, M A Ganapathy, director general of specialised commando force, said on Saturday.The systems have detected a few drones in the past few months and have alerted the relevant agencies on time, according to people aware of the development.The development comes in the backdrop of the twin-drone attack at Jammu Air Force Station on June 27, in which two unmanned aerial vehicles from across the border dropped two improvised bombs on the base, damaging a portion of the building. The Resistance Front, an offshoot of the Lashkar-e-Taiba terror outfit, is said to be behind the attack.Since then, the government has held a series of meetings with various agencies, private firms and the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) to install robust anti-drone systems along the western border. Both Srinagar and Jammu Indian Air Force (IAF) stations are categorised as ‘sensitive’ installations.The federal commando force is enhancing its counterterrorism profile and preparing itself to meet emerging security challenges, Ganapathy said on the 37th raising day of the NSG on Saturday. “The NSG has been deployed at the Srinagar and Jammu IAF stations to provide security cover to the facilities against drone attacks, and this system is working successfully.”The deployment will continue till full-fledged counter-drone weapons and gadgets are available at these two bases, the people told HT, requesting anonymity.The NSG has an array of anti-drone equipment, radars, jammers and drone killer guns that maintain perimeter security, Ganapathy said. Soon after the drone attack on the Jammu base, a technical surveillance team of the NSG was sent to the station, which deployed its equipment there, he said.The NSG’s bomb disposal team has also successfully intercepted so-called tiffin bombs sent by drones from across the border, Ganapathy said.Indian agencies have noticed that a large number of drones are being used by Pakistan army and terrorist groups to drop these tiffin bombs in Indian territory, which are then picked up by the sleeper cells or overground workers of the banned outfits. The NIA is probing several tiffin bomb drops in Punjab.Junior home minister Nityanand Rai, present at the raising day as chief guest, lauded the commando force, also known as Black Cats, for its operations. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has brought an independent security policy for the country, the minister said.The NSG was raised as a federal counter-terrorist force in 1984 to undertake commando operations to neutralise terrorist and hijack threats. It also provides armed security cover to at least 13 high-risk VIPs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-iaf-bases-guarded-against-drones-nsg-dg-101634411979382.html
17-10-2021||India||High-level Indian visits bridged trust deficit: Sri Lankan envoy||High-level visits by foreign secretary Harsh Shringla and army chief M M Naravane have helped bridge a trust deficit and prepare the ground for re-energising relations, Sri Lankan high commissioner Milinda Moragoda said on Saturday.It is just a “perception” that China has strengthened its position in Sri Lanka at the cost of India, Moragoda said in an interview. New Delhi and Colombo were close to improving cooperation in areas ranging from trade to defence and energy.Bilateral ties were buffeted in February when Sri Lanka scrapped a trilateral agreement with India and Japan to build a shipping container terminal in Colombo port. Delays in several other projects and lack of movement in efforts to devolve powers to Sri Lanka’s Tamil minority added to issues faced by the two countries. An “integrated country strategy” document prepared by Moragoda before he assumed office in India acknowledged that bilateral ties were dominated by a “transactional approach” because of geopolitical changes that had resulted in a “growing trust deficit”.The recent high-level visits and the presence of leaders in the Indian government who understand Sri Lanka, such as external affairs minister S Jaishankar and petroleum minister Hardeep Puri, have helped address this trust deficit, Moragoda said on Saturday.“The foreign secretary’s visit has helped a lot...The senior officials on the Indian side...understand us warts and all, and that helps,” he said. “We have the basis now to start building through the transactions on to a strategic relationship.”A visit by 100 Buddhist monks and government functionaries led by sports minister Namal Rajapaksa to Kushinagar in Uttar Pradesh on October 20 will boost people-to-people contacts. The delegation will participate in the inauguration of an international airport meant to put Kushinagar, the site of Buddha’s parinirvana, on the Buddhist pilgrimage circuit.Moragoda referred to the integrated country strategy, which has been described as a road map for building relations over the next two years, and said the two countries will have to “evolve from a transactional stage to a strategic and then a special relationship”.“The transactional stage is also a trust-building phase because both sides need to learn to do business with each other.”The scrapping of the agreement on the east container terminal at Colombo port because of pressure from trade unions was part of the “untidiness of democracy”, he said. President Gotabaya Rajapaksa had come up with the proposal for developing the west container terminal as an alternative, and the recent deal on this project between state-owned Sri Lanka Ports Authority and Adani Group will be more advantageous for the Indian firm.“From a commercial point of view, the west terminal is a better transaction because the investor has more control over it,” he said. “The west terminal shouldn’t be underestimated as 80% of the cargo in Sri Lankan ports is trans-shipment cargo. Out of this, 70% goes to India. And even from this, 35% goes to Adani Group-linked ports.”Moragoda acknowledged there is a “Chinese investment footprint” in his country but said the feeling that Sri Lanka is moving faster on Chinese investment proposals is just a “perception”. He also pointed out India’s sizeable presence in several sectors such as energy, transportation and railways.Indian Oil controls one-third of petroleum distribution in Sri Lanka, and there are plans for collaborating on an oil tank farm and exploration, while the two nations are in discussions on development of renewable energy. Indian Railways has done “immense work” to develop Sri Lanka’s rail network and there are more than one million Bajaj three-wheelers on the island nation’s roads, he said.“We are also studying whether the Aadhaar Card can be used as a template in Sri Lanka,” he said, adding that Sri Lanka plans to import nano-nitrogen fertiliser from India as part of a move towards organic agriculture.Sri Lanka will have to “work harder” because the bilateral relationship is asymmetrical, Moragoda said. “On the trade and economic side, one of the reasons why we may not be able to make progress as quickly as possible is some of our industries feel maybe sort of overwhelmed by India,” he said.India, he hoped, will be willing to accommodate such an asymmetrical relationship in trade with opportunities for market access without looking for reciprocity. The two countries are also talking about the possibility of a bilateral currency swap and are in advanced discussions on a maritime surveillance system, Moragoda said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/highlevel-visits-by-shringla-and-naravane-helped-bridge-trust-deficit-sri-lankan-high-commissioner-101634410987310.html
17-10-2021||India||SP, BSP Leaders among 8 held for teen’s rape||Two office bearers of the Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) were arrested along with five others in connection with the rape of a 17-year-old girl, police officials said on Saturday.On Wednesday, a Class 11 student filed an FIR against 28 people, including her father, uncles, cousins and Lalitpur district president of SP Tilak Yada and his BSP counterpart Deepak Ahirwar for allegedly raping her for over five years, police said.The SP dissolved its Lalitpur unit with immediate effect after Yadav’s arrest. Yadav had eralier rejected the allegations against him, calling them a political conspiracy.Superintendent of Police Nikhil Pathak said a hotel in Mirzapur district was raided on Friday from where Yadav, Ahirvar, and an engineer of the state irrigation department, Mahendra Dubey, were arrested. The three were produced before a local court, which sent them to a 14-day judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-sp-bsp-district-chiefs-among-seven-held-for-17-year-old-girl-s-rape-101634410747316.html
17-10-2021||India||J&K admin sacks grandson of Geelani from services over ‘terror links’||Grandson of separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani, Anees ul Islam, was on Saturday dismissed from service in the Jammu and Kashmir administration for allegedly aiding terrorist activities in the Union Territory, according to officials.Anees was employed as a research officer at the Sher-e-Kashmir International Convention Centre (SKICC). He is the son of Altaf Ahmad Shah, a Hurriyat leader currently lodged in Tihar jail. The J&K administration on Saturday issued an order after a high-level meeting, people aware of the matter said. The termination order was issued by Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha under Article 311. Geelani died in September this year.“The Lieutenant Governor is satisfied after considering the facts and circumstances of the case and on the basis of the information available that the activities of Mr. Anees-ul-Islam, Research Officer in Sher-e-Kashmir International Convention Centre S/o Altaf Ahmad Shah R/o 119-MIG Green Park, Bemina, Srinagar A/p Bachpora, Srinagar are such as to warrant his dismissal from service,” the order said.“The Lieutenant Governor is satisfied under sub-clause (c) of the proviso to clause (2) of Article 311 of the Constitution of India that in the interest of the security of the State, it is not expedient to hold an enquiry in the case of Mr. Anees-ul-Islam, Research Officer in Sher-e-Kashmir International Convention Centre S/o Altaf Ahmad Shah R/o 119-MIG Green Park, Bemina, Srinagar A/p Bachpora, Srinagar,” the order added.“Accordingly, the Lieutenant Governor hereby dismisses Mr. Anees-ul-Islam, Research Officer in Sher-e-Kashmir International Convention Centre S/o Altaf Ahmad Shah R/o 119-MIG Green Park, Bemina, Srinagar A/p Bachpora, Srinagar from service, with immediate effect.”A teacher from Doda, Farooq Ahmed Butt, was also sacked. With this, the total number of employees dismissed in the last six months has gone up to 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-administration-sacks-grandson-of-separatist-leader-geelani-from-services-over-terror-links-101634410687669.html
17-10-2021||India||Injustice done to Netaji, Sardar Patel: Amit Shah in Port Blair||Union home minister Amit Shah said on Saturday that many leaders of India’s independence movement like Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose and Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel didn’t get their due and attempts have been made over the years to downplay their contributions.“The bright pole star in the history of the freedom movement, Netaji did not receive as much importance as he should have. For years, attempts were made to downplay many well-known leaders of the independence movement and their contributions. But now the time has come that everyone should find their proper place in history. Those who contributed and sacrificed their lives, should find their proud place in history, and that is why Prime Minister Narendra Modi decided to name this island after Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose,” Amit Shah said in Port Blair during the inauguration of several development projects.He added that “similar injustice” has been done to Sardar Patel. “The Indian republic today would not have been possible if Sardar Patel had not made more than 550 princely states a part of India in less than a year and a half. The British did what they had to do by freeing everyone, but Sardar Patel completed the task of bringing all the princely states within the Indian union and creating a strong India.”“Sardar Saheb also did not receive the same respect as he should have received after independence. But history repeats itself, no matter how much injustice is done to anyone, good work is never hidden and today in Kevadia, the world’s tallest statue of Sardar Saheb has been installed by (PM) Narendra Modi, which people from all over the world come to see,” Shah said.The home minister is on a three-day visit to Andaman and Nicobar Islands. On Saturday, he inaugurated 14 projects worth ₹299 crore and laid foundation stones of 12 projects worth ₹643 crore. He said the government has decided to name a bridge that was inaugurated on Saturday as Azad Hind Fauj Bridge. “Every person passing through this bridge would go from one end to the other paying homage to Netaji’s 35,000km journey, his courage and his valour,” he said.Ross Island, one of the islands in the archipelago of Andaman and Nicobar, was renamed Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose Island by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in December 2018.Shah said PM Modi made Subhash Chandra Bose island, where Netaji hoisted the flag of independence for the first time, as a huge tourist destination by placing a large tricolour and also turned it into a centre for the awakening of patriotism. “In the coming days, we are going to develop this island too and will build a grand memorial for Subhash Babu,” Shah said.The government is currently celebrating Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav across the country through which it wants to inculcate the feeling of patriotism among the youth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/injustice-done-to-netaji-sardar-patel-amit-shah-in-port-blair-101634410569121.html
17-10-2021||India||Former PM’s condition improving, say officials||The condition of former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, diagnosed with dengue, is improving but would remain in the hospital over the weekend, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) official said on Saturday.“He is doing better. He is likely to remain admitted to the hospital over the weekend, but his condition is improving. He did not have a fever in the morning,” according to hospital personnel in the know of the matter. The 89-year-old was on Wednesday evening admitted to New Delhi’s AIIMS after complaints of fever, weakness and general uneasiness.He continues to be in the private ward of the hospital’s Cardiothoracic and Neuroscience Centre under the care of a team of specialists led by Dr Nitish Naik. Dr Naik is a department of cardiology professor and has been the former PM’s physician for many years now.Singh has a history of cardiac ailments and even underwent a revision heart bypass surgery at AIIMS in 2009. Earlier in April this year, Singh was admitted to the hospital’s trauma centre (functioning as Covid care centre) after he tested positive for Coronavirus disease (Covid-19).On Thursday, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi paid a visit to the hospital to enquire about the health of Singh. He also met the former prime minister’s wife, Gursharan Kaur, and spoke to the doctors attending on Singh.Wishes of speedy recovery poured in from PM Narendra Modi as well. “I pray for the good health and speedy recovery of Dr. Manmohan Singh Ji.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-pm-manmohan-singh-s-condition-improving-aiims-official-101634410507277.html
17-10-2021||India||Submit affidavits declaring that no dowry was taken: UP officials told||Public servants in Uttar Pradesh will have to declare that they have received no dowry when they were married, the department of women’s welfare said in a recent circular.All government servants married after April 31, 2004, will have to email affidavits to that effect by October 18, according to the October 12 circular to all the heads of departments, commissioners and district magistrates, among others. The authorities have been requested to take action against personnel who do not comply.“This is probably for the first time when our department has sought a no-dowry affidavit from government servants in a serious bid to get the provisions of the anti-dowry law enforced in the state,” said Manoj Rai, director, department of women and child welfare.All public servants in India are mandated to furnish a verified statement at the time of joining work, stating that they will not receive dowry when they get married, according to the Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961.“Now, we have asked employees who got married after 31, 2004, to furnish an affidavit stating that they did not receive any dowry when they were married,” Rai said.The department of women’s welfare will have to submit a report on compliance on the no-dowry statements and on action taken for non-compliance to a Parliament legislative committee that is likely to visit the state soon, people aware of the matter said on condition of anonymity.Uttar Pradesh framed the Dowry Prohibition Rules in 1999 as a follow-up to the federal law. The rules were amended on March 31, 2004, specifically providing in Rule 5 that every government servant will, during his appointment, furnish a self-attested affidavit to the appointing authority, stating he received no dowry in his marriage.“You are, therefore, requested to necessarily obtain an affidavit from all the government servants posted in offices under you by October 18, with the affidavit stating that they received no dowry in their marriage,” the October circular reads. “Please ensure action against employees who do not give an affidavit to this effect.”The social evil of dowry is illegal in India. Any violation can be punished with imprisonment up to five years and fine of ₹15,000 or the value of the dowry given, whichever is higher.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/submit-affidavits-declaring-that-no-dowry-was-taken-uttar-pradesh-officials-told-101634410327859.html
17-10-2021||India||Singhu lynching: Victim’s kin says he could never think of desecrating holy book||The family of Lakhbir Singh, a Dalit farm labourer killed by members of a Sikh sect for alleged sacrilege, said on Saturday he was a god-fearing man who would never think of desecrating a holy book and demanded a high-level probe to bring out the truth.His wife Jaspreet Kaur and three daughters aged 12, 11 and eight years live in a small temporary house made of mud and bricks in village Cheema Kalan, around 50 km away from the holy city of Amritsar. His son passed away two years ago.The family was barely managing two square meals a day when Lakhbir was alive and would work in the village fields or in the grain market of Tarn Taran district for his livelihood.“Who will come forward to look after his family now and what about the future of his children..who will help them,” laments his sister Raj Kaur.The body of Lakhbir Singh, 35, was found tied to an overturned police barricade at the Singhu Border site. His left hand was chopped off and his body had multiple wounds caused by sharp-edged weapons. Hours after the crime, a man wearing the blue robes of the Sikhs’ Nihang order claimed that he had “punished” the victim for “desecrating” a Sikh holy book.The man, identified as Sarabjeet Singh from Gurdaspur, was arrested for lynching. Jaspreet and Raj Kaur said Lakhbir “had a deep respect for the holy Guru Granth Sahib”. “He was a god-fearing man who could t never think of desecrating a holy book... Whenever he used to go to a Gurdwara, he would pray for the well-being of his family and the society,” said Jaspreet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/singhu-border-lynching-victim-s-family-says-he-could-never-think-of-desecrating-holy-book-101634410088420.html
17-10-2021||India||ISKCON authorities seek UN chief, PM’s intervention after attack on temple in Bangladesh||A day after a mob killed three people, including two devotees of the International Society for Krishna Consciousness (ISKCON) and vandalised their temple at Noakhali in Bangladesh, ISKCON authorities in Kolkata on Saturday sought the intervention of the United Nations. “We appeal to the United Nations to immediately issue condemnation of this cycle of violence against Hindus and other minorities of Bangladesh and to send a delegation to Bangladesh,” stated the letter written by ISKON authorities in Kolkata to UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres on Saturday. The authorities also called up Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s residence late on Friday night after the attack took place. “We also called up the PM’s residence around 8.00 pm on Friday seeking his intervention. The official, who attended the phone, said that the PM would be informed,” said Radharamn Das, vice present of ISKCON, Kolkata. According to ISKON authorities, a 500-strong mob first vandalized a Durga Puja pandal adjacent to the ISKCON temple at Noakhali in Bangladesh around 2 pm on Friday. Later they attacked the devotees in the ISKCON temple. The idol of Srila Prabhupada, founder of ISKCON, was desecrated, books were set on fire and the temple was vandalised. “At least three people were killed including two of our devotees – Jatan Kumar Saha and Partha Das. Around 20 people were injured. Some are critical and fighting for their lives,” said Das. Earlier on Wednesday, Durga Puja pandals and temples at several places in Bangladesh were vandalised by mobs following posts on social media about the alleged desecration of the Quran at a pandal in Cumilla district. The Indian government had said on Thursday that it was in close contact with Bangladeshi authorities over the attacks in the neighbouring country but noted that celebrations were continuing with the support of the government and people. Reacting to the reports of the violence on Wednesday, Trinamool Congress (TMC) West Bengal general secretary and spokesperson Kunal Ghosh had said: “Serious allegations of vandalism of Durga Puja pandals have poured in from Bangladesh.” “This is worrisome. It should be investigated. If it is found to be true, the Bangladesh government should take action,” Ghosh further said. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson in West Bengal, Samik Bhattacharya had accused the Sheikh Hasina government of inaction. “Such incidents of atrocities on Hindus have increased over the past few months. The government remained a mute spectator,” Bhattacharya added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iskcon-authorities-seek-un-chief-pm-s-intervention-after-attack-on-temple-in-bangladesh-101634410027357.html
17-10-2021||India||Two army personnel missing since Poonch encounter found dead||The bodies of two army personnel, who went missing during an encounter with terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch district, were recovered on Saturday, taking the number of personnel killed in counterterror operations in the area to nine this week, officials familiar with the matter said.Junior Commissioned Officer (JCO) Subedar Ajay Singh and Naik Harendra Singh were killed during search operations conducted by the army in Poonch district’s Nar Khas forest, defence spokesperson Lt Col Devender Anand said in a statement.“Subedar Ajay Singh and Naik Harendra Singh were part of search operations launched by the security forces to flush out terrorists hiding in the forested area. On [Thurday], after a fierce firefight with the terrorists, the communication with [the two] was disrupted. Relentless operations continued to neutralize the terrorists and to re-establish communication with the soldiers. Subedar Ajay Singh and Naik Harendra Singh were killed in action in the fierce fight and their bodies have been recovered [on Saturday]. The operations in the area are continuing,” the statement said.Ajay Singh hailed from Rampur village of Uttarakhand’s Tehri district and Harendra Singh was from Pipalsari village in the state’s Pauri district.On October 11, five army personnel, including a JCO, were killed in an encounter in Dera Ki Gali in the Surankote area of Poonch district.The casualties in that encounter were the worst security forces have suffered in anti-insurgency operations in Jammu and Kashmir this year.Two soldiers from the same search team as Ajay Singh and Hirendra Singh were killed on Thursday.Earlier in the day, deputy inspector general Vivek Gupta said the search operations like the one launched in Poonch take time to complete.“It takes time in such operations. I would say for the past two and half months we are dealing with these different terror groups. The joint grid of the security forces is after them for the past two and a half months,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-army-personnel-missing-since-poonch-encounter-found-dead-101634409967445.html
17-10-2021||India||Key LeT commander among two terrorists killed in Kashmir gunfight||Jammu and Kashmir police on Saturday gunned down two terrorists, including a top Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) commander Umar Mushtaq Khandey, for their suspected role in the recent killings of police and civilians, in Pampore area of Pulwama district, police said.Khandey was among the top 10 commanders operating in Kashmir, and was involved in the killing of two constables – Mohammad Yousf and Suhail Ahmad – in Srinagar’s Baghat in February this year, police said.The operation to track down the terrorists was launched during the night at Drangbal Pampore as they were hiding in a three-storeyed building.“LeT commander amongst top 10 terrorists namely Umar Mustaq Khandey who was involved in the killing of two police personnel at Baghat Srinagar & other terror crimes trapped in Pampore Encounter,” Vijay Kumar, Inspector General of Police, Kashmir, said in a Twitter post.Khandey was in August named among the top 10 terrorist targets by police, along with Salim Parray, Yousuf Kantroo, Abbas Sheikh, Reyaz Shetergund, Farooq Nali, Zubair Wani and Ashraf Molvi, Saqib Manzoor and Wakeel Shah. Police are committed to hunting down these terrorists, Kumar said.Based on specific inputs, two operations were carried out in Pulwama last night and Srinagar on Friday evening, resulting in the killing of two terrorists belonging to LeT, Kumar said. Police said both Shahid Bashir Shiekh and Tanzeel Ahmad were involved in the recent killings of a civilian and a probationary sub-inspector in Srinagar.In the Pulwama encounter, another terrorist, identified as Shahid Bashir Sheikh of Srinagar’s Habba Kadal area, was killed.“As per police records, he had joined the terror folds recently and was linked with proscribed terror outfit LeT (TRF). He was involved in the killing of a civilian Mohammad Shafi Dar (PDD Employee) at Batamaloo Srinagar on Oct 2. He was also responsible for creating terror among the locals by threatening, intimidating and killing civilians,” Kumar said in a Twitter post. TRF is The Resistance Front, an arm of LeT.In another operation at Hamdaniya Colony, Bemina, one militant identified as Tanzeel Ahmad of Habba Kadal, Srinagar, was killed. “As per police records, he had joined the terror folds recently and was linked with proscribed terror outfit LeT (TRF). He was involved in the killing of PSI Arshid Ashraf at Khanyar area of Srinagar in Sept,” Kumar tweeted.Shahid and Tanzil were also collaborators in the recent killings of a chemist and two teachers in Srinagar, Kumar said. “Incriminating materials, including arms (2 AK 47 rifles) and ammunition, have been recovered from the site of encounters,” the inspector general said.Police have shot dead 13 terrorists in nine encounters after a spate of civilian killings in Kashmir this month.“We have neutralised 3 out of 5 terrorists of Srinagar City within less than 24 hours,” Kumar tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/key-let-commander-among-two-terrorists-killed-in-kashmir-gunfight-101634409851984.html
17-10-2021||India||Singhu border lynching: Autopsy says 35-year-old died due to excessive bleeding||Dalit labourer Lakhbir Singh, who was lynched at the farmers’ protest site at Delhi’s Singhu border, died of excessive bleeding due to several deep wounds, and had 22 injury marks on his body, said the post-mortem report on Saturday.On Friday, the body of Lakhbir Singh (35), a Dalit farm labourer from Punjab’s Tarn Taran district, was discovered tied to a police barricade near the Singhu farm protest site on the outskirts of the Capital with the left hand and right foot cut off. The post-mortem, conducted by a team of three doctors at Sonepat’s civil hospital, said the farmer sustained at least 22 wounds on his body, of which ten were deep.“The labourer had died from excess bleeding and deep wounds. As many as 10 out of 22 wounds were very large. There were also signs of being tied with a rope and he was also dragged on the ground. His hand was hacked...,” said Dr Ekta, member of the team that conducted the post-mortem.Later in the day, Lakhbir was cremated at his native village, Cheema, amid tight security in the presence of his close family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/singhu-border-lynching-autopsy-report-says-35-year-old-died-due-to-excessive-bleeding-101634409847295.html
17-10-2021||India||3 more arrested for lynching of Dalit man at site of farmers’ protest||A second member of the Sikhs’ Nihang order was arrested on Saturday and two more surrendered before Sonipat Police in connection with the lynching of a Dalit labourer at a farmers’ protest site even as the victim’s family questioned the attackers’ claim that he committed sacrilege and demanded a high-level probe. Earlier in the day, a Sonepat court sent Sarabjeet Singh, a Nihang who took responsibility for the murder on Friday, to seven-day police custody.Nihangs, a Sikh order distinguished by their blue robes and swords, alleged the man desecrated the Guru Granth Sahib, the Sikh holy book.On Friday, the body of Lakhbir Singh (35), a Dalit farm labourer from Punjab’s Tarn Taran district, was discovered tied to a police barricade near the Singhu farm protest site on the outskirts of the Capital with the left hand and right foot cut off. A purported video clip of the incident — which happened at Kundli on the Delhi-Haryana border — went viral.Hours after the crime, Sarabjeet, a resident of Punjab’s Gurdaspur district, claimed he had “punished” Lakhbir for “desecrating” a Sikh holy book. Later, he was arrested by the Sonepat police. “During interrogation, the accused named the involvement of four more members of the Nihang community in this gruesome murder, besides identifying the faces of others. The number of accused in this case is likely to be more than five. We had sought two weeks remand but the court had granted a week remand of Sarabjeet Singh,” Sonepat deputy superintendent of police, Virender Singh, said.“We will also add the SC/ST section in the case as the victim belongs to the SC community. During the remand period, we have to make some recoveries from the accused, including weapons used in the crime and the clothes he was wearing. We will also take him to Gurdaspur and Chamkaur Sahib for the identification of other accused involved in the crime.”On Saturday, Narain Singh, who heads a Nihang organisation called Misal Shaheedan Baba Baaz Singh Tarna Dal, surrendered before the police in Amritsar. “When I reached the spot, I saw his hand was chopped off by Sarabjeet Singh. Considering his sin, I hit his leg thrice with my sword and cut his foot,” Narain told reporters.Senior superintendent of police (Amritsar-rural), Rakesh Kaushal, however, said Narain was nabbed by the police following a tip-off. “Narain Singh fled from the Singhu border. Today, we got specific input from the senior officials that he might have returned to his village...”.“He announced that he would go to Akal Takht at 4.00 am and surrender before police there. When he found that he could not leave the village, he made an announcement that he would pay obeisance at village gurdwara. As soon as he came out of the gurdwara, we arrested him.”Meanwhile, Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Saturday called the murder “unfortunate”, but assured it will not affect the protest against the Centre’s three farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-more-arrested-for-lynching-of-dalit-man-at-site-of-farmers-protest-101634409561972.html
17-10-2021||India||Congress to train leaders in party ideologies and policies||With the recent exit of key members from the party, the Congress on Saturday announced training programmes for “all leaders and party workers at all levels” to aid them in becoming proficient at the outfit’s ideology.The political party said on Saturday it will also launch a grassroots level agitation against the Narendra Modi-led government.Congress general secretary KC Venugopal said: “The party has decided to undertake regular training programme for leaders and workers at all levels. They will be trained in party ideologies, policies, grassroots messaging, election management, failure of current government and countering propaganda.”The decision was announced after a meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) on Saturday. There will be “regular and continuous training programs” and also a special orientation camp at Sevagram Wardha Ashram from November 12 to 15, he said.People within the Congress have expressed concern over the exit of leaders such as Jyotiraditya Scindia, Jitin Prasada, Himanta Biswa Sharma, Sushmita Dev and Luizinho Faleiro, those aware of the matter said.“The CWC is deeply distressed to note the multiple challenges that face the country and the all-round failure of the Modi government in dealing with these challenges” and called upon “all democratic parties and forces to join hands to resolutely oppose the Modi government in order to protect the values on which our country was founded and to advance the causes of the people,” the resolution said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-to-train-leaders-in-party-ideologies-and-policies-101634409548678.html
17-10-2021||India||‘Don’t have to speak to me via media’: Sonia hits back at G23||Congress chief Sonia Gandhi on Saturday hit back at the G23, senior leaders calling for a change in how the party is run, censuring them for “talking to her through media”, reminding them that she has been “a full-time and hands-on Congress President” and pointing out that it is the younger Congress leaders (and not they), including Rahul Gandhi, who have taken “leadership roles” in public outreach and protests.Gandhi’s comments, her first in response to issues raised over the past year by 23 leaders who, in August 2020, first wrote to her seeking organisational changes to take on the Bharatiya Janata Party, came during the meeting of the Congress Working Committee on Saturday. Some of the criticism from G23 has been that the Congress does not have a full-time president. Gandhi was named interim president in 2019.At the CWC meeting, Gandhi, party president for the longest term, also launched a sweeping attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his government, saying the “shocking incident at Lakhimpur Kheri” shows “how the government perceives the kisan andolan (farmer’s agitation)” and maintained that, with reference to recent targeted killings of civilians in J&K, the “entire responsibility is on the government to bring the perpetrators of these barbaric crimes to justice”.She also criticised the government’s economic policy and asset monetisation plans, terming it “Becho, Becho, Becho” (sell, sell, sell), but much of her ire seemed reserved for the G23, prompted, a close aide said, by some of its members recently demanded an open discussion and questioned the decision-making process in the party.While the Gandhis themselves (Sonia Gandhi, her son and former party president Rahul Gandhi, and her daughter and party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra) did not directly respond to their comments, other leaders said they were unwarranted; and some party supporters took matters seemingly into their own hands, protesting outside and indulging in vandalism at the residence of Kapil Sibal, one of the members of the G23 who has been open about his misgivings on how the party is run.“I have always appreciated frankness. There is no need to speak to me through the media. But what should get communicated outside the four walls of this room is the collective decision of the CWC,” she said, and followed it up with “I am, if you will allow me to say so, a full-time and hands-on Congress President”.She also praised younger colleagues for taking responsibilities, indirectly pointing out that while seniors have been asking for change, it is young leaders, including Rahul Gandhi, have hit the road.“In the last two years, a large number of our colleagues, particularly the younger ones have taken on leadership roles in taking party policies and programmes to the people -whether it is the agitation of farmers, provision of relief during the pandemic, highlighting issues of concern to youth and women, atrocities on Dalits, Adivasis and minorities, price rise, and the destruction of the public sector.”“Never have we let issues of public importance and concern go unaddressed...,” she added.While G23 leaders have sought more say in party matters and an overhaul in the organisation, Gandhi reminded them that the revival of the Congress requires “self-control, discipline, unity .” She told them that “the entire organisation wants a revival of the Congress” but “this requires unity and keeping the party’s interests paramount. Above all, it requires self-control and discipline.”Gandhi listed the activities undertaken under her leadership but took at swipe at the senior rebels when she said, “I am acutely conscious of the fact that I have been interim Congress President.”The Congress chief also lashed out at the government over spiralling fuel prices: “Could anyone in the country ever have imagined that petrol prices would be over ₹100 a litre, diesel would be nearing ₹100 a litre mark, a gas cylinder would cost ₹900 and cooking oil would be ₹200 a litre? This is making life unbearable for people across the country.”Noting that farmers have suffered much since their protests started, Gandhi remarked, “The shocking incidents at Lakhimpur-Kheri recently betrays the mindset of the BJP, how it perceives the Kisan Andolan, how it has been dealing with this determined struggle by Kisans to protect their lives and livelihoods.”A G23 leader, however, said they don’t expect any real change. “This arrangement means she will have responsibility while Rahul and Priyanka will have authority. We also fear the election process will lose steam after membership process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-have-to-speak-to-me-via-media-congress-chief-sonia-gandhi-hits-back-at-g23-101634409260396.html
17-10-2021||India||2 more non-local civilians killed by terrorists in J-K||Terrorists on Saturday shot dead a vendor and a carpenter – both non-locals – in two separate attacks in Srinagar and Pulwama districts of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said, taking the number of casualties in the string of targeted civilian killings in the region to nine in recent days.The attacks were carried out within an hour, the officials said.Arvind Kumar Sah, 29, a resident of Banka area in Bihar, was shot at close range by the terrorists in Srinagar’s Eidgah area at around 6.15pm, an official said, asking not to be named. He was rushed to Shri Maharaja Hari Singh Hospital, where doctors declared him dead.An hour later, at around 7.15pm, Sageer Ahmad, a carpenter from Uttar Pradesh, was attacked at Litter in the Pulwama district, anther official confirmed.A police spokesperson said that searches have begun to find the terrorist behind the attacks.“Terrorists fired upon two non-local labourers in Srinagar and Pulwama. Arvind Kumar Sah of Banka Bihar succumbed to injuries in Srinagar and Sagir Ahmad of UP in Pulwama. Areas have been cordoned & searches started,” the police spokesperson said.Saturday’s killings are the latest in a series of attacks on minorities in the Union Territory, which have prompted the government to mount counter-insurgency operations in the region.Nine soldiers have been killed in the operations that began Monday – the highest casualties the army has suffered in a week in the region in recent years.At least 13 terrorists, including a top Lashkar-e-Taiba commander, have also been neutralised in the operations.Earlier in the day, Kashmir inspector general of police Vijay Kumar said that 13 terrorists have been killed in nine encounters since Monday. “We have neutralised 3 out of 5 terrorists of Srinagar City within less than 24 hours,” he said.Political leaders condemned the attacks on Saturday.Calling the murders “reprehensible”, National Conference vice-president and former chief minister Omar Abdullah tweeted: “Strongly condemn the killing of street vendor Arvind Kumar in a terror attack in Srinagar today. This is yet another case of a civilian being targeted like this. All Arvind Kumar did was come to Srinagar in search of earning opportunities & it’s reprehensible that he was murdered.”Peoples Conference chairman Sajjad Lone said the killings were acts of “pure terror”.“This is pure terror. Yet again a non-local vendor shot and killed in Idgah. What a shame. How cowardly can it get,” Lone tweeted.The Bharatiya Janata Party’s general secretary for J&K and Kashmir affairs incharge Sunil Sharma also condemned the killings, and called for strict punishment for the terrorists.“The killing of poor vendor and carpenter who earn their livelihood through hardwork is inhuman and barbaric act,” Sharma said in statement.Party spokesperson Altaf Thakur said the killings were highly condemnable.Srinagar Mayor Junaid Azim Mattu also condemned the attacks. “Strongly condemn the killing of Arvind Kumar - a street-vendor at Eidgah by terrorists. Continued attempts by terrorists to intimidate the people and drive a communal wedge in our society. My heart goes out to his family. Another inconsolable tragedy. A sheer act of terror,” he tweeted.October has witnessed a spate in attacks, with nine civilians, including two school teachers and three non-locals being shot dead by the terrorists.Supinder Kaur, principal of the Government Boys Higher Secondary School in Eidgah, and Deepak Chand, a teacher at the same school, were shot dead inside the school premises on October 7.Days before the attack on the school, three civilians were killed in separate attacks in the Valley on October 5.Makhan Lal Bindroo, a Kashmiri Pandit and a well-known pharmacist in Srinagar; Virender Paswan, a street vendor from Bihar’s Bhagalpur, and Mohammad Shafi Lone, the head of a taxi stand in Bandipora district, were shot dead within minutes on October 5.Two other people were killed on October 2.The Resistance Front (TRF), a front for terror groups like Lashkar-e-Taiba had claimed responsibility for most of the attack.Security forces have killed at least 120 terrorists in Kashmir this year, including over a dozen top commanders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-more-non-local-civilians-killed-by-terrorists-in-jk-101634408914300.html
17-10-2021||India||Bad air days begin, AQI slips to ‘poor’||People in Delhi will have to wait for the east wind and some likely showers on Sunday to find relief from deteriorating air quality that fell to the “poor” category on Saturday, even as the burning of farm residue in Punjab, Haryana and Pakistan continued to rise.Delhi’s overall air quality index on Saturday was 284, Central Pollution Control board data showed, compared with 198 on Friday, which just about remained in the “moderate” category. The federal pollution watchdog considers a reading of 201-300 as “poor” that leads to breathing discomfort to most people on prolonged exposure. A reading of 101-200 is considered “moderate”.Air quality continued to worsen in the national capital as the evening progressed, with 18 out of 36 areas showing readings of “very poor” that could lead to respiratory illness.There could be easterly winds and light to moderate rainfall to wash away the pollutants, the India Meteorological Department predicted on Saturday.Satellite images from NASA’s fire tracker showed a spike in the number of “red dots” that indicate stubble burning on October 16 from three days ago.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, who has been posting the city’s air quality recordings over nearly a month to establish how stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana impacts Delhi’s air, tweeted NASA data Saturday.The drop in Saturday’s air quality was due to the increase in farm fires in the neighbouring agrarian states of Punjab, Haryana and parts of Pakistan, weather forecasters said. It was made worse by calm winds, leading to an accumulation of pollutants in the atmosphere.“Till Saturday afternoon, Delhi was receiving winds from the north-west direction, which was carrying with it smoke from the stubble fires in Punjab and Haryana. However, the wind direction will now change to easterly,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, meteorology and climate change at private forecaster Skymet Weather Services. “When the wind direction is transitioning, thespeeds reduce drastically and this leads to an accumulation of pollutants already present in the air.”The wind will start blowing from the east from Sunday morning, according to VK Soni, head of Met department’s environment and research centre.The respite might be short as pollution levels are likely to rise again from October 19, Soni said.The primary pollutant on Saturday in Delhi was PM 2.5, according to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) run by the ministry of earth science. PM 2.5, or dust particles less than 2.5 micrometres wide, that results primarily from combustion, gets deposited deep into the lungs and even enter the bloodstream, causing severe damage to health. Till last week, the primary pollutant in Delhi’s air was PM 10, or particulate matter with diameter less than 10 micrometres that is mostly dust from local sources.“With 1572 fire counts as per SAFAR harmonised methodology, which includes data of two ISRO (Indian Space Research Organisation) satellites, the stubble burning contribution in Delhi’s air has suddenly increased to 14%,” SAFAR’s analysis said. “Fire counts are gradually increasing and north-westerly winds at a speed of 900 mb is favourable for transporting stubble smoke into Delhi.” The share of farm fires was 6% on Friday.Experts have warned of the impending air emergency, an annual occurrence in Delhi in autumn, as soon as the winds change back to north-westerly.The stubble burning this season started slow because the southwest monsoon withdrew later than usual from parts of northwest India and because of some policy decisions by the government, said Pawan Gupta, a research scientist at the Goddard Earth Sciences Technology and Research, Universities Space Research Association.“The stubble fires were merely delayed,” Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bad-air-days-begin-aqi-slips-to-poor-101634408946520.html
17-10-2021||India||Terrorists kill 2 more non-local civilians in J-K||Terrorists on Saturday shot dead a vendor and a carpenter – both non-locals – in two separate attacks in Srinagar and Pulwama districts of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said, taking the number of casualties in the string of targeted civilian killings in the region to nine in recent days.The attacks were carried out within an hour, the officials said.Arvind Kumar Sah, 29, a resident of Banka area in Bihar, was shot at close range by the terrorists in Srinagar’s Eidgah area at around 6.15pm, an official said, asking not to be named. He was rushed to Shri Maharaja Hari Singh Hospital, where doctors declared him dead.An hour later, at around 7.15pm, Sageer Ahmad, a carpenter from Uttar Pradesh, was attacked at Litter in the Pulwama district, anther official confirmed.A police spokesperson said that searches have begun to find the terrorist behind the attacks.“Terrorists fired upon two non-local labourers in Srinagar and Pulwama. Arvind Kumar Sah of Banka Bihar succumbed to injuries in Srinagar and Sagir Ahmad of UP in Pulwama. Areas have been cordoned & searches started,” the police spokesperson said.Saturday’s killings are the latest in a series of attacks on minorities in the Union Territory, which have prompted the government to mount counter-insurgency operations in the region.Nine soldiers have been killed in the operations that began Monday – the highest casualties the army has suffered in a week in the region in recent years.At least 13 terrorists, including a top Lashkar-e-Taiba commander, have also been neutralised in the operations.Earlier in the day, Kashmir inspector general of police Vijay Kumar said that 13 terrorists have been killed in nine encounters since Monday. “We have neutralised 3 out of 5 terrorists of Srinagar City within less than 24 hours,” he said.Political leaders condemned the attacks on Saturday.Calling the murders “reprehensible”, National Conference vice-president and former chief minister Omar Abdullah tweeted: “Strongly condemn the killing of street vendor Arvind Kumar in a terror attack in Srinagar today. This is yet another case of a civilian being targeted like this. All Arvind Kumar did was come to Srinagar in search of earning opportunities & it’s reprehensible that he was murdered.”Peoples Conference chairman Sajjad Lone said the killings were acts of “pure terror”. “This is pure terror. Yet again a non-local vendor shot and killed in Idgah. What a shame. How cowardly can it get,” Lone tweeted.The Bharatiya Janata Party’s general secretary for J&K and Kashmir affairs incharge Sunil Sharma also condemned the killings, and called for strict punishment for the terrorists.“The killing of poor vendor and carpenter who earn their livelihood through hardwork is inhuman and barbaric act,” Sharma said in statement.Party spokesperson Altaf Thakur said the killings were highly condemnable.Srinagar Mayor Junaid Azim Mattu also condemned the attacks. “Strongly condemn the killing of Arvind Kumar - a street-vendor at Eidgah by terrorists. Continued attempts by terrorists to intimidate the people and drive a communal wedge in our society. My heart goes out to his family. Another inconsolable tragedy. A sheer act of terror,” he tweeted.October has witnessed a spate in attacks, with nine civilians, including two school teachers and three non-locals being shot dead by the terrorists.Supinder Kaur, principal of the Government Boys Higher Secondary School in Eidgah, and Deepak Chand, a teacher at the same school, were shot dead inside the school premises on October 7.Days before the attack on the school, three civilians were killed in separate attacks in the Valley on October 5. Makhan Lal Bindroo, a Kashmiri Pandit and a well-known pharmacist in Srinagar; Virender Paswan, a street vendor from Bihar’s Bhagalpur, and Mohammad Shafi Lone, the head of a taxi stand in Bandipora district, were shot dead within minutes on October 5.Two other people were killed on October 2.The Resistance Front (TRF), a front for terror groups like Lashkar-e-Taiba had claimed responsibility for most of the attack.Security forces have killed at least 120 terrorists in Kashmir this year, including over a dozen top commanders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorists-kill-2-more-non-local-civilians-in-j-k-101634408886455.html
17-10-2021||India||Congress to elect new president in Aug-Sept||The Congress Working Committee (CWC) on Saturday decided to hold internal polls to elect the party’s next president between August 21 and September 30 next year, and most of its members asked former party president Rahul Gandhi to return to the post at a meeting bereft of any drama over the criticism of the party’s leadership by some senior Congress leaders.Rahul Gandhi, who quit in 2019 following his party’s dismal showing in the Lok Sabha polls -- it won 54 of the 543 seats in the house -- said he needed time to think about this, people present at the meeting said on condition of anonymity.The meeting, which comes soon after the crisis in Punjab, where chief minister and senior Congress leader Amarinder Singh was forced to resign (he subsequently said he would also leave the party), and high-profile defections of senior party leaders to the Trinamool Congress, was expected to discuss some of the issues, but HT learns that Singh’s name was not even mentioned at the meeting.Instead, it was decided that interim party chief Sonia Gandhi would continue in that role till at least next August when the process to conduct organisational elections is expected to begin. That means the Congress will go into the next round of assembly elections, scheduled for early 2022, under the current team. The round includes elections in Uttar Pradesh and Punjab.Elections for the CWC and other bodies will be held during the AICC plenary session in September or October next year, general secretary KC Venugopal announced; polls for these bodies were a key demand of a group of 23 Congress leaders who first wrote to Sonia Gandhi in August 2020 seeking changes in how the party was run.If anyone thought the CWC meeting on Saturday would follow the script of the last few meetings -- muted criticism of the way the party was run by some of the leaders of the so-called G23, drowned by an overwhelming support of the Gandhis by their supporters -- they were wrong.Instead all senior leaders including G23 members Ghulam Nabi Azad and Anand Sharma called upon Rahul Gandhi to lead the party.Former defence minister AK Antony made the first pitch for Rahul Gandhi: “Rahul should take over immediately, otherwise it would be tough for us.” His anointment as party president was required for “the future of the country”, he added.Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot echoed the sentiment, saying there should not be any further delay in electing Rahul Gandhi as party president. Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi argued that the delay in the appointment “is not a small matter as we are losing out every day”.Rahul Gandhi spoke for almost 40 minutes at the CWC meeting. He touched upon various subjects and attacked the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its ideological parent Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). He demanded more ideological commitment from Congress workers in the wake of the recent attrition from the party.He recalled: “Channi cried when I rang him up (to appoint him as Punjab chief minister) and said he was not expecting this to happen. The RSS will never make a Dalit, a minority or a woman as chief minister or give them important positions. But the Congress is doing it.”Rahul Gandhi heard out the views of leaders seeking his return, but said he needed time to take a call. He also spoke of what he saw as the bigger picture. “We are in a big fight against the BJP-RSS ideology. Our party has to be firm on ideology and we have be clear on what we stand for. We should never be afraid of what we stand for. We should not be afraid of (PM Narendra) Modi and RSS.”Azad, who wrote to Sonia last month demanding a CWC meeting to discuss the Punjab and Goa issues (a senior Goa leader, a former CM, defected to the TMC), and the current political scenario, suggested that candidates for the upcoming elections be picked in advance. He also praised Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s intervention in Lakhimpur Kheri where eight people died in a violent incident after a car mowed down protesting farmers on October 3, and the farmers, in return, were accused of lynching some of the occupants.Both Azad and Anand Sharma clarified that they have no issues in Sonia Gandhi’s leadership. Sharma, a key member of the G23 , praised Sonia Gandhi and said the CWC had elected her as interim president and he was thankful for what she has done during these difficult times.While Sharma maintained that the party should talk to leaders and engage them if they are trying to leave the party, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said: “We should continue with our public agitations and protests, and intensify the protests. Those who want to leave will leave, but we should not slacken (our efforts).”Later, Venugopal announced the poll schedule. “Rahul Gandhi is a capable leader to lead the party. But there is no ambiguity about the decision-making process. Every single decision is taken by Sonia Gandhi,” he said.There was no mention about Captain Amarinder Singh, who was removed as Punjab chief minister, party insiders said on condition of anonymity. General secretary Dinesh Gundu Rao complained that Prashant Kishor, an election strategist, is luring away Congress leaders in Goa.As the first step for the organizational election, a membership enrolment drive will begin from November 1 and will continue till March. The membership drive, spread over five months, is significant as the party has lost considerable electoral space to the BJP and other parties in recent years.Venugopal also said at a news briefing that general secretaries of all poll-bound states presented reports on preparations for the state assembly polls.He announced that the election schedule, which includes enrolment of members for organisational polls on payment of ₹5 each, will start from November 1, 2021 and go on till March 31, 2022.District Congress Committees shall publish preliminary list of members together with the list of eligible contestants for participation in the election. This list will be published before April 15, 2022 i.e. between April 1 and April 15.Election of president and executives of primary committees and block committees, and election of block presidents, executive committees and one member of the PCC by block Congress committee will be held between April 16 and May 31, 2022.The election of presidents, vice presidents, treasurers and executive committee of DCC will be held between June 1 and July 20 next year.Venugopal also said that the election of PCC presidents, vice presidents, treasurers, PCC executives and AICC members by PCC general body will be held between July 21 and August 20, 2022.The election of the Congress president will be held between August 21 and September 20, 2022, he said.Venugopal also announced that the election of CWC members and other bodies by AICC members will take place at a plenary session, dates for which will be announced later, preferably in the month of September or October next year.The Bharatiya Janata Party dubbed the CWC meeting as “parivar bachao working committee” and alleged that it offered no answers to the issues of the party’s internal rift and its leadership’s failures, and instead indulged in spreading lies.BJP spokesperson Gaurav Bhatia also criticised the CWC for not reacting to the murder of a Dalit man at the Singhu border, one of the sites for the farmers’ protests, and questioned if the opposition party stood with the “Talibani mindset” behind the killing. Anarchic elements are using farmers for their politics, he said.With inputs from PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-to-elect-new-president-in-augsept-101634408887093.html
17-10-2021||India||New Hyderabad facility to help boost Quad nations’ vaccine supply||There will soon be a new vaccine manufacturing facility in Hyderabad to support the Quad countries’ plan of delivering one billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines. An agreement to the effect will be signed during the upcoming visit to India by the US development bank’s chief. US International Development Finance Corporation (DFC) chief operating officer David Marchick will travel to South Africa and India during October 18-26 to take forward investment proposals to boost global health and expand Covid-19 vaccine production across the developing world. Marchick and his delegation will travel to Hyderabad after arriving in India on October 24 to visit Biological E, which has been selected to produce one billion doses of vaccines to be rolled out by the end of 2022 under the vaccine partnership launched by the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, or Quad. The US delegation will “participate in a signing ceremony to open a new facility with substantial capacity for vaccine manufacturing”, according to a statement from the DFC. “This work is in support of the historic commitment set out by President [Joe] Biden and his counterparts in the Quad – Australia, India, Japan, and the United States.”In South Africa, the DFC delegation will visit Africa Data Centres, which is developing critical technology infrastructure across Africa, and meet drug makers critical to the Covid-19 response. The vaccine partnership is on track to produce one billion doses in India to boost global supply, Biden had said at the first in-person Quad leaders’ summit in Washington on September 24. Aid from the DFC is aimed at boosting vaccine manufacturing capacity in several regions of the world. This support is projected to facilitate capacity expansion to produce nearly two billion Covid-19 vaccine doses by the end of 2022.  Additional production will come on line in India later this year due to the Quad vaccine partnership’s financing of increased manufacturing capacity at Biological E, a joint statement issued at the conclusion of the Quad leaders’ summit last month had said. These doses will be exported to countries in the Indo-Pacific and other parts of the world to overcome a continuing global supply gap. The Quad will coordinate with multilateral initiatives such as the WHO-backed COVAX Facility to procure safe and quality-assured vaccines for low and middle-income countries. The Quad has also launched a vaccine experts group that is working to align the plans of India, Australia, Japan and the US to support health security and the Covid-19 response across the Indo-Pacific. This includes coordination of efforts to support the production of vaccines and equitable access. Quad members have pledged to donate more than 1.2 billion vaccine doses globally. They have so far delivered nearly 79 million jabs to countries in the Indo-Pacific. The Quad summit had also welcomed India’s announcement on resuming vaccine exports, which had been halted in March after the country was hit by a devastating second wave of infections. Since vaccine exports resumed recently, India has sent one million doses of Covishield to Bangladesh, Nepal and Myanmar, and 300,000 doses of Covaxin to Iran. Japan will help regional partners purchase vaccines through a Covid-19 crisis response emergency support loan of $3.3 billion, and Australia will provide $212 million in grants to purchase vaccines for Southeast Asia and the Pacific. Australia will also allocate $219 million to support last-mile vaccine rollouts and lead Quad’s last-mile delivery efforts. Besides the Covid-19 response and pandemic preparedness, the Quad is also working on infrastructure, resilient supply chains, clean energy, maritime security, approaches to deploy 5G infrastructure that use open and interoperable network architectures, and emerging technologies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-hyd-facility-to-help-boost-quad-nations-vaccine-supply-101634408287452.html
17-10-2021||India||NCP’s malik again attacks NCB, says using official’s friend as witness||Maharashtra minority welfare minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik on Saturday again raised questions over the Narcotics Control Bureau’s (NCB) operations against the alleged drug peddling pertaining to Bollywood. He claimed that the central agency has used a man named Fletcher Patel, who is a family friend of its zonal director Sameer Wankhede, as a panch or witness in three different cases in the past two years.Malik shared a few documents on Saturday and raised doubts on the agency’s witnesses. By releasing pictures from social media, Malik said Patel was Wankhede’s family friend. He has alleged that Patel had shared a photograph with a woman, calling her ‘lady don’ with hashtag ‘Sister’. The woman is one of Wankhede’s relatives and it needs to be checked if Patel and the woman had any connection with the raids on Bollywood celebrities, the minister said. He also alleged that the woman in the photograph is an advocate and an office-bearer of the film cell of a political party.“An independent panch or witness needs to be an independent citizen in any case registered under any law. Fletcher is a family friend of Wankhede as he has shared a picture with the relative of the officer. Fletcher is also seen with Wankhede in many functions organised to felicitate the officer. Does this not raise questions over the veracity of the cases registered by the agency? Earlier, the courts had rapped the investigating agencies on such dubious witnesses as they weaken the cases,” Malik said.He said as many of the NCB raids were against Bollywood actors, it needs to be checked if there was any nexus involved in it.“How can a family friend be a part of the raids? The agency has been indulging in selective leaks related to the raids to defame the government and the film industry. Many actors were raided and paraded by the agency. It needs to be checked if there was any big game behind all these raids,” he said.Earlier, in two press conferences in two weeks, Malik had alleged that two witnesses in the cruise drug party raids were allowed to handle the accused. He had said one of the witnesses, KC Gosavi, is facing criminal cases, while another, Manish Bhanushali, is a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) officer-bearer. Malik had also alleged that his son-in-law, Sameer Khan, was framed in a drug case.Wankhede refused to comment on Malik’s allegations.Another NCB officer said that Patel is the Mumbai president of Army veterans’ group Sainik Federation and has an Army background. The photograph in which he is seen with Wankhede was an event held at CSMT where the federation had felicitated the NCB zonal director on Kargil Vijay Diwas on July 26. At the event, they pledged to curb the menace and threat of narcotics from the country.The officer further said that Patel is a highly-trustworthy person. “As a panch, we always require people like him who have army background, because such individuals are physically and mentally strong, and especially are of very help in operations against peddlers/suppliers who are strong in physique,” the NCB officer said.Patel said, “I am an ex-serviceman and Mumbai president of Sainik Federation. Yes, Sameer Wankhede’s sister is like an elder sister to me. Even if she is like family to me, that can’t stop me from helping NCB in their drive against drugs. I have been helping NCB as my social responsibility and nobody should question my integrity. “||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncps-malik-again-attacks-ncb-says-using-official-s-friend-as-witness-101634408229411.html
17-10-2021||India||Pragya curses man who shot her viral video playing kabaddi||It was a ‘Ravana’ who shot the viral video clip of Pragya Singh Thakur playing kabaddi near a Durga puja pandal, and he will get his just desserts, the Bharatiya Janata Party parliamentarian who has been seen confined to a wheelchair, said on Friday night. “I went for offering aarti (at a Durga puja pandal) two days back, when some sportsmen playing on a ground requested me to conduct a (kabaddi) raid. A small clip of this was captured and shown in the media. A Ravana among you got irritated like I have taken away his kingdom,” Thakur said. “Ravana can be present anywhere. He is spoiled and I warn him to mend his ways, otherwise his old age and next birth will be spoiled. A person who attacks patriots, revolutionary persons and saints can’t survive, neither did Ravana or Kansa. That ‘adharmi’ or ‘vidharmi’ person will also face the same,” the Lok Sabha MP from Bhopal said. Thakur is confined to a wheelchair for long due to an injury to her lower vertebrae. Facing trial on the 2008 Malegaon blast case that killed several people, she obtained bail on medical grounds. Thakur was criticised when the video clip went viral on social media. “She skipped hearings of the Malegaon blast case at least twice on medical grounds. She went to Parliament in a wheelchair. She claimed that she can’t stand properly because of a permanent injury in her back, but within few months, she started playing volleyball, kabaddi and also garba,” said JP Dhanopia, spokesperson, Madhya Pradesh Congress party. “We just want to know the truth about her health because how is it possible for a person to be in a wheelchair and on a sports ground together?” “Those who follow the ideology of Ravana, see the demon king everywhere,” Madhya Pradesh Congress party spokesman K K Mishra said on Saturday, reacting to Thakur’s outburst. “The Bhopal MP follows the ideology of those who represent the evil.” This is not the first time Thakur has courted controversy. Earlier, she had claimed that the chief of the Anti Terror Squad and 26/11 martyr Hemant Karkare was killed because she cursed him for assaulting her in jail after her arrest in the Malegaon blast case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pragya-curses-man-who-shot-her-viral-video-playing-kabaddi-101634408228290.html
17-10-2021||India||Channi govt also deceiving people, says Sisodia||Delhi’s deputy chief minister and senior Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Manish Sisodia on Saturday alleged that just like former Punjab CM Amarinder Singh, incumbent Charanjit Singh Channi-led Congress government will also deceive people of the state.“The present CM Charanjit Singh Channi led Congress Government in Punjab is again deceiving the people of Punjab with a new scam of ‘5 marla land’ guarantee card, just like the employment card of 2017,” Sisodia said at a press conference in Jalandhar.“The Channi Government is again committing the same fraud against the people of Punjab, just like the Captain did with his employment card. The scheme of 5 marla land was initiated in 1961 but till date neither the Congress government nor any other government of Punjab has implemented it, nor has any person received land under this scheme”.“Even now, the Channi Government is not giving land to the people but is deceiving them by handing a paper with the promise of giving them land, which it has no intention of honouring”, he said.Sisodia further said that three months before the 2017 assembly elections, the Congress Party had distributed employment cards to the youth of Punjab, which was a fraud.“Captain had promised that if the government comes to power, all the employment card holders will get employment otherwise the government will give them an allowance. However, the government, despite being in power for 4.5 years, has neither given employment nor employment allowance to the youth. Congress and Captain forgot all their promises and bluffed the people of Punjab,” he said. Congress is yet to react to Sisodia’s comments.During his Saturday’s trip, Sisodia visited Bhagwan Valmiki Dham Ram Tirath in Amritsar. He left for Delhi the same day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-captain-channi-is-also-cheating-punjabis-sisodia-101634408227270.html
17-10-2021||India||Uddhav won’t know if MVA govt was toppled: Fadnavis hits back||A day after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray attacked former ally Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) saying Hindutva faced a threat from “neo-Hindus” and dared the BJP to topple the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition government, former CM and leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis escalated the war of words on Saturday stating that the present government was most corrupt the state had seen, and that Thackeray would “not even come to know” if it was toppled.“You should keep in mind that it would be recorded in the history of Maharashtra that this is most corrupt government in the history of the state. There is only one agenda of this government, which is extortion,” Fadnavis told reporters in Nagpur.During his annual address at the Dussehra rally in Mumbai on Friday, Thackeray had hit out at the BJP and accused the Centre of interfering in the state’s day-to-day affairs. The CM also accused the Centre of misusing “central agencies” and asked Shiv Sena workers if they were ready to face the “attack by BJP leadership” in the same way that West Bengal (under Mamata Banerjee) had faced.Fadnavis said that Thackeray’s speech was a result of “political frustration” and it was time for the CM to stop acting innocent.“We are not interested in toppling the MVA government, but he (Thackeray) would not even come to know if it is toppled. Instead of daring us to topple it, the CM should first govern it properly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/most-corrupt-government-won-t-come-to-know-when-it-is-toppled-fadnavis-101634407747367.html
17-10-2021||India||18 die, Kerala CM Vijayan seeks help of forces||At least 18 people were killed after heavy rains pounded south and central Kerala on Saturday while 22 people were feared missing in landslides in hilly areas of Kottayam and Idukki districts, prompting the state government to seek help of the armed forces for rescue operations.“The situation is really serious in some parts of the state. We will do everything possible to save lives,” chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said in a statement after chairing an emergency meeting in the state capital. “We have sought help from the army, navy and air force. Relief camps have been set up in the districts.”The state government was monitoring water levels in all dams, the chief minister said. Three districts — Kottayam, Pathanamthitta and Idukki — were worst affected due to the torrential rains.The authorities have halted pilgrimage to the Sabarimala hill temple in Pathanamthitta district due to the inclement weather. All colleges and higher education centres will remain shut till Wednesday.At least 22 people were feared missing in the landslides that occurred in the hilly areas bordering the Kottayam and Idukki districts. In Idukki, bodies of two persons were retrieved after the car they were travelling in was washed away. They are yet to be identified, police said. Sixteen other rain-related deaths were reported from Pathanamthitta and Kottayam.The India Meteorological Department has sounded red alert in six districts — Kottayam, Pathanamthitta, Thrissur, Ernakulam, Idukki and Palakkad.Most of these districts have witnessed heavy rains since Friday night. Many dams in the vicinity were filled to the brim and sluice gates of some were opened to ease pressure. Some areas in Kottayam received 30 cm rainfall in the past 24 hours, the Met department said. Some areas will witness high winds, it said.At Kootickal in Kottayam, three houses were destroyed in a landslide. There were unconfirmed reports about six bodies being retrieved. The district administration is yet to confirm it. Since the area is marooned after the landslide, the administration has sought help of the army. The toll may rise, given the severity of the landslide, an official said on condition of anonymity.“At least four landslips have been reported in Kottayam and the one is Kootickal is major. Many people are stranded and we have sought the help of Air Force copters to shift them,” said state cooperation minister V N Vasavan, who hails from the district. Earlier in the day, the chief minister said six teams of the National Disaster Response Force were deployed in the affected areas and two teams of the army will be deployed. Air Force teams have been kept on standby, he said.The government was closely monitoring the situation and at least 5,000 families have been shifted to relief camps across the state, Kerala revenue minister K Rajan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-die-cm-vijayan-seeks-help-of-forces-as-rain-lashes-kerala-101634407687267.html
17-10-2021||India||NSCN (IM) alleges Centre of trying to rush Naga peace talks; reaffirms stand||The Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagalim (NSCN-IM), with whom the Government of India signed the Framework Agreement in 2015 to pursue a solution to the decades-old Naga political issue, has accused the latter of trying to rush the peace talks by offering post-solution options.In a fresh statement, the NSCN (IM) said the huge burden of the Naga political issue, which the Government of India is struggling to unload, is not the making of the Naga people rather deeply rooted in “India’s malicious pleasure violating the historical and political rights of the Naga people for more than six decades”.In the present context, the outfit alleged that Centre was planting “made in India collaborators” to confuse the Nagas with high-sounding promises without political commitment to fulfil as was done in the past. The NSCN (IM) is, however, no longer naive enough to be carried away by such outrageous flattery, the statement said. “The checkered history of the Indo-Naga political issue is clear enough before us, with accords and agreements that were never meant to be implemented in letter and spirit. Naturally, the Nagas are still haunted by this flamboyant show of dealing on the Naga issue,” the NSCN (IM) maintained.“NSCN’s stand is loud and clear that it would not follow the forbidden route to the Naga solution that is linked to foregoing the Naga national flag and constitution which is the face of the Naga political struggle and identity,” the NSCN (IM) asserted.Besides the NSCN (IM), which has been in a ceasefire agreement with the Centre since 1997, the Government of India is also in talks with a conglomeration of seven Naga national political groups (NNPGs) with whom it had signed “Agreed Position” in 2017. Although the NSCN (IM) did not take any names, its statement was issued close on the heels of the statement made by the NNPGs working committee convener N Kitovi Zhimomi who said the Naga flag’s unrestrained political usage and Naga integration would be pursued democratically post-solution.People familiar with the matter said that the leaders of the NNPGs, the NSCN (IM) and the Niki Sumi-led Khaplang faction of NSCN (NSCN-K) were all in Delhi recently, holding separate meetings with the Centre’s new emissary for Naga peace talks AK Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nscn-im-alleges-centre-of-trying-to-rush-naga-peace-talks-reaffirms-stand-101634381226879.html
17-10-2021||NA||Highlights: Shutters of Kerala's Maniyar Dam opened after water level increases||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:Shutters of Kerala's Maniyar Dam opened after water level increases The shutters of Maniyar Dam in Kerala's Pathanamthitta was opened on Saturday after the water level increased inside the reservoir following torrential rains, reported ANI. A red alert has already been issued for the areas which house dams under the Kerala State Electricity Board. Syed Ali Shah Geelani's grandson dismissed from service Syed Ali Shah Geelani's grandson was dismissed from service on Saturday. He was working as a research officer in Sher-e-Kashmir international convention centre, the Jammu and Kashmir government said in an official circular, adding that this step was taken in accordance with Article 311 (2) (c) of the Constitution.Bihar CM Nitish Kumar announces ₹2 Lakh ex-gratia for kin of man killed in J&KBihar chief minister announced ₹2 Lakh ex-gratia for the next of kin of Arwind Kumar, who was shot dead in J&K on Saturday evening by terrorists, reported ANI. Four killed in Kerala landslide#UPDATE Kerala rains | Four people have died in landslides at Koottikkal in Kottayam and Kokkayar in Idukki districts as heavy rain is continuing in Kerala, with six districts put on red alert.Non-local labourer Sagir Ahmad shot dead by terrorists in J&KIn a separate incident of violence on Saturday a non-local labourer Sagir Ahmad was shot dead by terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir's Pulwama, the Kashmir Zone Police said, adding that areas have been cordoned and searches started.Non-local vendor shot dead in J&K's EidgahA non-local vendor was shot dead by militants in J&K's Eidgah on Saturday. The man has been identified as Arwind Kumar from Bihar. Kumar was the sixth civilian to be killed by militants in last two weeks. So far five civilians have been killed in Srinagar. Poonch encounter: Missing JCO and soldier found deadThe Junior Command Officer (JCO) and soldier who had gone missing after the encounter at Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch was found dead on Saturday, with this the death toll has gone up to nine since Monday. MoS external affairs and Parliamentary affairs V Muraleedharan to visit Sudan, South Sudan Minister of state (MoS) external affairs and Parliamentary affairs V Muraleedharan will be visiting Sudan and South Sudan in an official capacity from October 20 – 22, reported ANI. 'RJD candidates will win from both seats in Bihar bypolls' Tejashwi Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav told reporters on Saturday that his party's candidates will win both bypoll seats in Bihar, reported ANI. “People of Bihar will actually celebrate Vijayadashami by defeating NDA. Govt only gave poverty, unemployment, crime, corruption. Bihar didn't get spl status, spl package. People are fed up with the govt. RJD candidates will win from both seats,” he said. Election of Cong president to be held between Aug 21 and Sep 20, 2022The election for All India Congress Committee (AICC) president will be held between August 21 and September 20 next year, the party said on Saturday. Election of CWC and other bodies date to be announced later during plenary session. Union ministers inaugurate Hunar Haat in RampurUnion Ministers Dharmendra Pradhan, Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi and Arjun Ram Meghwal inaugurated Hunar Haat in Rampur today, as a part of the series of Hunar Haats across the country under Azaadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav. pic.twitter.com/gSu0I0xDpNNSG deployed at IAF Srinagar & Jammu stations to provide anti-drone cover National Security Guard DG M A Ganapath said in an official statement on Saturday that “counter-terrorism commando force National Security Guard deployed at IAF Srinagar and Jammu stations to provide anti-drone cover to these vital installations”. HDFC bank posts 18 percentage rise in consolidated net profitHDFC Bank posted an 18 percentage rise in consolidated net profit at ₹9,096 crore for quarter that ended September 30, the bank said in an official statement on Saturday.Andaman and and Nicobar Islands renamed in Netaji's honour to give him a ‘proper place’ in history: Amit ShahUnion home minister Amit Shah announced on Saturday that Andaman and and Nicobar Islands have been renamed Netaji Subash Chandra Bose island in honour of the late freedom fighter. “For years, efforts were made to diminish the image of many leaders. But now it's the time to give them proper place in history. People who have sacrificed their lives should get place in the history. That's why we renamed this island after Netaji,” Shah said. Russia tops 1,000 daily coronavirus deaths for first timeRussia on Saturday topped 1,000 deaths over 24 hours for the first time since the start of the coronavirus pandemic, with the country's jab drive at a standstill and no restrictions in place.US: 4 hospitalised, including 1 critically, during football match in AlabamaAt least four people were hospitalised including one critically injured on Friday (local time), after having been shot in United States' Mobile city in Alabama state at Ladd-Peebles Stadium, local media reported.Mizoram reports 932 new Covid cases, 6 more fatalitiesMizoram on Saturday registered 932 new Covid-19 cases, 31 more than the previous day, with the tally rising to 1,11,651, a health department official said.As heavy rain lashes Kerala, red alert in 5 districtsAs heavy rain lashes Kerala, red alert in 5 districts; night journey banned in hilly areas.2 arrested for threatening to kill classical musicianTwo persons were arrested for allegedly threatening to kill classical musician Ustad Rashid Khan, police said on Saturday.IMF hails India's 'swift and substantial' response to Covid-19 crisisDescribing the Indian government's response to the Covid-19 situation as "swift and substantial", the International Monetary Fund (IMF) has said the country continued with labour reforms and privatisation despite the pandemic.Elections for Congress president to be held in September 2022: ReportElections for Congress president to be held in September 2022: Sources, reports news agency ANI.Islamic State claims mosque bombing in south AfghanistanThe Islamic State group has claimed responsibility for a deadly suicide bombing on a Shiite mosque in southern Afghanistan that killed 47 people and wounded scores more.Terrorist killed in encounter in J-K's PulwamaA terrorist has been killed in encounter in Jammu and Kashmir's Pulwama.If we are united, we will do well: Sonia Gandhi.We face many challenges but if we are united, focus on party's interests alone, we will do well: Sonia Gandhi on upcoming assembly polls.Govt's single-point agenda is 'sell, sell, sell': Sonia GandhiGovt's only answer for economic recovery is selling off national assets, its single-point agenda is 'sell, sell, sell': Sonia Gandhi.Sonia Gandhi says she is the full-time, hands-on president of CongressAt CWC meeting, Sonia Gandhi says she is the full-time, hands-on president of Congress, reports ANI.Every party member wants revival of Congress: Sonia GandhiEvery party member wants revival of Congress, but this requires unity and keeping party's interests paramount: Sonia Gandhi at CWC meet.Fire in Thane furniture godown doused, no casualty reportedA fire which broke out at a furniture godown in Kasheli locality of Bhiwandi, Thane on Friday has been doused after six hours of efforts by the fire department.NASA to launch first space probe to study Jupiter's Trojan asteroidsNASA is set on Saturday to launch a first-of-its kind mission, dubbed Lucy, to study Jupiter's Trojan asteroids, two large clusters of space rocks that scientists believe are remnants of primordial material that formed the solar system's outer planets.CWC meeting underway in DelhiCongress Working Committee (CWC) meeting to discuss the current political situation, upcoming Assembly polls, and organisational elections, underway at AICC office in Delhi.India logs 15,981 new Covid-19 cases, 166 deaths in last 24 hoursIndia recorded 15,981 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, which pushed the nationwide tally to 34,053,573, while the death toll climbed to 451,980 with 166 daily fatalities, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Saturday. 11 kids drowned, 10 rescued in Indonesian river cleanupEleven students drowned and 10 others were rescued during a school outing for a river cleanup in Indonesia's West Java Province, officials said Saturday.Sasikala to return to Jayalalithaa memorial todayVK Sasikala, the former interim general secretary of the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK), who has been lying low for the past few months, is set to visit former Tamil Nadu chief minister J Jayalalithaa's memorial in Chennai on Saturday.Moderate earthquake rocks Bali, killing at least 3Three people were killed and another seven were injured when a moderately strong earthquake and an aftershock hit Indonesia’s resort island of Bali early Saturday.PM Modi greets Odisha CM on his birthdayPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday extended birthday greetings to Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik and wished him long and healthy life in the service of the people.Earthquake of magnitude 3.7 hits Manipur's ChurachandpurAn earthquake of magnitude 3.7 on the Richter scale hit Churachandpur in Manipur on Saturday morning.NASA to launch Lucy probe to investigate Jupiter asteroidsNASA was set Saturday to launch a spacecraft called Lucy on a 12-year mission to explore for the first time a group of rocky bodies known as the Jupiter Trojan asteroids, gathering new insights into the solar system's formation.Taliban ask officials not to carry out public executions: ReportThe Taliban has directed local officials to refrain from carrying out punishments in public unless Afghanistan's "top court" issues the order for public execution.At least 46 killed in Taiwanese apartment building infernoAt least 46 people were killed and another 41 injured after a fire broke out early Thursday in a run-down mixed commercial and residential building in the Taiwanese port city of Kaohsiung, officials said.World Food Day 2021: Know its history, significance and themeWorld Food Day is celebrated all over the world on October 16. It is an initiative by the Food and Agricultural Organisation (FAO) of the United Nations.Sabarimala Ayyappa temple to open today for ‘Thula masam’ poojasSabarimala temple, the hill shrine of Lord Ayyappa, will open on Saturday at 5pm for 'Thula masam' poojas and on the next day a draw of lots would be held to select its next 'melshanti' (head priest), the Travancore Devaswom Board said on Thursday, reports news agency PTI.UNSC strongly condemns 'horrendous terrorist attack' in Afghanistan's KandaharThe United Nations Security Council (UNSC) on Friday strongly condemned the 'horrendous terrorist attack' against the Imam Bargah-e-Fatima Mosque in Afghanistan's Kandahar province and underlined the need to bring perpetrators of the attack to justice.CWC meet today, decision on organisation elections likelyThe Congress Working Committee (CWC), the party’s highest executive body, will meet on Saturday to give another try to fix the schedule for long-pending organisation elections — an exercise that will have to keep in mind upcoming assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand and Goa, according to people aware of the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-october-16-2021-101634340589223.html
17-10-2021||NA||Highlights: Sidhu assured Rahul Gandhi that he has withdrawn his resignation||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:Puducherry extends Covid-19 restrictions till Oct 31,  night curfew from 11pm to 5am The government of Puducherry extends #COVID19 restrictions in the union territory till 31st October 2021 (midnight).Corona Curfew from 11 pm till 5 am every day in Puducherry. pic.twitter.com/wCFMsfFFqVThe Puducherry administration extended the Covid-19 restrictions till October 31 and said that a ‘Corona curfew’ between 11pm and 5am everyday would be in place, reports ANI.Amit Shah flags off ‘Go-Go tourists buses’ in Port Blair, Andaman and NicobarUnion Home Minister Amit Shah flagged off 'Go-GO Tourist Buses' in Port Blair, Andaman & Nicobar Islands earlier this evening. pic.twitter.com/PgBPfq1eUgHome minister Amit Shah flagged off Go-Go tourist buses in Port Blair, Andaman and Nicobar islands as part of his visit, reports ANI.‘Everything sorted out’: Sidhu after meeting Rahul Gandhi“Everything has been sorted out,” says Navjot Singh Sidhu after meeting Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in Delhi, reports ANI.Sidhu shared concerns with Rahul Gandhi, to continue as Punjab Congress president: Harish RawatHarish Rawat said that Navjot Singh Sidhu has shared his concerns with Rahul Gandhi and the party has told that they would be addressed, reports ANI. “He (Sidhu) assured Rahul Gandhi that he has withdrawn his resignation and he will resume his duties as the PCC president,” Rawat said.Sidhu will abide by Congress high command, continue working for party, says Harish RawatPunjab Congress leader Harish Rawat said that Navjot Singh Sidhu would abide by the party's central leadership and would continue working for the party, reports ANI. Navjot Singh Sidhu arrives at Rahul Gandhi's residence in Delhi#WATCH | Navjot Singh Sidhu arrives at the residence of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, in Delhi. pic.twitter.com/gA4hdeoOMRPunjab Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu arrived at the residence of party leader Rahul Gandhi in Delhi, reports ANI. Maharashtra sees 2,149 new Covid-19 cases, 29 deathsMaharashtra reported 2,149 new Covid infections and 29 deaths as the state's tally reached 6,588,429 and the death toll climbed to 139,734. Of these, Mumbai added 480 new cases and five fatalities. The cities tally was recorded at 750,974 while the death toll was at 16,177.UK Conservative MP David Amess dies after being stabbed multiple times UPDATE: British lawmaker David Amess was stabbed to death at a church by a man who walked into a meeting with voters from his electoral district, police said https://t.co/Yx4DZgNtfq pic.twitter.com/FnqQTlVNC0UK MP David Amess died after being stabbed multiple times at a church by a man who walked into a meeting with voters from his electoral district, reports Reuters citing the police.Rajasthan allows sale, bursting of green crackers in state except NCR areaThe government of Rajasthan amends its earlier order, allows the sale & bursting of green crackers in the entire state, except NCR area. Bursting will be allowed from 8-10 pm on Diwali, Gurupurab & other festivals. 6-8 am on Chhath & 11:55 pm to 12:30 am on Christmas & New Year. pic.twitter.com/xyJ89ShWUYThe Rajasthan government amended its earlier order on ban of firecrackers and allowed the sale and bursting of crackers in the state except in the NCR area, reports ANI. Bursting will be allowed from 8pm to 10 pm on Diwali, Gurupurab and other festivals and between 6am to 8am on Chhath and between11:55 pm and 12:30 am on Christmas and New Year.US allows entry to fully vaccinated foreigners from November 8, reports AFP#BREAKING Fully vaccinated foreign visitors can enter US from November 8: White House pic.twitter.com/pamEQDGyZwThe US White House said that foreigners fully vaccinated against Covid-19 can enter the country from November 8, reports AFP.Karnataka reports 470 new Covid-19 cases, 9 deaths in 24 hoursKarnataka reports 470 new #COVID19 cases, 368 recoveries and 9 deaths in the last 24 hours.Total cases 29,82,869Total recoveries 29,35,238Death toll 37,931Active cases 9671 pic.twitter.com/vQqbh6rmCFKarnataka reported 470 new Covid-19 cases and nine more deaths as the state's tally reached 2,982,869 and the death toll climbed to 37,931, reports ANI.Kerala sees 8,867 new Covid-19 cases, 67 deaths in last 24 hoursKerala logged 8,867 new Covid-19 cses and 67 deaths in the last 24 hours. The death toll climbed to 26,734 and the active caseload was recorded at 94,756, reports ANI. 2 people arrested after speeding car knocks down crowd in Jashpur, Chhattisgarh#UPDATE | Both accused of the incident where a speeding car mowed down people in Pathalgaon, Jashpur arrested. Both - Bablu Vishwakarma and Shishupal Sahu - are residents of MP and passing through Chhattisgarh. Action is being taken against them: Jashpur SP office#ChhattisgarhTwo people have been arrested after the incident in Jashpur, Chattisgarh, where a speeding car ran over people during a rally, reports ANI. 1 dead, 16 injured after car runs over religious rally in Chhattisgarh's JashpurOne person dead and 16 others were injured after being run over by a car in Jashpur, Chhattisgarh.11 dead, 6 injured after trolley overturns in Chirgaon, Uttar Pradesh11 people, including four children, were dead and six other were injured after their trolley overturned in Chirgaon, reports ANI. The injured have been admitted to hospital.At least 32 dead, 53 wounded after blast in mosque in Kandahar, Afghanistan#BREAKING At least 32 dead, 53 wounded in Shiite mosque blast in Afghan city of Kandahar: medic pic.twitter.com/aVcu32aguTAt least 32 people were dead and 53 wounded following a bomb blast in a Shiite mosque in Kandahar, Afghanistan, reports AFP quoting a medic.Amit Shah arrives at Port Blair, Andaman and Nicobar islands, on 3-day visitAndaman and Nicobar Islands: Union Home Minister Amit Shah arrives in Port Blair on a three-day visit. He will participate in various events here. pic.twitter.com/gQfB8kFbS5Home minister Amit Shah arrived in Port Blair, Andaman and Nicobar islands, where he is scheduled to participate in various events during his three-day visit, reports ANI.Kandahar mosque attack: Reports show 16 dead, nearly 40 more injured after deadly blastLocal officials told TOLOnews that 16 people were killed and nearly 40 others were injured in today’s bombing attack on the Kandahar mosque: Afghanistan's TOLOnewsAs many as 16 people were killed and nearly 40 others have been injured in a bomb blast in a mosque in Kandahar, Afghanistan, reports ANI, citing TOLOnews.Dehradun admin to launch mega Covid-19 vaccination drive with focus on second dosesPeople who'll take 2nd dose during the period of Oct 18 to Nov 2, will be eligible to get various prizes via lucky draw. Prizes will be Electric scooter, refrigerator, TV, smart phones, etc. We've opened walk-in vaccination centres at Paltan Bazaar & Pacific mall: Dehradun DMThe Dehradun administration said that a mega Covid-19 vaccination drive is being launched and also announced prizes for people who get their second dose vaccine between October 18 and November 2, reports ANI. Odisha schools to reopen for class 11 on Oct 21, class 8 on Oct 25; Guidelines to be issued soonThe Odisha government has decided to reopen schools for class 11 from October 21 and for class 8 from October 25, reports ANI quoting state school education minister Samir Ranjan Dash. “Guidelines will be issued by the Department, whatever guidelines that we issued for classes 9th, 10th and 12th will continue,” Dash said.TN CM Stalin writes to counterparts in Delhi, Haryana, Odisha, Rajasthan for reconsidering blanket ban on crackersTamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin writes to his counterparts in Delhi, Haryana, Odisha and Rajasthan urging them to reconsider the blanket ban on sale of firecrackers and request that the sale of firecrackers that falls within the norms set by the Supreme Court and the National Green Tribunal may be permitted in their states.Body with severed hand found hanging at farmer protest site at Singhu borderThe body of a man in his 30s with a severed hand was found hanging close to the main stage of the farmer protest site at Singhu near the Delhi-Haryana border on Friday morning as police said the murder appears linked to the alleged desecration of the holy Sikh scripture. Read MorePM Modi addresses launch of 7 new defence companiesI urge these seven companies to prioritise 'research and innovation' in their work culture. You have to take lead in future technology, give opportunities to researchers. I would also urge startups to collaborate with these 7 companies: PM Modi on dedication of 7 new defence companiesCentre delegates power to Ladakh LG under Forest Rights ActThe President of India has empowered the Lieutenant Governor of Ladakh to exercise the powers and discharge the functions of the State Government under the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006 within the Union territory.Aryan Khan video calls family from Mumbai's Arthur Road JailAryan Khan spoke with his father Shah Rukh Khan and mother Gauri Khan via video call from inside Mumbai's Arthur Road Jail,  ANI reported .Mumbai Special court has reserved order for 20th October on his bail application.Bangladesh on edge after Durga Puja violence, security tightenedBangladesh was on tenterhooks on Friday as Muslims will offer their weekly prayers and Hindus in the country will immerse the idols of Durga as the violence over the alleged desecration of the Quran continued overnight even as authorities deployed security personnel in large numbers to bring the situation under control. Read MoreDelhi boy Mridul Agarwal tops IIT entrance exam JEE-AdvancedMridul Agarwal of IIT Delhi scores top rank in JEE entrance exam; obtained 348 marks out of 360 marks. Kavya Chopra of IIT Delhi zone has topped in the female category with CRL 98. She obtained 286 marks out of 360. India’s cumulative Covid-19 vaccination coverage exceeds 97.14 croresIndia’s cumulative Covid-19 vaccination coverage exceeds 97.14 crores (97,14,38,553) as per provisional reports till 7 am today, informs Union ministry of health.JCO, soldier killed in encounter with terrorists in J-K’s PoonchTwo Indian Army personnel, including a junior commissioned officer (JCO), were killed in a gunbattle with terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district, reports said on Friday.India records 16,862 new Covid-19 cases, 11% less than than yesterdayIndia's Covid-19 tally falls to 16,862, 11% less than than Thursday's cases.  The tally has now reached 34,037,592.Petrol crosses ₹111 in Mumbai, costs ₹111.09 a litre todayPetrol crosses Rs.111 in Mumbai. After the revision in prices, it was selling at Rs.111.09 per litre. Alitre of diesel was priced at Rs.101.78 on Friday.Those attacking Durga Puja pandals will be hunted down, punished: Sheikh HasinaBangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina has issued a tough warning against those involved in the attacks on Hindu temples and Durga Puja venues at several places, including Cumilla in the Chittagong division, and promised to bring to justice the culprits behind the violence.Prime Minister Narendra Modi extends Dusshera wishesविजयादशमी के पावन अवसर पर आप सभी को अनंत शुभकामनाएं।Greetings to everyone on the special occasion of Vijaya Dashami.Ex-US president Bill Clinton hospitalised with 'non-Covid infection'Former president Bill Clinton has been hospitalized with a non-Covid-related infection, a spokesman said Thursday evening.Clinton, 75, was admitted to a hospital in Irvine in southern California on Tuesday evening, Angel Urena tweeted.Safe from Taliban: 100 Afghan women football players evacuated to QatarAs many as 100 women footballers, including members of the national football team, were evacuated from Afghanistan, which is under the Taliban, on Thursday on a flight to Doha, the Qatari government said. “Around 100 footballers & their families including female players are on board,” Lolwah Al-Khater, Qatar's assistant foreign minister, said in a tweet. Read MoreMonsoon to complete its withdrawal todayThe monsoon withdrew from most parts of the country on Thursday, largely sticking to its usual schedule despite a late start to the withdrawal.Congress finalises succession plan for House panelsThe Congress party, which has struggled to effect a smooth succession plan for organisational positions, seems to have managed the process efficiently in its parliamentary wings. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-october-15-2021-101634255574221.html
17-10-2021||NA||Highlights: India re-elected to UN Human Rights Council for 6th term||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:1 dead, 14 injured after bus rams into truck in Himachal PradeshAt least one person died, and 14 others have been injured in a collision between a bus and a truck inside the Aut tunnel in Mandi district today, said Mandi superintendent of police Shalini Agnihotri. The injured have been taken to a nearby hospital for treatment. The police registered a case and started investigation in this regard, the SP added.Earthquake of 3.2 magnitude strikes Vijayapura in KarnatakaEarthquake of magnitude 3.2 on the Richter scale occurred at Vijayapura in Karnataka, bordering Maharashtra at 6:21pm today, according to the National Center for Seismology.J&K achieves 100% first dose Covid-19 vaccination for 18+ age group“Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir has achieved the milestone of 100% coverage of the first dose Covid-19 vaccine for the age group of above 18 years old across all 20 districts,” the Jammu and Kashmir administration said on Thursday.Counter terrorist operation underway in Poonch district, 2 Army personnel critically injuredIn an ongoing counter terrorist operation in general area Nar Khas Forest, Mendhar Sub Division, District Poonch there has been exchange of fire between army troops and terrorists during evening hours on 14 Oct 2021. During the ensuing exchange of fire one JCO and one soldier have been critically injured. The operations are under progress, the Indian Army said, issuing clarification. Read more hereIndia re-elected to UN Human Rights Council for 6th termIndia gets re-elected to UN Human Rights Council for 6th term with overwhelming majority. Other states elected by a majority of the 193 members of the UN General Assembly are: United States, Argentina, Benin, Cameroon, Finland, Gambia, Honduras, Kazakhstan, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Montenegro, Paraguay, Qatar, Somalia and the United Arab Emirates.2 Army personnel killed in encounter with terrorists in J&K's PoonchTwo army personnel – a JCO and a soldier – were killed in Bhata Dhurian area of Mendhar sub divison in Poonch district during an encounter between the forces and militants.Traffic has been suspended on Jammu-Rajouri-Poonch national highway due to the ongoing operation.Click here to read moreDDMA says district admins to enforce Covid appropriate behaviour at vulnerable places during fetivalsIn view of upcoming festivals, all District Magistrates & counterpart District DCPs will be responsible for strict enforcement of COVID Appropriate Behaviour at all places identified vulnerable for transmission of COVID19: Delhi Disaster Management AuthorityThe Delhi Disaster Management Authority said that all district magistrates and DPCs should enforce Covid appropriate behaviour at vulnerable places during festivals, reports ANI. Maharashtra 2,384 new Covid-19 cases, Mumbai adds 558 cases to tallyMaharashtra reported 2,384 new Covid-19 cases as the total confirmed infections reached 6,586,280 and 35 more deaths pushed the toll to 139,705. Mumbai added 558 infections and five deaths to the state's tally. The city has so far reported 750,494 cases and 16,172 deaths.Punjab Congress meeting ends, Sidhu should continue as state unit's president, says RawatCongress leader Harish Rawat said that Navjot Singh Sidhu would agree to the Congress president's decision and he would continue the state unit's president.Sidhu said he has expressed his concerns to the party high command and will follow their directions, reports ANI. Punjab Congress leaders arrive at AICC office in Delhi to discuss party issuesAICC in-charge of Punjab, Harish Rawat arrives at Congress office in DelhiNavjot Singh Sidhu and Charanjit Channi have spoken on some issues, a solution will emerge...there are some things that take time, he says. pic.twitter.com/YANts2VcgqPunjab Congress leaders Navjot Singh Sidhu and Harish Rawat arrived at the All India Congress Committee office in Delhi to discuss organisational matters regarding party's state unit, reports ANI. India confirms participation in Moscow Format Meeting on Afghanistan on Oct 20 The ministry of external affairs said that India has been invited to the Moscow Format Meeting on Afghanistan on October 20. “We will be participating in it. It is likely that we will have it at the joint secretary-level,” MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said, reports ANI. Mumbai special court rejects actor Armaan Kohli's bail plea in drugs caseA special NDPS Court rejected the bail plea of actor Armaan Kohli in a drugs case. The NCB arrested Kohli earlier in August for alleged possession of narcotic substances.PM Modi to address defence ministry event to dedicate new Defence Companies: PMOPM Modi will deliver a video address at an event organised by the Defence Ministry, to dedicate the seven new Defence Companies to the Nation, tomorrow: Prime Minister's Office(file photo) pic.twitter.com/KsX9tLQi4LPrime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to address an event tomorrow, organised by the ministry of defence to dedicate the seven new Defence Companies to the nation, reports ANI quoting the Prime Minister's Office (PMO).Congress' Rahul Gandhi visits former PM Manmohan Singh in AIIMS, DelhiCongress leader Rahul Gandhi leaves from All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi after meeting former prime minister Dr. Manmohan SinghSingh was admitted to AIIMS, Delhi yesterday pic.twitter.com/4cTpGGNCMFCongress leader Rahul Gandhi met with former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, who is currently admitted in the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Delhi, reports ANI. Norway attack appears to be 'act of terror', say security servicesThe Norway bow-and-arrow attack, in which five people were killed, appeared to be an "act of terror," reports AFP citing the country's security services.'Economy reopening in calibrated way': Union minister Hardeep Singh PuriUnion petroleum and natural gas minister Hardeep Singh Puri said that the economy is reopening in “calibrated way,” reports ANI. “Our petrol consumption is 10-15% more than pre-Covid times. Diesel consumption is 10% higher than pre-Covid times. The economic activity is reviving,” Puri said.Mumbai court adjourns Aryan Khan's bail plea matter to October 20No bail for Aryan Khan yet as the Mumbai court hearing the arguments from both sides in the bail plea of Aryan Khan, Actor Arbaaz Merchant and model Munmun Dhamecha, adjourned the matter to October 20 for bail order.Nepal, Myanmar, Iran, Bangladesh receive 10 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses each under Vaccine Maitri: ReportUnder the Vaccine Maitri initiative, Nepal, Myanmar, Iran and Bangladesh have received 10 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses each, reports ANI citing government sources.Tamil Nadu offers more Covid-19 relaxations: Places of worship open on weekends, shops allowed till 11pmTamil Nadu government has announced more Covid-19 relaxations in the state. Places have worship have been opened to public on Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays. Shops allowed till 11pm and beaches have also been opened for public on Sundays. NCPCR writes to Delhi govt on complaint about using minor children for advertisement The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) writes to Delhi Government about a complaint against it for using minor school children of Delhi for a promotion advertisement shoot, violating Covid-19 protocol guidelines and endangering the lives of minor school children, reports ANITaiwan building fire: 46 dead, dozens injured in overnight fire in Kaohsiung city#UPDATE An overnight fire tore through a building in the southern Taiwanese city of #Kaohsiung on Thursday, killing 46 people and injuring dozens of others, officials said pic.twitter.com/k8TVxIlLyWAn overnight fire that broke out in a building in Kaohsiung city, Taiwan, left 46 people dead and dozens more injured, reports AFP.Russia sees grim daily Covid-19 cases, deathsRussia reported grim number of 31,299 daily Covid-19 infections and 986 deaths in the last 24 hours, a new high in the country. The death toll reached 220,315, the highest in Europe, reports AFP. Shortage of coal due to rain, efforts underway to fulfill demand for thermal power: Union minister Pralhad JoshiThere was shortage of coal due to rain & as coal import was ceased. We are supplying 2 million tonnes of coal since y'day. We are making efforts to fulfill demand for thermal coal power. I visited South Eastern Coalfields y'day: Union Minister Pralhad Joshi in Chatra, Jharkhand pic.twitter.com/M87koPsnTuUnion coal minister Pralhad Joshi said that there was a shortage of coal due to rains and as coal import was ceased and also said that efforts to fulfill demands of thermal power is underway, reports ANI.Fire kills 9 people, injures 44 in southern TaiwanA fire engulfed a 13-story building overnight in southern Taiwan, killing nine people and injuring 44, the island’s semi-official Central News Agency reported Thursday.'People of UP can make us win 400 seats': SP chief Akhilesh Yadav on 2022 pollsSamajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav has claimed that his party can win 400 seats in Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections scheduled next year. He also said that SP's aim is to remove the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government. Read MoreIndia's annual inflation rate in Sept at 10.66%The annual rate of inflation is 10.66% (Provisional) for September 2021 (over Sep 2020) as compared to 1.32% in Sep 2020. The high rate of inflation in September 2021 is primarily due to rise in prices of mineral oils, basic metals, non-food articles crude petroleum and natural gas. Displaced Kashmiri employees to be posted in safer areas after attacks on civiliansEmployees recruited under a scheme for displaced Kashmiris will be posted in safe and secure instead of far-flung and vulnerable areas in Kashmir for the time being, officials said on Wednesday.Durga Puja: No immersion of idols at public place or in water bodies, rules DPCCThe Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) has issued directions for the Durga Puja festivities in the national capital, which includes, among others, prohibition on the immersion of idols at any public place, or water bodies.ED summons Jacqueline Fernandez, Nora Fatehi in money laundering caseBollywood actors Jacqueline Fernandez, Nora Fatehi summoned by Enforcement Directorate in money laundering case, reports ANI. Delhi CM write to LG, suggesting nod for Chhath celebration"Covid situation is better in Delhi. In my view, we should permit Chhath Puja following all the protocol," writes Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal to Delhi LG Anil Baijal over Chhath celebration in the National CapitalAryan Khan, 5 other shifted to common cell after negative Covid-19 reportAryan Khan and five others have been shifted to the common cell from quarantine barrack in the jail after their Covid report came negative, says Nitin Waychal superintendent of Arthur Road Jail.Himachal Pradesh's Kinnaur achieves target of 100% fully vaccinated populationHimachal Pradesh's Kinnaur achieves the target of fully vaccinating 100% of its eligible population. “Kinnaur is the first district across the country to achieve this feat. We've achieved our target of vaccinating all the eligible population: Kinnaur DC Abid Hussain Sadiq.India's daily Covid-19 tally takes 24.2% jumpIndia's daily Covid-19 tally takes 24.2% jump, 18,987 new cases recorded in 24 hours.Explained: Why bypolls in 14 states are crucial ahead of Assembly electionsThe country is set to witness assembly elections in five states next year. But before that, by-elections to three Lok Sabha seats and 30 assembly seats spread across 14 states will capture the political pulse of the country. Read MoreNew Kushinagar airport is step towards India firming its Buddhist legacyAmidst the presence more than 100 priests and eight high priests from Sri Lanka led by Prime Minister Mahinda Rajpaksa’s minister son Namal, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will place Kushinagar, site of Lord Buddha’s Parinirvana, firmly on Buddhist Tourism circuit by inaugurating the international airport on October 20. Read MoreWHO announces names proposed by it for study into origins of novel pathogensThe World Health Organization (WHO) has announced the names proposed by it for a team of experts, which it described as the world's “last chance” to determine the origins of SARS-CoV-2, the virus which birthed the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Iraq, Syria militants ‘actively’ entering Afghanistan: Russia's PutinRussian President Vladimir Putin said Wednesday that battle-hardened militants from Iraq and Syria are "actively" entering Afghanistan. Read MoreAryan Khan: Drugs case hearing to continue today, here's where things standThe Mumbai cruise drug raid by Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) and the subsequent arrest of Bollywood star Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan, among others, in recent days has generated quite a buzz. Read MorePresident Kovind begins his Ladakh, J&K tour today; to mark Dussehra with jawansPresident of India Ram Nath Kovind will celebrate Dussehra this year with the soldiers of the Indian Army in Ladakh's Drass area, one of the coldest places in the world where temperatures can drop to less than -40°C. Read MoreIndia will administer 1bn vaccine doses by October-end: MandaviyaIndia will cross an important milestone of having administered a billion vaccine doses by the third week of October, and will then take a call on resumption of exports of locally-made Covid vaccines, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Wednesday.Sputnik Light 70% effective against Delta variant: RDIFThe Russian-made one-shot Sputnik Light vaccine shows 70% efficacy in preventing Covid-19 caused by the Delta variant of the Sars-CoV-2 virus, the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) said on Wednesday, citing data from the vaccine’s developer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-live-october-14-2021-101634169050536.html
