18-10-2021||India||3 cops suspended after official detained for principal’s disappearance escapes||Bhubaneswar: Three policemen were suspended in western Odisha’s Bolangir on Monday after the president of a private school’s managing committee in neighbouring Kalahandi district who was detained in connection with the disappearance of the school’s principal, escaped from police custody, police said.Three policemen who were responsible for guarding Gobind Sahu have been suspended on charges of dereliction of duty, said Bolangir superintendent of police Kusalkar Nitin Dagdu.Sahu escapad from police barracks in Titlagarh town of Bolangir late on Sunday after being allowed to step out on the pretext of washing his hands after dinner. Sahu was detained on Wednesday last, October 13, for questioning in connection with the disappearance of school principal Mamita Meher on October 8.The missing principal brother, Banti Meher, blamed the principal’s disappearance on the school managing committee’s president, according to the FIR registered by the police. In the FIR, Banti Mehr alleged his sister went missing after she threatened to expose Sahu, who she alleged, harassed the school’s female teachers.In recent days, her family had questioned why the police hadn’t placed Sahu under arrest.Congress MLA from Kantabanji, Santosh Singh Saluja alleged that the delay in arresting the school official could be linked to minister of state for home Dibya Shankar Mishra earlier felicitating at a public event.“It is not possible to hold an impartial inquiry in the matter as long as minister Mishra is at the helm of affairs,” Saluja said.BJP leader Manoj Meher asked why Mishra who is also the local MLA hasn’t made any public comment about the case.Minister of state Dibya Shankar Mishra could not be contacted for his comments. Kalahandi district BJD vice president Jitendra Mohanty denied that there was any link between the school official and the ruling Biju Janata Dal.”The case is still under investigation, so the minister does not want to speak to the meadia on this as it may be interpreted as interfering in the probe,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-cops-suspended-after-official-detained-for-principal-s-disappearance-escapes-101634581593031.html
18-10-2021||India||India, Israel share ties of centuries: Jaishankar||The Indian diaspora in Israel has served as an umbilical cord that has nourished relations between the two nations, and there is a need to better document the heritage and history of the community, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said. Jaishankar made the remarks while interacting with members of the Indian Jewish community and Indologists in Jerusalem on Sunday. He is on his first visit to Israel after becoming foreign minister, and is holding talks with officials to boost bilateral relations.He said he was happy to be in Israel, a “land with which we have ties of centuries”, and amid the Indian Jewish community that has “in many ways been an umbilical cord” that has nourished these relations.Some Indian Jews were “uprooted in more difficult times and moved against their will”, while others made “more prescient choices” to move out of the country, he noted. “But among all of them, I would say that the Indian Jewish community is in many ways very unique because one, like other communities, it is a community that has existed peacefully in India for hundreds of years, which maintained its Jewish identity despite isolation from other Jewish communities,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-israel-share-ties-of-centuries-jaishankar-101634581449285.html
18-10-2021||India||Dera chief Ram Rahim, 4 others awarded life sentence in 2002 murder case||Panchkula: A special court of the Central Bureau of Investigation in Panchkula on Monday awarded life sentence to Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim and four others convicted in the murder of former dera manager Ranjit Singh in 2002. The four others are Jasbir Singh, a follower; Krishan Lal, a dera manager; Sabdil, gunman of the dera head; and Avtar Singh, a dera functionary. “All five convicts, including Ram Rahim, have been awarded life sentence,” CBI special public prosecutor HPS Verma said. The federal investigative agency had sought the death penalty. Ram Rahim had pleaded for mercy. The court had convicted the dera head and four others on October 8.Ranjit Singh, a former follower of Ram Rahim, was shot dead by four assailants on July 10, 2002, at his native Khanpur Kolian village in Kurukshetra. “We are satisfied (with the punishment). It has been a long battle for my family. We have lived in fear all these years, but have fought to get justice,” Jagseer Singh, son of Ranjit Singh, said after Monday’s verdict. Ranjit Singh was murdered as Ram Rahim suspected he was behind the circulation of an anonymous letter that revealed the sexual exploitation of woman followers at the dera, according to the CBI. In June 2002, Ranjit Singh was summoned to the dera and threatened with dire consequences, but he refused to seek pardon, saying he had done nothing wrong. The dera chief is already serving a 20-year jail term for raping two followers and has been sentenced to life for the murder of a journalist in 2002. Ram Rahim appeared through video-conferencing from Sunaria jail in Rohtak, while the four others were present in the court at the time of the sentencing. The hearing was conducted amid tight security at the Panchkula district court complex. Prohibitory orders were in place against the assembly of five and more people in Panchkula district. There were mainly three cases against the Sirsa-based dera chief since 2002. All were investigated by the CBI. The dera chief has been convicted in two cases, one related to sexual exploitation of women disciples and the other of the murder of journalist Ram Chander Chhatrapati. The third case was Ranjit Singh’s murder. The first conviction was in a sexual exploitation case in August 2017, which had resulted in widespread violence in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh. Thirty-six people were killed in Panchkula alone in the violence reported after his conviction on August 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dera-chief-ram-rahim-4-others-awarded-life-sentence-in-2002-murder-case-101634581472894.html
18-10-2021||India||4 dead in Uttarakhand; heavy rain claims 41 lives across country||New Delhi: Four people were killed in Uttarakhand on Monday as heavy rain lashed several parts of the country, triggered by western disturbances and low pressure areas in the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal, taking the rain-related death toll to 41 in the past 48 hours across India.Of the 41 deaths, 35 were reported from Kerala, four from Uttarakhand and one each from Himachal Pradesh and West Bengal. Kerala received extreme rainfall on Friday and Saturday due to a low pressure area in the Arabian Sea. Six districts in central and southern Kerala received over 204mm rain in 48 hours. Peerumedu in Idukki district received the maximum 297mm rainfall. Other parts of the country, such as Chandigarh, Kolkata and Shimla, received the highest single-day rain in October in the past one decade.In Uttarakhand, several roads were blocked as heavy rains threw life out of gear on Monday. While three people died in Lansdowne in Pauri Garhwal district after a shanty collapsed under heavy muck brought in by the rains on Monday morning, a 53-year-old woman died in a similar incident in Champawat district. In the hilly Pithoragarh district, at least 10 roads, including three major arteries — Tanakpur to Pithoragarh, Jauljibi to Munsiyari and Tawaghat- to Darma — were blocked due to landslides, officials said.The state government suspended the char dham yatra and advised pilgrims who arrived in Haridwar and Rishikesh by Sunday not to proceed further till the weather improves. Higher reaches in Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh on Monday received snowfall, bringing down day temperatures by at least 5 degrees Celsius. Many rivers, including Sutlej in Himachal Pradesh and Ram Ganga in Uttarakhand, were flowing 3-5 feet above the danger mark, officials said. Uttarkhand received 36.7mm rainfall in the past 24 hrs, whereas Himachal Pradesh received 37.2 mm, almost 40% more than the decadal average of daily rainfall in October in the western Himalayas.The sudden rainfall was owing to confluence of two weather systems (westerlies and easterlies) from the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal, meteorologist Mohammad Hussain Mir said. “These systems together focused over Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and other areas to bring the precipitation,” he said. “This does not happen routinely, but occasionally every 2-3 years.” The unseasonal rainfall has impacted the government’s purchase of farm produce, especially paddy, in western Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh. However, agriculture department officials in Punjab said there was less impact on paddy procurement in the state as rainfall there was negligible. The rain brought good news to farmers preparing to plant the winter crop, which would be completed by mid-November in the plains of northern India.In eastern India, heavy rainfall, triggered by a low pressure area over West Bengal and northern Odisha, battered districts in southern Bengal, including Kolkata, and coastal parts of Odisha since Sunday night. Some of the India Meteorological Department stations in the coastal districts, such as South 24 Parganas and East Midnapore, received more than 100mm rain in the past 24 hours. The Met department in Jharkhand has issued a yellow alert, a warniong for severe weather, as the state received 89mm rainfall in the past 24 hours. “The total rainfall during post-monsoon in Jharkhand is not very unusual. On many occasions in the past, cyclonic formations have caused more rain in the post-monsoon season in Jharkhand,” said Abhishek Anand, head of the weather department in Ranchi.Bihar also received rainfall in many regions such as Parsa and Amnaur in Saran district, Jandaha in Vaishali and Tarari in Bhojpur districts. The eastern state recorded 110.6mm rain against the normal rain of 53.1 mm between October 1 and October 18, a jump of 108%, official data show. Low pressure over southern Madhya Pradesh and cyclonic circulation over Gangetic West Bengal and adjoining northern Odisha caused the rainfall, said CK Singh, meteorologist at Patna Meteorological Centre. “The untimely rain in the state will have negative impact on crops,” Patna-based agriculture expert Anil Kumar Jha said. “The excess rain that occurred this month has resulted in abundance of moisture in soil. Consequently, farmers will face difficulty in harvesting ready kharif crops, while sowing for rabi crops, including lentils, oilseeds and grams, will be delayed.” Several districts in Madhya Pradesh, such as Sheopur and Agar Malwa, witnessed 200mm to 300mm rainfall in 24 hours. Sheopur recorded 312mm rainfall in the past 24 hours, followed by Datia (177mm), Agar Malwa (107.8mm) and Niwari (101mm), according to the local weather office. In Raisen, Agar Malwa, Sheopur, Datia and other parts of northeast Madhya Pradesh, paddy and Bajra crops ready for harvesting have been damaged, officials said. (With inputs from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-dead-in-uttarakhand-heavy-rain-claims-41-lives-across-country-101634581172701.html
18-10-2021||India||Rail Roko: Many stranded, traffic hit as farmers block tracks for six hours||The countrywide call to block rail traffic for six hours by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) against the Lakhimpur Kheri violence evoked strong response in several parts of Haryana, Punjab, parts of Uttarakhand and western Uttar Pradesh. The SKM, a collective of farmer organisations protesting farm reforms, had called for the Rail Roko protest on October 18 to demand the resignation of junior home minister Ajay Kumar Mishra, whose son Ashish Mishra has been booked for murder for his alleged involvement in the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri district of Uttar Pradesh in which eight people, including four farmers and a journalist, were killed earlier this month.Since Indian Railways did not issue any advisory to suspend or divert trains, many passengers were stranded from 10am to 4pm.In Punjab, rail traffic was blocked at several locations in Bathinda, Amritsar and Ludhiana. SKM activists said they staged protests at more than 100 places in Punjab and brought the rail traffic to a standstill.Farmers squatted on railway tracks at several locations in Karnal, Kurukshetra and Panipat districts in Haryana, but served food and water to stranded passengers, officials said. “I had to go to Delhi but there are no trains since morning. Now I am left with no option but to wait here till the movement of trains is restored,” said one Shruti Kumarat Karnal railway station.  “The call was given a week ago and commuters should have avoided travelling,” said Jagdip Singh Aulakh, Karnal district president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni), a constituent of SKM. In western Uttar Pradesh, farmers squatted on rail tracks and staged sit-ins on railway platforms at several places. The protests impacted movement of over a dozen long-distance trains at Meerut, Shamli, Muzaffarnagar, Saharanpur, Hapur and Bijnor, railway officials said. Blocking the movement of trains on the Lucknow-Bijnor-Najibabad route at Maujpur railway junction near Najibabad, BKU youth wing’s former state president Digamber Singh said: “The blockade affected the plying of the Chandigarh Express and other trains.”Police including Rapid Action Force personnel were deployed at railway stations and tracks. “No confrontation occurred anywhere and the protest remained peaceful,” said Rajeev Sabbharwal, additional director general of police (Meerut zone). The SKM had exempted Lakhimpur Kheri district from the strike call. “Owing to the already tense situation in Lakhimpur Kheri and also inclement weather hitting paddy farmers here, SKM leaders had called off the rail roko agitation in the district,” said Amandeep Singh Sandhu, district president, BKU (Tikait). In Uttarakhand, trains were stopped in Rudrapur, Kashipur and Khatima areas of Udham Singh Nagar district. “Halting trains is against railway laws. The railway police force will definitely file a case against the protesters,” said KD Kapri, station superintendent of Khatima railway station. There was negligible impact of the railway blockade call elsewhere in the country, with sporadic protests reported from West Bengal, Telangana, Karnataka and Maharashtra. Rail movement was normal in these states, railway officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rail-roko-many-stranded-traffic-hit-as-farmers-block-tracks-for-six-hours-101634580633663.html
18-10-2021||India||Wedding unimagined: Couple floats down aisle in cooking vessel in flood-hit Kerala||A soon-to-be married Indian couple in Kerala’s Alappuzha had to sail to their wedding venue in a cooking vessel as heavy rain inundated the southern state.A viral video is floating around the internet, in which the bride Aishwarya, a resident of Ambalapuzha, and the groom Akash, a resident of Thakazhi, are seen sitting in a round cooking pot, which is being pushed by two men as a cameraman attempts to capture their unusual trip down the aisle. Hindustan Times has not independently verified the video. #WATCH | A bride and a groom in flood affected Alappuzha of Kerala were ferried to Panayannurkavu Devi Temple, Thalavady in a cooking vessel for their wedding. Bride Aishwarya, a resident of Ambalapuzha, & groom Akash, a resident of Thakazhi, are both health workers in Chengannur pic.twitter.com/pBFvLHilF4"It has turned into a wedding which we never imagined," Aishwarya told reporters after concluding her nuptials at the Panayannurkavu Devi temple.Locals can be heard laughing and expressing their bewilderment at the unusual scene that greeted them on Monday. "Should have booked a boat instead of a car," a man can be heard saying in the background.Flash floods and landslides, brought about by torrential downpour, have claimed 24 lives so far in the southern state. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a yellow alert for 11 districts of the state for Monday.The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and armed forces have been deployed across the state to help assist in rescue operations. The state government has opened hundreds of relief centers across the state to shelter the thousands of people evacuated due to flooding.The heavy downpour which experts opine might have been caused by a cloudburst has also destroyed 90 houses and partially damaged 702 homes, the State Disaster Relief Force has said.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bride-and-groom-float-down-wedding-aisle-in-cooking-vessel-in-flood-hit-kerala-101634578800572.html
18-10-2021||India||'Leave it to us': Ex-Bihar CM Manjhi has a request for PM Modi over Kashmir killings||Amid a slew of targeted killings in Kashmir, former Bihar chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi on Monday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah to leave the responsibility on people of Bihar to improve the situation in the Valley. Speaking to news agency ANI, Manjhi said he has full faith in the government but the incidents are still taking place.“So I said that if the situation is getting out of control, we Biharis will settle the Kashmir issue if it's left to us. We'll form a strategy,” the Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM) leader told ANI, referring to his earlier tweet no Kashmir.#WATCH | "There's no doubt on the Govt. Still incidents are taking place. So I said that if situation is getting out of control, we Biharis will settle the Kashmir issue if it's left to us. We'll form strategy: Ex-Bihar CM Jitan Ram Manjhi on his tweet on civilian killings in J&K pic.twitter.com/gtsw7Q94quTerrorists have stepped up their attacks against the minority communities and non-locals living in Kashmir. In the last few days, terrorists have killed five hawkers and labourers from Bihar, causing panic among migrants. On Sunday, the terrorists indiscriminately started firing upon non-local labourers in the Wanpoh area of Kulgam, killing two and injuring one.The attack came a day after a golgappa seller from Bihar, identified as Arbind Kumar Sah, was gunned down in the Eidgah area of Srinagar. While the security agencies have intensified anti-terror operations in the Valley, the targeted killings have also continued.Earlier today, Manjhi tweeted out the bizarre request to the Central government, saying the recent killings have made him upset.“If the situation is not improving, then I request Prime Minister @narendramodi, @AmitShah to leave the responsibility of improving Kashmir on us Biharis. if we do not improve it in 15 days, then tell us,” Manjhi tweeted in Hindi.कश्मीर में लगातार हमारे निहत्थे बिहारी भाईयों की हत्या की जा रहीं है जिससे मन व्यथित है।अगर हालात में बदलाव नहीं हो पा रहें तो प्रधानमंत्री .@narendramodi जी,@AmitShah जी से आग्रह है,कश्मीर को सुधारने की जिम्मेवारी हम बिहारियों पर छोड दिजिए 15 दिन में सुधार नहीं दिया तो कहिएगा।||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/leave-it-to-us-ex-bihar-cm-manjhi-has-a-request-for-pm-modi-over-kashmir-killings-101634574803445.html
18-10-2021||India||India, Israel agree to conclude free trade pact by June 2022||India and Israel will resume negotiations on a free trade agreement (FTA) from November with the intention of signing the long-pending pact by June 2022, external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Israeli counterpart Yair Lapid said on Monday.The two countries held their first round of negotiations on an FTA in May 2010 but a deal has proved elusive. This is the first time the two sides have set a deadline for concluding the talks, reflecting the seriousness attached to the issue.Following his meeting with Lapid in Jerusalem, Jaishankar said the two countries were looking forward to finalising the agreement by the middle of next year.“Our officials have actually agreed on the resumption of the India-Israel free trade negotiations. Starting the negotiating process, talks will start in November and they are very confident that they would be able to conclude the negotiations by next June,” he said.Lapid said the FTA will be “finalised as fast as we can” in the interest of both sides. “We are continuing with our policy of connections, and we have seen in India a very important ally for many years. India also brings with her new opportunities for cooperation,” he said.Since the two countries established diplomatic ties almost three decades ago, bilateral trade has grown from $200 million in 1992 and reached $4.14 billion (excluding defence deals) during April 2020-February 2021. The balance of trade is in India’s favour. <blockquote class=”twitter-tweet”><p lang=”en” dir=”ltr”>Very productive talks today with APM and FM <a href=”https://twitter.com/yairlapid?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw”>@YairLapid</a>. <br><br>Discussed a wide range of regional and global issues. <br><br>Agreed to resume FTA negotiations next month. <br><br>Agreed in principle on mutual recognition of Covid vaccination certification. <a href=”https://t.co/sir0QDYzx3”>pic.twitter.com/sir0QDYzx3</a></p>&mdash; Dr. S. Jaishankar (@DrSJaishankar) <a href=”https://twitter.com/DrSJaishankar/status/1450048622444175364?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw”>October 18, 2021</a></blockquote> <script async src=”https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js” charset=”utf-8”></script>The foreign ministers agreed in principle on mutual recognition of vaccination certificates to ease travel amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Jaishankar said that while procedures are worked out, Israel will allow travel by Indian citizens vaccinated with Covishield, the Indian variant of the AstraZeneca vaccine.The ministers also agreed to expand cooperation in water and agriculture, which, the Israeli side said, has become a “central anchor” of relations in recent years.Jaishankar described his talks with Lapid as “productive” and said they had discussed a range of regional and global issues. Lapid said Jaishankar’s visit is a precursor to events to be held next year to mark 30 years of bilateral relations. Following the meeting of the foreign ministers, a signing ceremony was held to mark Israel’s accession to the International Solar Alliance (ISA), founded in 2015 at the initiative of India and France. Jaishankar and Israeli energy minister Karine Elharrar signed the agreement which will allow Israel to contribute its knowledge and experience to ISA.“What a great pleasure it is to see Israel joining the International Solar Alliance. I think you bring a lot of value to the table. And as we approach COP26, it’s very important to know about our growing agenda – green growth, green economy is given its new place,” Jaishankar said.Elharrar added, “Membership in the ISA, alongside more than 80 countries blessed with sun and promoting solar energy, will enable the state of Israel to contribute to the global struggle against climate change and to advance together solutions for a greener future.”Jaishankar is currently on his first visit to Israel since he became the external affairs minister in 2019. He is holding talks with the top Israeli leadership to boost cooperation in areas ranging from security to trade and climate change. During a meeting with the Israeli business community on Sunday, Jaishankar explored the possibilities in innovation, digital, green growth and health.Lapid and Jaishankar, accompanied by their wives, also visited Shalva Center, a facility caring for children with disabilities and providing support to their families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-israel-agree-to-conclude-free-trade-pact-by-june-2022-101634574873352.html
18-10-2021||India||‘My friend’: Israeli foreign affairs minister Lapid thanks Jaishankar for visit||The meeting between Union external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Israeli counterpart Yair Lapid ended on Monday with both parties agreeing to renew negotiations on a free trade area agreement from November. The top ministers said that the aim is to make the agreement ready for signing by mid-2022, according to an official statement.Earlier in the day, both the ministers agreed on mutual recognition of Covid-19 vaccination certificates amid calls to ease foreign travel. Notably, Jaishankar is on a three-day visit to Israel with the objective to strengthen India’s ties with the country.Jaishankar and Lapid also agreed on expanding cooperation in the “areas of water and agriculture, which, in recent years, have become a central anchor of the relations between the two countries,” the official statement noted.Following the meeting, the Union external affairs minister took to Twitter to hail the talks as “very productive.” Meanwhile, Lapid also thanked his “friend Jaishankar”, for visiting Israel – which marked a “precursor of events” to take place in 2022 on the occasion of 30 years of bilateral relations between Israel and India.“We are continuing with our policy of connections, and we have seen in India a very important ally for many years. India also brings with her new opportunities for cooperation,” Lapid said as per the statement.The Israeli foreign affairs minister also hailed New Delhi and Tel Aviv “helping one another” during the Covid-19 crisis last year, saying that it is how “friends and partners behave.”The meeting was followed by a signing ceremony, marking Israel’s accession to the International Solar Alliance (ISA), founded in 2015 on the initiative of India and France. Israeli minister of energy Karine Elharrar signed the agreement on behalf of Lapid.“Membership in the ISA, alongside more than 80 countries blessed with sun and promoting solar energy, will enable the State of Israel to contribute to the global struggle against climate change and to advance together solutions for a greener future,” she said.Jaishankar on Sunday hailed the enormous impact of the Indian-Jewish community in Israel during his interaction with them, even calling them “an umbilical cord” that has nurtured the relations between India and Israel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/my-friend-israeli-foreign-affairs-minister-lapid-thanks-jaishankar-for-visit-101634572978817.html
18-10-2021||India||Suvendu-led delegation meets Bangladesh envoy over Iskcon temple attack||A delegation led by West Bengal assembly's leader of opposition and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA Suvendu Adhikari on Monday met the deputy high commissioner of Bangladesh in Kolkata over the last week's violence at an Iskcon temple in the neighbouring country's Noakhali.A mob vandalised an Iskcon temple in Bangladesh's Noakhali district last Friday and reportedly killed one of its members. The religious organisation took to Twitter to say that the temple suffered “signifcant damage" during the attack.Earlier in the day, noted lyricist and poet Javed Akhtar took to Twitter to condemn the violence at temples in Bangladesh and criticised the Sheikh Hasina-led Bangladesh government.What is happening in Bangala Desh is a matter of great shame . Those who are trying to crush a vulnerable minority are bullies cowards and sick communalists. How can Sheikh Haseena who is known for secular values let this happen under her watchAwarding winning Bangladeshi-Swedish author Taslima Nasreen, too, condemned the Bangladeshi government for failing to protect the minorities.Cry, the beloved country. pic.twitter.com/XhmzsYtpilIskcon called upon the Bangladesh government to ensure safety and well-being of the Hindus and bring the perpetrators to justice.According to Iskcon authorities, a 500-strong mob first vandalised a Durga Puja pandal adjacent to the temple in Noakhali in Bangladesh before attacking the devotees in the Iskcon temple. The idol of Srila Prabhupada, the founder of Iskcon, was allgedly desecrated and books were set on fire.ALSO READ | Iskcon authorities seek UN chief, PM’s intervention after attack on temple in BangladeshThe violence at Iskcon temple in Noakhali came days after a series of vandalism were reported at Durga Puja pandals in Comilla, Chandpur, Chitagong and Cox’s Bazar districts, after posts went viral on social media about the alleged desecration of the Quran at a pandal in Comilla district. The mob also clashed with police personnel when they tried to disperse them. Local media reports claim at least three people were killed and several sustained injuries in separate such incidents. Meanwhile, the Bangladesh government ordered a probe into the matter.The Indian government last week said it was in close contact with Bangladeshi authorities over the attacks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suvenduled-delegation-meets-bangladesh-envoy-over-attack-on-iskcon-temple-101634569442386.html
18-10-2021||India||Top executive of pvt firm found murdered in Kolkata house he was trying to sell||KOLKATA: Subir Chaki, managing director of a Mumbai-headquartered engineering firm Kilburn Engineering, and his driver were found murdered on Monday morning in his south Kolkata house that he was trying to sell, police said. Investigators suspect that Chaki, who lives in New Town on the eastern outskirts of Kolkata, may have come to the three-storied house at Kankulia road to seal the deal for the house with a prospective buyer.Chaki and his driver, Rabin Mondal, were found dead with multiple stab wounds on their body including wrists and ankles.Police said the ground floor of the house was rented to a private company and no one lived on the other floors.The two bodies were discovered on Monday when employees of the private company reported for work on Monday morning. “They found the door connecting the ground and first floors shut from the inside, which was unusual,” an officer from the Gariahat police station said on condition of anonymity.“There was nothing valuable in the house that might have led to a robbery,” the officer cited above said.Police said the mobile phones of Chaki and his driver were missing and could have been taken away by the person who killed them.“It seems that the accused knew that Chaki was coming to his Kankulia road home. On earlier occasions, he would send his driver with the keys when prospective buyers wanted to see the property. It is possible that Chaki might have come to collect some payment in cash. Local residents said they heard several people talking inside the house on Sunday evening. They also claimed to have heard a woman’s voice. These claims are being verified,” a second police officer added.An alumnus of St Xavier’s School in Kolkata, IIT-Kharagpur and IIM-Calcutta, Subir Chaki had been with Kilburn Engineering Ltd for more than four years.“His son and daughter live in London and Mumbai, respectively,” the officer added.Rabin Mondal’s son Dilip Mondal said, “My father worked for Chaki for more than 20 years. He used to come home only once a month…. We have no idea what happened.”Police said the autopsy was completed on Monday evening and the bodies were handed over to the families of the two victims.The investigation has been taken up by the detective department of the Kolkata Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-executive-of-pvt-firm-found-murdered-in-kolkata-house-he-was-trying-to-sell-101634572052110.html
18-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: WHO says it 'cannot cut corners' for Covaxin's emergency use listing and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'Cannot cut corners': WHO says awaiting additional information on Bharat Biotech's CovaxinThe World Health Organization (WHO) on Monday said it cannot cut corners to recommend Covaxin’s inclusion in the Emergency Use Listing (EUL) for vaccination against coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read More‘Will continue to put forth our views till Teni resigns’: Tikait on ‘Rail Roko’ agitationFollowing the completion of the six-hour ‘rail roko’ agitation across India, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait said the movement was “fine” and that farmer unions will plan their “further strategy.” Read MoreTaliban committing ‘widespread violations’ against Afghan women, girls in Herat, claims Human Rights WatchHuman Rights Watch on Monday accused hardline Islamist group Taliban of causing “widespread and serious human rights violations against women and girls” in the Afghan province of Herat. Read More'Things have changed after the IPL': Kohli names India's opening pair for T20 World Cup, reveals where he will batWhat will India's top order look like is one of the biggest questions heading into the T20 World Cup. Rohit Sharma was the only certainty at the top, with the major toss up being between captain Virat Kohli and KL Rahul. Read MoreVicky Kaushal reveals his first reaction to engagement rumours with Katrina Kaif, why he did not comment thenVicky Kaushal said that he did not have the ‘mental space’ to deal with recent reports claiming that he secretly got engaged to his rumoured girlfriend Katrina Kaif in a roka ceremony. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-who-says-it-cannot-cut-corners-for-covaxin-s-emergency-use-listing-and-all-the-latest-news-101634569970526.html
18-10-2021||India||‘Will continue to put forth our views till Teni resigns’: Tikait on ‘Rail Roko’ agitation||Following the completion of the six-hour ‘rail roko’ agitation across India, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait said the movement was “fine” and that farmer unions will plan their “further strategy.” “Until he (Union home minister of state Ajay Mishra ‘Teni’) is arrested and he resigns, we will continue putting forth our views,” he told news agency ANI.Tikait said that Teni, whose son is an accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case, cannot “roam out in the open.” The BKU leader said that Teni will “influence the investigation” into the case and will try to save himself so the Centre must dismiss him as the minister.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body for dozens of farmer unions, called the six-hour-long stir between 10am and 4pm on Monday, demanding the removal of Teni as the Union minister for the involvement of his son Ashish Mishra in the Lakhimpur violence case. As many as eight people, including four farmers, lost their lives in the October 3 incident after two SUVs ran over a group of protesters and the violence that ensued.Throughout the day rail operations were massively impacted due to the agitation with farmers blocking the railway tracks in several areas in Haryana and Punjab by staging sit-ins and even squatting on them. Authorities in Haryana’s Sonipat railway station deployed personnel of the Rapid Action Force (RAF) in order to maintain security.As many as 50 trains across 130 locations in Haryana, Punjab and Rajasthan were affected due to the ‘rail roko’ agitation, ANI reported quoting a Northern Railway official. However, no such case was reported from Uttar Pradesh where police have imposed Section 144 of CrPC, prohibiting gathering of multiple people in one area.As per the latest updates, 10 accused have so far been arrested by the police, including Ashish Mishra. Sumit Jaiswal, Shishupal, Nandan Singh and Satya Prakash Tripathi were arrested on Monday by Lakhimpur Police and the SWAT team of the crime branch, according to ANI. Mishra and his alleged accomplice Ashish Pandey were denied bail by a court in Lakhimpur Kheri last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-rail-roko-tikait-says-will-continue-such-protests-till-teni-resigns-101634569134297.html
18-10-2021||India||'Cannot cut corners': WHO says awaiting additional information on Bharat Biotech's Covaxin||The World Health Organization (WHO) on Monday said it cannot cut corners to recommend Covaxin’s inclusion in the Emergency Use Listing (EUL) for vaccination against coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The UN health agency said it is expecting one additional piece of information from Covaxin manufacturer, Bharat Biotech, which has been submitting data to the WHO on a rolling basis.“We are aware that many people are waiting for WHO’s recommendation for Covaxin to be included in the #COVID19 Emergency Use Listing, but we cannot cut corners - before recommending a product for emergency use, we must evaluate it thoroughly to make sure it is safe and effective,” the WHO said in a series of tweets.The WHO’s nod for Covaxin’s emergency use authorisation is necessary for its widespread acceptability as a safe and effective vaccine around the world. Covaxin’s emergency use listing would encourage other countries to ease travel measures for those vaccinated with the India-made vaccine.“The timeframe for the WHO Emergency Use Listing procedure is dependent on how quickly a company producing the vaccine is able to provide the data required for WHO to evaluate the vaccine’s quality, safety, efficacy and its suitability for low- and middle-income countries,” the WHO posted on Twitter.On Sunday, WHO chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan said that the technical advisory group will meet on October 26 to decide on the emergency use listing of Covaxin. She added that the WHO’s goal is to have a broad portfolio of vaccines approved for emergency use and to expand access to populations everywhere.While the decision has been delayed multiple times, the Hyderabad-based company has maintained that it doesn’t find it “appropriate to speculate or comment on approval process and its timelines.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cannot-cut-corners-who-says-awaiting-additional-information-on-bharat-biotech-s-covaxin-101634568304903.html
18-10-2021||India||Foreign ministers of India, Israel, US and UAE to hold virtual meeting||India, Israel, the US and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) are set to build on the momentum created by the Abraham Accords by holding the first virtual meeting of their foreign ministers on Monday.The meeting, described in some quarters as a “new Quad”, will be joined by external affairs minister S Jaishankar, Israeli foreign minister Yair Lapid from Jerusalem, US secretary of state Antony Blinken from Washington and UAE foreign minister Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nahyan from Abu Dhabi. Jaishankar is currently on a visit to Israel.India, Israel and the UAE have already stepped up trilateral cooperation, especially in trade and investment, since the US brokered the Abraham Accords between the two West Asian countries in August 2020. This meeting will be the first to bring the four countries together on a common platform.The meeting also dovetails with India’s efforts to build new plurilateral and multilateral partnerships focused on cooperation in areas ranging from security to connectivity and energy. India has robust defence, security and trade cooperation with Israel and the US, while the UAE is a key energy partner. The UAE is also home to more than three million Indians, and security cooperation has been growing rapidly, with the first-ever visit by an Indian Army chief taking place last year.There was no official word from the four countries for the agenda of Monday’s meeting.India has backed the Abraham Accords process, following which Israel also normalised relations with Bahrain, Sudan and Morocco. The external affairs ministry has said these efforts are in line with India’s support for “peace and stability in West Asia which is our extended neighbourhood”.In May this year, India, Israel and the UAE concluded the first trilateral partnership whereby an Israel-based company will be producing a robotic solar cleaning technology in India for a project in the UAE.A statement issued at the time by the Israeli embassy in New Delhi said the Abraham Accords agreement between Israel and the UAE had “paved the way for friendships and business partnerships across the region”. The statement added, “India being a friend of both the UAE and Israel is clearly the preferred partner to leverage the global potential of the UAE, Israel and India trilateral.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-a-first-foreign-ministers-of-india-israel-us-and-uae-to-hold-virtual-meeting-101634565812205.html
18-10-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: October 19, 2001 — Asha Bhonsle gets Dada Saheb Phalke award for her contribution to cinema||New Delhi- This is one award over which there will be no dispute. Asha Bhonsle was today honoured with the Dada Saheb Phalke Award for her contribution to cinema. In the world of Indian films, there is no greater prize. And there is no argument over Asha Bhonsle’s greatness.“I am very happy. It is a great honour for me,” said Asha when she heard about the award. But the news would also have been music to the ears of the vast legion of her fans around the world.For nearly half a century, her voice has captivated audiences in India and abroad. O.P. Nayyar fans get nostalgic when they hear her songs and the MTV generation taps its feet to remixed versions.Asha lived for many years under the shadow of her equally popular sister, Lata Mangeshkar, who was initially preferred by music composers in the highly competitive music environment of the fifties.When Asha was struggling, Lata, Geeta Dutt, Shamshad Begum and Suraiya were all household names. Nayyar took her under his wing and she rendered some of the most memorable solo numbers heard in Hindi films.“Piya, piya na laage mora jiya...” from Phagun and “Le ke pehia, pehia pyar...” (CID) with Shamshad and Rafi ushered in not only an era of melody but also gave Punjabi folk music a big boost.It was O.P Nayyar who, by never ever using Lata’s voice, became instrumental in shaping Asha’s career. The two, however, parted ways during the making of Pran Jaye Par Vachan Na Jaye when Asha sang her last song for Nayyar, “Chain se humko kabhi...”Asha’s parting with Nayyar coincided with the beginning of another great partnership: this time with Rahul Dev Burman, whom she eventually married.The Pancham-Asha combination took the world of music by storm and hit after hit resulted. “Chura liya hai tumnejo dil ko, nazar nahin churana sanam...” from Yaadon Ki Barat and “O mere sona re, sona re, sona...” from Teesri Manzil are just two songs that come to mind. Asha Bhonsle hasn’t just survived through the ages. She has thrived. From working with Shankar-Jaikishan for Raj Kapoor’s magnum opus Mera Naam Joker to singing playback for Karisma Kapoor in Dil To Pagal Hai she has done it all. Of course, her fans would say, there’s lots more to come.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-october-19-2001-asha-bhonsle-gets-dada-saheb-phalke-award-for-her-contribution-to-cinema-101634565091765.html
18-10-2021||India||Eye on Raipur, Chhattisgarh’s TS Singhdeo back in Delhi to meet Cong leadership||RAIPUR: Chhattisgarh health minister TS Singhdeo, who had to cut short his Delhi visit due to infant deaths in his constituency, returned to the national capital on Monday to continue efforts to reach out to Congress leadership, people familiar with the matter said.Singhdeo’s visit comes against the backdrop of speculation that the health minister is nudging the party leadership to take an early call on his reported two and a half year power-sharing agreement with chief minister Bhupesh Baghel after the Congress won 68 of 90 seats in the 2018 assembly elections. According to this reported pact, TS Singhdeo, who was one of the claimants in 2018, agreed to let Bhupesh Baghel be the chief minister for the first half of the assembly’s five-term term on the assurance that his turn would come in 2021.Both, chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and health minister TS Singhdeo, have made several visits to Delhi over the last few months.Singhdeo took a flight to Delhi on Saturday and expected to spend a couple of days in the city but had to return to Chhattisgarh on Sunday after news emerged about the death of four infants in a government medical college in Ambikapur, which falls in his constituency.On Monday, he was back in Delhi.Chief minister Bhupesh Baghel was already in Delhi over the weekend for the Congress Working Committee (CWC). Baghel reached Delhi on Friday and after the meeting of the Congress’ highest policy-making body on Saturday, also met Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra.Baghel hasn’t spoken about his meeting with Priyanka Gandhi but a leader close to him insisted that this meeting focussed on Uttar Pradesh politics, not Chhattisgarh.“Nothing about the power-sharing formula was discussed in the meeting on Saturday evening; neither was there any hint about it… The discussion was about the strategy of upcoming elections in Uttar Pradesh,” said the functionary who spoke on condition of anonymity. Baghel was appointed as the party’s senior observer for the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections expected early next year.Singhdeo hasn’t spoken after landing in Delhi on Monday but when he left on Saturday, he did insist that it was a “routine visit”.“If I get time with senior Congress leaders of Delhi, I will definitely meet them,” the health minister said.A Congress leader in Chhattisgarh said Singhdeo was trying to meet the party leadership in Delhi to talk about the 2018 power-sharing formula. “Some political developments are expected in the next couple of days,” he said.Political commentators in Chhattisgarh said it was time the Congress takes a call on the reported power-sharing agreement.“Every week, there are rumours about the power-sharing formula in Chhattisgarh… Everyone in the state is in confusion… It would be good for Congress high command to send a concrete message and resolve this issue as soon as possible,” said Sudeip Shrivastava, a political commentator based in Chhattisgarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eye-on-raipur-chhattisgarh-s-ts-singhdeo-back-in-delhi-to-meet-cong-leadership-101634564430982.html
18-10-2021||India||Congress’ Manish Tewari ties attacks in J&K to rise of Taliban, says ’should've anticipated blowback’||Amid the recent targeted killings of civilians by terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir, Congress leader Manish Tewari on Monday said that the situation in the Union territory “should have been anticipated” after the rise of the Taliban in Afghanistan. Tewari also said that many terrorist organisations across South Asia and the larger Middle East region have been encouraged by the Islamic group’s violent and rapid takeover of Afghanistan after the withdrawal of US and allied troops in August.“The blowback that we are seeing in J&K should have been anticipated after the rise of the Taliban in Afghanistan,” Manish Tewari was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.“It has been two months since the Taliban have captured Afghanistan. Every radical and extremist outfit, not only in South Asia but across the largest middle eastern region, has been emboldened by this takeover,” he added.Also read | ‘Grim situation in J&K fallout of strategic blunders by Modi govt’: KhargeAs many as 11 people have been killed in Jammu and Kashmir—four over the weekend—particularly those from other states. Among those killed on Saturday and Sunday in three separate incidents, three were from Bihar and one was from Uttar Pradesh. Several political leaders have condemned the killings as the Union territory witnessed a bloody week after the counter-terror operations were intensified from October 11.Meanwhile, another Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge on Sunday criticised the Union government for the situation in J&K, which he described as “grim.” “At-least 30 civilians, including locals, local minorities & immigrants from other states, have been killed by terrorists this year,” Kharge pointed to the spurt in violence against civilians as he tweeted. “Situation in J&K is grim. It's a fallout of the failed policies & strategic blunders by Modi govt. No course correction in sight,” he added.The Congress party, during its working committee meeting on Saturday last week, has condemned the targeted killings of minorities by terrorists and held the Union government responsible. “J&K has been a Union Territory for two years. The entire responsibility for bringing the perpetrators of these barbaric crimes to justice is that of the Union Government. Restoring social peace and harmony and confidence amongst the people in J&K rests with the Modi government too,” president Sonia Gandhi said in her opening address at the meeting.Also read | Shadowy group claims responsibility for attack on migrant workers in J&KThe Centre has in the past expressed concerns about the security implications for India and the region in general, after the Taliban takeover in Afghanistan. Defence minister Rajnath Singh has made references to the political developments of the past two months in Kabul in several of his speeches since then. Prime Minister Narendra Modi too discussed the issue with Union home minister Amit Shah and the top officials of his government, including National Security Advisor Ajit Doval.The Taliban recaptured Afghanistan since the US announcement of a phased withdrawal of troops from the war-torn nation and by August 15 they reached the gates of the capital city Kabul. Ashraf Ghani, the then PM fled the country and after the full withdrawal of US troops by August 31, the Taliban formed an interim administration with Mullah Hasan Akhund as the PM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-manish-tewary-ties-attacks-in-j-k-to-rise-of-taliban-says-should-ve-anticipated-blowback-101634561622769.html
18-10-2021||India||Protests against Bangladesh violence rock Assam’s Barak Valley||More than ten thousand people in three districts of Barak Valley part of Assam on Monday gathered to protest violence on religious minorities in Bangladesh. They burnt Bangladesh’s National flag, attempted to cross Indo-Bangadesh international border and called for boycotting Bangladeshi products, officials said. The protest was called by Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) where members of several organisations, including Bharat Sevasram Sangha, Sankar Math, Gauriya Math, Bajrang Dal, women’s wing of RSS, joined.In Karimganj district, where the border is divided by the Kushiyara river, hundreds of protesters attempted to cross it and go to Bangladesh. While in Hailakandi, Bangladesh’s national flag was burnt to mark the protest.The protesters sent memorandums to prime minister Narendra Modi and requested the government to stop all kinds of trades with Bangladesh. They also blamed that Bangladesh is trying to vacate the Hindus and this act of violence is part of that conspiracy.Former MLA from Karimganj district and senior BJP leader Ranjan Das said, “If India cuts all the trade relations with Bangladesh, like we did it with Pakistan in past, the country will be bound to starve. Also, India is the largest consumer of Bangladesh’s food products. We are going to boycott each and every food product coming from Bangladesh. We have sent a letter to prime minister Narendra Modi and requested him to give a strong message to Bangladesh so that the Hindus living there don’t face harassment anymore.”President of Karimganj BJP, Subrata Bhattacharjee, said, “Bangladesh has forgotten that India saved them from Pakistan and gave them the identity of an independent nation. Our forces won the war against Pakistan in 1971 and if we wanted, the entire country would have been part of India at that time. The people attacking Hindus in Bangladesh should understand that we can do this even today if required.”After taking out a massive rally in Karimganj district, the protesters gathered at the bank of Kushiyara and suddenly some people jumped into the river. They said, “We are going to Bangladesh to protect the Hindus there.” However, border security forces stopped them and requested not to do this again.In Cachar district, the rally started from Subhash Nagar ground and thousands of protesters gathered in front of the deputy commissioner’s office.VHP leader Mithun Nath while addressing the protesters, said, “We worshipped the same idol here which were vandalised in Bangladesh. I was surprised to see people dancing here on the streets while going for immersion. As if they don’t know what is happening with the Hindus in Bangladesh and how the idols of Maa Durga were vandalised there. It’s time we started thinking of ourselves as global Hindus and stop pretending as seculars.”Purna Chandra Mandal from VHP said, “It has been proven that the Quran was placed along with Durga idol by a Muslim man in Cumilla pandal. Still, more than 200 pandals across 30 districts in Bangladesh were vandalised by Muslims. ISKON temple, where there was no Durga Puja, was attacked and devotees were killed. It is a part of a conspiracy to vacate Hindus from Bangladesh. If this continues, we’ll enter into Bangladesh’s territory in mass numbers to protect our brothers and sisters.”He appealed to the Muslims in India to protest against the acts of violence in Bangladesh. He said, “...If they do not condom the act of violence in Bangladesh, we will consider that they are supporting it. It is time to make it clear that we are not going to act like hypocrites. There will be violence against violence.”Mrinmayanananda Maharaj from Bharat Sevasram Sangha, Vigyananda Maharaj from Sankar math, Abhayacharan Krishna Gauriya Math, Santanu Naik from the VHP also spoke during the protest in Silchar.Meanwhile, some other leaders also raised voice against violence in Bangladesh and also questioned the government of India for being a silent spectator.Former deputy speaker of Assam assembly and a senior BJP leader, Aminul Haque Laskar, said, “Sheikh Hasina once said that the Hindus in Bangladesh have their right to practice religion and festival is for everyone. But her inactive attitude after the Durga Puja incident is helping the miscreants attack more and more Hindus. I appeal to her to prove that she cares for Hindus residing in Bangladesh and take some appropriate steps.”Rajya Sabha MP from West Bengal and former MP from Silchar, Sushmita Dev questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s silence on this matter. She said, “India gives maximum credit line to Bangladesh when it comes to international trade. Now, when Hindus are being killed in Bangladesh, Narendra Modi is silent. At one point, Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sharma said that Hindus are safe in Bangladesh and there is no reason for more migration. But we can see how safe they are.”Echoing Sushmita Dev’s remarks, Assam Congress’s working President Kamalakhya Dey Purkayastha said, “I think Modi ji is too impressed by hilsa fish and mangoes of Bangladesh that he ate. It seems the Hindus who were attacked there are not considered Hindus by the BJP government. It’s been almost a week but our prime minister is yet to respond.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protests-against-bangladesh-violence-rock-assam-s-barak-valley-101634561130757.html
18-10-2021||India||Malik says no terrorist could enter within 50-100 km range of Srinagar when he was governor||Meghalaya governor Satyapal Malik has stoked a fresh controversy by commenting on the farmer agitation and the situation in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) following targeted killings of minorities and migrant workers. “During my tenure as governor of Jammu and Kashmir, no terrorists could enter within the 50-100 km range of Srinagar. But now, terrorists are killing poor people in Srinagar. This is really saddening,” news agency ANI quoted Malik, who is known for unfettered speeches, as saying.He was also quoted saying the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will not do well in election-bound states if the demands of farmers are not addressed.BJP leaders declined to comment on Malik’s remarks and dodged queries over them.Malik served as the J&K governor from August 2018 to October 2019 before the state was bifurcated into two union territories. During his stint as the J&K governor, Malik was in the eye of a storm in 2018 when he claimed he did not receive People’s Democratic Party (PDP) leader Mehbooba Mufti’s fax staking claim to form the government as his fax machine was not working. The PDP made a pitch to form government after the coalition government it ran with the BJP collapsed.Also Read | Reconsider India-Pak T20 World Cup match: Union minister Giriraj SinghSpeaking to reporters in Rajasthan on Sunday, Malik said the issue of securing Minimum Support Price through legislation should be resolved. Last month, Malik criticised Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar for action against the protesting farmers in Karnal. Malik also raised the issue of casualties and the non-payment of compensation. He was quoted to have said that 600 farmers have died during nationwide protests against three farm laws enacted last year. Malik said no one from the government spoke even a word about compensation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/malik-says-no-terrorist-could-enter-within-50-100-km-range-of-srinagar-when-he-was-governor-101634560110756.html
18-10-2021||India||Migrant workers killed in Kashmir could barely make ends meet||The five migrant workers killed in Kashmir this month were poor street vendors and labourers barely making ends meet hundreds of kilometres away from their homes in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh.Raja Reshi and Joginder Reshi from Bihar were shot dead at Wanpoh in Kulgam district in the latest in a series of targeted attacks that have left 11 people dead this month. The attack on Sunday was the third on migrant workers in two days. Arvind Kumar Sah, a resident of Banka in Bihar, was killed in Srinagar and Sageer Ahmad, a carpenter from Saharanpur, was shot dead in Pulwama on Saturday. On October 5, Virender Paswan, 55, also from Bihar, was killed in Srinagar.Raja Reshi and Joginder Reshi’s fellow workers said the two had been working as labourers in Wanpoh and earned ₹500-700 daily. “We were sitting in our room when we heard that some people in another room were shot at. We took them to the hospital,” said Muhammad Zulfikar, a construction worker from Bihar living in Wanpoh. Another worker said one of the two killed in Wanpoh was shot six times.News agency ANI quoted the mother of Joginder Reshi saying he had been in Kashmir for around four months. “He is survived by three children. The government should help us,” she said.Also Watch: What non-Kashmiri workers said while fleeing amid targeted terror attacks Raja Reshi and Joginder Reshi, who were in their late 20s, were killed a day after Ahmad, 53, the carpenter, was shot dead in Pulwama while he was doing the dishes. He is survived by four daughters and son, who lost their mother six months ago. “He has four daughters and a son who works in Rajasthan. Saghir had gone for work far away from his family because of the poverty. If there would have been work here, why would he have gone hundreds of kilometres away from home,” Ahmad’s brother, Muhammad Naeem told journalists on Sunday. He demanded strict punishment for the killers of his brother.“His son was also forced to go to Rajasthan for work; so bad is the condition. They have nobody to take care of them except us uncles. The government should provide help of ₹one crore for my nieces.”Ahmad was killed on the day Sah, 30, was shot dead in Srinagar. Sah sold golgappa and would earn ₹300 to 400 daily. He lived in Srinagar’s Hawal areas along with a group of migrant workers. Sah, who had been working in Kashmir from a decade, is survived by parents and four brothers. He had been home earlier this year.Paswan, who earned ₹200 to 300 daily and is survived by four daughters and two sons, had not been home since 2019 as he wanted to save money for the education of his children, said one of his friends who did not want to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrant-workers-killed-in-kashmir-barely-made-ends-meet-101634559570666.html
18-10-2021||India||Flood-hit Kerala braces for more rain, overall death toll rises to 35||The rain-battered Kerala is bracing for another spell of rain. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has sounded a yellow alert across 11 districts from Wednesday even as the death toll from flash flood and landslides in the state rose to 35. The yellow alert indicates severely bad weather that could change for the worse and cause disruptions in the day-to-day activities. It was issued as water levels rose sharply in many reservoirs due to heavy rains in catchment areas. A red alert was issued to 10 dams in the state and shutters of Kakki dam in Pathanamthitta were opened. Pilgrimage to hill temple of Sabarimala was suspended due to a rise in water level in Pambba and other rivers, said state minister K Rajan. Rajan added after opening the gates of Kakki dam, water level in Pambha river will go up by at least 15 cm and pilgrimage in the prevailing situation was not advisable. Many pilgrims, who arrived Kottayam and Pathanamthitta from neighbouring states, were sent back.Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan chaired an emergency meeting on Monday to review the situation and constituted an expert committee to regulate release of water from some of the dams. The expert panel includes weather experts, hydrologists, structural engineers and climatologists. It will monitor water levels in all dams. “We are closely monitoring the situation,” Vijayan said.The water-level in Idukki reservoir, Asia’s biggest arch dam, rose on Monday and prompted an orange alert. Idukki Member of Parliament Dean Kuriakose has asked the government to open some of its gates.The IMD said the state is likely to receive fairly widespread rainfall with isolated heavy downpour for three to four days starting Wednesday. The government has opened more relief camps and advised people not to return to their damaged homes. Also Watch | Kerala Rain: House swept away by floodwaters; yellow alert in 11 districts The state received heavy rainfall on Friday and Saturday, which triggered flash floods and landslides in Kottayam and Idukki districts. A rescue operation was on in one of the worst-hit areas--Kokkayar in Idukki district--for two missing people. A rescue team retrieved the body of a three-year-old child from debris there on Monday. Among eight dead in Kokkayar, five were children. In Kottayam district, the toll from rain-related mishaps rose to 14.Opposition leader V D Satheesan, who visited landslide-affected areas, said the relief operation was delayed and warning was not conveyed properly. “In some of the affected areas, rescue teams reached a day after the mishap. Despite strong warning, how did it happen? We need an answer from the government,” he said. Rajan maintained there was no delay on the part of the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/floodhit-kerala-braces-for-more-rain-101634558490559.html
18-10-2021||India||Prasar Bharati policy to auction archival content rights courts controversy||Public broadcaster Prasar Bharati’s latest policy to allow traditional media and over the top (OTT) platforms to purchase archival contentrights has landed in controversy with a Lok Sabha Member of Parliament (MP) writing to Union minister for information and broadcasting Anurag Thakur, asking him to stop it. Communist Party of India (Marxist) MP S Ventakeshan, who represents Madurai, Tamil Nadu, has written to Thakur calling the move “disgusting”, and claiming that “marketing of historical treasures may have an adverse impact on the polity and tranquillity of the country”. Prabhu Chawla, editorial director at the New Indian Express, too, questioned the move. “If it is true, then how can PB sell India’s recorded history to private players including foreigners? Would GOI [government of India] pay the foreigners for its future use? Brits took away earlier records. Now this? Who is an insider working for outsiders,” Chawla wrote on Twitter. Responding to criticism, Prasar Bharati chief executive officer (CEO) Shashi Shekhar Vempati said the policy in question was being misinterpreted. “There is no such decision. A recently notified policy for syndicating content rights seems to have been misinterpreted,” he replied on Twitter. Vempati further clarified that the copyrights for all the footage will remain with Prasar Bharati. HT on Saturday reported that Prasar Bharti is planning to allow satellite TV channels and internet streaming content providers the option of purchasing archival content rights that dates back to before the Independence, a move meant to boost revenues and digitisation. Also Read: Prasar Bharati to auction archival, premium content to boost revenueThe content includes a trove of rich footage, such as the constituent assembly debates and of moments that were significant milestones for the country. These will be syndicated to bidders through an e-auction, the notified policy said.“The policy will ensure that archival and premium content of Prasar Bharati is syndicated to third parties through an open and transparent mechanism of e-auction in order to fetch the maximum market value of content on demand basis,” Prasar Bharati said in a notification dated October 8. “Prasar Bharati, the Public Service Broadcaster has played a key role in modern times in preservation and promotion of Indian culture, history and values. This has been the key factor in content creation since [its ] inception. Prasar Bharati has accumulated rich and heritage content in its centralised repository at archives as well as a number of stations, kendras located in all corners of the nation. News division of AIR (All India Radio) & DD (Doordarshan) too have an illustrious recording of many important milestones of development of India,” it added. “The TV channels as well as the new channels on OTT (over-the-top services) are continuously looking for good saleable content. This has created a demand for programme content of Prasar Bharati in India and overseas for the purpose of broadcast as well as streaming on Digital Platforms,” the notification said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prasar-bharati-policy-to-auction-archival-content-courts-controversy-101634557890686.html
18-10-2021||India||India, Israel agree on mutual recognition of Covid-19 vaccination certificates||External affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Israeli counterpart on Monday agreed on mutual recognition of the Covid-19 vaccination certificates amid the push to ease international travel. The decision was announced during Jaishankar's three-day visit to Israel where he held meetings with government officials, business leaders and the Indian Jewish community.After his meeting with Israeli foreign minister Yair Lapid, Jaishanakar said the talks, where they discussed a wide range of regional and global issues, were “very productive”.He said the two sides agreed in principle on mutual recognition of Covid vaccination certification as well as to resume Free Trade Agreements (FTA) negotiations next month. Jaishankar also thanked Israel for joining the International Solar Alliance.“Very productive talks today with APM and FM @yairlapid. Discussed a wide range of regional and global issues. Agreed to resume FTA negotiations next month. Agreed in principle on mutual recognition of Covid vaccination certification,” the minister tweeted.Also Read | 'Umblical cord': In Israel, Jaishankar hails contribution of Indian Jewish communityIndia and Israel expressed hope that the agreement will be ready for signature by mid-2022.On Sunday, Jaishankar held a meeting with members of the Israeli chambers of commerce and highlighted several priority areas for collaboration, including the health sector, agriculture and green growth."A productive meeting with Israeli chambers of commerce and the innovation ecosystem. Appreciate their visible enthusiasm for doing more partnerships with India. Many post-Covid priorities including digital, health, agriculture and green growth are natural areas for our collaboration," Jaishankar tweeted after the meeting.Earlier this month, EAM spokesperson Arindam Bagchi had informed that Hungary and Serbia agreed to India for mutual recognition of Covid-19 vaccination certificates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-israel-agree-on-mutual-recognition-of-covid-19-vaccination-certificates-101634553631831.html
18-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: Three killed in Uttarakhand's Lansdowne after heavy rain and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.3 killed in Lansdowne, Badrinath highway blocked after heavy rain in UttarakhandAt least three people were killed and two others were injured after a roof collapse incident in Lansdowne in Pauri Garhwal district and the Badrinath highway was blocked in Chamoli district due to falling debris following heavy rainfall in Uttarakhand on Monday, according to a report. Read more.Reconsider India-Pak T20 World Cup match: Union minister Giriraj SinghUnion minister Giriraj Singh on Monday said the T20 World Cup match scheduled between India and Pakistan in Dubai on October 24 should be reconsidered as the ties between both countries are “not good”. Read more.Ex-J&K Guv Satya Malik says no terrorists could enter valley during his tenureMeghalaya governor Satya Pal Malik on Monday took an indirect dig at Jammu & Kashmir lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha, saying that during his tenure in the top post in the valley, no terrorist could enter within the 50-100 kilometres range of Srinagar. “But now, terrorists are killing poor people in Srinagar. This is really saddening,” Malik told news agency ANI. Read more.Jaishankar hails contribution of Indian Jewish community to Indo-Israel tiesThe Indian diaspora in Israel has served as an umbilical cord that has nourished relations between the two sides and there is a need to better document the heritage and history of the community, external affairs minister S Jaishankar has said. Read more.'I am sure it's not only about Kohli': Gambhir gives multiple reasons as to why India must strive to win T20 World CupThe upcoming T20 World Cup is of special value to Team India as it will be Virat Kohli's last assignment as the T20I captain. Addressing the importance of the occasion, former India opener Gautam Gambhir explained why it's so important for the national side to win lift the cup. Read more.When Juhi Chawla was shooed away by Mumbai taxi drivers, asked who Aamir Khan wasActor Juhi Chawla, who recently appeared on The Kapil Sharma Show, recalled an incident that took place ahead of the release of her film Qayamat Se Qayamat Tak (1988). In the show, she spoke of the time that she and her film co-star Aamir Khan were chased away by the taxi drivers in Mumbai as 'nobody knew us'. Read more.Completely phase-out ICE vehicles by 2040, says UN Secretary-GeneralPhase-out the ICE vehicles in developed countries by 2035 and in developing nations by 2040, said United Nation's Secretary-General Antonio Guterres. While addressing the second Global Sustainable Transport Conference in Beijing, he criticised the world powers for not doing enough to make the transportation sector cleaner and greener. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-three-killed-in-uttarakhand-s-lansdowne-after-heavy-rain-101634554135153.html
18-10-2021||India||Dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim, 4 others get life imprisonment in 2002 murder case||A special CBI court in Panchkula on Monday awarded life imprisonment to Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, and four others, in a 2002 murder case.The court also slapped a fine of ₹31 lakh on Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh and ₹50,000 on each remaining accused. The other four accused include Jasbir Singh, a follower of Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh; Krishan Lal, a manager of Dera Sacha Sauda; Sabdil, the gunman of Dera chief; and Avtar Singh, an important functionary of the sect.“All five convicts including Ram Rahim have been awarded life sentence,” CBI special public prosecutor, HPS Verma told Hindustan Times.Already serving prison terms for rape and another murder, Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh was on October 8 convicted for conspiring the murder of his former manager Ranjit Singh in 2002.“We are satisfied (with the punishment). It has been a long battle for my family. We have lived in fear all these years but has fought to get justice,” Jagseer Singh, son of Ranjit Singh, said outside the court while reacting to the sentencing.While the Dera chief appeared through video conferencing from Rohtak's Sunaria jail, where he is lodged, the four others were present in the court at the time of sentencing. Tight security arrangements were made at the Panchkula district court complex for the hearing. The authorities imposed prohibitory orders against the assembly of five or more people in the entire district anticipating violence by the followers of the convicted godman. As many as 36 people were killed in Panchkula in August 2017 after a local court convicted Gurmeet Ram Rahim in a rape case.The self-styled godman was produced before a special CBI court in Panchkula on October 12, but the court reserved its order on the quantum of sentence and decided to hear the case on Monday. A former follower of Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim, Ranjit Singh was shot dead by four assailants on July 10, 2002, at his native village in Kurukshetra's Khanpur Kolian.ALSO READ | 6 years since Bargari sacrilege, SIT probe revolves around local Dera followers, Ram Rahim yet to be grilledThe Central Bureau of Investigation officials in their chargesheet said Ranjit Singh was murdered as Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh suspected that he was behind the circulation of an anonymous letter highlighting the sexual exploitation of female disciples on the Dera premises.Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh is already serving a 20-year jail term for raping two followers and has been sentenced to life for the murder of a journalist in 2002.According to a report published in Hindustan Times, at least three cases were lodged against Gurmeet Ram Rahim between 2002 and 2003. While the first case pertains to the sexual exploitation of women disciples, the second involved murder of journalist Ram Chander Chhatrapati. The third, the latest in which Gurmeet Ram Rahim was convicted last week, is related to the murder of his disciple Ranjit Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gurmeet-ram-rahim-4-others-get-life-imprisonment-in-2002-murder-case-101634555442629.html
18-10-2021||India||Reconsider India-Pak T20 World Cup match: Union minister Giriraj Singh||Union minister Giriraj Singh on Monday said the T20 World Cup match scheduled between India and Pakistan in Dubai on October 24 should be reconsidered as the ties between both countries are “not good”.“I think if relations (between India and Pakistan) are not good, then this should be reconsidered,” Singh told reporters in response to a question on the match.The comment came against the backdrop of a surge in violence in Jammu and Kashmir, where a series of targeted killings have left 11 civilians dead this month.Also Read | ‘Political tourism’: Giriraj Singh on Rahul Gandhi’s Lakhimpur Kheri visitA shadowy organisation has claimed responsibility for the fresh attack on migrant workers on Sunday, saying it was carried out as a reprisal while asking them to leave the region.Raja Reshi and Joginder Reshi from Bihar were shot dead at Wanpoh in Kulgam district while another migrant worker was injured. The attack on Sunday was the third on migrant workers in two days. Arvind Kumar Sah, a resident of Banka in Bihar, was killed in Srinagar and Sageer Ahmad, a carpenter from Saharanpur, was shot dead in Pulwama on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reconsider-india-pak-match-says-union-minister-101634553750426.html
18-10-2021||India||3 killed in Lansdowne, Badrinath highway blocked after heavy rain in Uttarakhand||At least three people were killed and two others were injured after a roof collapse incident in Lansdowne in Pauri Garhwal district and the Badrinath highway was blocked in Chamoli district due to falling debris following heavy rainfall in Uttarakhand on Monday, according to a report.News agency ANI said that the district magistrate of Pauri Garhwal told chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami during a review meeting that those who were injured in the Lansdowne roof collapse incident have been shifted to a hospital. The chief minister was also told by the district magistrate of Rudraprayag that there were 6,000 devotees at the Kedarnath temple on Sunday and 4,000 of them have returned and 2,000 are at safe locations.Also read | After IMD warning, Uttarakhand CM appeals to halt Char Dham yatra for next 3 daysANI also reported the Badrinath highway has been blocked at the Pagal Nala area due to falling debris after heavy rain and that several passenger vehicles are stuck. Efforts are underway to clear the highway, it added. The Badrinath Yatra has been halted and passengers en route to the shrine have been stopped in safe places.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a red alert for Uttarakhand and said that the hill state will witness heavy rainfall in the coming few days. "Heavy to very heavy rainfall with extremely heavy falls very likely at isolated places over Uttarakhand and West Uttar Pradesh," IMD said in its daily weather bulletin issued on Monday morning.Also read | Heavy rain alert: Schools in Uttarakhand to remain closed today"Basically, at present, there are two low-pressure areas. One is near Southwest Madhya Pradesh and its adjoining areas and another is in West Bengal," Naresh Kumar, a senior scientist with the IMD, was quoted as saying by ANI. “There is another synoptic third system that is a western disturbance that is very active. Today's rains in Delhi and nearby areas are caused by western disturbances from Afghanistan,” Kumar also said."Due to that, there was a heavy spell yesterday over Uttarakhand, Himachal, the northern part of Haryana and the same thing we are expecting today also,” he added. “We are expecting the same in Uttarakhand, Western Uttar Pradesh in the coming few days. When I say extremely heavy rainfall, I mean more than 20cm. Even in north Haryana and Himachal Pradesh, we are expecting heavy rainfall activity.”(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-killed-in-lansdowne-badrinath-highway-blocked-after-heavy-rain-in-uttarakhand-101634551894761.html
18-10-2021||India||Indian Army team wins gold medal in Cambrian Patrol Exercise in UK||The Indian Army won a gold medal at the Cambrian Patrol Exercise held in the UK while competing against 96 teams representing special forces and regiments from around the world. The 4/5 Gorkha Rifles (Frontier Force) represented the Indian Army at the drill held at Brecon, Wales, during October 13-15. The event is considered the ultimate test of human endurance and team spirit and is considered the “Olympics of military patrolling”. The Indian Army team performed well in harsh terrain and inclement weather. These conditions added to the challenges of simulated situations to assess the reaction of the teams in a combat setting. Also Watch: Indian, US soldiers play Kabaddi amid joint military exercise Yudh AbhyasThe Indian Army team was lauded on its navigation skills, delivery of patrol orders and overall endurance for completing the patrol, said a statement from the Indian high commission in London. This year, only three international patrols out of the 96 participating teams were awarded a gold medal. The award ceremony was attended by Gen Mark Carleton-Smith, the chief of general staff of the British Army, who presented the gold medal to the Indian Army team. Brig Vikramjit Singh Gill, military advisor at the Indian high commission, also attended the event. The Indian high commissioner, Gaitri Issar Kumar, felicitated the Indian Army team at India House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-team-wins-gold-medal-in-cambrian-patrol-exercise-in-uk-101634552190131.html
18-10-2021||India||Shadowy group claims responsibility for attack on migrant workers in J&K||A shadowy organisation has claimed responsibility for the fresh attack on migrant workers in Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday, saying it was carried out as a reprisal while asking them to leave the region.Raja Reshi and Joginder Reshi from Bihar were shot dead at Wanpoh in Kulgam district while another migrant worker was injured in the latest in a series of targeted attacks in Kashmir that have left 11 people dead this month. The attack on Sunday was the third on migrant workers in two days. Arvind Kumar Sah, a resident of Banka in Bihar, was killed in Srinagar and Sageer Ahmad, a carpenter from Saharanpur, was shot dead in Pulwama on Saturday. Five of the 11 civilians killed this month in Kashmir were migrant workers.United Liberation Front (ULF) claimed responsibility for the attack in Wanpoh. In a statement circulated on the social media, ULF said the attack was carried out as a reprisal to what it claimed the “lynching of 200 Muslims only in Bihar” in last one year by “Hindutva forces”. There is no record of 200 lynchings in last year in Bihar.Umar Wani, who claimed to be a spokesman for the ULF in the statement, said: “As already warned all non local stooges to leave our land or get ready for what they deserve. This was retaliatory strikes against the atrocities committed by Indian occupational forces against innocent civilians.”ULF and The Resistance Front, another shadowy group, earlier claimed responsibility for other targeted attacks on the civilians. Shadowy groups are known to claim responsibilities for such attacks to provide plausible deniability to proscribed terrorist groups. ULF is most likely a front for Pakistan based terror groups, and its claim could not immediately be verified.Also Read: Tejashwi Yadav slams Nitish Kumar after 2 from Bihar killed in Jammu & KashmirHT has reached out to the J&K administration for a comment on the claim and this copy will be updated when it responds.Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader Mohammed Yousuf Tarigami, a four-time legislator from Kulgam, condemned the Wanpoh attack as barbaric and added such incidents have no place in a civilised society. “Killing innocent labourers who have come here to earn their livelihood is a heinous crime. This is aimed at targeting the interests of people of Kashmir and this is happening at a time when the harvesting season is at its peak. Mere condemnation is not enough. It is time for all of us to come forward and unitedly raise our voice against these criminals who are committing such heinous crimes,” Tarigami said in a statement. He appealed to civil society and political parties to raise their voice against such acts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shadowy-group-claims-responsibility-for-attack-on-migrant-workers-in-jk-101634550570022.html
18-10-2021||India||6 new aerial routes in North-East to become operational from tomorrow. Check frequency, timings||Civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia on Monday flagged off six routes connecting Kolkata, Guwahati, Aizawl, and Shillong, expanding the aerial connectivity in North-East India. Speaking at the virtual event, Scindia said that the government has further expanded the connectivity across entire North-East India by connecting four cities with one flight.“I am delighted to mention the fact that Alliance Air’s most ATR aircraft are deployed on the North-Eastern routes...This underlines the due importance given to the North-East by the Ministry of Civil Aviation under the leadership of our Prime Minister," Scindia said.The new routes commencing operations from today are Kolkata – Guwahati, Guwahati – Aizawl, Aizawl – Shillong, Shillong – Aizawl, Aizawl – Guwahati, and Guwahati – Kolkata. The ministry said in a statement that the aerial connectivity on the six routes has been a “long-pending demand” of the natives of the region.The civil aviation minister was virtually joined by General V K Singh (Retd.), MoS, civil aviation, and Rajeev Bansal, secretary, civil aviation ministry.Scindia mentioned that the government has already started 60 airports and 387 routes, out of which 100 routes are awarded in North East alone. Highlighting the “due importance” of the North-Eastern states for the government, he said that the region has added nine airports in a span of seven years.“Under the UDAN scheme, we have connected cities that had no mention on the aviation map of the country,” he said.These 6 new routes are to become operational from tomorrow:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-new-aerial-routes-in-north-east-to-become-operational-from-tomorrow-check-frequency-timings-101634549198079.html
18-10-2021||India||50 trains across 130 locations affected amid farmers’ ‘rail roko' agitation: Official||As many as 50 trains across 130 locations in Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan were affected due to the farmers' ‘rail roko' agitation against the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, a railway official said according to news agency ANI. However, no train was stopped in Uttar Pradesh, where the administration has warned of strict measures against those who are found disrupting normalcy, said additional director general of police (law and order) Prashant Kumar, ANI also reported.Click here for LIVE updates on Rail Roko agitationFarmers on Monday are holding an agitation over the violence in the Lakhimpur Kheri district in Uttar Pradesh on October 3. The violence resulted in eight deaths, including those of four farmers, after a vehicle ran over the cultivators.The six-hour 'rail roko' protest will conclude at 4pm. The protesting farmers have been demanding that Union minister of state for home affairs Ajay Mishra and accused his son Ashish Mishra of sitting in the vehicle that mowed down the farmers. Both Ajay Mishra and his son have refuted the allegations. The Union minister has claimed that they have evidence to prove his son was at a different event at the time of the incident in Lakhimpur Kheri. Ashish Mishra was arrested and sent to jail on October 9.
18-10-2021||India||Rainfall, snow continues for 2nd day in Kashmir, temperature drops||Rainfall in plains and light snow on mountains continued for the second day in Kashmir with temperatures dropping across the valley on Monday and the weather office predicting an improvement in conditions in the afternoon. The rains and snow brought down temperatures across the valley. The intermittent rains lashed the valley beginning early hours on Sunday and continued in the night and Monday morning as well. Meteorologist M Hussain Mir said the rains and snow indicated the change of season from autumn to winter. “The rains were result of a combination of westerly and easterly disturbances with moisture from the Arabian sea and Bay of Bengal, “ Mir said and added that “the precipitation affected the whole of the union territory “. Jammu and Kashmir meteorological department director Sonam Lotus said that the weather will improve from Monday afternoon. “Mainly dry weather is expected from October 19 to 22. There is no forecast of any major rain or snow for next 1 week, “ Lotus said. However, meteorologist Mir said that from October 23 the weather is expected to remain mostly cloudy. He said that the latest rains brought down day temperatures by 6-7 degrees. Also Read: Amit Shah to meet police chiefs of all states, UTs to discuss overall securityThe ski resort of Gulmarg in North Kashmir received highest precipitation of 33.2mm till Monday morning with the day temperature of 7.2 degrees Celcius on Sunday, down from normal of 13.1 degrees Celcius. Summer capital Srinagar got 14.8mm of rains with the maximum temperature recorded at 15.1°C.In South Kashmir, the tourist resort of Pahalgam recorded 11.4mm precipitation and a maximum temperature of 12.6 degrees Celcius. This month has already witnessed two spells of rains. Jammu and Kashmir’s mountain tops received snowfall while rains lashed the union territory on October 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rainfall-snow-continues-for-2nd-day-in-kashmir-temperature-drops-101634548169559.html
18-10-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi hits out at govt over rising fuel prices||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday hit out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government at the Centre over rising fuel prices, saying petrol and diesel are now more expensive than aviation turbine fuel.“The BJP government promised that people wearing hawai chappal (slippers) will travel in airplanes. However, the BJP has increased the fuel prices so much that now it is more difficult for the middle class to travel by road,” she tweeted in Hindi and attached a newspaper clipping comparing aviation turbine fuel prices with that of petrol and diesel.Aviation fuel costs ₹79 per litre while petrol ₹105.84 a litre in Delhi.Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi also took a dig at the government by posting a news clipping saying if taxes were not increased, the prices of petrol and diesel would have been ₹66 and ₹55 per litre. “Sabka vinash, mehengaai ka vikas (destruction of all, development of rising prices),” he tweeted.Also Read | ‘Priyanka Gandhi will be Congress’ face in UP elections’: Party leader PL PuniaPetrol prices in most places in the country have been above the ₹100-a-litre mark. Diesel rates have crossed the mark in over a dozen states and Union territories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-gandhi-hits-out-at-govt-over-fuel-prices-101634546489305.html
18-10-2021||India||‘Committed a sin’: BJP slams Congress over alleged anti-Sardar Patel remarks in CWC meet||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday accused the Congress of “committing a sin” over alleged remarks targeting Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, which, it said, were made during the Congress Working Committe (CWC) meet on October 16. Citing a media report, BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra questioned if Congress president Sonia Gandhi and former chief Rahul Gandhi would reprimand Tariq Hameed Karra, who reportedly made anti-Patel remarks.“Tariq Hameed Karra said that it was only Jawaharlal Nehru, the country's first Prime Minister, who integrated Jammu and Kashmir with India, while Sardar Patel tried his best not to let this happen. He also said that Patel conspired with Jinnah to keep J&K away from India,” Patra said at a media interaction, adding that the entire episode raised a few questions.Patra then sought to know from Sonia and Rahul Gandhi if they objected to the “vilification” of Sardar Patel. Describing Karra's behaviour at the CWC as “peak sycophancy,” the BJP leader further said, “He himself comes from Jammu and Kashmir, and his only objective was to establish Rahul Gandhi as the next Congress president. This is why he glorified the Gandhi family. One family did everything, and others did absolutely nothing. How can the Congress have such a mentality?”This proved that the Grand Old Party will insult national heroes just to raise the legacy of the Nehru-Gandhi dynasty, Patra further said.A former leader of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Karra joined the Congress in 2017. A former MP from the Sri Nagar Lok Sabha constituency, he is the first politician from the Valley to be nominated as a member of the CWC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/committed-a-sin-bjp-slams-congress-over-alleged-anti-patel-remarks-in-cwc-meet-101634544363745.html
18-10-2021||India||Amit Shah to meet police chiefs of all states, UTs to discuss overall security||Union home minister Amit Shah will hold a meeting with the police chiefs of all the states and union territories on Monday to discuss overall security situation in the country as well as other policing, coordination and law and order issues, people familiar with the development said. The meeting is likely to be held around 2 pm and may go on till late evening as an overall review of security will be done, people cited above said.Apart from the director generals of police (DGPs) of states/UTs or their representatives, chiefs of central paramilitary forces and central intelligence agencies are also expected to take part in the meeting. Also Read: Bihar leaders condemn civilian killings in J-K, demand strong action from CentreOfficials cited above said attacks on civilians in Jammu and Kashmir, terror activities in the valley and other parts of the country and efforts by Pakistan backed outfits to disturb peace will also be discussed. Several non-locals have been killed in the past two weeks in Jammu and Kashmir by The Resistance Front (TRF) - an offshoot of Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), causing a major worry for the security agencies. Last month, Shah had taken a review meeting with the chief ministers of states affected with Left Wing Extremism (LWE).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hm-amit-shah-to-meet-police-chiefs-to-discuss-overall-security-101634544389626.html
18-10-2021||India||Mob in Bangladesh torches over 60 houses of Hindu community over Facebook post||Violence in Bangladesh against the country’s Hindu minority, which began last week over alleged desecration of the Quran during Durga Puja festivities in Cumilla, continues unabated as a mob attacked houses belonging to members of the community at a village in Rangpur’s Pirganj Upazila. The trigger for the violence, police said, was a Facebook post with “religiously abusive content,” believed to have been made by a Hindu man.Also Read | Bangladesh violence: 4,000 people booked by copsAccording to Mohammad Sadequl Islam, the chairman of the local Union Parishad, around 65 houses were torched during the attack on Sunday night, resulting in at least 20 houses being completely burnt down. The attackers, Islam alleged, were from the local units of the Jamaat-e-Islami (JEI) and its student wing Islami Chhatra Shibir.Also Read | Jamaat-e-Islami behind the pandal violence in Bangladesh, say officialsMeanwhile, speaking on the attack, senior police official Mohammad Kamruzzaman said that forces arrived at the spot as soon as tensions mounted, and guarded the house of the Hindu man. “We were able to save his house but the attackers torched some 15 to 20 nearby houses,” the officer said.The fire services arrived at the spot at around 10pm, and were at ground zero until 3am on Monday. There were no immediate reports of deaths or injuries. The attacks targeting Hindus continue in Bangladesh despite the country’s top leadership taking note. While Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina has vowed to punish perpetrators regardless of their religion, home minister Asaduzzaman Khan said on Sunday that the attacks on Durga Puja pandals were “pre-planned.” Those found involved will be given “exemplary” punishment, Khan said.Also Read | 'Attacks on Durga Puja pandals pre-planned': Bangladesh home ministerProtests against the violence have taken place in the neighbouring India as well.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mob-in-bangladesh-torches-over-60-houses-of-hindu-community-over-facebook-post-101634543185249.html
18-10-2021||India||Farmers block Delhi-Chandigarh and Delhi-Amritsar railway routes at Karnal||Farmers blocked the Delhi-Chandigarh and Delhi-Amritsar railway routes at Haryana’s Karnal on Monday in response to a country-wide rail roko (blockade) call to protest against the violence in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur-Kheri that left eight dead. The violence was triggered after a car ran over a group of protesting farmers. Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni’s son, Ashish Mishra, has been arrested in connection with the violence.Farmers gathered at the Karnal railway station and laid siege to the railway tracks around 10 am on Monday affecting the movement of the trains on the railway tracks that connects major cities.Also Watch | Rail Roko impact in pics: Farmers occupy train tracks, services hit Samyukta Kisan Morcha, a coalition of farm unions spearheading the protracted agitation against the three farm laws passed last year, has called for the rail roko campaign demanding Teni’s resignation. It said the blockade will continue until 4 pm.“The call was given a week ago and the commuters should have avoided travelling,” said Jagdip Aulakh, the Karnal district president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-block-railway-tracks-in-haryana-101634543609382.html
18-10-2021||India||Nadda addresses BJP office-bearers' meeting, stresses on need to stay relevant||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Jagat Prakash Nadda on Monday praised the work done by party workers during the difficult time of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Addressing a meeting of national office-bearers, he also exhorted the need to stay relevant in fact changing times."Parivartan (change) is constant and an ongoing process. And I always say, pnly those succeed in politics who stay relevant," Nadda said in his address.The meeting is being held today at BJP headquarters in New Delhi.It has been called by Nadda to discuss the party's strategy for the upcoming assembly polls next year and to assign responsibilities to the office-bearers.The meeting is being attended by the party's national general secretary (organisational) BL Santhosh, national general secretary Arun Singh and Dushyant Gautam, national secretaries Vinod Tawde and Harish Dwivedi.Party's Uttar Pradesh in-charge and national vice president Radha Mohan Singh, BJP's Uttarakhand and Punjab in-charge and national general secretary Dushyant Gautam, Goa in-charge and national general secretary CT Ravi, along with other general secretaries, national secretaries, vice-president, morcha chiefs and national spokespersons of the party are also present at the meeting.This is the first in-person meeting of the party's office-bearers under the leadership of Nadda, since he assumed charge of the BJP in January last year.BJP's national executive council meeting is also scheduled for November 7.Assembly elections are scheduled in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa, Manipur, and Punjab in early 2022.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nadda-addresses-bjp-office-bearers-meeting-stresses-on-need-to-stay-relevant-101634542751592.html
18-10-2021||India||Delhi reports first death due to dengue, 723 total cases this year||Delhi last week reported its first death due to mosquito-borne viral illness dengue this year, according to a weekly report by municipal authorities. The city has reported 723 cases of dengue so far in 2021 including 382 in October alone. The report said 243 cases of dengue were reported in just one week. In comparison, 395 cases of dengue were reported during the same period last year. There were 644 cases reported in the same period of the year in 2019. Delhi faced its worst dengue outbreak in 2015 when nearly 16,000 people were affected and 60 died.Dengue causes fever, body ache, nausea, vomiting, and in severe cases fatal drop in blood pressure or internal bleeding. Dengue came into prominence amid a waning Covid-19 pandemic after it was identified as one of the diseases, along with scrub typhus and leptospirosis, which claimed at least 51 lives, mostly of children, in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh. This year along with the mild type 1 dengue, the severe type 2 is also in circulation in parts of the country.There are four serotypes of dengue virus. Type 1 and 3 are the milder serotypes while type 2 and 4 are associated with severe disease. Patients suffering from serotypes 1 and 3 have symptoms like fever, headache, body ache, and pain behind the eyes. Type 2 is associated with more severe disease leading to drop in platelet count, inability to form blood clots, and internal bleeding. Type 4 is associated with leaking of fluids from the capillaries leading to drop in blood pressure and circulatory shock (not enough blood reaching the organs).Also Read | Dengue outbreak in Chandigarh: Hospitals face challenge of high platelets’ demandOfficials previously said the surge in cases of dengue was late this year because of the delayed monsoon and sporadic heavy showers followed by dry spells that promote the breeding of the aedes aegypti mosquito which spreads the infection. The aedes aegypti mosquito breeds in clean, stagnant water. Monsoon showers lead to water collection across the city, increasing the breeding grounds for the mosquito.Usually, the number of cases starts increasing in July after the monsoon showers and peak in October. The life cycle of the mosquito is eight to 10 days. Experts suggest cleaning out all stagnant, clean water sources every week. This is the basis of the Delhi government’s “10 hafte, 10 baje, 10 minute” campaign to prevent mosquito breeding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-reports-first-death-due-to-dengue-723-cases-this-year-101634542889098.html
18-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: Chidambaram slams Goa govt's 'clean chit' to self on oxygen related deaths and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Chidambaram slams Goa govt’s ‘clean chit’ to itself over oxygen deathsFormer Union minister P Chidambaram on Monday slammed an expert committee’s report on oxygen shortage and related deaths in Goa during the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic this summer as “a desperate attempt to give a clean chit” to the state’s Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government. Read moreLakhimpur Kheri: Union minister Ajay Mishra blames UP Police for violenceUnion minister Ajay Mishra 'Teni' has blamed the Uttar Pradesh Police and local administration for violence in Lakhimpur Kheri, in which eight people were killed. The minister's son is the prime accused in the case. He is in judicial custody and being interrogated. Read moreStranded tourist dies at Sarchu, snow brings down mercury in HimachalA tourist died of hypothermia at Sarchu, while eight people, including seven tourists, stranded at Kunzum Pass were rescued after their vehicles were stuck in heavy snowfall in Lahaul-Spiti district on Sunday night. Read more'There was a lot of emotion': Hardik Pandya opens up on being suspended in 2019India allrounder Hardik Pandya faced tough times in his career in 2019, after his appearance on a talk show 'Koffee with Karan' led to a wide media outburst. Some of Pandya's remarks on the show went viral on social media, and brought negative reactions from the public, leading his suspension. Read moreSutapa Sikdar on Irrfan Khan: ‘I always tell Babil that your father used to work 10 times harder than you do’Sutapa Sikdar, wife of late Irrfan Khan, has said that she never saw a person who worked as hard as the reknowned actor. Sutapa is among many other celebrities who have spoken about Irrfan in an episode of the docu-series Tarader Shesh Tarpan. Read moreTata Punch SUV launched at ₹5.49 lakh. Check variant-wise prices hereTata Punch SUV was officially launched in India at a starting price of ₹5.49 lakh (ex showroom) for the base Pure variant. The pricing for Punch from Tata Motors maxes out at ₹8.49 lakh (ex showroom). Read moreKatrina Kaif in ₹48k white bodycon dress promotes Sooryavanshi, see all picsBollywood actor Katrina Kaif is gearing up for the release of her upcoming Rohit Shetty film Sooryavanshi with Akshay Kumar. However, that is not stopping the star from serving back-to-back fashion goals for her social media followers. Her latest look for Sooryavanshi promotions in a one-shoulder white bodycon dress is a testament to the same. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-chidambaram-slams-goa-govt-s-clean-chit-to-self-on-oxygen-related-deaths-and-all-the-latest-news-101634541097759.html
18-10-2021||India||Small to medium-sized drones allowed for personal trips to domestic travel||The civil aviation ministry has allowed travellers to carry small to medium-sized drones for personal trips to domestic destinations without major restrictions for their carriage. They can be carried either in hand or checked-in luggage depending on the size. Major airlines allow drones in check-in baggage.“If drones are asked to be mandatorily checked-in, it is because of individual airline policy and not a regulatory requirement,” said a ministry official, who did not want to be named. “When drones are accepted as check-in baggage, the batteries need to be removed and carried in carry-on baggage only.”There will be no restrictions for spare batteries if their watt-hour (WH) is less than 100. The ministry has allowed a maximum of two batteries if the WH is over 100 but less than 160 WH with the approval of the airlines. “No spare batteries are allowed if WH is more than 160,” said the official.There are five categories of drones based on their weight. Nano drones weigh up to 250 grams, micro drones between 250 grams and 2 kg, small drones between 2 and 25 kg, medium drones between 25 and 150 kg, and large drones over 150 kg.“Nano drones can be carried in hand baggage with batteries in the passenger cabin or checked-in baggage (without batteries). Ideally, it is advisable to carry Nano drones in hand-carry baggage and not in checked-in baggage, as these drones have Lithium batteries and hence the potential risk of fire...,” the official said. He said security personnel at airports will detect lithium with online screening and offload nano drones.Officials cited a risk assessment and said it was concluded that drones with batteries over 160 WH must be shipped as cargo. “However still the risk is that in passenger baggage, due to handling and movement, lithium can catch fire. Due to this, most airlines allow the same to travel in-cabin baggage since all crew is trained to handle any incident of fire or smoke in the cabin due to lithium,” the official said.Also Read | ‘J&K IAF bases guarded against drones’: NSG DGThe government has hence clarified that drones smaller in size with batteries must be carried as cabin bags. It added for large drones, small batteries of lithium must be removed. Larger drones with batteries (160 WH) will have to be carried in cargo compartments with proper smoke detection and fire suppression. Passengers have been mandated to take prior approval from the airlines before carrying drones.Drone Federation of India director Smit Shah welcomed the move. “Drones have already started becoming a common technology for Indians and with this allowance of air carriage, it will further...help the drone industry grow. Also, this clarification was required for quite some time now as many drone companies faced issues while transporting their equipment which was taking days because they had to be transported via roadways. With these specifications by MoCA (the ministry of civil aviation), there will now be a set way to transport drones.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-clarifies-norms-for-carrying-drones-by-air-travellers-can-fly-with-small-to-medium-size-drones-101634541149164.html
18-10-2021||India||Chidambaram slams Goa govt’s ‘clean chit’ to itself over oxygen deaths||Former Union minister P Chidambaram on Monday slammed an expert committee’s report on oxygen shortage and related deaths in Goa during the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic this summer as “a desperate attempt to give a clean chit” to the state’s Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government.“The Hospital is blamed but the government is not to be blamed! Strange logic in respect of a government-OWNED hospital!” Chidambaram tweeted on Monday. “Why does the Goa government have a Department of Health and a Minister of Health, if they are not responsible?”Chidambaram, who is the Congress’s election observer for poll-bound Goa, called for chief minister Pramod Sawant and health minister Vishwajit Rane’s resignations.As many as 84 people died at the Goa Medical College and Hospital between May 10 and 14 amid interruptions in oxygen supply. The three-member committee’s report said the hospital administration failed to flag the issue in time. But it concluded the deaths could not attribute to the shortage of oxygen. The committee insisted it did not find anything unusual in the number of deaths as compared to the other days.The Goa Association of Resident Doctors first flagged the issue of oxygen shortage on May 3. After the high court took up the matter, Rane called for a probe into the deaths.Also Read: These 7 states and UTs have vaccinated entire adult population with first Covid-19 doseThe committee said there were reports of “pressure drops during the changeover of empty (cylinder) trolleys”. It added this caused panic among patients and health care workers, but they “could not conclude that such intermittent incidents of drop in pressure were long enough to cause loss of life.” Experts say low levels of saturation can cause deaths.The committee was initially expected to give its report in three days on May 15. But a member of the panel had to be replaced after he took ill. This delayed the panel’s report until July 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chidambaram-slams-goa-govt-s-clean-chit-to-itself-over-oxygen-deaths-101634540549583.html
18-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Union minister Ajay Mishra blames local police for violence||Union minister Ajay Mishra 'Teni' has blamed the local police in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri for violence in Tikunia village, in which eight people were killed. The minister's son is the prime accused in the case. He is in judicial custody and being interrogated.Mishra made the remarks on Sunday while attending a prayer meeting at Singha Khurd village for three Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers who had died in the wake of the October 3 violence. The Union minister said that one of these workers, Shyam Sundar Nishad, was alive and had reached the ambulance but was dragged out and killed in the presence of police officials.He further alleged that the police did not conduct proper recce of the area despite intelligence inputs; Mishra also said no barricades were put on the route which was taken by the protesters who were coming back after stating a stir.An SUV had mowed down a group of protesters in Tikunia village, killing eight of them, including four farmers. The protesters have claimed that minister's son Ashish was in the car and are even demanding Ajay Mishra's removal.They have organised a nationwide 'Rail Roko' protest demanding the sacking of the minister from the Union cabinet. Ajay Mishra has been denying all the allegations, even claiming that his son was not present at the site on that day.The fresh remarks from the minister are expected to give fresh ammunition to the opposition, which has been targeting Yogi Adityanath-led BJP government in the state. They have claimed that the state government does not care about the farmers and have joined the farmers in demanding the Union minister's removal.Official said that the police team investigating the violence in Tikunia village has received over 147 videos of the incident, which are being reviewed for further clues. Most of these videos were sent by eyewitnesses on the cellphone number issued by the police.The investigating team is also conducting raids to arrest key witness Sumit Jaiswal, who was believed to be in the SUV leading a convoy of three vehicles that rammed into the protesters. Jaiswal failed to appear before the police team despite being summoned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-union-minister-ajay-mishra-blames-up-police-for-violence-101634539127079.html
18-10-2021||India||Bihar leaders condemn civilian killings in J-K, demand strong action from Centre||Leaders across the political spectrum in Bihar on Monday condemned the recent killing of civilians, including those from the state, in Jammu and Kashmir and urged the Centre to take strong action against those involved.On Sunday, Raja Rishidev and Yogendra Rishidev from Bihar were killed by terrorists in Anantnag’s Wanpoh area and Chunchun Rishidev was injured. Their deaths come a day after a street vendor from Bihar’s Banka, Arbind Kumar Sah, was gunned down in the Eidgah area of Srinagar on Saturday. On October 5, Virender Paswan from Bihar's Bhagalpur area was killed in the Lal Bazar area of Srinagar.Also Read| Street vendor killed in Kashmir left Bihar only 3 months ago for work, says father“I believe that these ‘targeted’ civilian killings are carried out with the support of Pakistan supporters and Taliban sympathisers. I strongly condemn these incidents. I believe that the government, under PM Modi’s guidance, will take strong action against this incident,” Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Nikhil Anand told news agency ANI.Shivanand Tiwari, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader and former cabinet minister, questioned the action taken so far after Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor (L-G) Manoj Sinha held talks with security officials about civilian killings in the Union territory. Tiwari pointed out that people from Bihar have been travelling to J-K for employment.Another leader from Bihar, Rajiv Ranjan of the Janata Dal(United) or JD(U), told the news agency that infiltrators find it difficult to digest the fact that the Centre is paving way for development in Kashmir. “Following this, such barbaric incidents happen. I believe in the central government and hope that they will take strong action on this,” Ranjan added.Also Read| Nitish Kumar worried over killings of non-locals in Kashmir, talks to LG Manoj SinhaOn Sunday, Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar dialled Jammu and Kashmir L-G Manoj Sinha over the attack in Anantnag and expressed deep concerns over the killing of people from Bihar in the Valley. According to a statement issued by the chief minister’s office, Kumar said that a compensation of ₹200,000 will be given to the families of Raja Rishidev and Yogendra Rishidev from the CM relief fund. The Bihar CM has also announced a compensation of ₹200,000 for the family of Arbind Kumar Sah.Meanwhile, the United Liberation Front of J-K (ULF) on Monday claimed responsibility for Sunday’s attack in Anantnag and warned non-locals to leave the valley. “As already warned all non-local stooges to leave our land or get ready for what they deserve. This was retaliatory strikes against the atrocities committed by Indian occupational forces against innocent civilians,” a statement issued by the ULF said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-leaders-condemn-civilian-killings-in-j-k-demand-strong-action-from-centre-101634538730147.html
18-10-2021||India||Venkaiah Naidu asks youth to lead campaign to protect environment||Vice president M Venkaiah Naidu on Sunday highlighted the urgency posed by climate change and called for a people’s movement to protect the environment. He was speaking in Hyderabad at a function to release Nursery Rajyaniki Raraju, a book based on the life story of late Palla Venkanna, a renowned conservationist. He urged people to voluntarily participate in various environment conservation activities and asserted that youth should lead the movement to protect the environmental and “motivate others to adopt sustainable practices”. “They should drive the point among people that if we take care of nature, nature, in turn, will take care of mankind”, he added.Acknowledging the repercussions of rapid urbanisation and deforestation, Naidu said that “there has been an increase in the frequency of extreme weather events in recent times such as flash floods and landslides in different parts of the world. These are clear signs that climate change is real and it cannot be business as usual anymore.”The VP noted the importance of harmonious human coexistence with nature in order to mitigate such weather events. “We must balance our developmental needs with environmental protection and make sure everyone understands the importance of sustainable living. Meaningful development is possible only when it takes into account the cost to the environment,” Naidu added.Also Read: Nirmala Sitharaman raises climate financing issue in United StatesWhile appreciating Telangana government’s tree plantation initiative under ‘Haritha Haram’, VP urged all state governments to adopt initiatives for amplifying awareness around environmental protection and tree plantation among children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/venkaiah-naidu-asks-youth-to-lead-campaign-to-protect-environment-101634537968774.html
18-10-2021||India||Shiv Sena's Sanjay Raut reacts to J&K situation with 'surgical strike' jibe||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Monday expressed concern over the situation in Jammu and Kashmir, where a number of civilians have been killed by terrorists in the past few days. Calling the situation "worrisome", Raut said that migrants are being targeted and demanded a statement from home minister Amit Shah or defence minister Rajnath Singh."The situation in J&K is worrisome. Bihari migrants, Kashmiri Pandits and Sikhs are being targeted... When it's about Pakistan, you talk of surgical strikes. Then, it should be done for China too... Defence Min or HM need to tell the nation what's the situation Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh," Raut was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.His statement came a day after two more non-locals were shot dead by terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir. The incident happened in Wanpoh area of Kulgam district on Sunday evening. Another grievously wounded labourer was being treated for multiple injuries.All three hailed from outside the Union Territory. The terrorists fired indiscriminately on a group of people, killing two and injuring one, a police spokesperson said soon after the attack.The incident on Sunday was the third attack on non-locals in Kashmir in two days. With this, 11 people have so far been killed in October.A street vendor from Bihar was killed in the Eidgah area of Srinagar on Saturday evening. A carpenter from Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh was killed at Litter in Pulwama district on the same day.Political leaders from Bihar too have strongly condemned the recent civilian killings in the Kashmir valley."I believe that these 'targeted' civilian killings are carried out with the support of Pakistan supporters and Taliban sympathisers. I strongly condemn these incidents. I believe that the government, under PM Modi's guidance, will take strong action against this incident," said Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Nikhil Anand.Rajiv Ranjan, Janata Dal-United leader said, "The infiltrators find it difficult to digest that the Central government is paving the way for development in the Union territory. Following this, such barbaric incidents happen. I believe in the Central government and hope that they will take strong action on this."The security forces in the union territory have undertaken many counter-terrorist operations over the past few days and as many as 13 terrorists have been killed in nine encounters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-s-sanjay-raut-reacts-to-j-k-situation-with-surgical-strike-jibe-101634536732011.html
18-10-2021||India||Quantum of sentence to be pronounced in murder case against Gurmeet Ram Rahim||A special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court in Haryana’s Panchkula will on Monday pronounce the quantum of sentence for Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim, who has been convicted of conspiring to murder his former manager Ranjit Singh in 2002.The order is likely to be pronounced by afternoon after a round of arguments. The authorities have prohibited the assembly of over four people and carrying of arms in Panchkula district in view of the violence after Rahim’s conviction in rape cases in August 2017 that left 36 people dead.Security deployment has been scaled up in and around the district courts. Rahim is due to appear in the court through video conferencing from Sunaria jail of Rohtak, where he is serving a 20-year term for raping two followers.The CBI has sought a death sentence for Rahim, who has pleaded for mercy.The special court convicted him and four others on October 8 in the murder case.Ranjit Singh, a former follower of Ram Rahim, was shot dead on July 10, 2002, at Khanpur Kolian village in Haryana’s Kurukshetra.Also Read | Ranjit Singh murder: Dera chief’s sentencing today, Section 144 imposed in PanchkulaAccording to the CBI, Ranjit Singh was murdered as Rahim suspected that he was behind the circulation of an anonymous letter about the sexual exploitation of woman followers at the dera. In June 2002, Ranjit Singh was summoned to the dera and threatened with dire consequences, but he refused to seek pardon, saying he had done nothing wrong.Rahim has also been sentenced to life for the murder of a journalist in 2002.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/quantum-of-sentence-to-be-pronounced-in-murder-case-against-dera-chief-101634535988849.html
18-10-2021||India||3 Noida men dead after car falls in gorge near Badrinath||Three men from Noida died while as many were injured when the car they were travelling in from Badrinath to Kedarnath fell into a 200m gorge amid heavy rains in Uttarakhand on Sunday.Police on Monday said the car’s driver lost control over the vehicle. “The incident happened around 5 pm on Sunday evening... police were informed by the passers-by. Acting on the input, police from Gopeshwar immediately left for the spot along with State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) and started a rescue operation in which three were found dead on the spot while three others who sustained injuries were rescued,” said Rajendra Singh Rautela, the in charge of Gopeshwar police station.He identified the three who died as Deepak, 27, Arvind, 26 and Sandeep Tomar, 27, and the injured Harendra Nagar, Sushil Awana and Akshit Chauhan.Also Read: Ahead of assembly polls, U’khand Cong MLA claims 6 leaders to rejoin party“The injured were rushed to the hospital in Gopeshwar where one is in serious condition while that of two others are stable. Due to rains and depth of the gorge, police and SDRF faced difficulties in the rescue operation but with the help of locals, they rescued the injured,” said Rautela.Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on Sunday appealed to people against undertaking Char Dham Yatra and stay put where they are amid warnings of very heavy to extremely heavy rainfall on Monday and Tuesday. SDRF has kept all its 29 teams across the state on high alert.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-noida-men-dead-after-car-falls-in-gorge-near-badrinath-101634535268731.html
18-10-2021||India||'Rail Roko': Farmers block railway tracks in Punjab; Haryana deploys RAF||Farmers on Monday blocked railway tracks in some parts of Punjab and Haryana as they staged a 'Rail Roko' agitation, demanding the removal of Union Minister Ajay Mishra, whose son is the main accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case. "As of now, 30 locations are affected and 8 trains regulated in the Northern Railway zone," a spokesperson of the Northern Railway said as per ANI report.Click here for live updates on ‘Rail Roko' stirIn Punjab, protesting farmers started blocking four sections at the Ferozpur railway division from 5.15 am onwards, an official spokesperson informed. In Haryana as well, farmers squatted on the railway tracks at Bahadurgarh to mark their protest over the violence.  Authorities have deployed personnel of the Rapid Action Force (RAF) at the Sonipat railway station to maintain security. Meanwhile, the police in Uttar Pradesh have imposed section 144 of the CrPC, which prohibits a gathering of four people in an area. The police have also warned of strict action against those who participate in the agitation. Those found violating the rule or try to "disrupt normalcy will be booked under the National Security Act," the police announced earlier in the day.At least eight people were killed on October 3 after a vehicle ran over farmers who were coming back from a protest against the Centre's three farm legislation. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), which is spearheading the agitation since last year, has alleged that Ashish Mishra -- son of Union minister Ajay Mishra -- was sitting in the vehicle which mowed down the cultivators.The deceased in the incident included four farmers and a journalist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rail-roko-farmers-block-railway-tracks-in-punjab-haryana-deploys-rapid-task-101634534255742.html
18-10-2021||India||Quack lynched in Andhra Pradesh for allegedly raping, murdering woman||A 60-year-old quack was lynched on the suspicion of killing a 42-year-old woman when she resisted his alleged rape attempt in Andhra Pradesh’s Prakasam district on Sunday night, police said.M Lakshman, a local police officer, cited preliminary investigation and said Vallepu Obaiah, the quack, was in an inebriated condition when he allegedly attempted to rape the woman when she visited him for treatment for joint pains. “When she resisted his attempts, he tied her limbs with ropes and hacked her to death with an axe,” Lakshman said.The residents informed the police, which took Obaiah into custody. “By then, the agitated villagers, who came to know about the alleged rape attempt and murder of the woman, started beating up Obaiah with sticks and iron rods,” Lakshman said.Also Read: Hike in taxes after Covid increases Andhra Pradesh revenueThe frenzied mob even assaulted the police when they tried to stop them from beating Obaiah. By the time additional police forces rushed to the village, Obaiah was beaten to death.“We are yet to register the FIR (first information report) and have not made any arrests so far as the murder of the man involved a large number of people. We have pressed into service dog squads and clues team to collect the evidence from the spot,” Lakshman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/quack-lynched-in-andhra-pradesh-for-allegedly-raping-murdering-woman-101634534128714.html
18-10-2021||India||‘Sincere gratitude’: Babul Supriyo thanks Lok Sabha Speaker for granting time to resign as MP||Former Union minister Babul Supriyo, who joined the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress (TMC) last month, on Monday thanked Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla for granting him appointment to resign as Lok Sabha MP. Taking to Twitter, the former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader also lashed out at people accusing him of “backstabbing” the BJP by jumping ship to another party.Also Read | Former Union minister Babul Supriyo joins TMC in Kolkata“Sincere gratitude to honourable Speaker Sir Om Birla for granting me his time tomorrow at 11am to formally resign as an MP. I will not hold on to the berths/perks/salary of an MP now that I am no longer a part of the BJP that I won the seat for. If I have it in me, will win it again,” he tweeted. Sincere Gratitude to Hon'ble Speaker Sir @ombirlakota for granting me his time tmrw at 11am to formally resign as a MP•I will not hold on to the Berth/Perks/Salary of a MP now that I am no longer a part of @BJP4India that I won the seat for•If I have it in me, wil win it againThe development comes after the two-term MP from Asansol, on September 20, two days after joining West Bengal’s ruling party, wrote to Birla, seeking a “brief” appointment with him to formally resign as a member of the house. The singer-turned-politician has repeatedly stressed that he does not wish to continue as an MP since he is no longer a member of the party for which he won the seat. Meanwhile, on those accusing him of backstabbing the BJP, Supriyo posted the following message: “Just wish to ask one question to the employed trolls, who, I’m sure, are attacking me from their homes. So, where were you guys when I fought for the BJP since 2014? Ask your conscience as to who backstabbed whom. Unless needed, I don’t post anything on social media.” Just wish to ask one Ques to the 'Employed Trolls' who am sure are attacking me frm their homes😀So where were u guys when I fought for BJP since 2014?Ask your conscience as to who back-stabbed whom.. Unless needed I don't post anything on SM•Just read the first 2 comments 👋On July 31, Supriyo announced his “resignation” from politics after being dropped from Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Cabinet earlier that month. In a message on Facebook, he described himself as a “one-team player,” though he deleted that part later. Also Read | Babul Supriyo edits resignation post, deletes 'won't join any party' partThe induction into the TMC of Supriyo, who contested the state assembly elections earlier in the year but lost, came as a surprise as after the party’s victory, he said that he won’t congratulate “cruel lady” Mamata Banerjee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/babul-supriyo-thanks-lok-sabha-speaker-for-granting-time-to-resign-as-mp-101634532815669.html
18-10-2021||India||India records 13,596 new Covid-19 cases; lowest single-day tally in 230 days||India continued the downward trend in daily Covid-19 caseload, recording 13,596 new cases in the last 24 hours, according to Union health ministry data on Monday morning. This is the lowest 24-hour spike in 230 days. The overall tally has reached 34,081,315, the data updated at 8am showed.As many as 166 patients died and 19,582 recovered from the viral disease in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative count of deaths and recoveries to 452,290 and 33,439,331, respectively. The number of active cases has dipped below the 190,00-mark (at 189,694) and constitute 0.57% of the caseload, according to health ministry.The Covid-19 recovery rate has further surged to 98.12%, the highest since March last year. The daily positivity rate, on the other hand, saw a slight increase on Monday and it stands at 1.37%. But it has been below the 3% mark for the last 49 days.Monday's infection count is 550 less than that of Sunday's when 14,146 cases were recorded. But the toll due to Covid-19 on Monday is 22 more than that of Sunday's when 144 patients died.A total of 591,924,874 samples have been tested for Covid-19 till now of which 989,493 were tested in the last 24 hours, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Monday.Authorities in the country have administered nearly 978 million vaccine doses to beneficiaries since the beginning of the vaccination drive in January this year. Of these, 695,391,206 beneficiaries have received the first dose and the remaining 282,556,577 have received both doses, i.e. fully vaccinated.More than 1.2 million beneficiaries were inoculated in the last 24 hours, the health ministry said on Monday.Seven states and Union Territories (UTs), including Himachal Pradesh, Goa, Lakshadweep, have vaccinated their entire population with the first vaccine dose. On Sunday, Uttarakhand became the latest to enter this list.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-13-596-new-covid-19-cases-lowest-single-day-tally-in-230-days-101634530060255.html
18-10-2021||India||UP Police warn of action against those who will participate in 'Rail Roko' stir||The Uttar Pradesh Police on Monday warned of strict action against those who will participate in the 'Rail Roko' stir, called by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmers' unions, over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. They said that Section 144 has been imposed in Lucknow, which prohibits the assembly of four or more people at one place.Those who are found to be violating the rule or try to "disrupt normalcy will be booked under the National Security Act (NSA)," the police also said.Click here for live updates on Rail Roko stirFarmers have called for a Rail Roko agitation on Monday, demanding the removal of Ajay Mishra who serves as the minister of state for home affairs at the Centre. His son Ashish Mishra is the main accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence which resulted in the death of eight people on October 3.The SKM allege that Ashish was sitting in the vehicle that mowed over farmers on October 3; however, both the minister and Ashish have denied the allegations.Meanwhile, Lucknow Police Commissioner Dhruva Kant Thakur has given strict directions to his deputies and other officials to "not let any anti-national activity take place".The stir will be six-hour-long and it will begin at 10 am. It will continue till 4pm. Railway operations are likely to be impacted during the said period."To press for its demand for Ajay Mishra's dismissal and arrest, so that justice can be secured in Lakhimpur Kheri violence, SKM has announced a nation-wide rail roko program on October 18," the farmers' body said in a statement on Sunday.The action will be taken up "peacefully, without any destruction and damage of any kind to any railway property," it said further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-police-warn-of-action-against-those-who-will-participate-in-rail-roko-stir-101634530917547.html
18-10-2021||India||Alert in Assam over threats of attacks by Pakistan’s ISI, al Qaeda||The Assam Police have issued an alert about possible attacks in the state by Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) and al Qaeda over alleged violence against Muslims. Based on intelligence inputs about such threats, a circular issued on Saturday to the Guwahati police commissioner and all district police heads asked them to remain alert and take “necessary preventive and precautionary measures”. The circular, a copy of which HT has seen, linked the threats to a possible response to the violent eviction drive at Dhalpur in Darrang district last month in which two civilians (both Muslims) were killed and nearly 20 others including 11 policemen were injured.The circular said ISI is planning to “target individuals including RSS (Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh) cadres and army areas in Assam and other places in India”. It added that global terror outfits could indulge in “spectacular action by resorting to explosion of bombs/IEDs in places of mass gathering/mass transport, religious places etc.”The circular cited Organisation of Islamic Cooperation’s statement on Twitter “condemning systemic persecution and violence ramped up against the Muslim community in Assam claiming lives of Muslims during protests against an eviction drive”.Also Read | Violence in Bangladesh part of ethnic cleansing, alleges BJP; demands CAA, NRC in BengalThe police also received intelligence input about a video message reportedly released by terror outfit al Qaeda indicating a “call for ‘jihad’ specifically in Assam and Kashmir”.Based on the inputs, Assam Police have asked all districts to gear up ground sources and intelligence collection machinery and remain alert to “thwart any evil design of global terror outfits and fundamental/radical elements”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/alert-in-assam-over-threats-of-attacks-by-pakistan-s-isi-al-qaeda-101634529088373.html
18-10-2021||India||Heavy rain likely over Uttarakhand, west Uttar Pradesh on Monday||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast heavy rain over parts of Uttarakhand and west Uttar Pradesh till Tuesday due to presence of a western disturbance over Afghanistan and its neighbourhood which is interacting with easterlies at lower levels from Bay of Bengal and is likely to continue doing so during the next 2-3 days. Under its influence, widespread, light to moderate rainfall with heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places, is likely over Uttarakhand and west Uttar Pradesh till Tuesday and over Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Chandigarh and East Uttar Pradesh till Monday. The system is also likely to cause isolated extremely heavy rain over Uttarakhand and West Uttar Pradesh on Monday following the widespread rainfall in Delhi on Sunday night. The low pressure area over southeast Arabian Sea & adjoining Kerala has become less marked and is now seen as a trough from south interior Karnataka to south Tamil Nadu at lower levels. Under its influence, isolated heavy rainfall is very likely over coastal Karnataka, Kerala and Mahe and also over Tamilnadu, Puducherry and Karaikal till Monday. Thereafter, a fresh spell of easterly wave is likely to affect south peninsular India from October 20 and cause fairly widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls over Kerala and Mahe, south interior Karnataka and Tamilnadu, Puducherry and Karaikal from October 20 and continue for subsequent 3-4 days. Also Read | Kerala rain: House tilts and collapses into river, incident caught on cameraDue to the strong easterly winds from the Bay of Bengal, heavy spell of rainfall is likely to continue over east India till October 20. Due to strong southerly/southeasterly from Bay of Bengal over northeast India till October 21, fairly widespread and heavy rainfall is likely over Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram, Tripura, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam and Meghalaya. Isolated very heavy rain is also very likely in Arunachal Pradesh, Assam and Meghalaya during the period.Moderate to severe thunderstorms accompanied with lightning and squally winds,occasionally reaching 40-50 kmph, were likely over Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Northeast Rajasthan, north Madhya Pradesh and Gangetic West Bengal during next 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-likely-over-uttarakhand-west-uttar-pradesh-on-monday-101634528309733.html
18-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: Death toll in Kerala rain rises to 24 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Kerala rain: Death toll rises to 24, yellow alert in 11 districtsWeather experts claim cloudburst could be one of the reasons for heavy and unseasonal rain at several places in Kottayam and Idukki districts. Read moreDespite spell of rain, pollution in Delhi gets worseDespite moderate spells rain of in parts of the city, Delhi’s pollutions level got worse, falling perilously close to the ‘very poor’ zone, with the average air quality index (AQI) reading hitting 298. Read more'We have players, we have momentum': Suresh Raina urges Team India 'to do it for Virat Kohli' at T20 World CupAn era in team India's T20I captaincy will come to an end after the 2021 T20 World Cup as Virat Kohli will step down from the role in order to focus more on batting and manage his workload. Read moreMira Rajput's early morning Surya Namaskar video on Maldives beach will energise your MondayMira Rajput Kapoor escaped to the Maldives with her husband, Shahid Kapoor, and two kids, Misha and Zain, to enjoy an intimate family holiday. Read moreRohit Roy feels he hasn’t got his due: ‘I am not an insider, I don’t get a hundred chances after my film flops’Rohit Roy is out with his new web series, Sanak - Ek Junoon. In the show, the actor plays a junior lawyer who is at a very tricky crossroads when his boss presents him with a lucrative do-or-die opportunity. Read moreIndia invites Pakistan for NSA-level meet on Afghanistan; no invite for TalibanIndia is expected to host NSA-level meeting of several countries, including Pakistan, on Afghanistan next month. The meeting will be the first to be convened by India to discuss Afghan situation post Taliban takeover. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-death-toll-in-kerala-rain-rises-to-24-and-all-the-latest-news-101634524990218.html
18-10-2021||India||Maharashtra may lift more restrictions if Covid-19 stays contained after Diwali||Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Sunday said the state may consider allowing people with single Covid-19 vaccine jabs to travel on local trains and enter malls if the Covid situation remains under control after Diwali. “People who have taken a single jab are not allowed in malls and railways as of now, but if daily cases remain under control even after Diwali, we will consider giving more relaxations. This can be allowed depending on herd immunity and if their status is shown as safe in the Aarogya Setu mobile app,” Tope said. He said such decision will be taken by the chief minister only if the state task force and health department gave their consent with the understanding that it will not pose any threat to people. “The relaxations need to be given because the gap between two doses of Covishield vaccine is 84 days and people have been facing a lot of inconvenience,” he said further. Meanwhile, new Covid-19 cases continued to decline in Maharashtra. From October 4, schools in urban areas were reopened for offline learning for class 8 to 12 students. In rural areas, in person learning has resumed for students of class 5 to 7 . All religious places also reopened from October 7, while cinema halls, theatres and multiplexes are set to reopen from October 22. Maharashtra recorded 1,715 fresh Covid-19 infections on Sunday, pushing the overall count to 6,591,697. The number of active cases have further reduced with 2,680 recoveries reported in the past 24 hours. On Saturday, the state had registered 1,553 cases, lowest since May last year. Also Read | Health department exam: Private firm running recruitment exam claims full verification by stateThe state also saw 29 Covid related casualties, taking the total number of fatalities recorded since the outbreak of the pandemic to 139,789. Solapur reported the highest death toll on Sunday with six deaths taking its overall Covid linked casualty figure to 4,061. With 366 new cases, Mumbai reported the highest number of cases in the state on Sunday, taking its infection tally to 751,659. With 343 new Covid cases registered on Sunday, Pune was just behind Mumbai. In the past 24 hours, the state tested 110,465 samples and had a positivity rate of 1.55%. However, the overall positivity rate of the state stood at 10.8%, according to the data issued by the state health department. The state also vaccinated 112,443 people on Sunday, taking the total number of administered vaccine doses to 91,429,117, according to the data on the Co-Win portal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-may-lift-more-restrictions-if-covid-19-stays-contained-after-diwali-101634526267844.html
18-10-2021||India||'Umblical cord': In Israel, Jaishankar hails contribution of Indian Jewish community||External affairs minister S Jaishankar on Sunday interacted with the Indian Jewish community in Israel where he hailed the huge impact it has made in Israel. Jaishankar said that the community has been, in many ways, "an umbilical cord" that has nourished the ties between India and Israel.The foreign minister said that the Indian Jewish community carried some flavours of India with it to Israel which they have retained, or assimilated in some form. "I am told, for example, that the distinctive Malida thali made by the Bene Israelis - and Malida is now officially incorporated in the local calendar here. Likewise, the influence of the mangalsutra and the mehendi among Bene Israelis, the practice of baat pukka for formalizing marriages among Baghdadi Jews, and symbolic adorning of the Torah arks with jasmine garlands and the use of manara by the Cochini Jews," said Jaishankar."You also adopted that very Indian tradition of removing shoes before entering the synagogue. And you all still remember our way of life, our languages, our festivals, and, I am told about the Maiboli journal in Marathi," he added.Talking about the festivals, Jaishankar said Onam, Holi and Diwali are celebrated in Israel along with Purim and Hanukkah.Citing ancient connections between the two civilizations - both cultural and religious, Jaishankar applauded the contribution of Indian Jews in the nation building process of India, describing them as "one of us"."India’s connections with Jerusalem goes back 800 years in time. One of our revered Sufi saints, Baba Farid, meditated in a cave inside the city walls in Jerusalem. And this place later has become a shrine and a pilgrim lodge for travelers from India," said Jaishankar.Jaishankar also highlighted the community's contributions in enriching India's literature and arts with the likes of Nissim Ezekiel who was honoured with the Sahitya Akademi award.Later, he posted about the interaction on Twitter and said he is confident that the Indian Jewish community will bring the two countries closer."Very pleased to meet the Indian Jewish community in Israel. Valued their manifold contribution to India-Israel ties. Confident that they will bring us even closer together in the coming years," said Jaishankar.Very pleased to meet the Indian Jewish community in Israel. Valued their manifold contribution to India-Israel ties. Confident that they will bring us even closer together in the coming years. pic.twitter.com/au0gFEGjsTJaishankar started his three-day visit to Israel on Sunday during which he will meet President Isaac Herzog, Prime Minister Naftali Bennett and foreign minister Yair Lapid.The basic purpose of the visit is to engage the new coalition government and provide a fresh impetus to bilateral ties with Tel Aviv. India has very close security relationship with Israel that ranges from top-of-the-line drones, loitering ammunition, radars, state-of-the-art missiles and border sensors.Both the countries elevated bilateral relations to a strategic partnership during the historic visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Israel in July 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-israel-jaishankar-hails-contribution-of-indian-jewish-community-101634525572596.html
18-10-2021||India||Kerala rain: House tilts and collapses into river, incident caught on camera||As Kerala battles flash floods, triggered by heavy rain which pounded the southern and central regions of the state on Saturday, a video has emerged on social media showing a house being washed away due to strong water currents of a river, flowing in full spate beside the structure.Also Read | Kerala rain: Death toll rises to 24, yellow alert in 11 districts | 10 pointsThe incident took place in Mundakayam of Kerala’s Kottayam district, which, along with Idukki, is one of the two worst-hit districts in the southern state. #WATCH | Kerala: A house got washed away by strong water currents of a river in Kottayam's Mundakayam yesterday following heavy rainfall. pic.twitter.com/YYBFd9HQSpAccording to a media report, which identified the river as Manimala, the collapse took place on the morning of October 17. The two-storey structure, the occupants of which were evacuated before the house collapsed, had its first floor built at the same level as the road, while the ground floor was below, and adjacent to the water body, the report noted, adding that all it took was seconds for the house to tilt and get washed away.Also Read | Cloudbursts may have triggered flash floods, landslides in Kerala: Experts“Look it has tilted, it is tilting,” a man is heard saying in video, which has since gone viral. “It’s gone,” says another man even before the house has collapsed.
18-10-2021||India||Domestic flights to operate at full capacity from today||Airlines will be running domestic flights without any capacity restrictions starting Monday, according to the revised order by the Union ministry of civil aviation. The order was issued in view of the increase in "passengers' demand for air travel," the ministry stated. Since September 18, the carriers were operating at 85 per cent of capacity due to the Covid-19 restrictions.The second wave of the Covid-19 restrictions had forced the airlines to limit domestic flight operations to 50% of their capacity in June. The limitation continued till July, after which it was increased to 65%. The ministry further eased the limit to 72.5% between August 12 and September 18.The order to resume flights operation to 100% capacity was issued on October 12. "It has been decided to restore the scheduled domestic air operation with effect from October 18, 2021, without any capacity restriction," the aviation ministry had stated. The decision was taken after a “review of the current status of scheduled domestic operations viz-a-viz passenger demand for air travel", it also said in the notice.The revision in passengers' capacity has been welcomed by the major carriers of the country. "It is a welcome move as we believe that with recent pent-up demand combined with the upcoming festive season, it will be great to operate flights on pre-pandemic levels. We are quite bullish about the overall growth and demand for domestic travel, " said IndiGo in an PTI report.Another private carrier, Vistara said the decision will help in "accelerating recovery from the severe impacts of the pandemic as demand continues to grow, especially with the growing confidence in air travel and the much-awaited festive season," news agency PTI reported quoting the spokesperson.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/domestic-flights-to-operate-at-full-capacity-from-today-101634524202524.html
18-10-2021||India||Kerala rain: Death toll rises to 24, yellow alert in 11 districts | 10 points||At least 24 people have died in Kerala due to flash floods and landslides triggered by torrential rains since Saturday. While the rain subsided by Sunday afternoon, authorities kept up a strict vigil with the threat of landslides.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued yellow alert -possibility of severely bad weather - in 11 districts for Monday.Weather experts claim cloudburst could be one of the reasons for heavy and unseasonal rain at several places in Kottayam and Idukki districts.Here are the latest developments:• Twenty two bodies - 13 from Kottayam district and nine from Idukki - have so far been recovered, the authorities in Kerala said. According to a release issued by the Chief Minister's Office (CMO), two people from the Idukki district are still missing and the rescue operations will continue on Monday.• The low-pressure area formed in the Arabian Sea near Lakshadweep has weakened but the IMD said in its forecast that heavy rains will continue till Monday evening.• Heavy rain triggered two major landslides in Idukki and Kottayam districts - two worst-hit areas are Kootickal in Kottayam and Kokkayar in Idukki. Peerumedu in Idukki district witnessed maximum rainfall, nearly 24cm.• A team of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has been deployed in each district Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Idukki, Ernakulam, Thrissur and Malappuram. In addition, five more teams have been directed to be deployed in Idukki, Kottayam, Kollam, Kannur and Palakkad districts.• The release from the CMO said that two teams of the Indian Army are deployed in Thiruvananthapuram and Kottayam respectively.• Fishing in Kerala, Karnataka and Lakshadweep off the coast has been completely banned till Monday. Kerala-Karnataka-Lakshadweep coast is likely to experience high tides and rough seas till 11.30pm on October 18, according to IMD.• Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the weather department has warned of possible thundershowers and strong winds across Kerala till October 21.• Prime Minister Narendra Modi called Vijayan on Saturday and discussed the prevailing situation in Kerala. "Spoke to Kerala CM Shri @vijayanpinarayi and discussed the situation in the wake of heavy rains and landslides in Kerala. Authorities are working on the ground to assist the injured and affected," PM Modi later said on Twitter.• Union home minister Amit Shah said the Centre will provide all possible assistance to the people of the state. He tweeted that the government was "continuously monitoring the situation in parts of Kerala in the wake of heavy rainfall and flooding".• State Revenue Minister K Rajan said an assistance of ₹4 lakh will be given to the relatives of those who have lost their lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/24-dead-in-kerala-rain-yellow-alert-in-11-districts-101634520021406.html
18-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: SKM's 'rail roko' protest today; train movement could be hit||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body for multiple farmers unions, has called for a rail roko agitation on Monday, demanding the removal of the Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni over the alleged involvement of his son in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in Uttar Pradesh. The six-hour-long nationwide 'Rail roko' agitation will begin at 10am and go on till 4pm.As many as eight people, including four farmers, were killed on October 3 after two SUVs mowed down a group of protesters in Lakhimpur Kheri's Tikunia village. The SKM has alleged that the Union minister's son Ashish Mishra was sitting in one of the vehicles which ran over farmers. However, the minister has denied allegations and claimed that his son was not present was not at the site when the incident occurred."It is very apparent that with Ajay Mishra being the MoS for Home Affairs in the Union Government, justice cannot be secured in this matter," the SKM stated in a statement issued on Sunday. "He promoted hatred, enmity and communal disharmony between Hindus and Sikhs in his speeches. It is his vehicles that were used to mow down peaceful protestrrs. He harboured his son and accomplices even as the police were issuing summons to Ashish Mishra," it added.The group has also assured that the agitation will be staged "peacefully, without any destruction and damage of any kind to any railway property." The movement of trains is also likely to be impacted during the time of the agitation.Ashish Mishra was arrested and sent to jail by the Special Investigation Team (SIT) on October 9. However, he has still maintained that he was not in the car at the time of the incident.The Lakhimpur Kheri violence case gave opposition parties ammunition to target the Uttar Pradesh government. They claim that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government of Yogi Adityanath is trying to shield the culprits.The opposition parties including Congress have also criticised the state government for not removing the Union minister despite son's arrest.In a meeting on Saturday, the Congress Working Committee (CWC) also targeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying "the brutal mowing down of farmers is a manifestation of the continuing arrogance."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-skm-s-rail-roko-protest-today-train-movement-could-be-hit-101634519876300.html
18-10-2021||India||'Attacks on Durga Puja pandals pre-planned': Bangladesh home minister||The Bangladesh home minister has said that the attacks on Durga Puja pavilions were 'pre-planned' and aimed at destroying communal harmony in the country. His statement came after the Bangladesh police booked more than 4,000 individuals in connection with the violence that rocked the country in the last few days."It appears to us that it was a motivated act instigated by a vested group," Bangladesh's minister for home affairs Asaduzzaman Khan said on Sunday."Not only in Comilla, but attempts were also made to destabilize the country previously through communal violence in Ramu and Nasirnagar," Khan was quoted as saying by Dhaka Tribune.When asked about the reason behind the incident in Comilla, the minister said, "We'll make it public once we get all the evidence and those who were involved in it will be given exemplary punishment."The minister further said that no incident has been reported since Saturday night.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), meanwhile, claimed on Sunday that the violence during Durga Puja in Bangladesh is part of a systematic attack on religious minority groups and the situation calls for implementation of the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and National Register of Citizens (NRC) in West Bengal.CAA offers citizenship to non-Muslims who entered India from Afghanistan, Pakistan and Bangladesh before 2015. Its critics, among whom chief minister Mamata Banerjee is a prominent face, insist that it is discriminatory as it leaves out Muslims and links citizenship to faith in a secular country.The violence broke out in Bangladesh on Friday over the alleged desecration of the Quran at a pandal during Durga Puja festivities. Many pandals and temples - including the Iskcon temple - were attacked. The shops and houses of Hindus were also allegedly vandalised.Clashes took place in Chandpur, Chittagong, Gazipur, Bandarban, Chapainawabganj, and Moulvibazar and resulted in several casualties, reported Dhaka Tribune.One person was killed and 17 others, including the officer-in-charge of Begumganj police station, injured, according to the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/attacks-on-durga-puja-pandals-pre-planned-says-bangladesh-home-minister-101634517188664.html
18-10-2021||India||Gurmeet Ram Rahim sentencing today in murder case, CBI seeks maximum punishment||A special CBI court is expected to pronounce the quantum of punishment for Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim and four others in a murder case. They were convicted on October 8 for the murder of Ram Rahim's former manager Ranjit Singh in 2002.Ahead of the sentencing, prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Code for Criminal Procedure (CrPC) have been imposed in Haryana's Panchkula district.The security measure has been taken in view of August 2017 violence when 36 people were killed following Ram Rahim's conviction in a rape case.While the CBI sought death sentence for the Dera chief at last hearing, Ram Rahim pleaded for mercy via video conference from Rohtak jail, where he is serving a 20-year term for raping two followers.Ram Rahim highlighted social works done by the sect like blood donation camps, eye check-up camps, tree plantation drives and assistance at various places during natural calamities. He also cited his health problems, including blood pressure, eye and kidney ailments while pleading for mercy.The CBI, meanwhile, opposed Dera chief's plea saying the victim treated him as God and the accused committed offences against him. The agency also said he had criminal antecedents and committed offence in a cold-blooded manner without provocation. It has demanded the "maximum punishment" under the IPC Section 302.Ranjit Singh, who was also a follower of the sect, was shot dead in 2002.He was murdered for his suspected role in the circulation of an anonymous letter, which narrated how women were being sexually exploited by the Dera head.According to the CBI charge sheet, the Dera chief believed that Ranjit Singh was behind the circulation of the anonymous letter and hatched a conspiracy to kill him.The other convicted in the murder case of Ranjit Singh are Krishan Lal, Jasbir Singh, Avtar Singh and Sabdil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gurmeet-ram-rahim-sentencing-today-in-murder-case-cbi-seeks-maximum-punishment-101634515261803.html
18-10-2021||NA||Rail Roko Highlights: ‘Will make programme for further strategy’, says Tikait||Rail Roko LIVE updates: A six-hour-long rail blockade, called by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body for multiple farmers unions, which has been spearheading the anti-farm law agitation since November last year, began at 10am on Monday, and ended at 4pm. The body is demanding the removal of Union minister of state (MoS) for home affairs Ajay Mishra Teni from the Cabinet over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, in which his son Ashish Mishra Teni is the main accused.The SKM has alleged that Ashish Mishra was driving in the vehicle, which mowed down farmers, resulting in the death of as many as eight people, including four farmers, on October 3. The farmers were coming out of a protest against the Centre's three farm laws when two SUVs ran over them.The deceased in the incident also include three BJP workers and a local journalist.However, Ajay Mishra has denied any wrongdoing and claims that his son was not present at the site of the incident when it occurred.Follow all the updates here:Tikait says agitation was ‘fine’, will make programme for ‘further strategy’Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait said on Monday that the 'Rail Roko' agitation was “fine”. “We will make a program for our further strategy,” he told news agency ANI. Tikait added that Union MoS will “influence the investigation” of the Lakhimpur violence case as the same is against him, thus the government of India “should take his resignation.” “If he is proven innocent then they can make him a minister again,” he was quoted as saying by ANI.Agitation has been ‘successful’, says farmer union chief DhawaleThe six-hour ‘Rail Roko’ agitation staged by farmers' unions have come to an end. The president of All India Kisan Sabha Ashok Dhawale called the agitation "successful." “It has been 15 days since the Lakhimpur Kheri incident took place…It is shocking to know that, despite completing 75 years of Independence, the country witnessed such incident,” he was quoted as saying by ANI.Farmers squatted on rail tracks at many places in Uttar PradeshProtesting farmers on Monday squatted on rail tracks and also staged sit-ins on platforms at multiple locations in western Uttar Pradesh as part of the rail roko protest.18 trains stranded in Ambala, four cancelledAccording to latest updates from Haryana's Ambala, at least 18 trains have remained stranded at the railway stations in the city while four have been cancelled.Passengers face problem in Ludhiana due to rail roko agitationPunjab: Passengers face problems as train movement is affected due to farmers union call for 'Rail Roko' agitation; visuals from Ludhiana Railway station We've deployed sufficient force here to handle the law and order situation: Ludhiana Joint CP/City, Deepak Pareek pic.twitter.com/MueGKW6vTdPassengers in Ludhiana face problems as train movement is affected due to the ongoing rail roko agitation. “We've deployed sufficient force here to handle the law and order situation,” says Deepak Pareek, Joint CPNo train stopped in UP, says ADG Prashant KumarNo train stopped. Police administration is holding talks with farmers. As a precautionary measure, we've deployed around 160 PAC companies, 9 paramilitary companies. Officers have been sent to important and sensitive districts: Prashant Kumar, ADG (law and order), Uttar PradeshAround 50 trains and 130 locations affected: Northern RailwayAround 50 trains, 130 locations affected due to farmers agitation in Punjab and Haryana: CPRO, Northern Railway‘No reports of disturbance or cancellation of trains in Delhi’Government Railway Police (GRP) is patrolling all railway stations and tracks in Delhi. Till now, there are no reports of disturbance at any railway tracks or cancellation of trains. We're working in close coordination with the GRPs of neighbouring states: Harendra Singh, DCP RailwaysPassengers complain after Chandigarh-bound train short-terminatedPassengers of a Chandigarh-bound train say they are facing trouble as the train was terminated at Dappar station in Dera Bassi tehsil of SAS Nagar district (Mohali), due to the ongoing rail roko agitation.Chandigarh-Ferozepur Express stranded in LudhianaChandigarh-Ferozepur Express, which has a scheduled departure of 7 am from Ludhiana, is stranded at Ludhiana railway station till now as farmers blocked Ferozpur-Ludhiana section.New Delhi-Amritsar Shatabdi halted near Shambu stationProtesters blocked railway tracks near Sahnewal and Rajpura following which New Delhi-Amritsar Shatabdi Express was halted near Shambu station at around 10:07 am.30 locations affected in Northern Railway zone, says officialAs of now, 30 locations affected and 8 trains regulated in Northern Railway Zone: CPRO, Northern Railway‘People know where trains will be stopped’: Rakesh TikaitThe agitation will take place at different places across various districts. People across the country know where we shall stop trains. The Centre is yet to talk to us: Rakesh Tikait, BKU spokesperson.RAF deployed at Haryana's Sonipat railway stationHaryana | Rapid Action Force deployed at Sonipat Railway Station, in the wake of 'Rail roko' call by Samyukta Kisan Morcha in protest against Lakhimpur Kheri incident pic.twitter.com/mErxA7aRhQRapid Action Force (RAF) deployed at Haryana's Sonipat railway station, in the wake of 'rail roko' call by Samyukta Kisan Morcha in protest against the Lakhimpur Kheri incident.In Ferozepur division, passenger trains stopped at 5 stationsProtesting farmers started blocking four sections from 5:15 am onwards today. Five passenger trains have been stopped at four stations: two at Ferozepur Cantt, one each at Jalalabad, Moga and Ludhiana: Spokesperson, Ferozepur divisionProtestors sit on railway track in AmritsarPunjab: Farm law protestors sit on the railway track at Devi Dasspura village in Amritsar following the farmer's union call for 'Rail Roko Andolan' today pic.twitter.com/lQrKImJKsoFarm law protestors sit on a railway track at Devi Dasspura village in Amritsar following the SKM's call for rail roko today.Lucknow Police warn will impose NSA on rail roko agitatorsWe will take action against those who will participate in the 'rail roko' agitation called by farmers organisation. 144 CrPC is also imposed in the district and we will impose NSA if anyone tries to disrupt normalcy: Lucknow Police8 people lost their lives on October 3 in Lakhimpur KheriFour farmers were mowed down by a car which, allegedly, was being driven by Ashish Mishra. In the ensuing violence, two BJP workers, minister Ajay Mishra's driver and a local journalist were also killed.Bandh to be in effect from 10am to 4pmThe rail blockade will be in effect for 6 hours, from 10am to 4pm, the SMK said in a statement.Farmers won't compromise on anything less than MSP: Satyapal MalikIf the Centre provides guarantee for MSP through a law, then the farmers' agitation can be resolved. There's only one thing so why is the Centre not fulfilling it? Farmers won't compromise on less than MSP: Satyapal Malik, Meghalaya governor‘Justice cannot be secured,' if Ajay Mishra is not removed: SKM"It is very apparent that with Ajay Mishra being the MoS for Home Affairs in the Union Government, justice cannot be secured in this matter," the SKM stated in a statement issued on Sunday. "He promoted hatred, enmity and communal disharmony between Hindus and Sikhs in his speeches. It is his vehicles that were used to mow down peaceful protestors. He harboured his son and accomplices even as the police were issuing summons to Ashish Mishra," it added.Rail Roko today: Farmers to stop rail traffic for 6 hrs over Lakhimpur KheriWhile the movement of trains is likely to be impacted, the union said that there will be no destruction or damage to any railway property. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rail-roko-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-farmers-protest-october-18-2021-101634514349834.html
18-10-2021||India||Ahead of 2023 assembly polls, Tripura’s indigenous parties join hands on statehood demand||With two years left for Tripura to go for assembly polls, the regional indigenous-based political parties including ruling BJP’s alliance partner Indigenous People’s Front of Tripura (IPFT) and royal scion Pradyot Kishore Debbarma’s party TIPRA Motha have come together on a common platform to press for their demand of statehood. A total of eight different indigenous organisations decided to constitute a joint movement committee to press for their demands of separate statehood and other issues following a four-hour-long discussion in Agartala on Saturday. “We will soon have a committee, a joint movement committee for our demands of Tipraland/Greater Tipraland in the next 2-3 days. We are also planning to go to Delhi this month to submit a memorandum regarding our demands to the Centre,” said Tribal Welfare Minister Mewar Kumar Jamatia, also general secretary of IPFT. The IPFT was formed in 1997 but faded away in 2001. Later, NC Debbarma, who is now president of the party, revived it in 2009 keeping the separate statehood demand of Tipraland as the main agenda. Engaging a number of youth in the statehood demand movement, the IPFT led by NC Debbarma did a series of protests in the state and New Delhi for a few years. Their movement attracted BJP’s attention and then they jointly contested the assembly polls in 2018 to defeat the two-decade old Left government. In the 60-seater Assembly, the IPFT has eight MLAs. One IPFT legislator later offered to tender his resignation. The schedule of IPFT’s visit to Delhi is yet to be fixed; however, the TIPRA Motha is slated to leave the state for Jantar Mantar in New Delhi on October 23 to raise their voice in support of their Greater Tipraland demand. “It is a pre-scheduled programme. Over one thousand people will join us in our three-day long programme at Jantar Mantar,” said Pradyot. He added that he had requested the IPFT to extend their support to his Greater Tipraland demand and also wished to speak in one voice whenever they get to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi or Home Minister Amit Shah. “Both demands of Tipraland and Greater Tipraland are almost similar. I have requested the IPFT to support the Greater Tipraland demand. I have always supported their demand for Tipraland. If they support our demand, then we can speak in one voice in Delhi,” he said. After resigning from the Congress in 2019, Pradyot had floated his own political party TIPRA Motha this year. His party contested the district council polls keeping the agenda of forming Greater Tipraland by including indigenous population living outside TTAADC in Tripura and other Indian states like, Assam, Mizoram and some parts of neighbouring country Bangladesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-2023-assembly-polls-tripura-s-indigenous-parties-join-hands-on-statehood-demand-101634503404715.html
18-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Investigators reviewing 147 videos for possible clues||The police team investigating the Tikunia violence in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri has received over 147 videos of the incident and the footage is being reviewed by a dedicated team for further clues, officials said. The videos pertain to the chain of events at Tikunia on October 3 leading to an SUV ramming into peaceful protestors and the violence afterwards. Most of these videos were sent by eyewitnesses on the cell phone number issued by the police.The incident led to the death of eight people, including four farmers and a journalist. Union minister of state for home Ajay Kumar Mishra Teni’s son Ashish Mishra is the prime accused. He is currently in judicial custody.A senior member of the investigating team, who asked not to be named, said, “The videos received are being checked for their veracity before being used as clues to bridge the sequence of events that resulted in the violence. The entire process is being done in a very scientific manner.”The investigating team is also conducting raids to arrest key witness Sumit Jaiswal, who was believed to be in the SUV leading a convoy of three vehicles that rammed into the protestors. Jaiswal failed to appear before the police team despite being summoned.The other accused in the case Ankit Das, Shekhar Bharti and Latif alias Kaale were sent to judicial custody after their police remand ended on Sunday. The investigators recovered a pistol registered in the name of Ankit Das and a repeater gun registered in the name of his gunner Latif from the residence of Ankit Das in Lucknow.Senior police officials camping in Lakhimpur are in touch with senior farm leaders regarding the pan-India protest announced by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha on Monday. Additional director general (officiating) SN Sabat and inspector general (IG), Lucknow, Lakshmi Singh, along with 10 other Indian Police Service (IPS) officers, are camping in the district. “We are in touch with farm leaders. We have urged them to keep their protest symbolic, keeping in mind that the law and order situation in the district is not to be disturbed,” Singh said.Besides Lakhimpur, senior police officials are posted in several districts of west UP to maintain law and order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-investigators-reviewing-147-videos-for-possible-clues-101634502504399.html
18-10-2021||India||Nitish Kumar worried over killings of non-locals in Kashmir, talks to LG Manoj Sinha||Calling the killing of two labourers from Bihar and the gun shot injury suffered by another labourer in a terrorist attack at Anantnag in Jammu and Kashmir unfortunate and sad, Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Sunday had a telephonic talk with Lieutenant Governor of J&K Manoj Sinha in the evening pertaining to the attack. According to a press release issued by the Information and Public Relations department, the chief minister expressed deep concern over the killings of people from Bihar in the Kashmir valley during his conversation with the LG of Jammu and Kashmir. The release said the chief minister is shocked by the incident and termed it as very saddening. The CM also announced ex-gratia compensation of ₹2 lakh each to the families of the two deceased in the attack, Raja Krishidev and Yogendra Rishidev. The CM has also directed the officials to extend benefits to the next of kin of the two deceased from schemes of social welfare and labour resources department, as per rule. Kumar also prayed for the early recovery of the injured victim in the attack-- Chunchun Rishidev.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitish-kumar-worried-over-killings-of-non-locals-in-kashmir-talks-to-lg-manoj-sinha-101634501363966.html
18-10-2021||India||India’s active Covid cases fall below 200k for the first time in seven months||The number of active cases of Covid-19 across India on Sunday dropped below the 200,000-mark for the first time in more than seven months as the recession of the second wave continued across the country, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard.As of Sunday night, there were a total of 197,573 active cases across the country, the lowest such caseload recorded in India since in March 10, 2020, when the second wave was just kicking off.The number of active cases right now is a drop of more than 95% from the peak of the country’s brutal second wave of infections when it touched 3.75 million on May 9.Active cases – those Covid-19 patients still carrying the virus, and thus under treatment – is a crucial metric representing the country’s battle against the disease because it directly reflects the pressure on the health care system in a region.The drop in active infections has come at a time when the seven-day average of daily infections (a statistic that shows a region’s Covid wave) in India is also at a seven-month low of 15,680. On Sunday, 14,287 new cases were reported across the country, according to data compiled by HT across states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-active-covid-cases-fall-below-200k-for-the-first-time-in-seven-months-101634500518262.html
18-10-2021||India||Tripura CM expresses concern over violence, vandalism in Bangladesh||Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb dialled the Indian High Commissioner in Dhaka, Durai Swami, to ask about the violence and vandalism in Bangladesh during the recently concluded Durga Puja.. “I am aware of the incidents that have happened in Bangladesh. I have full faith on the Bangladesh government and I am sure that Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina will take required action against such acts of fundamentalists,” Deb told reporters on Sunday.Civil society groups in Tripura also demanded protection of the religious rights of minorities in Bangladesh and the immediate arrest of the perpetrators. Tripura recorded five deaths and 13 people were injured in separate mishaps and one gang-rape during Durga Puja at different places since October 12, police said on Sunday. According to reports, two people died on October 12 after a vehicle fell into a deep gorge at Mungiyakami in Khowai district after the driver lost control over the vehicle. “Five people died in four separate accidents. Among them, one died during immersion of a Durga idol in West district,” said Inspector General (Law and Order) Arindam Nath. He added that the police arrested three people in connection with a case of gang-rape at a village in Dhalai district. The complaint was lodged on October 14. A total of 13 people received injuries in separate road accidents at Teliamura in Khowai district, Madhupur in West district and other places. Durga Puja was organized at 2176 pandals and locations in Tripura this year, as per records of the state government. The state had 157 police assistance booths with 98 watch towers and another 78 CCTVs in various locations during the festival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-cm-expresses-concern-over-violence-vandalism-in-bangladesh-101634500103783.html
18-10-2021||India||Name a Muslim as Karnataka CM face: Congress MLA to Kumaraswamy||Bengaluru Hitting back at former Karnataka chief minister H D Kumaraswamy over allegation that Congress is trying to destroy the minorities in the state, Congress leader BZ Zameer Ahmad khan on Sunday asked the Janata Dal-Secular (JDS) leader to announce a Muslim name for the next chief minister candidate for the state if the party comes to power.“Let Kumaraswamy first announce and convince his father to announce a Muslim candidate or minority candidate for the next chief ministerial post in Karnataka instead of making allegations against Congress legislative party leader Siddaramaiah. Talking against the former chief minister and making allegations show his irresponsible behaviour,” said Khan. The Congress leader said that Siddaramaiah has done everything for the benefit of the minority community, and alleged that JDS chief HD Devegowda does not have any concern towards the minority community. “There were chances in Hassan and Ramanagara where Muslim candidates could have won the elections but he did not give tickets to minority candidates in Hassan and Ramanagara. And, now he is making allegations. Why could not he give a ticket to the grandson of former union minister Jaffer Sharief in Mandya instead of his son? It is the silly family politics,” he added. HD Kumaraswamy earlier made allegations that Congress and Siddaramaiah are trying to destroy the minorities in Karnataka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/name-a-muslim-as-karnataka-cm-face-congress-mla-to-kumaraswamy-101634498663698.html
18-10-2021||India||Karnataka logs 326 new Covid cases, 4 deaths||Bengaluru Karnataka has clocked 326 fresh Covid-19 cases and 4 deaths, taking the total infection count to 2, 983,459 and toll to 37,941, the health department said on Sunday.The day also saw 380 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 29,36,039.Out of 326 new cases reported on Sunday, 173 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 87 discharges and 1 death.Total number of active cases in the state is at 9,450.While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.41 per cent, case fatality rate (CFR) was at 1.22 per cent.Out of 4 deaths reported on Sunday 2 are from Mysuru; and one each from Bengaluru Urban and Dharwad.Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 173, Mysuru 42, Dakshina Kannada 22, Tumakuru 17, Hassan and Udupi 12, followed by others.Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 12,49,418, followed by Mysuru 1,78,738 and Tumakuru 1,20,546.Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 12,26,390, followed by Mysuru 1,75,946 and Tumakuru 1,19,156.Cumulatively a total of 4.94 crore samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 78,742 were tested on Sunday alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-logs-326-new-covid-cases-4-deaths-101634498543610.html
18-10-2021||India||Girl sold in Agra for marriage||A month after a 15-year-old girl went missing from northwest Delhi, the police have rescued her from Agra in Uttar Pradesh, where she was allegedly sold for ₹ ₹60,000 for marriage.Apart from the man, identified as Gopal Lal who bought the girl, the police have also arrested another suspect, Neeraj Sonkar, who was known to the girl and lured her to Agra. At least three others, including two women were involved in kidnapping and selling the girl, joint commissioner of police (crime) Alok Kumar.Kumar said the parents of the girl registered a case on September 16 at Shalimar Bagh police station. Local enquiry was conducted and it was learnt that the girl was in regular touch with a local resident, Neeraj Sonkar.Sonkar was caught and his interrogation revealed that he took the girl to Agra and sold the girl to one Gopal Lal for ₹60,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/girl-sold-in-agra-for-marriage-101634498406890.html
18-10-2021||India||Hike in taxes after Covid increases Andhra Pradesh revenue||Amaravati: The various taxes and levies, hiked in the name of Covid-19 last year, seem to be paying off as the Andhra Pradesh government earned an extra ₹12,052.29 crore in tax revenue in the first five months of the 2021-22 financial year. The state’s total revenue was an extra ₹15,688.46 crore from April to August this year, compared to the corresponding period last year, state accounts by the Comptroller and Auditor General revealed. At the same, the state almost exhausted its targeted borrowing estimate, securing loans of ₹36,976.93 crore (99.86 per cent) in the first five months itself. As per CAG accounts, AP’s revenue from April to August was ₹53,159.11 crore, compared to ₹37,470.65 crore last year. While tax revenue increased by over ₹12,000 crore, non-tax revenue too showed a spike of ₹423.12 crore and Central grants by ₹3,213 crore. But, the revenue deficit mounted to a staggering ₹31,188.49 crore in five months against the annual target of only ₹5,000 crore. Capital expenditure, however, took a dip from ₹8,608.64 crore last year to ₹5,482.53 crore this year, indicating the state spent ₹3,125.76 crore less on development works. At the same time, the revenue expenditure, which includes numerous freebie doles, shot up to ₹84,347.60 crore as against ₹75,669.98 crore in the corresponding period last year. Citing loss of revenue due to the Covid-19-induced lockdown last year, the state enhanced various taxes to fetch an additional ₹20,000 crore revenue per annum. Among the additional levies were a ₹4,500 crore ‘prohibition tax’ on liquor, ₹600 crore revised tax on petrol and diesel, another ₹600 crore (road development) cess on petrol and diesel, ₹300 crore levy on natural gas, ₹2,000 crore tax on properties in urban local bodies and ₹350 crore ‘user charges’ on garbage. The land values in urban areas have been hiked by 10 to 30 per cent to realise an additional ₹800 crore. The professional tax was increased for an additional income of ₹161 crore. “We are now reaping the benefits of the tax hike but the mounting revenue deficit is still a worrying factor. The revenues may be looking good but we are still in the red,” a top finance official pointed out. Besides, the spiralling revenue expenditure was also a cause for concern, with interest payment (on loans) alone touching ₹8,187.12 crore in the first five months. “Bulk of our revenue is going towards salaries, pensions and loan repayments. Not a single rupee is available for any other thing, leave alone development works. We are borrowing heavily to keep the freebie schemes going and that is reflecting in our accounts,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hike-in-taxes-after-covid-increases-andhra-pradesh-revenue-101634498423630.html
18-10-2021||India||Take uncompromising stand on gender-based violence: 700 alumni in letter to IIT-Guwahati||Over 700 former students of Indian Institute of Technology (IITs) from all over India have written to authorities in IIT-Guwahati (IIT-G) seeking an uncompromising stand on gender-based violence. The letter (which HT has seen) written on Friday by 769 IIT alumni was in response to an incident of alleged rape of a female student in IIT-G in March this year by a senior student. “We ask IIT-G administration to take an uncompromising stand and demonstrate unequivocally that gender-based violence and harm is unacceptable, (and) has no place on IIT campuses and will not be tolerated,” the letter stated. “We ask you to hold anyone proven guilty accountable by enforcing consequences which match the severity of the crime and are consistent with ICC’s (internal complaint committee’s) recommendations,” it added. The letter addressed to directors of all the 23 premier engineering institutes also suggested a list of actions to make IIT campuses “one of the safest and most inclusive institutions of learning in the world”. On April 3 this year, police had arrested the 21-year-old IIT-G student for allegedly raping a fellow student on March 28. The IIT-G authorities, who were initially accused of being slow to act, suspended the accused student following his arrest. In August, the Gauhati High Court while observing that there was “clear prima facie case” against the accused, granted him bail as both the victim and accused were “talented students” and the “state’s future assets”. Though the student was expelled by IIT-G in September following a decision by the senate (the institute’s highest decision-making body), his termination was withdrawn this month after an order by Gauhati HC. “We would like to express our anguish and outrage at the recent events reported in the media about a female student of IIT-G who was allegedly raped by a senior on campus, and then left injured and unconscious for several hours before being taken to hospital,” the letter by the IIT alumni stated. “We are also distressed to learn that some recommendations by ICC at IIT-G, recommending stringent action against co-accused, were ignored by management. The incident has brought renewed focus on the challenges female students face on campus, and the long-term harm caused to them,” it added. In their list of suggestions about actions needed to be taken, the former students mentioned establishment of a centre for equity and inclusion in all IIT campuses, a more diverse set of safe reporting channels and making a public commitment and enforce greater accountability for administrators and faculty. “We cherish our years spent at IIT and our experience of college life. What we want is to make IIT campuses one of the safest and most inclusive institutions of learning in the world. We believe IITs can position themselves to be a model and shining light for other institutions and society at large,” the letter said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/take-uncompromising-stand-on-gender-based-violence-700-alumni-in-letter-to-iitguwahati-101634498363695.html
18-10-2021||India||Congress high command will decide on CM face for Karnataka, says Siddaramaiah||Hubballi Senior Congress leader Siddaramaiah on Sunday said the party high command will decide on its chief minister after winning the 2023 assembly polls in Karnataka, and whomever they name, every one will abide by it.The Leader of Opposition in Karnataka also made it clear that he has no interest in national politics and will remain in the state. “High Command will decide. Congress party is a national party. Who made Basavaraj Bommai the CM? Did MLAs do it? It was the (BJP) high command and RSS which decided. Similarly, we too have the high command,” Siddaramaiah said in response to a question on whether he will become CM if Congress wins assembly polls.Speaking to reporters here, he said, on the basis of the opinion expressed by the newly elected MLAs, the high command will decide on the new Chief Minister. “Whoever is made (the CM), we will accept it.” Reiterating that the high command has not invited him to national politics and the issue was not discussed during his recent meeting with Congress President Sonia Gandhi, the former Chief Minister said that he too was not interested in it and wants to continue in state politics.“I’m now 74 years old, I may be in politics maximum five more years, I am fine with Karnataka, I’m happy with Karnataka politics,” he said.It is no secret that Siddaramaiah is nursing his ambition to become chief minister for a second term if the party wins the next assembly polls in 2023.However, with state unit President D K Shivakumar also being seen as a strong contender for the Chief Minister post, and his loyalists too like Siddaramaiah’s, already openly pitching for their leader as CM face, according to party sources, there is growing political one-upmanship between the two leaders and the issue may become contentious in the days to come.In response to a question the Congress Legislature Party leader expressed his opinion in favour of Rahul Gandhi taking over the mantle of the Congress party, as its national President.“Several working committee members have expressed their opinion that he (Rahul Gandhi) should become the party president, he has said that he will consider it. My opinion is also that Rahul Gandhi should become AICC president, I have said it a number of times,” Siddaramaiah said.The Congress Working Committee (CWC) on Saturday decided that elections for the new Congress president would be held between August 21 and September 20 next year with a majority of party leaders urging Rahul Gandhi to assume the top post, a request he said he would consider.Continuing his attack against the RSS, Siddaramaiah said, it is a communal organisation, which is in favour of ‘Manusmṛiti’, and anti-minority, hence he is opposed to it, and his opposition to the organisation is not to appease anyone.“Not now, since I joined politics in 1971, I’m opposing (RSS). It is because, it is a communal organisation. RSS began in 1925, their activities since then show that they want to divide the country and the society and not to unite it,” he said.Further questioning the claims of ‘Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas’ by BJP which follows RSS ideology, he asked “is there a single Muslim MLA from that party? RSS say they are social organisation, why there are no Muslim or Christian member in RSS?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-high-command-will-decide-on-cm-face-for-karnataka-says-siddaramaiah-101634498243770.html
18-10-2021||India||Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu calls for people’s movement to protect environment||Hyderabad: Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu on Sunday called for a people’s movement to protect the environment and urged people to voluntarily participate in various conservation activities.He called upon the youth in particular to pro-actively lead the movement and motivate others to adopt sustainable practices. “They (youth) should drive the point among the people that if we take care of nature, nature, in turn, will take care of mankind,” he said.Referring to effects of rapid urbanisation and deforestation, Naidu said there has been a frequency of extreme weather conditions such as flash-floods and landslides in recent times in different parts of the world. “These are clear signs that climate change is real and it cannot be business as usual anymore,” an official press release quoted him as saying.To mitigate such weather conditions, the Vice-President said, “...it is imperative that we co-exist harmoniously with nature. We must balance our developmental needs with environmental protection and make sure everyone understands the importance of sustainable living.” “Meaningful development is possible only when it takes into account the cost on environment,” Naidu said.He was speaking here at the release of ‘Nursery Rajyaniki Raraju’, a book on the life story of late Palla Venkanna, who is credited with transforming the village of Kadiyam in Andhra Pradesh into a popular hub of plant nurseries.The Vice-President expressed his appreciation of Venkanna for his tireless efforts towards a ‘Green Bharat’. He said Venkanna, who had collected over 3,000 varieties of plants from around the country, believed that “if every home can turn green, the country as a result will turn green.”“Palla Venkanna’s life story remains an inspiration to future generations,” he said. Naidu lauded the Telangana government for taking up plantation of trees as a movement under ‘Haritha Haram’. He suggested that all the state governments take the initiative of creating awareness among children on environmental protection and tree plantation from the school level.Telangana home minister Mohammed Mahmood Ali and other dignitaries were present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vicepresident-venkaiah-naidu-calls-for-people-s-movement-to-protect-environment-101634498004864.html
18-10-2021||India||Poonch-Rajouri search ops continue, 3 held||Security forces on Sunday detained three people for allegedly providing logistical support to terrorists during an ongoing search operation in the forest belt of Jammu & Kashmir’s Poonch and Rajouri border districts where nine soldiers were killed in two separate gunfights with terrorists over the past week.“There may be more than one group of terrorists, who have spread in Chamrer and Nar Khas forests. The operations are on to flush them out but it may take time because of the thick jungles,” said a police officer on condition of anonymity.“We have also detained three people in Bhata Dhurian area on the suspicion of providing logistical support,” said the officer.It was a matter of investigation whether they provided food and shelter to the terrorists voluntarily or at gunpoint, an official told news agency PTI.So far, the news agency said, contact with hiding terrorists was established thrice -- first on October 11 in Poonch’s Surankote which was followed by another exchange of fire between the security forces and the fleeing terrorists in the adjoining Thanamandi forest in Rajouri district the same day but the ultras managed their escape in both the encounters.Five Army personnel, including a junior commissioned officer (JCO), were killed in a fierce gunfight during a counter-insurgency operation in Surankote forest on Monday. Four soldiers, including another JCO, died in another encounter in the Nar Khas forest in the Mendhar area of Poonch on Thursday evening.“The presence of terrorists in the forest area connecting Poonch and Rajouri has observed two-and-a-half months ago and accordingly tactical operations were launched to track them down,” Deputy Inspector General of Police, Rajouri-Poonch range, Vivek Gupta said on Saturday.The terrorists are holed up and the joint forces are on the job to take the operation to the logical conclusion, he added.On Sunday, additional director general of police, Jammu zone, Mukesh Singh reached the site of the encounter. The Army has also deployed para-commandos and a helicopter in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/poonchrajouri-search-ops-continue-3-held-101634497633290.html
18-10-2021||India||Punjab intercaste couple killed, woman’s family booked: Police||letters@hindustantimes.com BATHINDA: A newly-wed intercaste couple was allegedly abducted and murdered by woman’s relatives at Sappanwali village in Punjab’s Fazilka district on Sunday, police said. The victims were identified as 26-year-old Rohtash Singh and 23-year-old Suman Devi. Rohtash’s elder brother Vikram Singh said the couple solemnised a court marriage on October 1 in Chandigarh and were living at different places apprehending threat to their lives. “Suman’s family members were against the marriage and they had been threatening the couple as well as us,” Vikram Singh saidThe two were allegedly abducted by a group of 15-16 persons around noon from Moga district’s Raunta village, 160 kms from Sappanwali, where they had taken shelter at Rohtash’s brother-in-law Sukhdev Singh, police said Nihal Singhawala police station (Moga) in-charge Nirmaljit Singh said Sukhdev filed a complaint of abduction of the couple. “Few hours later, we learnt that the couple was killed and their bodies were found on the street at Sappanwali. A murder case was registered against Suman’s uncles Atma Ram, Mahinder Ram and others. Efforts are on to nab the accused,” Singh said.The police officer said bodies were taken to the Abohar civil hospital for autopsy.A case was registered under IPC sections 302 (murder), 364 (abduction), 452 (house-trespass after preparation for assault) and other sections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-intercaste-couple-killed-woman-s-family-booked-police-101634497643015.html
18-10-2021||India||Jaishankar urges Israel businesses to focus on India||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Sunday encouraged Israeli businesses to focus more deeply on the opportunities and take advantage of India’s business-friendly policies, saying New Delhi regard them in many ways as perhaps “among our most trusted and innovative partners”.Speaking at the India-Israel Business Roundtable soon after his arrival in Israel on his maiden visit, Jaishankar said there is an enormous effort of change happening in India since Prime Minister Narendra Modi took office and people have heard bits and pieces of that change.“If you were to connect all those dots, I think, you get a picture of an India that is moving towards acquiring those deeper strengths which will make it more competitive in terms of the world economy. And that to you is of interest because from those deeper strengths will come new opportunities and I’ll speak about some of them,” he told the gathering.“So you have today really a very energetic economy -- the message that I would be giving to the counterparts of the Israeli government is you know ‘we regard you in many ways as perhaps among our most trusted and innovative partners’,” he said.While this change has been going on for a few years and during the last two years of the COVID-19 pandemic when people have not been in touch physically, interestingly the change process has accelerated, he said.“We have had some really big reforms, some of them might be of interest to you. One is called ‘production linked incentive’, which is to attract manufacturing to India from the birth so that anybody who is bringing in new production capacities and delivering on it is incentivised appropriately. Now this has covered 13 sectors so far. And many of them are exactly the sectors which some of you are interested in including batteries, electronics et al,” he said.He said the new farm laws make agriculture much more sustainable which actually creates the basis for greater businesses in agriculture and greater employment in agriculture. “We certainly think those changes would encourage much more investment into agriculture and food production.” Later, he tweeted that a “productive meeting with Israeli chambers of commerce and the innovation ecosystem.” “Appreciate their visible enthusiasm for doing more partnerships with India. Many post-Covid priorities including digital,health,agriculture & green growth are natural areas for our collaboration,” he tweeted.“Encouraged Israeli businesses to focus more deeply on Indian opportunities. And take advantage of our business friendly policies,” he said in another tweet.The roundtable discussions on promoting bilateral trade ties included leading officials of almost all the important business organisations in Israel.During his visit, Jaishankar would call on President Isaac Herzog, Prime Minister Naftali Bennett and Foreign Minister Yair Lapid.He will also be holding talks with leading academics from all over Israel, business community leaders and interacting with the Indian Jewish community.Jaishankar will also be visiting places of historical significance to India, demonstrating its long-term presence in the region and constructive role played in shaping the history of the region.India and Israel elevated bilateral relations to a strategic partnership during the historic visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Israel in July 2017.Since then, the relationship between the two countries has focused on expanding knowledge-based partnership, which includes collaboration in innovation and research, including boosting the ‘Make in India’ initiative, the Ministry of External Affairs said in a statement ahead of his departure||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-encourages-israeli-businesses-to-focus-more-deeply-on-opportunities-in-india-101634497403965.html
18-10-2021||India||Take uncompromising stand on gender-based violence: Alumni write to IIT Guwahati||GUWAHATI: Over 700 alumni of the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) from across the country have written to the IIT-Guwahati authorities seeking an “uncompromising” stand on gender-based violence, months after an incident of a student allegedly raped by a senior rocked the campus. The letter, which was written on Friday and signed by 769 alumni, stated: “We ask IIT-G administration to take an uncompromising stand and demonstrate unequivocally that gender-based violence and harm is unacceptable, (and) has no place on IIT campuses and will not be tolerated.” “We ask you to hold anyone proven guilty accountable by enforcing consequences which match the severity of the crime and are consistent with ICC’s (internal complaint committee’s) recommendations,” it added. The letter, seen by HT, addressed to directors of all the 23 premier engineering institutes also suggested a list of actions to make IIT campuses “one of the safest and most inclusive institutions of learning in the world”. On April 3 this year, police arrested a 21-year-old IIT-G student for allegedly raping a fellow student on March 28. The IIT-G authorities, who were initially accused of being slow to act, suspended the accused following his arrest. In August, the Gauhati high court, while observing that there was “clear prima facie case” against the accused, granted him bail as both the victim and accused were “talented students” and the “state’s future assets”. Though the student was expelled by IIT-G in September following a decision by the senate (the institute’s highest decision-making body), his termination was withdrawn earlier this month after an order by the high court. “We would like to express our anguish and outrage at the recent events reported in the media about a female student of IIT-G who was allegedly raped by a senior on campus, and then left injured and unconscious for several hours before being taken to hospital,” the letter by the IIT alumni stated. “We are also distressed to learn that some recommendations by ICC at IIT-G, recommending stringent action against co-accused, were ignored by management. The incident has brought renewed focus on the challenges female students face on campus, and the long-term harm caused to them,” it added. Among suggestions listed by the former students about actions needed to be taken, included establishment of a centre for equity and inclusion in all IIT campuses; a more diverse set of safe reporting channels and making public commitment; and enforcement of greater accountability for administrators and faculty. “We cherish our years spent at IIT and our experience of college life. What we want is to make IIT campuses one of the safest and most inclusive institutions of learning in the world. We believe IITs can position themselves to be a model and shining light for other institutions and society at large,” the letter said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/take-uncompromising-stand-on-gender-based-violence-alumni-write-to-iit-guwahati-101634497403446.html
18-10-2021||India||Unutilised vaccines with states doubled since Sept: Govt data||The number of Covid-19 vaccines lying unutilised with various states has nearly doubled over the past one month, growing from about 50 million doses in early October to at least 100 million now, according to government data, which suggests that there is no shortage of vaccines.A senior official in the ministry of health and family welfare said on condition of anonymity, “As per the latest data, more than 10 crore vaccine doses (10.42 crore or 100 million on Sunday) were lying with the states under the vaccination programme. At any given time now, the states have enough vaccine doses to be administered in the programme. In fact, the volume has more than doubled.”As per the data, a week ago there were at least 80 million doses available at any given point, which at the beginning of the month was about 50 million. Last month, on average, the number of balance and unutilised doses with the states at any given time was close to 50 million. “The supplies have gone up significantly as compared to the number of doses being administered daily, so much so that we almost tell states every other day to administer more doses in a single day as supplies are no longer an issue,” said another central government official aware of the matter, on condition of anonymity.The increase in vaccine supplies has been attributed to an increase in overall vaccine production and improved logistical arrangements in the country.From about 100 million Covishield doses and 2-2.5 million Covaxin doses till a couple of months ago, the monthly availability of both vaccines has now gone up to 220 and 6 million doses, respectively.While Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) is locally manufacturing Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine under the brand name Covishield, Bharat Biotech is manufacturing Covaxin that the company developed in collaboration with the country’s apex biomedical research regulator, the Indian Council of Medical Research.“Earlier, states used to complain frequently about vaccine supply shortage, and we used to ask them to be patient as companies were in the process of ramping up their monthly vaccine production that would lead to more supplies. We get supplies daily; a few days ago, we even got more than a crore vaccine doses in a single day,” said the second official.As per government data till Sunday, at least one billion Covid-19 vaccine doses have been provided to states and Union territories under the national vaccination programme since it was launched on January 16, and 976.5 million doses have been administered so far.“The supplies are going to go up further in the coming weeks with Zydus Cadila’s anti-Covid vaccine also expected to be added to the list. The company is likely to provide 6 million doses soon; negotiations are on,” said the second official cited above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unutilised-vaccines-with-states-doubled-since-sept-govt-data-101634497231228.html
18-10-2021||India||Heavy rain alert: Schools in Uttarakhand to remain closed today||Dehradun: Most educational institutions across Uttarakhand will remain closed on Monday while there will be a ban on trekking, mountaineering, and camping activities in the high altitude areas of the state till Tuesday as a precautionary measure in view of the heavy rain alert issued by the Met department.The orders for closure of educational institutions, including schools, colleges and anganwadi centres, were issued on Sunday by the district administrations following a heavy rain alert issued for all the 13 districts of Uttarakhand on Monday.The Chamoli district administration also banned all trekking, mountaineering and camping activities in the Nanda Devi biosphere reserve and the entire forest area of Gopeshwar till October 19.The district level Khel Mahakumbh events to be held at parade and pavilion grounds in Dehradun on October 18-19 have been cancelled. They have been rescheduled for October 24 and 25.Administrations of Chamoli, Uttarkashi and Rudrparayag districts have been asked to be extra careful as the Chardham yatra is underway in these districts. “I appeal to the pilgrims not to take the pilgrimage in the next two days as the route is expected to witness extremely heavy rain, especially in the hilly areas. On Sunday morning, there were about 16,000 pilgrims at Kedarnath shrine. I spoke to the Rudraprayag district magistrate to quickly enable the pilgrims to offer their prayers and leave the shrine for their lodgings due to heavy rain,” chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami said. Heavy to very heavy rains, lightning, hail storms and high speed winds (60-70 kmph) have been predicted by the Met department for all the 13 districts of Uttarakhand, including Haridwar, Udham Singh Nagar, Uttarkashi, Rudraprayag, Chamoli, Pithoragarh, Bageshwar, Almora, Nainitalk Champawat, Dehradun Tehri and Pauri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-alert-schools-in-uttarakhand-to-remain-closed-today-101634496983525.html
18-10-2021||India||Three Nihangs sent on six-day police custody||Rohtak: Three members of the Sikh Nihang order, arrested in connection to a lynching of a Dalit labourer at a farmers’ protest site, were on Sunday sent to six days of police custody, even as Haryana police constituted two special investigation teams to probe the incident. On October 15, the body of Lakhbir Singh (35), a Dalit farm labourer from Punjab’s Tarn Taran district, was found tied to a police barricade near the Singhu farm protest site on the outskirts of the capital with his left hand and right foot cut off. Nihangs, a Sikh order distinguished by blue robes and swords, alleged the man desecrated Guru Granth Sahib, the Sikh holy book, even as the victim’s family questioned the attackers’ claim that he committed sacrilege and demanded a high-level probe. So far, four people, claiming to be members of the Nihang order, have been arrested in connection with the gruesome killing. Hours after Lakhbir Singh’s body was found, Sarabjeet Singh, a resident of Punjab’s Gurdaspur district, claimed that he had “punished” Lakhbir Singh for the “desecration”. He was arrested and sent to seven days in police custody. The next day, three other Nihangs – Narain Singh, Govindpreet Singh and Bhagwant Singh – surrendered before Sonipat police in connection with the lynching. The three accused were produced before a court in Sonepat.All three confessed to their crime before the court. “They claimed that only four people were involved in this case,” said Virender Rao, Sonepat deputy superintendent of police (headquarters).“Inside the court, the accused folded their hands and confessed to their crime. Narain Singh once again claimed that he hit the labourer’s leg thrice with his sword and cut his foot, while Sarabjeet Singh cut his hand. They also admitted that four members of the Nihang order were involved in the killing,” said a police official who had accompanied the accused to the court. He declined to be named.Meanwhile, at Kundli border, Baba Raja Ram, another Nihang, said Lakhbir Singh was killed for desecrating Guru Granth Sahib. “ Where is law and order? No justice system has given strict punishment to the accused involved in sacrilege cases since 2015. There is nothing above the Granth Sahib for Sikhs. The Indian justice system has failed in giving justice to Sikhs since 2015 in more than 400 cases of sacrilege,” he said. “Our four people have surrendered before police and police should refrain from implicating any other person in the case. If police try to arrest any member of our community, we will protest against them, and they will have to face dire consequences. Police should investigate the sacrilege case as the labourer had disrespected the holy book.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-nihangs-sent-on-six-day-police-custody-101634496923894.html
18-10-2021||India||Sasikala terms herself AIADMK general secretary at party’s jubilee event||Chennai The year long (2021-22) golden jubilee celebrations of the AIADMK’s founding began on Sunday, and it was marked by a renewed and an open attempt by V K Sasikala, confidante of late party supremo J Jayalalithaa, to get back control of the party by harping on ‘unity’ mantra. Sasikala’s strong pitch for joining forces for the sake of the ‘party and people’ was, however, rejected by the AIADMK, which reiterated that there is no place for her in the party. She unfurled the AIADMK flag at the T Nagar memorial of party founder and late Chief Minister M G Ramachandran here and a plaque unveiled on the occasion addressed her as party ‘general secretary,’ which was strongly opposed by the main opposition party. Recalling a didactic Tamil film song ‘Kanpona Pokkiley’ in a MGR flick, which cautions against choosing a path based on whims and fancies rather than wisdom and reason, Sasikala said, “you decide to whom this is applicable today.” Apparently, the message was to the AIADMK brass, steered by O Panneerselvam and K Palaniswami, both former Chief Ministers. Addressing supporters at MGR’s Ramapuram Garden residence here, Sasikala said had the party been in power in the golden jubilee year, it would have been a proud moment, in honour of both MGR and ‘Amma.’ Ahead of the start of her prison term in 2017, she ensured that the AIADMK was in the saddle of power in Tamil Nadu, she said.Recalling her announcement of staying away from politics ahead of the Assembly poll in April this year, she said she took that stand as she wanted the party to be not affected in any manner whatsoever. “It is the responsibility of all of us to guard the party. The need of the hour is unity,” she said adding the divisions among them facilitated ‘our enemies,’ seen as a pointer to arch rival DMK, which captured power in Tamil Nadu after a gap of 10 years.Sasikala said that if attention was not paid to the welfare of the people, the party and cadres, “we will be thrown away, whatever top positions one may hold and all of us should realise this truth.” “For the sake of the party, the people and workers, this is the time to stand together.” In a symbolic gesture to press for what she termed “unity,” she said she was addressing them at the Ramapuram house, which witnessed the unification of factions led by Jayalalithaa and MGR’s wife Janaki Ammal, decades ago and later the AIADMK went on to capture power again in 1991.Similarly, the followers of MGR and Jayalalithaa should join forces to usher in the AIADMK government again in Tamil Nadu with people’s support, she said. “We should come together and the party has to win, long live the AIADMK, let Tamil Nadu grow,” Sasikala said as her supporters clapped and cheered. Reacting to Sasikala’s overtures, AIADMK senior leader D Jayakumar said she would not be taken back into the party. “No one can touch the AIADMK,” he asserted.Mocking at Sasikala, Jayakumar, referring to her supporters hailing her as ‘revolutionary mother’ wanted to know the kind of revolution she ushered in. “What revolution has she done?” he asked adding all that she did was only for the sake of her family. Be it cadres or the people, no one would ever accept her back into the AIADMK, he said. Accusing Sasikala-led camp as “looters” he said she did no sacrifices for the party’s sake and the AIADMK and people would never accept her or her relatives. The party is united against her and she was eased out of the AIADMK years ago, he said. Following that, the party came with a new organisational structure, comprising top posts of coordinator (O Panneerselvam) and co-coordinator (K Palaniswami) and decided that no one would be elevated to the position of general secretary, the numero uno post held by Amma. “Amma is our permanent general secretary. Though she is not alive, she is guiding us.” Jayakumar sought to know why Sasikala did not visit the memorials of leaders MGR and Jayalalithaa though she returned in February from Bengaluru after serving a four year prison sentence. She could not tolerate the golden jubilee celebrations of the party and the AIADMK suffered defeat in 1996 only because of her camp, he claimed. On a plaque, declaring her as party chief, Jayakumar, also a former Minister said that she has no moral or legal right to use the AIADMK’s name or flag or to claim that she is the party’s general secretary. “How can she become the general secretary merely by embossing her name in a plaque ?” he wondered adding the party would consider taking legal action. The Election Commission and a court ruling made it amply clear that “we are the AIADMK and the party’s two leaves symbol and the flag belongs to us,” Jayakumar said.Hence, Sasikala unilaterally claiming to be the party’s chief went against the court verdict and EC’s directives, he pointed out. AIADMK top leaders Panneerselvam and Palaniswami presided over the inaugural of the year long golden jubilee celebrations at the party headquarters here. They garlanded the statues of MGR and Jayalalithaa, distributed sweets and food to cadres and gave away ₹15 lakh financial assistance to the kin ( ₹3 lakh to each of the five families) of five party workers who passed away recently.A book of poems on late Jayalalithaa, authored by party office-bearer Sa Kalaipunithan and a compact disc of party’s jubilee song were released by the top two leaders. The AIADMK headquarters wore a festive look and cultural programmes were also held. The AIADMK, which held the reins of power for 30-plus years in Tamil Nadu was founded on October 17, 1972. PTI VGN ROH ROH||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sasikala-terms-herself-aiadmk-general-secretary-at-party-s-jubilee-event-101634496745773.html
18-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur incident: SKM to hold ‘Rail Roko’ on Oct 18 to demand dismissal, arrest of Union Minister||New Delhi, Oct 17 (PTI) The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Sunday said ‘Rail Roko’ protests will be held across the country on October 18 to demand the dismissal and arrest Union Minister Ajay Mishra in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri incident.In a statement, the umbrella body of farmer unions spearheading the farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s three agri laws, said “protests will only be intensified until justice is secured” in the Lakhimpur Kheri case.The SKM said during the ‘rail roko’ protest, all train traffic will be stopped for six hours from 10 am till 4 pm on Monday. “To press for its demand for MoS Home Ajay Mishra’s dismissal and arrest, so that justice can be secured in the Lakhimpur Kheri massacre, Samyukt Kisan Morcha has announced a nation-wide Rail Roko program tomorrow. “SKM put out a call to its constituents to stop rail traffic for six hours on October 18, between 10 am and 4 pm. The SKM asks for this action to be taken up peacefully, without any destruction and damage of any kind to any railway property,” it said.Four of the eight people who died in the violence on October 3 were farmers, allegedly knocked down by a vehicle carrying BJP workers. Angry farmers then allegedly lynched some people in the vehicles.The other dead included two BJP workers and their driver.Farmers have claimed that Ashish Mishra was in one of the vehicles, an allegation denied by him and Ajay Mishra who say they can produce evidence to prove he was at an event at that time. Ashish Mishra was arrested in the case on October 9.The SKM also claimed that at effigy-burning events across Uttar Pradesh, several farmer leaders were put under house arrested while some were detained.SKM condemns this and asks the UP government not to suppress the right to protest of ordinary citizens, it added. PTI MAH TDS TDS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-incident-skm-to-hold-rail-roko-on-oct-18-to-demand-dismissal-arrest-of-union-minister-101634496622872.html
18-10-2021||India||W.H.O. to meet on oct 26 to decide on emergency use of Covaxin||Experts of the World Health Organization will meet on October 26 to decide whether to grant emergency use listing to Bharat Biotech’s Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin, the UN health body announced on Sunday. “The technical advisory group will meet on Oct 26th to consider EUL for #Covaxin. @WHO has been working closely with @BharatBiotech to complete the dossier. Our goal is to have a broad portfolio of vaccines approved for emergency use & to expand access to populations everywhere,” tweeted Dr Soumya Swaminathan, chief scientist, WHO. On October 5, WHO announced through a series of tweets that emergency use approval for Covaxin was a week away. The experts from WHO and a group of independent experts are going through the data, and are expected to carry out the risk-benefit assessment before arriving at a conclusion, the UN health body announced on the day the Strategic Advisory Group of Experts on Immunization (SAGE) meeting on Covaxin emergency use listing was scheduled. “WHO & an independent group of experts are scheduled to meet next week to carry out the risk/benefit assessment and come to a final decision whether to grant Emergency Use Listing to Covaxin,” WHO tweeted on October 5. The last set of technical documents that WHO asked the company was submitted on September 27. “Covaxin manufacturer, Bharat Biotech, has been submitting data to WHO on a rolling basis & submitted additional info at WHO’s request on 27 September. WHO experts are currently reviewing this info & if it addresses all questions raised, WHO assessment will be finalized next week,” read one of the tweets from WHO. On July 12, Bharat Biotech announced that it submitted documents to set in motion the emergency use listing proceedings to WHO. “All documents required for emergency use listing (EUL) of Covaxin have been submitted to WHO as of 9th July. The review process has now commenced with the expectation that we will receive EUL from WHO at the earliest ,” Krishna Ella, chairman and managing director, Bharat Biotech, said in a statement after submitting the documents last month. WHO began a rolling review of Covaxin on July 6, 2021. Covaxin is one of the six vaccine approved by India’s drugs regulator for emergency use, and one of the two vaccines being administered under the national Covid-19 immunisation programme. The other vaccine that is largely being given under the programme is the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, which is locally manufactured by Serum Institute of India under the brand name Covishield.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-to-meet-on-oct-26-to-decide-on-emergency-use-of-covaxin-101634496564967.html
18-10-2021||India||Team sent to Chhattisgarh hospital after 4 newborns’ death||RAIPUR: After four newborn babies died at a government medical college hospital in Chhattisgarh’s Surguja district in the last two days, the state government on Sunday sent a team of senior doctors from Raipur to probe into the deaths.“A team of senior doctors has been sent to Amibikapur to find out the reasons behind the deaths in Government Medical College Affiliated Hospital and if they find anything unusual, proper inquiry will be ordered,” said Alok Shukla, state’s health secretary.The state government called an emergency meeting of officials after parents of one of the deceased babies accused hospital authorities of medical negligence.Hospital authorities, however, said there was nothing “unusual” about these deaths and that these babies died due to birth-related complications.“All the four kids died due to birth-related complications. They were referred to the hospital from different district hospitals of the region. One death took place on October 15 and three other infants died on October 16,” Dr Lakhan Singh, superintendent of the medical college told HT adding that two infants were suffering from birth asphyxia while other two were underweight.“A three-member team of medical college will inquire the matter while a team of Raipur will also reach to Amikapur,” said Singh.In the wake of these deaths, state urban administration and development minister Shivkumar Dahariya, who is also in-charge minister of Surguja district, has left for Ambikapur to chair a meeting of officials. Health minister TS Singh Deo, who was in Delhi, has left his tour midway and returning directly to Ambikapur, a release issued by Singh Deo’s staff said.“On the direction of chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, Dahariya has left for Ambikapur where he has called an emergency meeting of the district collector, chief medical and health officer (CMHO) and superintendent of the medical college,” a statement issued by the public relations department said.A release issued by the health minister’s staff said that Singh Deo has cancelled all his scheduled programmes in Delhi and will directly reach Ambikapur from there. In view of the seriousness of the issue, the health minister has directed to send a special team of health departments from Raipur and Bilaspur to Ambikapur, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/team-sent-to-chhattisgarh-hospital-after-4-newborns-death-101634496444008.html
18-10-2021||India||Cloudbursts may have triggered flash floods, landslides in Kerala: Experts||Thiruvananthapuram: The death of 24 people in flash floods and landslides caused by heavy rains in the hilly areas of Idukki and Kottayam districts in central Kerala has once again highlighted the recurring natural disasters in the state. Kerala has seen a series of natural disasters in the past four years, causing loss of lives and property. In August 2018, the most severe flood of the century claimed 483 lives. A year later, 48 people died after a portion of a hill came down at Kavalappara near Nilambur in Malappuram district. In August last year, 74 people were killed at Pettimudi in the Idukki district after a landslide decimated a settlement of tea plantation workers. On Saturday, two landslides claimed 18 lives in Idukki and Kottayam districts. Residents of Kootickal and Kokkayar, the two worst-hit hamlets, witnessed a tragedy of such magnitude for the first time. Though natural disasters are largely attributed to climate change, many ecologists blame human intervention as well for recurring mishaps. Many landslides were triggered by unscientific developmental work carried out in ecologically sensitive areas, experts said, lamenting that such issues come up for discussion only when a tragedy strikes. Kerala was suffering from a man-made disaster and its impact could have been limited if the Gadgil commission’s report was implemented in earnest, said environmental scientist V S Vijayan, chairman of Thrissur-based Salim Ali Foundation, which works in the area of biodiversity conservation.The Western Ghats Ecology Expert Panel, also known as the Gadgil Commission after its chairman, ecologist Madhav Gadgil, had in its 2011 report recommended a series of actions to conserve the Western Ghats, a Unesco heritage site that plays an important role in breaking rain clouds over the subcontinent. When all six states in the Western Ghats region – Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Goa, Maharashtra and Gujarat – opposed the suggestions, another committee was constituted under former ISRO chief Kasturirangan. The second report faced objections as well.If the remained unchanged, Kerala would witness more such mishaps, Vijayan warned. “It is a fact nobody can stop rains or control floods. Due to climate change, such tragedies are bound to increase. We have seen heatwaves in some western counties,” Vijayan said. “But we can take measures to lower the intensity of such tragedies. Quarrying and unbridled developmental activities are still rampant in many ecologically sensitive areas of Kerala.”Cloudbursts might have triggered torrential rains at several places in Kottayam and Idukki districts, a weather expert said. “The pattern of the rains shows it is a cloudburst. Some of the areas in Idukki and Kottayam received more than 20 cm rainfall in 2-3 hours,” said M G Manoj, a scientist at the Advanced Centre for Atmospheric Radar Research in Cochin University of Science and Technology. “We need long- and short-term strategies to tackle such tragedies. Usually, soil study or soil piping phenomena are not done while constructing houses,” Manoj said. “Proper geological studies are needed, at least for new dwelling units.” “We can reduce the intensity of disasters by listening to early warnings and disseminating them to targeted audiences. We need more studies in hazard-reduction areas,” he said.After the Kavalappara tragedy in 2019, many experts said soil piping was rampant in many areas of the state, but no serious study was done.Soil piping and lateral spread (which occurs when the soil starts moving downhill) are more visible in Kerala these days. These two often trigger major disasters. Like cloud pattern, soil pattern is also undergoing a sea change,” said V Nandakumar, a scientist at the Thiruvananthapuram-based National Centre for Earth Science Studies. “We cannot control rains. But we can mitigate damage triggered by extreme rains,” Nandakumar said. “Human intervention plays a key role in multiplying damages at several places.”Recently, in north Kerala’s Kozhikode, vibrations accompanied by mysterious sounds were felt in a newly constructed house. Later, geologists and experts examined the house and found that soil piping or lateral spread might have triggered them and asked the occupants to shift from the premises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cloudbursts-may-have-triggered-flash-floods-landslides-in-keralaexperts-101634495849241.html
18-10-2021||India||Vegetable prices up due to fuel price hike, rain: Govt data||Prices of vegetables, especially onion and tomato, are rising in urban areas, including the national capital, on the back of higher fuel prices and damage to summer crops due to heavy rains, trade data showed on Sunday. The prices of edible oil too continue to be dearer due to high global prices, prompting the Union government to tighten measures such as requiring traders to reveal stocks. The central government on October 13 wrote to states to ensure prices of edible oils are brought down after cuts in import duty until March 22 . The government has built a record reserve of 200,000 tonnes of onions to deal with potential spikes in prices during the current lean season. Prices of some food items, where seasonality plays a big role, tend to be volatile. Onion is one of them. Its rates often stoke food inflation and impact monthly budgets of consumers, poor or rich, because the vegetable is a base ingredient of most Indian dishes. Onion prices tend to rise during September because it marks the beginning of a nearly three-month lean season, when stocks from previous crops deplete, past data show. Fresh harvests usually arrive in winter. Tomato prices shot up to ₹60-65 a kg, while onions were selling for ₹50-55 in Delhi, Patna, Kolkata and Mumbai, up ₹20-25, price data from agricultural produce market committees showed. Rains in Karnataka and Maharashtra have upended supply lines and damaged crops in key growing regions, said Arun Solanki of Nashik-based Solanki India Ltd, which supplies vegetables grown in Maharashtra. “There is Rs10-15 increase in prices of these vegetables as supply has slowed. Back-end suppliers say this is because of heavy rains this summer,” SP Gupta of New Delhi’s Ghazipur Wholesale Vegetable and Fruit Market said. Maharashtra, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh are major onion-producing states, accounting for over 75% of total summer onion output. All of these states witnessed delays or damage to summer onion crops. Price rise is a key determinant of monetary policy. Moderate inflation helps the Reserve Bank of India to keep interest rates low to spur economic activity, which has been hit by the Covid-19 pandemic. “Onions, a staple in most Indian households, are likely to make consumers cry again with erratic monsoon leading to an eventual delay in harvest,” Crisil Ltd, a ratings firm, said in a recent research note. Crisil’s on the ground report said onion seed transplantation suffered critical lags due to on and off rains during the June-September monsoon, potentially delaying the time the crop takes to mature. Summer onions account for no more than 30% of India’s annual supply, but they are critical to price stability because they replenish supplies during the lean September-November period. “The buffer size (of onions) has been enhanced from 5,137 MT (million tonnes) in 2017-18 to 100,000 MT in 2020-21, which has been further enhanced to 200,000 MT in 2021-22 to ensure a more effective intervention to control prices,” a government document reviewed by HT said. The government is “monitoring prices of all essential commodities as always”, an official said on condition of anonymity. If prices rise, the government will step in by releasing onions “as and when needed” from its warehouses to keep rates stable, he said. Market watchers point to a familiar pattern in India’s onion-price spirals every alternate year or so. In the first half of 2017, for instance, wholesale onion prices plunged, leading to widespread protests by farmers in Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. Then, in the second half of that year, when the government intervened in the market to buy out excess stocks, prices began rising. In 2019 and 2020, too, retail rates had soared past ₹90 a kg between September and November in many cities. Onion trade in the country suffers from classic price volatility. This is caused mainly by supply-disrupting factors such as extreme weather, losses from inadequate or improper storage, or frequently shifting production levels, all of which can cause supplies to go from surplus to scanty in a matter of weeks. Experts hold that longer dry spells followed by short periods of heavy rainfall are telltale signs of a changing climate’s impact on the monsoon, which waters 60% of the country’s cultivated area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vegetable-prices-up-due-to-fuel-price-hike-rain-govt-data-101634495724272.html
18-10-2021||India||4 of 10 most wanted terrorists killed in Kashmir: Police||Srinagar: Amid a spate of civilian killings across Jammu & Kashmir, the police on Sunday said they have killed four of the 10 most wanted terrorists, on the “target” or “hit list” of security agencies.On August 2 this year, the J&K Police released a list of top 10 terrorists that it aimed to target. The list, posted on Twitter by the Kashmir Zone Police, included the names of seven terrorists who have been active for some time and three new recruits. “Top 10 #targets: #Old #terrorists- Salim Parray, Yousuf Kantroo, Abbas Sheikh, Reyaz Shetergund, Farooq Nali, Zubair Wani & Ashraf Molvi. #New #terrorists- Saqib Manzoor, Umer Mustaq Khandey & Wakeel Shah,” said the tweet.“Of these 10 terrorists, four have been killed in different operations,” Inspector General of Police (Kashmir) Vijay Kumar said on Sunday.The development comes amid the killing of 11 civilians in targeted attacks in Kashmir, including five hailing from other states. A total of 32 civilians have been shot dead in Kashmir so far this year.Nine soldiers have been killed in counterterror operations that began on October 11, the highest casualty the army has suffered in a week in the region in recent years. At least 13 terrorists, including a top Lashkar-e-Taiba commander, have been shot dead by security forces in October.According to the police, the four killed include Abbas Sheikh of the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) backed The Resistance Front (TRF); top LeT commanders Umer Mustaq Khandey and Saqib Manzoor, and Jaish commander Wakeel Shah.Police said Sheikh and Manzoor were top LeT commanders and were also responsible for carrying out numerous attacks on civilians, lawmakers and security personnel. Sheikh, who is also the chief of the TRF, along with his associate Saqid were killed in an encounter in the Aloochi Bagh area of Srinagar on August 23 this year. Shah, too, was killed in August in connection with the murder of BJP leader Rakesh Pandita in Tral.Khandey, police said, was involved in the killing of two police constables and was killed in an encounter in Pulwama on October 16.In March, too, the police had released a similar list of wanted terrorists and announced rewards for those who will provide information about them.“The other commanders or top terrorists, who are still at large, are Saleem Parray (LeT), who has been accused of several civilian killings in Hajin; Yousuf Kantroo alias Issah (LeT), accused of perpetrating several attacks in Budgam and Srinagar districts and has been dubbed as the A+++ category terrorist; Hizbul Mujahideen commander Farooq Bhat alias Farooq Nali, an A++ category terrorist; and another Hizb commander Mohammad Ashraf Khan or Ashraf Molvi, among others,” said IGP Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-of-10-most-wanted-terrorists-killed-in-kashmir-police-101634495610341.html
18-10-2021||India||Kerala rain toll increases to 24||Thiruvananthapuram:  As many as 24 people died in Kerala in the past two days due to flash floods and landslides triggered by torrential rains that were induced by a low-pressure area in the Arabian Sea. Early warnings and preparedness helped save many lives, rescue officials said. Landslides killed 12 people in Kottayam and six in the Idukki district. Six died in rain-related mishaps in other parts of the state. The rains slackened by Sunday afternoon, but authorities kept up a strict vigil. The threat of landslides and water-logging across multiple districts continues, said rescue officials, declining to be named. The India Metrological Department has issued yellow alerts in 11 districts, which indicate the possibility of severely bad weather. Rains triggered two major landslides in Kokkayar in Idukki and Kootickal in Kottayam districts, claiming 18 lives. Peerumedu in the Idukki district witnessed the maximum rainfall at 240 mm. “I was playing outside the house when I heard a deafening sound. When my father came out, we saw gushing water and boulders coming down from the nearby hill. Our house was destroyed and swept away. I grabbed hold of a tree branch and later fell into a stream and swam across it,” said 11-year-old Jabin, who had a miraculous escape. He is undergoing treatment in a hospital in Poonjar for a minor fracture. A search is on for his missing father and other relatives. In Kootickal, three generations of a family of six were swept away in the surging waters. Bodies of grandmother Claramma Joseph (65), her daughter-in-law and a grandchild were recovered. Survivors in Kootickal said even in the worst flood of 2018 they were not affected, and the area has no history of landslides or flash floods. Heavy rains began on Friday night and a landslide took place around 10 in the morning on Saturday. The whole area was cut off after roads were damaged, local residents said. Water and slush travelled around 12 km to hit human settlements. In Kokkayar, one of the victims, Fousiya, sent a Whatsapp message to her relative, capturing the fury of nature. Her son and daughter were seen in it. After a few seconds, floodwaters engulfed the entire family. Bodies of six of her family members have later recovered 1 km from their house. Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan reviewed the situation and said the government is making all efforts to save lives. Rescue operations were in full swing, he said. One hundred and five relief camps have been set up, the chief minister said. He asked people in the camps to follow the Covid-19 protocol to contain the spread of infections. Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke with Vijayan and offered help. State revenue minister K Rajan announced a grant of ₹4 lakh to the kin of the deceased. Home minister Amit Shah assured all help to Kerala. “We are continuously monitoring the situation in parts of Kerala in the wake of heavy rains and flooding. The central government will provide all possible help to the state,” he tweeted on Sunday. Defence forces are helping district administrations to remove slush and boulders to locate the missing. Four persons are still missing, district officials said. Cloudbursts triggered the torrential rains at several places in Kottayam and Idukki districts, an expert said. “The pattern of the rains shows it is a cloudburst. Some of the areas in Idukki and Kottayam received more than 20 cm rainfall in two to three hours,” said M G Manoj, a scientist at the Advanced Centre for Atmospheric Radar Research in Cochin University of Science and Technology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-rain-toll-increases-to-24-101634495484766.html
18-10-2021||India||Will avenge every drop of innocent blood in Kashmir: LG Manoj Sinha||Amid a spate of civilian killings in the valley, Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Sunday said that “every drop of innocent blood will be avenged” and those responsible for the killings will be hunted down.Nine civilians were killed in targeted attacks by terrorists on non-locals and people from minority communities in different parts of Kashmir in October so far. The most recent Two migrant workers-- one from Uttar Pradesh and another from Bihar-- were shoot dead by terrorists at Eidgah, Srinagar and Litter in Pulwama on Saturday.In his radio address, Awam Ki Awaz on Sunday, Lt Governor Sinha paid tributes to the civilians who were killed recently.“I pay my heartfelt tributes to the martyr civilians and condolences to the bereaved families. We’ll hunt down terrorists, their sympathisers and avenge every drop of innocent civilian’s blood.”Lt Governor further said that when next month people will be celebrating Diwali, they should light one candle in honour of those soldiers who laid down their lives for country and whose lives were snatched by the enemies of humanity. “I make a promise that terrorism and its entire ecosystem will be uprooted,” he said.Sinha said that attempts are being made to disrupt peace and socio-economic progress of J&K and individual growth of people. “We remain committed to fast-paced development and will endeavour to build a prosperous and peaceful UT of J&K,” he said.The recent spate of killings has triggered fear among the people in the Valley and criticism of the security apparatus by political parties.National Conference president Farooq Abdullah Sunday said Kashmiris were not involved in the recent civilian killings in the union territory and that these attacks were carried under “a conspiracy to defame Kashmiris”.“The killing of innocent people is unfortunate. It is a conspiracy to defame Kashmiris,” Farooq told reporters here.On Saturday, Arvind Kumar Sah, 29, a resident of Banka area in Bihar, was shot at close range by the terrorists in Srinagar’s Eidgah area while Sageer Ahmad, a carpenter from Uttar Pradesh, was attacked at Litter in the Pulwama district.Earlier, on October 7, two school teachers -- Supinder Kaur, principal of the Government Boys Higher Secondary School and Deepak Chand, a teacher at the same school in Srinagar’s Eidgah-- were shot dead by terrorists inside the school premises.On October 5, three more civilians -- Makhan Lal Bindroo, a Kashmiri Pandit and a well-known pharmacist in Srinagar; Virender Paswan, a street vendor from Bihar’s Bhagalpur, and Mohammad Shafi Lone, the head of a taxi stand in Bandipora district-- were killed by terrorists. On October 2 as well, two civilians , Majid Guru and Mohammad Shafi were killed in Srinagar.The Resistance Front (TRF), a front for terror groups like Lashkar-e-Taiba had claimed responsibility for most of the attack.A total of 29 civilians have been shot dead in Kashmir so far this year, news agency AFP had quoted authorities as saying.Security forces intensified counterterrorism operations in the Valley after the targeted civilian killings in October. Nine soldiers have been killed in the operations that began on October 11– the highest casualties the army has suffered in a week in the region in recent years.At least 13 terrorists, including a top Lashkar-e-Taiba commander, have also been neutralised in the operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-avenge-every-drop-of-innocent-blood-in-kashmir-lg-manoj-sinha-101634495184876.html
18-10-2021||India||'Democracy can’t rest on a bed of lies, need to hold Facebook to account'||Former Facebook employee Sophie Zhang, who earlier exposed the company’s partisan policy in removing inauthentic accounts from the social media platform ahead of the 2020 Delhi elections, said that the only way to ensure transparency on part of the company was to put pressure on it to ensure fair treatment for people across the spectrum.Zhang is among several former Facebook employees and contractors who have said that the company’s policies and management are leading to harm. Earlier this month, Frances Haugen sent a complaint to the US Securities and Exchange Commission citing internal documents that back some of these allegations.In an interview with Hindustan Times, Zhang said that democracy can not rest on a bed of lies. “The only way to ensure that Facebook treats everyone well, and fairly, is to put pressure on the country. Citizens of India need to make their voice heard if they feel content is been censored in a biased manner, in favour of a particular political party,” she said.Zhang in April revealed that Facebook had planned to take down a series of fake accounts ahead of the Delhi elections, but stopped when it realized a BJP politician was behind one such network. “While two Congress, one Aadmi Party and one Bharatiya Janata Party-linked IT cell-style networks were actioned, one was spared despite being repeatedly flagged,” she said.She added that a network of 50-60 accounts run by BJP Lok Sabha MP personally was identified, but despite repeated concerns being raised, the network was never removed. “There was one Aam Aadmi Party-related network, which curiously was also linked to a different cell supporting the Congress in a different state,” she said. “These inauthentic accounts were removed, then two Congress related networks were stopped and one BJP.”The Congress and the AAP did not respond to requests for seeking a comment. Amit Malviya, the BJP’s in-charge for the National Information Technology department, could not be reached despite repeated attempts.Zhang said such networks of fake accounts works to create automatic content, likes, comments and posts in large numbers to promote a particular political party or individual. “For example, around the Delhi election, many accounts emerged that said we had earlier voted for Narendra Modi, but would now vote for Kejrwal,” she said. “These were bad actors and not actual people.”To be sure, she said that there was no way of being certain that these networks were being run by the political parties. “But in case of the BJP MP, it was obvious that the network was being operated from his house, and was being personally done.” Zhang declined to disclose the name of the politician.This, however, is not the first time Facebook has been accused of not censoring political content. Last year, the social media firm’s public policy head Ankhi Das had to step down over allegations that Facebook refused to action “hate-speech” by a BJP politician.According to Zhang, in the United States, the people who take decisions for the direction of the company, are the same ones that are responsible for keeping those in power happy. “Political interference as such has always been a part of the company decision making,” she said. “Refusal to take action against the BJP is part of the pattern, its what the company does, we can’t blame individuals for it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/democracy-can-t-rest-on-a-bed-of-lies-need-to-hold-facebook-to-account-says-whistleblower-101634493383273.html
18-10-2021||India||Kerala flood latest updates: Over 25 dead due to heavy rains; Idduki, Kottayam worst hit||Rainfall in Kerala continued to disrupt normal life in the southern state on Sunday, with as many as 21 people losing their lives to rain-related incidents so far and dozens of others missing after flash floods and landslides in multiple regions. Officials said rescue efforts are in full swing, with the Indian Army, the Indian Air Force, and the Indian Navy joining in with the local administrations to assist them with the operations. The rainfall situation has also partially subsided in central Kerala but the threat of landslides and severe waterlogging across multiple districts still persists, according to officials.Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, in a Facebook post from his official account, informed that hectic relief and rescue operations are currently on; he urged people to observe social distancing in relief camps. Meanwhile, Union home minister Amit Shah also assured all possible support for the people in need in Kerala, adding that the central government was keeping a close watch on the situation.Here are the highlights on Kerala rain:-||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-flood-latest-updates-18-dead-rain-partially-subsides-details-here-101634436481666.html
18-10-2021||NA||Highlights: Babul Supriyo to meet Lok Sabha speaker on October 19||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:Babul Supriyo to meet Lok Sabha speaker on October 19TMC leader Babul Supriyo is expected to meet Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla on Tuesday (October 19) to submit his resignation as BJP MP, reported news agency ANI. He joined TMC last month.WHO to meet on October 26 to consider emergency listing for CovaxinWHO chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan on Sunday said the technical advisory group will meet on October 26 to consider EUL (Emergency use listing) for Covaxin. WHO has been working closely with Covaxin-maker Bharat Biotech to complete the dossier, she added. Bill Clinton discharged from California hospital after treatment for an infectionFormer US president Bill Clinton was on Sunday released from a California hospital after spending five nights in treatment for an infection, reports news agency AFP.Bihar govt announces aid for kins of deceased in Kulgam attackBihar chief minister Nitish Kumar today announced ₹2 Lakh each as ex-gratia for kins of Raja Reshi Dev and Joginder Reshi Dev, who were killed by terrorists in Jammu & Kashmir this evening. The chief minister also spoke to J&K Lt Governor Manoj Sinha and expressed his concern over the killings.Non-locals in Kashmir to be brought to nearby army and police camps An advisory was issued in Jammu and Kashmir to bring all non-locals to nearby army and police camps. The advisory was issued on Sunday hours after terrorists fired indiscriminately on non-local labourers in Kulgam, killing two and injuring one. All schools in Uttarakhand to stay shut on October 18All schools in Uttarakhand will remain closed on October 18, 2021, in view of heavy rain alert issued for the state, Banshidhar Tiwari, director-general, education, said. 2 killed in fresh attack on civilians in J&K's Kulgam#Terrorists fired indiscriminately upon #NonLocal labourers at Wanpoh area of #Kulgam. In this #terror incident, 02 non-locals were killed and 01 injured. Police & SFs cordoned off the area. Further details shall follow. @JmuKmrPoliceAt least 2 civilans (non-locals) were on Sunday killed and one injured in a fresh attack by terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir's Kulgam. This was the third attack on non-local in Kashmir since last night, and second in south Kashmir.  Read moreSinghu border killing a religious matter, govt should not link it to farmers' protest: Rakesh TikaitFarmers' leader Rakesh Tikait asserted that the Singhu border killing was a religious matter and the government should not link it to farmers' protest. “We're talking to them that they're not needed here as of now...Govt can deteriorate the situation. The conspiracy was executed by govts..,” he added.Body of second pilot recovered: J&K policeThe body of the second pilot of the helicopter which crashed in Ranjit Sagar Dam has been recovered, informed J&K police. The body was retireved 76 days after an Indian Army helicopter crashed into Ranjit Sagar Dam on August 3.1 dead, 3 injured in accident near Badrinath National Highway-07: Chamoli policeThe Chamoli Police on Sunday informed that one person died while three were injured after they met with an accident near Badrinath National Highway-07. Two people are still missing. “They were returning from Badrinath Dham. Search operation is underway to find the missing persons,”- the Police added. Killing of innocent people unfortunate: Farooq AbdullahNational Conference chief Farooq Abdullah called the spate of killings of civilians in the Valley over the past few days a “conspiracy to defame Kashmiris”."The killing of innocent people is unfortunate. It is a conspiracy to defame Kashmiris," news agency ANI quoted Farooq Abdullah as saying. PM Narendra Modi speaks to Kerala CMPrime Minister Narendra Modi talked to Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan to discuss the current situation in the state after torrential rain besieged many districts. "Spoke to Kerala CM Shri @vijayanpinarayi and discussed the situation in the wake of heavy rains and landslides in Kerala. Authorities are working on the ground to assist the injured and affected. I pray for everyone’s safety and well-being, he said on Twitter. Read more2nd wave of Covid-19 subsiding but not fair to say worst is over: VK PaulCovid taskforce chief VK Paul on Sunday said that the second wave of Coronavirus is subsiding but, added, it was not fair to say that the worst is over. VK Paul further stated that Zydus Cadila's Covid-19 vaccine will be rolled out soon. Cadila's Covid-19 vaccine is world’s first DNA-based needle-free Covid-19 vaccine.All schools, anganwadis in Dehradun to stay shut on October 18All schools and anganwadis in Dehradun district will remain closed on October 18, 2021, in wake of heavy rain alert in the state, District Magistrate R Rajesh Kumar announced on Sunday.All schools in Uttarakhand's Chamoli to be closed on October 18: DMChamoli DM Himanshu Khurana on Sunday urged all visitors to Badrinath temple to stay at safe locations in wake of heavy rain warnings. “They're advised to stay back at Joshimath & Pandukeshwar until weather condition improves. All schools in Chamoli to be closed on Monday,” he added. Meanwhile, all trekking/camping, mountaineering groups have been barred from entering into all the forest areas of Nanda Devi Biosphere Reserve, Gopeshwar from October 17 to 19, in wake of the heavy rain alert in the state.All 3 accused in Singhu border killing sent to six-day police custodyAll three accused in the Singhu border killing- Narayan Singh, Bhagwant Singh & Govind Preet Singh- have been sent to a 6-day Police custody. They were produced before Sonipat Court today.All arrangements made, alerts issued: Pushkar Singh Dhami on heavy rain alertUttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on Sunday assured that all arrangements have been made in wake of the heavy rain alert in the state on October 18-19.  He also requested all devotees undertaking Char Dham yatra to postone it by a day or two.“I've spoken with Chief Secy and all DMs-SSPs. We -ministers & officers- will meet again at 5:30 pm today. We requested all devotees undertaking Char Dham Yatra to postpone yatra by 1-2 days in wake of heavy rain alert for 18-19 Oct,” he said. 3 accused in Singhu border killing brought to Sonipat courtThree accused in the Singhu border killing were brought to the Sonipat court on Sunday. On October 15, the body of a man was found tied to a barricade at the Singhu border with a hand chopped off and multiple wounds caused by sharp-edged weapons.All schools to remain shut in Uttarkashi district on Oct 18 due to heavy rains warningAll schools will remain closed in Uttarakhand's Uttarkashi district on October 18, in view of heavy rainfall warning, District Magistrate Mayur Dikshit announced on Sunday.Calculation is simple, we've crossed 300 seats in UP: Akhilesh YadavAhead of the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly elections, Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav said on Sunday the election math is simple and that his party will cross 300 seats.“It has been heard that BJP is going to cut tickets of its 150 MLAs. 100 MLAs sat on protest in the State Assembly against CM Yogi Adityanath. We already have 50 MLAs. So the calculation is simple, we've crossed 300 seats,” news agency ANI quoted Yadav as saying on Sunday.Intense spell of rain over northwest region likely to continue till October 19: IMDThe Indian Meterological Department (IMD) on Sunday said that intense spell of rains over Kerala & Mahe, South Interior Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal is likely to reduce from today.“Intense spell of rainfall activity over northwest region of the country likely to continue till Oct 19, over eastern region till 20th October and over northeast region during 18th-21st October,” the weather department added. UP to provide financial help of ₹50,000 to families of those who died to Covid-19Financial help of ₹50,000 will be given the families of those who died due to COVID19: Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister's OfficeThe Uttar Pradesh government announced on Sunday that it will provide a financial help of ₹50,000 to families of those who succumbed to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). IMD issues read alert for heavy rainfall in U'khand on Oct 18The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday issued a red alert for heavy rainfall in Uttarakhand on Monday along with an orange in the state till Tuesday. The state government has been asked to remain alert and make all necessary arrangements. G-23 not a separate group, says Cong leader Sandeep DikshitCongress leader Sandeep Dikshit emphasised that G-23 is not a separate group and the party high command should either consider the demands of the group or reject them. Dikshit, who himself is a member of G-23, told news agency ANI, ""G-23 is not a separate group. Rather, the members of G23 have some demands to bring reforms in the party. The demands still persist. As far as the full-time president is concerned, Sonia Gandhi said that she is the full-time president so we now come to know that the party has a full-time president." Two days after deadly blast at Shi'ite mosque in Kandahar, Islamic State issues threatTwo days after a deadly blast at a Shi'ite mosque in Afghanistan's Kandahar province on October 15 (Friday) killed over 60 worshipers and injured more than 80, the Islamic State threatened in a statement that Shi’ite Muslims are "perilous" and they will be targeted everywhere. Read moreContinuously monitoring situation in Kerala in wake of floods, says Amit ShahWe are continuously monitoring the situation in parts of Kerala in the wake of heavy rainfall and flooding. The central govt will provide all possible support to help people in need. NDRF teams have already been sent to assist the rescue operations. Praying for everyone’s safety.Union home minister Amit Shah said on Sunday that the Centre is continuously monitoring the situation in parts of Kerala in the wake of heavy rainfall and flooding. “The central govt will provide all possible support to help people in need. NDRF teams have already been sent to assist the rescue operations. Praying for everyone’s safety,” he tweeted. Banks will remain closed for 6 days next week. Check detailsBanks across India will be closed for six days in the coming week starting Monday, October 18, according to the guidelines issued by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). Read moreOver 976 million Covid vaccines administered in India so farThe Union health ministry said on Sunday that more than 976 million doses of the vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have been administered to eligible beneficiaries till now. Minimum temperature in Delhi settles above normalAfter rainfall was reported in the national capital on Sunday morning, the minimum temperature settled at 23.5 degrees Celsius, four notches above normal, the Meteorological department said. Delhi received 3 mm rainfall in the last 24 hours and the relative humidity was 90%.India sees marginal dip in daily Covid tally at 14,146; lowest in 229 daysIndia saw a marginal dip in its daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Sunday after 14,146 new cases were recorded in the last 24 hours—the lowest in more than seven months—taking the country’s caseload to 34,067,719, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. Read moreGroup of 15-17 US missionaries kidnapped by armed gang in HaitiA group of 15-17 US missionaries have been kidnapped by an armed gang in Haiti, news agency AFP reported on Sunday citing security officials. The kidnapping happened as the missionaries were leaving an orphanage. United States crosses 10 million Covid booster shotsThe United States has surpassed 10 million booster shot, with more doses going daily to people who have been fully vaccinated than those getting a shot for the first time, news agency Bloomberg reported on Sunday citing data from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Rain lashes Delhi-NCR, to continue for next 2 hrs, says IMDDelhi and the NCR region woke up to moderate rainfall on Sunday morning with the India Meteorological Department (IMD) saying that downpour will continue for the next two hours. International Day for Eradication of Poverty today: History, themeInternational Day for the Eradication of Poverty is observed every year on October 17 and aims to raise awareness about people living in poverty. Read moreJapan to donate more Covid-19 vaccines to Taiwan The Japanese government said that it will donate more vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to Taiwan as a part of its free vaccine aid initiative for the Southeast Asian countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-october-17-2021-101634432263039.html
