19-10-2021||India||Fabindia withdraws Diwali ad after row over Urdu phrase||New Delhi: Indian retailer Fabindia has withdrawn an advertisement about its new festive line called Jashn-e-Riwaaz after facing a backlash from the Bharatiya Janata Party and right-wing groups that said the Urdu phrase hurt Hindu sentiments. The seller of Indian ethnic clothing deleted a tweet promoting the new range and removed the collection from its website as well after being trolled on social media by right-wing groups and people, including BJP parliamentarian Tejasvi Surya, also the president of the party’s youth wing, who said the company should pay for “deliberate misadventures.” “As we welcome the festival of love and light, Jashn-e-Riwaaz by Fabindia is a collection that beautifully pays homage to Indian culture,” Fabindia had tweeted on October 9. Jashn-e-Riwaaz means festival of tradition. The Urdu phrase was, however, misunderstood to refer to Deepavali or Diwali, the Indian festival of lights.  “Deepavali is not Jashn-e-Riwaaz,” Surya tweeted on Monday. “This deliberate attempt of abrahamisation of Hindu festivals, depicting models without traditional Hindu attires, must be called out. And brands like @FabindiaNews must face economic costs for such deliberate misadventures.”Fabindia on Tuesday said that the contested festive line was not its Diwali collection, PTI news agency reported. The company said its Diwali line will be called Jhilmi si Diwali, PTI reported. The phrase translates to glittering festival of lights. “We at Fabindia have always stood for the celebration of India with its myriad traditions in all hues,” the company spokesperson told PTI. “Our Diwali collection called ‘Jhilmil is Diwali’ is yet to be launched.”Taking a dig at the BJP, former leader of the party Yashwant Sinha, who is now with Trinamool Congress party, tweeted, “I am happy BJP has protected Hinduism by protesting against Fab India’s Rashn-e-Riwaaz dresses and forcing it to withdraw the ad. If it had not been for the BJP Hinduism would not have survived thru’ the ages.” This is not the first time a brand has been attacked by right-wing groups for their advertisements. Tanishq, Tata group’s jewellery brand, withdrew an advertisement on interfaith marriage last year after it was trolled heavily on social media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fabindia-withdraws-diwali-ad-after-row-over-urdu-phrase-101634668193652.html
19-10-2021||India||Babul Supriyo resigns as Lok Sabha MP, says ‘shall always remain indebted to PM Modi, Amit Shah’||Former Union minister Babul Supriyo officially resigned as an MP on Tuesday, a month after he quit the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to join the Trinamool Congress (TMC). The singer-turned-politician, who handed over his resignation to Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla, thanked the BJP leadership for showing confidence in him.“It has been a very fulfilling seven years that I have spent in Parliament and I shall always remain indebted to my now ex-party BJP Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modiji, Hon’ble Amit Shah ji and respected Shri J P Nadda ji for giving me the opportunity to serve my country,” the two-term MP from West Bengal’s Asansol said in his resignation letter. In his letter to Birla, the TMC leader sought his blessings to now embark on a “new journey”.“I am proud to have walked the corridors of this historic monument (Parliament) and traversed by many a visionary leaders, statesmen, freedom fighters and luminaries who crafted the history of our motherland and paved the path for her having a secure and glorious future”. He also lauded Speaker Birla for his “affable nature and elegant humour”.“My heart is heavy as I had begun my political career with the BJP. I thank the prime minister, party chief and Amit Shah. They showed confidence in me. I had left politics wholeheartedly. I thought that if I am not a part of the party, I should not keep any seat for myself,” he was later quoted as saying by news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/babulsupriyo-resigns-as-lok-sabha-mp-says-shall-always-remain-indebted-to-pm-modi-amit-shah-101634668136220.html
19-10-2021||India||Accused in pregnant elephant death in Kerala surrenders after a year||One of the accused in the death of a pregnant elephant in Kerala’s Malappuram last year — which caused nationwide outrage — surrendered before a local court in Palakkad on October 16, a senior police officer confirmed on Tuesday. Thirty-eight-year-old M Riyasuddin was subsequently remanded in judicial custody for a week, the officer added.“He discreetly approached the court which remanded him in judicial custody. We will move the court for police custody,” the senior officer who did not wish to be named said.Riyasuddin is the second accused in the case. His father, Abdul Kareem, 64, is the prime accused in the case and is still at large, police said.A case was registered against the duo in June last year after they fed a 15-year-old pregnant elephant a pineapple stuffed with crackers. The elephant died after the crackers blew in her mouth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/accused-in-pregnant-elephant-death-in-kerala-surrenders-after-a-year-101634667718579.html
19-10-2021||India||UP polls: 40% of seats to be reserved for women, says Congress||Looking to consolidate its support base in Uttar Pradesh, especially among women voters, the Congress on Tuesday announced that 40% of candidates fielded by the party for the assembly elections next year would be women.This was announced in no uncertain terms by party national general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra at a press conference held at the headquarters of the Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee with ‘Ladki Hoon, Lad Sakti Hoon (I’m a girl, I can fight)’ slogan painted in the backdrop.The AICC national general secretary and in charge of party affairs in Uttar Pradesh said the decision was aimed at making women, who constitute roughly half of the electorate, a “full-fledged partner in power”. “This decision is for every woman who wants to bring about a change, fight for justice and work for unity and development. Only women can bring about a change because they have compassion, they are firm, and they have the power. We promise to ensure full participation of women in the state’s politics,” she said. Gandhi called upon women to join politics to change the “politics in Uttar Pradesh” and said applications for tickets would be accepted till November 15. The announcement was greeted with the bursting of firecrackers and slogan-shouting by women workers at the party office. When asked if Congress would take this to the national level, Gandhi said she was the party in charge of UP and it was for the other states to take a call on this. If she had her way, Gandhi said, up to 50% of seats would be reserved for women candidates. The AICC general secretary tasked with regaining the party’s lost ground in the political heartland, however, was non-committal about contesting the upcoming state polls herself. “It has not been decided yet,” she said in response to a question. About leaders seeking tickets for their wives or other family members, she said, “What is the harm if people want tickets for their wives or other women of their family? When they fight elections, they get empowered.” Gandhi also used the occasion to target the Bharatiya Janata Party government on the Lakhimpur Kheri incident where eight people, including four farmers, were killed on October 3. “This government shows how it can protect those who crush people. This is wrong,” she said. Referring to all women she met over the past two years, including policewomen who detained her in Sitapur when she was on her way to Lakhimpur Kheri on October 4, Gandhi said, “It was pitch dark in Sitapur. I was surrounded by police, including women cops. I also argued with them. They asked me to sit in a jeep and took me to the Sitapur police lines. One of them was Madhu and the other was Pooja. They were on duty till 4am. This decision (40% tickets for women) is for them as well.” Asked whether the party would manage to get sufficient women candidates, Gandhi said: “Yes, we will get candidates and they will contest the election. If they don’t get sufficient strength this time, they will get it next time. We will help them fight the election.” “The Congress has never worked for the women and is now talking about 40 percent reservation for women only in view of 2022 UP assembly elections,” state BJP spokesman Chandra Mohan said. Political watchers saw merit in Congress’ move. “This is a good move. Every political party should follow it. The decision, if followed by other parties too, will bring about a social change and discipline to politics,” said Professor SK Dwivedi, former head of department, political science, Lucknow University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-polls-40-of-seats-to-be-reserved-for-women-says-congress-101634667773585.html
19-10-2021||India||Amarinder Singh: Floating new party, open to alliance with BJP ahead of Punjab polls||Former Punjab chief minister and Congress leader Amarinder Singh said on Tuesday he planned to soon announce his political party and was hopeful of a seat arrangement with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) if the farmers’ issue was resolved. Singh resigned as the Punjab CM last month after a bitter tussle with Navjot Singh Sidhu amid infighting in the state Congress. The party later picked Charanjit Singh Channi as the next chief minister of the state. “The battle for Punjab’s future is on. Will soon announce the launch of my own political party to serve the interests of Punjab & its people, including our farmers who’ve been fighting for their survival for over a year,” Singh said Tuesday. HT reported earlier this month that Singh was set to launch his own political party and could even consider an alliance or seat adjustment with the BJP. The development could alter radically the electoral landscape in the upcoming polls in Punjab. After resigning as the Punjab CM, Singh announced his intent to quit the Congress. Singh said he will not rest until he secures the future of “my people and my state”. “Punjab needs political stability and protection from internal and external threats. I promise my people I will do what it takes to ensure its peace and security, which is today at stake,” he was quoted as saying by his media adviser, Raveen Thukral. “Hopeful of a seat arrangement with BJP in 2022 Punjab Assembly polls if Farmers Protest is resolved in farmers’ interest. Also looking at alliance with like-minded parties such as breakaway Akali groups, particularly Dhindsa & Brahmpura factions,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amarinder-singh-floating-new-party-open-to-alliance-with-bjp-ahead-of-punjab-polls-101634667533369.html
19-10-2021||India||Army’s anti-terrorist ops in Rajouri-Poonch continue||The Indian army continued its operations in the dense forests of the Rajouri-Poonch sector for the ninth day on Tuesday, trying to track down terrorists believed to belong to Pakistan-based terror group Lashkar-e-Taiba who have gone to ground in the area. The Indian army has thus far lost nine men in the long operation, but is believed to have inflicted some damage on the terrorists, killing six of them. However, this number was not confirmed by the army which has now adopted a different tack. HT learns that Indian Army commanders have been told to wait and tire out the terrorists rather than pro-actively engaging them. “Casualties to our troops have occurred due to the advantage the terrorists took by operating in pairs of two. This allowed them to continuously change position and engage a larger body of troops, resulting in casualties,” said a top Indian Army commander who asked not to be named.Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Gen Bipin Rawat visited the area on October 16 to hold discussions with the local commanders of the 16 Corps handling the ongoing counterterror operation. According to South Block officials who asked not to be named, as many as nine to 10 LeT terrorists infiltrated from Pakistan into the jungles in the border Rajouri-Poonch districts over the past two to three months. While several infiltration bids were foiled on the LoC and along the fence, according to the army commander cited above, it was always clear that the Pakistan-based terrorists, emboldened by the Taliban’s success in Afghanistan, would try to enter India in substantial numbers. The army commander added that instructions have been issued to establish a cordon around the area. It is now up to the terrorists to make a move as they seek to replenish their supplies from nearby villages, therby exposing themselves, he added. “ Jungle warfare requires patience and the instruction to troops is to be cautious and avoid casualties by engaging the terrorists head-on. Since time is not a constraint, we will tire out the terrorists and eliminate them.” Meanwhile, security forces are continuing to secure civilians, especially migrant workers from other parts of the country, who are being targeted by terrorists. Home minister Amit Shah has been monitoring this process continuously, people familiar with the matter said on a day when the National Investigation Agency took over investigations into six of the killings (thus far this month, 11 civilians have been killed by the terrorists). Two years ago, under the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act, 2019, the two union territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh came into existence on October 31, and officials in security forces said they expect efforts by terrorists to target civilians on the one hand, and continue to engage with the troops on another to continue, even escalate in the run-up to the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/armys-anti-terrorist-ops-in-rajouri-poonch-continue-101634667299800.html
19-10-2021||India||New law for social media companies in the works||New Delhi: The Union government is considering bringing in a separate law to make social media companies accountable for what they publish as it looks to revise definitions of what constitutes intermediaries and social media firms, people familiar with the matter said. The moves comes at a time when a recent executive move -- the amendments to the Information Technology Rules notified this year -- has been put on hold by orders from several courts. Among the grounds on which the new rules have been challenged, and stayed, are that they do not have adequate legislative basis to mandate the kind of additional liabilities they lay down. “There are laws across the globe that govern how social media functions,” a government official said on the condition of anonymity. “There is still uncertainty (on the new law); it may be a different Act or be introduced as an amendment.” The rules in February, among other guidelines, required social media platforms to appoint new grievance redressal officers and release monthly compliance reports, as well as made their “safe harbour” protections conditional upon their adherence to the new requirements. Safe harbour provisions, which exist in the parent IT Act, protect companies from liability for what their users post.According to the person cited above, the government is looking at the European model to formulate the new law, including the Digital Services Act submitted by the European Commission in December 2020. “The guidelines will depend on the Personal Data Protection Bill,” this person said. DSA spells out additional rights for users -- such as allowing them to report illegal content -- and makes it mandatory for social media companies to adhere to new transparency mandates regarding their content moderation practices. The proposed law, however, does not appear to treat social media companies as publishers -- a step the Indian government is keen on via the Data Protection bill, which at present is being studied by a joint parliamentary committee (JPC). The JPC has been looking into the draft law since 2019 and has been given several deadline extensions — the latest being due to a change in several members, including the chairperson, after former head Meenakshi Lekhi was inducted as a Union minister. The report drafted at the time was yet to be circulated for final inputs by members despite their demands.The report proposes to treat social media platforms as publishers and to add back the condition of “just, fair, reasonable and proportionate” in Section 35 of the proposed amendments to the Personal Data Protection Bill, which deals with exemptions that the government can claim in accessing personal data. The Committee is now working to draw up a new report. The person quoted above said that the proposed changes will be put up for public consultation. “Definitions need to be revised for what constitutes a social media platform and an intermediary,” the person said. According to Supreme Court lawyer N S Nappinai, who is also the founder of Cyber Saathi, a non-governmental organisation working to spread awareness on cyber threats, the issue that will be crucial is what exactly the government bring in. “It’s not a bad idea at all,” she said, on the proposed law. “We can’t club intermediaries of different kinds in one box; this should be able to address specific issues concerning social media platforms.”She added that the new law must go beyond content moderation. “There are very strong proponents of treating social media as publishers, but one needs to be careful.” .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-law-for-social-media-companies-in-the-works-101634667172742.html
19-10-2021||India||‘My friends died in their sleep’: Uttarakhand rain fury leaves trail of despair||Dehradun/Haldwani: Early on Tuesday morning, 20-year-old Kashiram and five of his colleagues were asleep in a makeshift shanty, right next to the building they worked in as labourers. Like the others, Kashiram was in Mukteshwar near Nainital -- 786km away from home in Champaran, Bihar -- part of the construction activity that now dots the mountains of Uttarakhand. For the past few months, the shanty had been home, an instrument in his sustenance.But, on Tuesday, the wall of the building next to the shanty came crashing down, burying them in the rubble.It nearly became his death of him.
19-10-2021||India||Overflowing Kosi river threatens wildlife in Uttarakhand||Dehradun: The Kosi river, which runs on the eastern periphery of the Jim Corbett National Park, overflowed its banks due to extreme rainfall in its catchment areas, endangering iconic wildlife and stranding tourists in forest resorts. An elephant almost drowned in the Gola river that runs through the park but managed to wade to safety, foresters said. Stranded tourists around the Kosi were rescued on trackers and buses. There were no reports of rising water in the Ramganga river and its tributaries that flow through the heart of India’s most famous wildlife sanctuary. Forest staff in the national park were on high alert. “We are keeping a close watch,” said Rajiv Bhartari, principal chief conservator of forests. “As of now, there is no report of major loss of wildlife in Corbett.” The ground situation will be known once the rains ease up and water subsides in local water bodies and streams, he said.A cloudburst triggered flash floods at Ramgarh in Uttarakhand’s Nainital district on Tuesday, upstream of the national park. The catchment areas of Kosi river received 227mm to 530mm rainfall in the past 24 hours, official data show. The Jim Corbett National Park, spread across 1,288 square km, is known for its large number of tigers, 231 at the last count on 2018, many herds of elephants and numerous leopards and other animals. As many as 2,026 elephants were counted in Uttarakhand in 2020, almost all of them in Jim Corbett and Rajaji national parks. A video of an elephant stuck on an island in Gola river who managed to swim ashore went viral. The Gola river originates in the Sattal area of Nainital district and flows south past Kathgodam and Haldwani, joining the Ramganga river, a tributary of the Ganga, about 15km northwest of Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh. Forest officials rushed to spot where the elephant was struggling. “The water was flowing very fast but the elephant managed to swim back to the shore,” said JS Suhag, chief wildlife warden of Uttarakhand. “We have alerted our staff in Nainital and surrounding areas, including the Corbett landscape, to remain alert and initiate rescue operations wherever they find wild animals trapped or stuck.”An initial assessment showed there have been many landslides in forested areas because of the heavy rains, said Biju Lal, divisional forest officer of Nainital. “Our teams are working to clear roads and streams,” he said, adding that an assessment of possible loss of fauna will be done once the sky clears.The forest department has shifted people from close to 20 villages in Corbett near the Kosi river to safety. People staying in some hotels and resorts near Kosi were also shifted. The national park has been closed for tourists since Monday. The meandering Kosi has flooded like this after many years, according to Ramnagar-based wildlife activist AG Ansari. “Fast moving animals like tigers have the ability to move to safer locations if it rains heavily. Animals like elephants usually get trapped in swirling water,” he said. “Many villagers have voluntarily shifted to safer areas.”It will be clear whether any wild animals were washed away, as their bodies will surely be found downstream after the flood subsides, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/overflowing-kosi-river-threatens-wildlife-in-uttarakhand-101634666878898.html
19-10-2021||India||Climate crisis, land-use change ruining ecology: Experts on Uttarakhand flash flood||Dehradun: The rain in Nainital and adjoining districts on Monday and Tuesday that caused flooding in eastern Uttarakhand, leaving 34 people dead, was the heaviest ever recorded in the region, and another indication that the loss of local ecology due to the climate crisis and changes in land-use patterns has started wreaking havoc on the Kumaon hills.Nainital’s Mukteshwar area reported 340.8mm rainfall 24 hours between 8.30 am on Monday and 8.30 am on Tuesday, the highest since the weather station was set up there in 1897. Before Tuesday, the highest rainfall of 254.5mm was reported on September 18, 1914.“Apart from Mukteshwar, the rainfall has also broken records in Pantnagar in Udham Singh Nagar district, which had reported rainfall of 228mm on July 10, 1990, has now in the last 24 hours, received 403.9mm rainfall,” said director of the meteorological centre Dehradun Bikram Singh.According to India Meteorology Department data, the state reported 178.4mm rain in first 18 days of October — 485% more than the average. In the last 24 hours starting on Tuesday morning, districts such as Chamoli and Udham Singh Nagar received around 10,000% more rain than the average. Over the last 24 hours, Chamoli has reported 127.5 mm rain, against the average of 0.6 mm; while US Nagar reported 232.1 mm rainfall against the average of 1.6mm. Singh attributed the spurt in extreme rainfall events in the area to the climate crisis, saying that heavy rainfall in short spells has increased in the state -- a phenomenon that has been confirmed by various studies conducted by IMD and the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology between 2016 and 2020. To be sure, this is in line with the rainfall patterns recorded across the country in recent years. According to IMD, Uttarakhand has reported over 7,750 extreme rainfall events and cloudbursts since 2015 -- a majority of them in the last three years. An extreme rainfall event is recorded when a location receives more than 204 mm of rain in 24 hours. Till July this year, the state reported 979 extreme rainfall events. In 2020, this number was 1,632 for the whole year, and went as high as 3,706 in 2018.Weather experts, however, said that the actual number of cloudbursts or extreme rainfall events in Uttarakhand must be much higher but most areas don’t have weather stations to record them.“Officially, this year we recorded three cloudbursts -- in Haldwani, Champawat and Dehradun. Traditionally, cloud burst is defined as over 100mm/hour within a limited geographical area of a few square kilometres. But we have only 25 weather observatories in the state. The state has set up 107 observatories, but more such measuring stations are required to get near to the exact numbers,” Singh said.Experts say that although the climate crisis was causing extreme rainfall, destruction of local ecology, unplanned development, and unscientific road cutting also contributed to the weather events, which have claimed over 4,000 lives since 2014, and been the cause of 1,961 major landslides in the last seven years. They attributed this to major development projects in higher reaches of the Himalayas, especially hydel power projects; encroachment of seasonal streams; and population growth, which has led to the proliferation of construction activities in narrow valleys, often in close proximity of rivers and rivulets. Nainital, for example, has over 7,000 structures on its slopes around the Nainital lake -- up from 520 in 1901-02. Experts say the increase in rain-induced landslides in the state has also been due to road-cutting, the unscientific disposal of muck, illegal mining activities, increase in hill agriculture, and no significant increase in the forest cover of the state to compensate for these activities. In the last two surveys conducted by the Forest Survey of India, over a period of four years from 2015 to 2019, Uttarakhand did not manage to report even a 1% increase in forest cover. “There are human factors which are aggravating the human loss in such events. We are cutting trees for development projects, we are cutting hills and destabilising slopes by cutting hills for roads, we have built hydel power projects in fragile Himalayan valleys, we are mining river beds discriminately. All these factors also contribute to the changes in the Himalayan ecology,” Anil Joshi, founder of Himalayan Environmental Studies and Conservation Organization, a Dehradun-based NGO said.DP Dobhal, a noted glaciologist and retired scientist from Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology (WIHG), said that the impact of the climate crisis on the rainfall and snowfall patters in the Himalayas was clearly visible. “The Himalayas are witnessing less snow compared to the past but simultaneously rainfall is ascending higher into the Himalayas. When more rain meets steep terrain, it results in higher precipitation and quicker funneling of water downstream, which creates flash floods and flooding in general,” he said. Dobhal added that, over the last 50 years, the snowline has gone up from nearly 4,800 metres to 5,200 metres. “Also due to climate change, the average temperature has risen by 0.3 to 0.6 degrees Celsius in the Himalayas in the last 100 years or so.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/climate-crisis-land-use-change-ruining-ecology-experts-on-uttarakhand-flash-flood-101634666873414.html
19-10-2021||India||Clashes erupt during processions in MP||Bhopal/ Jabalpur: There was tension in three cities of Madhya Pradesh — Dhar, Jabalpur and Barwani — on Tuesday after clashes broke out during the Eid-i-Milad un-Nabi celebrations, police said. Eid-i-Milad un-Nabi or Mawlid is celebrated as the birthday of Prophet Muhammad. Processions are taken out on the occasion. In Dhar, those part of a procession tried to alter the route at Utawad Darwaja area by removing police barricading. Police alleged that some miscreants threw stones at them following which they carried out a lathicharge to disperse the crowd. A video of the incident was widely circulated on social media in which police personnel were allegedly seen pulling at the beard of a Muslim man. Dhar superintendent of police Aditya Pratap Singh said, “A case has been registered under sections 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting with a deadly weapon), and 353 (use of criminal force to deter public servant from discharging of his duty) of the Indian Penal Code against unidentified people and organisers. On Sunday evening, the organisers and the district administration held a meeting to finalise the route, but some tried to change it.” The procession carried on peacefully later. Elsewhere in Jabalpur, some people were taking out a procession in the Gohalpur area, and when police tried to stop them, they threw firecrackers at police personnel, police said. Later, police used teargas and a baton charge to break up the mob. Jabalpur superintendent of police Siddharth Bahuguna said, “As many as 30 teargas shells were fired to control the mob. In the attack, six police personnel have been injured. Two separate FIRs are being registered for rioting with a deadly weapon, assaulting a public servant to deter him from discharging his duty and violating the orders duly promulgated by a public servant.” Six people have been detained, police said. Jabalpur collector Karamveer Sharma said, “Section 144 has been imposed in the city. Now, the situation is under control.”In the third incident in Barwani, members of two communities clashed over the playing of some objectionable songs during a procession in the Raipur area of the town. They pelted stones at one another, but the police controlled them. Barwani superintendent of police Deepak Kumar Shukla said, “Some members of the Muslim community were playing objectionable songs. Locals registered their protest over it. Police asked them to stop, but they didn’t listen. Later, some members of the Hindu community pelted stones at the procession. Muslim community members also retaliated.”Police detained over 10 people, and six people from both communities were injured. They are being treated, and an FIR will be registered after that, Shukla added. Any eyewitness versions? Police are clearly blaming Muslims here. (with inputs from Monika Pandey from Jabalpur)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/clashes-erupt-during-processions-in-mp-101634666815257.html
19-10-2021||India||Panel to advise Centre over taxes on tobacco, says health ministry||A newly constituted group of experts will advise the central government on how to tax all forms of tobacco from a public health perspective, the health ministry said in an office memorandum last week. The suggestions of the expert group could be incorporated for consideration in future budget sessions of Parliament, said the document issued by health ministry’s tobacco control division. HT has reviewed a copy. “…the tax and price policies are widely recognised to be one of the most effective means of influencing the demand for and thus the consumption of tobacco products. To develop a proposal for comprehensive tax policy for all tobacco products with a public health perspective, it has been decided to constitute an expert group…,” read the office memorandum. The group will be tasked to analyse the existing tax structure for all forms of tobacco, according to the directive. The experts will also develop a road map for tobacco tax policy and recommend immediate steps that need to be taken for making India MPOWER compliant. In 2008, the World Health Organization identified six evidence-based tobacco control measures, known as MPOWER, which are the most effective in reducing use. The measures include monitoring tobacco use and prevention policies; protect people from tobacco smoke; offer help to quit tobacco use; warn people about the dangers of tobacco; enforce bans on tobacco advertising, promotion and sponsorship; and raise taxes on tobacco.The expert group is also mandated to suggest various options or models of tax rates and standards for consideration in budget 2022-23 and future budget sessions. Taxes need to be increased periodically to offset the effects of inflation and of rising incomes and purchasing power, the UN health agency said in its Report on the Global Tobacco Epidemic, 2013. “If the real price of tobacco after inflation does not increase faster than consumer purchasing power, consumption will increase because tobacco becomes relatively more affordable,” it said.In India, tobacco products are taxed at 28% under GST. In 2014, the health ministry ordered that all tobacco products should have pictorial warnings that should cover 85% of the packaging. The members of the newly constituted nine-member expert group include Vikas Sheel, additional secretary and mission director, Union health ministry; Pulkesh Kumar, deputy secretary, health ministry; Rijo M Jhon, health economist, Rajagiri College of Social Sciences, Kerala; and representatives of Niti Aayog, department of revenue, department of central board of indirect taxes and customs, GST Council, and WHO country office for India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/panel-to-advise-centre-over-taxes-on-tobacco-says-health-ministry-101634666513292.html
19-10-2021||India||Army chief takes stock of Poonch operations, returns to Delhi||Amid a protracted encounter between army and terrorists that entered ninth day on Tuesday, the Army chief General MM Naravane visited the forward areas in Poonch-Rajouri belt to review the ground situation, officials said. “General MM Naravane COAS visited forward areas of White Knight Corps and undertook a first-hand assessment of the situation along the Line of Control. COAS was briefed by commanders on the ground about the present situation & ongoing counter-infiltration operations,” Additional Directorate General of Public Information (ADGPI) Indian Army shared a tweet on its official handle. Gen Naravane reached the union territory on Monday on a two-day visit to review the security situation amid recent targeted civilian killings in the Valley and the ongoing gunfight in the Poonch- Rajouri sector. “The Army chief reached Rajouri, Jammu from Delhi on Monday and on Tuesday morning, he visited the forward areas. He was also briefed about the ongoing counter terror operations in Nar Khas and Chamrer forests by the army commanders. General Naravane was also briefed about the strategy put in place to eliminate the terrorists hiding in the jungles,” an Army officer, requesting anonymity said. The army chief returned to Delhi on Tuesday afternoon.In the encounter that began on October 11 in Poonch sector, the Army lost nine soldiers including two Junior Commissioned Officers (JCOs) within four days. Five Army personnel were killed in Chamrer area of Surankote forest on October 11 while four soldiers died in another encounter in the Nar Khas forest in the Mendhar area of Poonch on October 14. Security forces on Sunday detained three people for allegedly providing logistical support to terroristsOn Tuesday, the army and terrorists had intermittent exchanges in Nar Khas forests. “Such operations take time because the terrain is difficult. There is thick wild growth in the dense forest of Nar Khas where natural caves are there and visibility is also an issue,” a senior police official said on Monday.Last week, the Jammu and Kashmir Police said the terrorists were believed to be hiding in the jungles since August this year. Separately, at least, 11 civilians, including five migrant labourers, two teachers from minority communities and a renowned Kashmiri Pandit pharmacist, were killed by terrorists in different parts of the Kashmir this month. Last week, the Jammu and Kashmir police detained and questioned hundreds of people as part of their probe into the civilian killings. The counter insurgency operations were also intensified. At least 13 terrorists, including a top Lashkar-e-Taiba commander, have been shot dead by security forces in October, police said.Union home minister Amit Shah is likely to visit Kashmir in the last week of October to review the security situation and also inaugurate developmental projects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-chief-takes-stock-of-poonch-operations-returns-to-delhi-101634666452729.html
19-10-2021||India||UP police, SIT release photos of suspects of Lakhimpur violence; announce ‘rewards’ for information||Aimed at furthering the investigation into the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, which cost the lives of eight people, including four farmers and a journalist, Uttar Pradesh police and the Special Investigation Team (SIT) on Tuesday released photos of some people suspected to be involved with the violence.The police and the SIT have urged people to “give information about these suspects,” and have also announced “appropriate rewards” for the same, news agency ANI reported.This development comes a day after the six-hour ‘Rail Roko’ agitation, which was carried out by farmer unions across India and majorly impacted Haryana, Punjab and Rajasthan. Several trains in over 100 locations across the three states were affected as farmers squatted over railway tracks and even staged sit-ons. Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait said on Monday that the farmer unions will chalk out their “further strategy” and will continue to showcase such movements until Union MoS Home Ajay Mishra Teni resigns.Notably, as many as 10 persons have so far been apprehended in the case, and Teni’s son Ashish Mishra is one of them. He has been alleged of being inside the SUV that mowed down the farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh on October 3. Of the 10 people arrested, four were held on Monday and one of them was a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) worker Sumit Jaiswal.Last week, a court in Lakhimpur Kheri denied bail to Ashish and his accomplice Ashish Pandey, and sent both to a 14-day judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-sit-release-photos-of-lakhimpur-violence-suspects-seek-cooperation-101634665538441.html
19-10-2021||India||Kolkata twin murder case: Police suspect more than 1 killer involved||Probe into the murders of Subir Chaki, managing director of prominent engineering firm Kilburn Engineering, and his driver in Kolkata has indicated the involvement of an acquaintance of the victim and a property dispute, police said on Tuesday. The bodies of Chaki (61) and his driver Rabin Mondal (65) were found with multiple stab injuries on their neck, legs and back at an ancestral building owned by the businessman on Sunday night, in South Kolkata.Police on Tuesday also questioned some employees of Chaki in connection with the case. The Kolkata Police took a sniffer dog to the crime scene, which “picked up a smell and led the officers to the Ballygunge railway station located less than a kilometre away. The dog went to a platform after climbing the over-bridge. It is possible that someone came to the house either on Sunday or earlier walked down to the station to board a train.”“The investigators on Tuesday also recreated the crime scene using a three-dimension imaging device. Statements of residents were recorded since they claimed to have heard several voices, including that of a woman, coming from the house on Sunday. Security camera footages are also being examined,” the officer added. “We are not ruling out professional rivalry, although preliminary information points towards the sale of the property which should cost around ₹2 crores because of the prime location,” said a second police officer. The bodies, which bore multiple stab injuries, were found inside Chaki’s ancestral house at Kankulia Road in the Gariahat police station area of south Kolkata on Monday morning. Chaki’s body was found on the first floor while the driver’s body was lying on the second floor. Chaki, 61, who lived at New Town on the eastern outskirts of the city with his wife, mother and mother-in-law and also owned property at a posh south Kolkata condominium, was trying to sell the old three-storey building for the last six years, residents of Kankulia Road told the police. In the past, Chaki sent Mondal, 64, with the keys when prospective buyers came to see the property. The police suspect that Chaki could have been close to sealing a deal and hence, came to the house on Sunday. This has raised the possibility of a cash transaction. The Kolkata Police did not officially share any information with the media. Chaki’s car was found on the road outside the building. Several food packets and some legal documents were found inside the vehicle. Members of Chaki’s family told the police that he called them on Sunday evening and talked about some repair work required at the house. His phone was switched off around 7 pm. Mondal’s phone was switched off as well. Since both devices were stolen, police are examining call lists collected from the service providers. Nobody lived on the upper floors of the house. There was nothing valuable there that might have led to a robbery, officers said. The ground floor was rented out to a private company. Its office was closed on Sunday. When the employees reported for duty on Monday morning, they found the door connecting the ground and the first floors shut from inside, which was unusual. Chaki, who studied at Kolkata’s St Xavier’s School, IIT Kharagpur and IIM, Kolkata, worked for well-known companies all his life. His son and daughter live in London and Bengaluru respectively. Chaki earlier worked as president (manufacturing) for Eveready Industries India Limited and as director for McNally Sayaji Engineering Limited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kolkata-twin-murder-case-police-suspect-more-than-1-killer-involved-101634666214850.html
19-10-2021||India||Security ops stepped up, Kashmir on edge||Security agencies intensified searches across the Kashmir valley on Tuesday, with thousands of migrant workers queued up outside bus stops and railway stations, hoping to get tickets out of the restive Union Territory after a series of targeted killings of civilians and minorities.People familiar with the matter said that the National Investigation Agency (NIA) is likely to take over the probe into the wave of violence, with The Resistance Front (TRF) and other Pakistan-based outfits emerging as the main perpetrators.Terrorists have killed 11 civilians, including five non-local labourers, this month, and multiple gunfights have broken out during operations by security forces to find those responsible for the attacks.“These types of attacks obviously attract a greater security response. We have intensified the measures in type and number wherever we thought necessary,” a security official said, asking not to be named.Of the 11 killings, seven happened in Srinagar.Indian Army chief General MM Naravane visited forward areas along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and was briefed on the ground situation in the region and ongoing counter-infiltration operations. The Indian Army has so far lost nine soldiers since the counter-insurgency operations began on October 11 in the region – the highest casualties the army has suffered in a week in recent years. One such operation in the forest belt of Jammu & Kashmir’s twin border districts of Poonch and Rajouri entered the ninth day, even as local police made public announcements in some areas, advising locals to stay indoors for their safety.Following the attacks, the latest on Sunday, security has been stepped up around government offices, including the civil secretariat. Multiple checkpoints and roadblocks have also been installed across Srinagar.“The security is very stringent and searches have intensified. Police and CRPF parties have been patrolling in larger numbers. There are also sudden spot and flash searches of vehicles,” Bilal Ahmad, a resident in the Old City, said.The forces have also increased mobile bunkers in sensitive areas, and deployed women paramilitary personnel.The high security presence, however, has added to the unease in the area. “The attacks have suddenly changed the atmosphere in the city. There is an uneasy silence. Fewer people prefer to move out fearing the deterioration of the situation,” a person in Srinagar said.In Jammu, security in and around the railway stations and bus stand was beefed up as a precautionary measure, officials said.Migrant workers, with their entire families, were seen waiting outside the railway station in Jammu on Tuesday without the basic facilities of water and shelter. “There is grave fear and terror after the killings of labourers. This has never happened in the past. So we fled the Valley to save our lives and also our children,” Santosh Kumar of Bihar’s Sitamarhi district said.A brick kiln worker in the Rajpora area of Pulwama district, Kumar said most of those fleeing are scared as there is no guarantee of their security.The Jammu & Kashmir labour department says approximately 140,000 migrant workers come to Jammu and Kashmir each year in early March for skilled and unskilled jobs such as masonry, carpentry, welding and farming, and most return once winter sets in, only to return next year. Others say the number is easily three times that.In Poonch, the people were alerted through public address systems of local mosques and asked to not venture into forest areas. The forest area of Mendhar in the district is under tight security cordon, officials said, with terrorists believed to be hiding there since August. Security forces are preparing a final assault to neutralise the terrorists, they added. Since the violence broke out on October 2, police have detained and interrogated hundreds of people. Suspected terrorist sympathisers and members of banned outfits, including the Jamaat-e-Islami, have also been questioned to ascertain their roles in the murders.Eight suspects, including a mother-son duo, were also detained in Bhatta Durrian for allegedly providing logistic support to the terrorists, officials said. It is yet to be ascertained whether the support was given voluntarily or under duress, the officials said. Union home minister Amit Shah is likely to visit the Union territory in the last week of October to review the security situation and also inaugurate some developmental projects.“General MM Naravane COAS visited forward areas of White Knight Corps and undertook a first-hand assessment of the situation along the Line of Control. COAS was briefed by commanders on the ground about the present situation & ongoing counter-infiltration operations,” ADGPI Indian Army wrote on its Twitter handle. “He was also briefed about the ongoing counter terror operations in Nar Khas and Chamrer forests by the army commanders,” said an army officer. There was an intermittent exchange of fire between the Army and terrorists in Nar Khas forest area of Poonch on Tuesday. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/security-ops-stepped-up-kashmir-on-edge-101634666092701.html
19-10-2021||India||3 in 4 Indians get at least 1 jab as total doses near the billion mark||A little over nine months since India’s mass vaccination programme against Covid-19 kicked off, the country is on the cusp of two major milestones – nearly three out of every four adults in the country have now received at least one shot of the vaccine, and the total doses administered are nearing a billion.The vaccination landmarks come at a time when the recession of the second wave has continued, with new infections and active cases in the country at the lowest levels since early March, or in at least seven months. Till Tuesday night, 990.9 million shots of the vaccine were administered across the country to around 701 million people. Based on current daily vaccination rate, the country’s billionth shot is likely to be delivered as early as Thursday morning.In absolute numbers, this makes India only the second country in the world (next to China with 2.2 billion shots administered) in terms of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered. Of the 701 million people who have been administered these shots, 411 million have been partially vaccinated, while another 290 million people fully vaccinated. When seen alongside India’s estimated population of 940 million adults, 43.7% of the country’s adults have been partially vaccinated and another 30.8% have been given both jabs.A cause of concern for the drive, however, is that daily dose administration has now seen a near-consistent decline from the peak levels seen during the second half of September – a factor that Union health ministry officials and experts have attributed to low turnout during the ongoing festive season and the vaccine hesitancy threshold finally being visible.The seven-day average of daily dose administration, a statistic that evens out the dip generally seen over weekends, touched a peak of 9.7 million for the week ending September 23 when several states increased daily numbers to mark Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday on September 17. Since then, however, it has dropped nearly 60% to around 3.9 million shots a day for the week ending October 19.An easy way to understand the impact of this drop in vaccination pace is to see it as the required run rate in the final overs of a cricket match. In the race for vaccination, as is the case in a run chase, a slower run rate in the middle of an innings requires heavy slogging in the final few overs. In the case of vaccination, if the country had sustained its administration rate of around 10 million doses a day around the third week of September, then it would have been on course to meet its December 31 target of fully vaccinating all adults. But since this rate has dropped in the 25 days since, the required rate has shot up – now India needs to administer more than 12 million doses every day till the end of the year to meet this target.At the rate of administration in the past week (3.9 million a day), however, this target will be delayed by more than five months, data shows.That calculation assumes that the entire adult population of the country will want vaccines, an unlikely proposition. Most experts believe the vaccine drive will hit a ceiling around the 75-80% level. Senior government officials said that the Union government plans to start a dedicated campaign to create awareness among masses to overcome vaccine hesitancy once the billion dose target is achieved. “After 100 crore (1 billion) Covid-19 vaccine doses are administered in the country, we will work on running a massive campaign for generating awareness about taking the second dose, and also addressing overall vaccine hesitancy,” said a top government functionary who asked not to be named.“On weekends and festivals we see a slight drop in numbers but overall, the drive is progressing well. We are looking at covering the entire eligible population as soon as possible; there is no point in talking in terms of deadlines, etc. There is a task at hand that we are trying to accomplish to the best of our capabilities. The number that we have achieved in such a short span of time is remarkable and even higher than the population of several countries,” this person added. The Union health ministry has reviewed the status and progress of Covid vaccination with states, urging them to focus on second dose coverage of vaccination as there is a sizeable chunk of population that is overdue for their second dose.“Highlighting that the nation is close to administering a billion doses, the health secretary congratulated the states/UTs on their effort to vaccinate all citizens. It was highlighted that a sizeable number of beneficiaries who are eligible have not received their second dose. States and UTs were urged to focus on the second vaccination dose...,” the Union health ministry said in a statement on Tuesday. The states have also been advised to identify and prioritise districts that are reporting poor coverage for focused action and explore requirement for mobilisation efforts, addressing localised challenges, need for additional vaccination centres or improving access in hard-to-reach areas. Vaccine hesitancy, which was not apparent in the initial months of the drive due to limited supply of doses and high rush for shots in a country the size of India, is becoming more visible now as coverage has reached high numbers in recent weeks. Experts across the world have warned that any supposed vaccine hesitancy would start showing signs after countries hit a high coverage threshold (say around 70% or so). This is because those who were going to get their shots have now done so, and those who still remain away from vaccination centres are the ones who are hesitant. This has been the reason why even countries such as the United States, which have far better vaccine coverage than countries like India, have been unable to hit 100% coverage.“Vaccine hesitancy is not that big a problem right now as it was at the start of the vaccination drive, but there is still a section that needs convincing to take the shot. It is also important for everyone who has already taken one dose to take their second shot ... taking both are important for maximum protection,” a second senior government official aware of the matter said on condition of anonymity.Experts say that Centre needs to draft an evidence based communication strategy to deal with hesitancy. “The government should hire a professional agency that understands communication to generate data on reasons behind vaccine hesitancy among different age groups as the reasons might be different. And not just age-level, there should also be subgroups such as rural and urban as people in these groups may have different reasons for not coming out to get vaccinated. The data that is generated like this should be used to draft targeted, evidence-based communication strategy for their messaging to be more effective,” said Chandrakant Lahariya, senior public health and vaccine expert, on dealing with vaccine hesitancy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-in-4-indians-get-at-least-1-jab-as-total-doses-near-the-billion-mark-101634665974641.html
19-10-2021||India||34 killed, towns inundated in Uttarakhand flash flood||At least 34 people have died and more are missing after a flash flood swept through Ramgarh in Nainital district, where the popular lake town was also inundated and cut-off from the rest of the state, where a number of landslides too took place.An unusual western disturbance – a rain system that originates in the Mediterranean region – swept across the northern plans and slammed into the Himalayan ranges, triggering extremely heavy rain spells often regarded as cloudbursts.
19-10-2021||India||Piyush Goyal inaugurates 250mm seer water supply project in Kashmir||Union commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal on Tuesday inaugurated a 250mm seer water supply scheme in Kashmir, concluding his two-day trip to Pahalgam in the Valley as part of the public outreach programme of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Union government.The project is aimed to benefit nearly 10,000 people and will be completed within three months under the ambit of the Jal Jeevan Mission.The minister also inaugurated a tourist hut of Pahalgam Development Authority at Golf Course, and a sapling plantation drive of Forest Departments Deodar. As many as 1 lakh saplings have been aimed to be planted as part of the drive, an official statement noted.Goyal thanked the people of the region for contributing in the development of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) and also towards boosting tourist activity. He stressed on the requirement to strengthen tourist infrastructure in the Union territory (UT) in order to attract foreign travelers.During his visit, the Union minister also went to the Rahi Shawl Unit situated at Akad Park, and interacted with several local artisans while examining handicrafts such as tapestry, sozni and zari, among others.Goyal also visited the Sun temple at Martand, placed atop a hillock and gave directions to the district administration to provide wide publicity to the site for bringing it on tourist map. He also threw light on the need to bring other offbeat locations of the Valley on the tourist map.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/piyush-goyal-inaugurates-250mm-seer-water-supply-project-in-kashmir-101634664348901.html
19-10-2021||India||Kerala cannot ignore signals of climate change anymore, warn experts||The unseasonal downpour last week has left a trail of death and destruction in Kerala, but a closer look at the weather condition in the state shows that there is a clear shift in rain pattern in the last five years. From the 2018 flood of the century to the October 2021 flash floods, the change is quite visible. Experts say a rise in sea surface temperature in the Arabian Sea is one of the reasons for it and they cite frequent cyclonic circulations over the Arabian Sea to emphasise their point. “The temperature over the Arabian Sea has gone up by 1.2 to 1.4 degrees Celsius in the last two decades increasing the frequency of cyclonic events along the western coast,” said Roxy Mathew, planet scientist with the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, Pune. He said usually temperature in the Arabian Sea is 1.5 degrees lower than the Bay of Bengal and this is one of the reasons for less cyclonic circulations and low pressure in the Arabian Sea. But of late, the situation is changing. What is disturbing is that the warming is seen not only in top layers of sea but also in the deeper layers of the ocean, he said. “We all know more than 90% of the heat on earth is absorbed by oceans. Usually the temperature in the Indian Ocean and Bay of Bengal is above 28 degrees Celsius and in Arabian Sea it is between 26 to 28 degrees Celsius. But the Arabian Sea is warming up fast. It is quite visible in the last decade or so,” Mathew said. He said a big shift in rain pattern is quite visible these days. “Though monsoon rainfall may decrease, the frequency of heavy rainfall will increase. This leads to an increase in flash floods and landslides,” he said. Kerala should have been very careful in land use because the state is endowed with many hills and rivers and has a slanting geographical landscape. The frequency of cyclonic circulation over the Arabian Sea has also increased manifold-- while there was a 52 per cent increase in cyclonic movement over the Arabian Sea between 2001 and 2019 there is a decrease of 8 per cent during the same period over the Bay of Bengal. The India Meteorology Department statistics show nine cyclones or major depressions had formed in 2020, out of which four were over the Arabian Sea. Experts say one of the reasons for high temperature is chemical reaction in the sea induced by pollution. According to a study conducted by the Central Marine Fisheries Institute of India (CMFRI) in 2018 major oceans will have more plastic than fish. By 2050 more than 850 metric tonne of plastics will be found in the sea whereas fish will be 821 metric tonne by then. Another study conducted by a global body Alfred Wegenar Institute says seas near Mumbai, Kerala and Andaman Nicobar Islands are among the most polluted in the world. “It is sad in Kerala discussions start only after a tragedy and everyone forgets about it soon. It is high time the state will have to give top priority to environmental impact studies when it takes up developmental projects. Cloud bursts, flash floods and landslips are here to stay. The state will have to pay a heavy price if it goes ahead ignoring such climate change signals,” said Dr MG Manoj of the Advanced Centre for Atmospheric Radar Research with the Cochin University of Science and Technology. The state is yet to learn its lesson from the many tragedies including the 2018 flood, said Dr Dr VS Vijayan, a member of the Madhav Gadgil committee on Western Ghats and founding director of the Salim Ali Centre for Ornithology. “For us development is plundering of natural resources and cutting of trees. Kerala will have to redraw its development concept completely. Again, we are talking about elevated high-speed railway line, ghat highways and coastal townships,” he said. “Kerala can take the lead in implementing the UN General Assembly resolution on sustainable development. Our overdependence on natural resources will be reduced naturally and we can think of a better tomorrow. Whether you take Uttarakhand, Kerala or the Northeast calamities are leaving untold miseries. But for this, we need a committed political leadership,” he said. The UN General Assembly had passed a resolution in 2017. It is a set of suggestions to achieve a better and more sustainable future for all by 2030. Noted ecological scientist Madhav Gadgil, who headed an expert group to study degradation of Western Ghat mountain ranges, said people will have to take more proactive roles to protect their place of living, surroundings and environment. “I agree lopsided developmental activities aggravated the intensity of natural disasters. But I still have hope about Kerala. It was the first to take up decentralised planning. Let people take up their bread and butter issues along with sustenance,” he said adding states like Maharashtra and Goa also experience similar tragedies year after year but Kerala gets wider publicity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cannot-ignore-signals-of-climate-change-anymore-warn-experts-101634662613035.html
19-10-2021||India||Telangana to buy 125kg gold from RBI for temple tower at Yadadri; chief minister to donate the first 1.16kg||The Telangana government has decided to buy 125kg of “pure” gold from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to decorate the temple tower at Yadadri, chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao told reporters on Tuesday, adding that the government will need around ₹60 to ₹65 crore to make the purchase."According to their estimation it needs 125kg of gold. We have decided to get it done. The value of it would be ₹60 to ₹65 crore. The government is capable of undertaking the task of doing it...We have decided to buy from the Reserve Bank of India. We will complete the fundraising and buy the gold from RBI so that we get pure gold," Rao told reporters during his visit to Yadadri.The Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) chief said his family will donate the first 1.16kg of gold to the temple and other ministers and legislative members will also come forward with similar donations.Work to convert the famous hill shrine of Yadadri into a popular hub for religious tourism was launched at the cost of ₹1,200 crore. Rao had said in the state legislature that his government has prioritized development of all religious structures, including mosques and churches.Yadadri is considered to be Rao’s dream of building a temple that matches the opulence of Tirumala in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh. Hundreds of sculptors and artisans have been working round the clock in the picturesque hills of Yadagirigutta (which has now been renamed Yadadri), about 70-km away from Hyderabad, to make his dream come true.The latest endeavour of the TRS government to plate the temple in gold is also inspired by the Tirumala temple, and Rao said the government is consulting the experts who carried out a similar exercise at the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-to-buy-125kg-gold-from-rbi-for-temple-tower-at-yadadri-chief-minister-to-donate-the-first-116kg-101634661888092.html
19-10-2021||India||India, EU discuss Covid-19 crisis and resumption of negotiations on trade pact||India and the European Union (EU) discussed ways to jointly tackle the Covid-19 pandemic and the resumption of negotiations for a free trade agreement during a review of their strategic partnership on Tuesday. At a meeting in Brussels, senior officials from the two sides also discussed cooperation to address challenges such as climate change, biodiversity loss and pollution, and to contribute to the success of the upcoming Climate COP26 in the UK next month. Following the India-EU Summit on May 8, the two sides had decided to carry out a comprehensive review of their strategic partnership in line with a roadmap that will guide relations till 2025. This was the third strategic partnership review. “Both sides exchanged views concerning best ways to join forces in tackling the Covid-19 pandemic and its effects on economies, societies as well as individuals,” said a joint statement issued after the meeting. India and the EU also discussed next steps to operationalise the decision by leaders of the two sides to resume negotiations for a balanced, ambitious, comprehensive and mutually beneficial trade agreement, and to launch talks on a stand-alone investment protection agreement and a separate agreement on geographical indications, the statement said. Negotiations on a trade agreement had stalled in 2013 because of differences on issues such as market access for European products and mobility for Indian professionals. India and the EU decided to separate the negotiations on an investment protection agreement as the two sides have fewer differences in this area. The meeting in Brussels also discussed next steps for implementing the India-EU connectivity partnership that was agreed at the summit in May. The two sides further discussed ways to cooperate in research, technology and digital transformation, and the continued implementation of the Common Agenda on Migration and Mobility. “Recalling the successful 9th India-EU Human Rights Dialogue in April 2021, the EU and India looked forward to the next edition of the Dialogue in 2022,” the statement said. The meeting was co-chaired by Reenat Sandhu, secretary (West) in the external affairs ministry, and Helena König, deputy secretary general for economic and global issues in the European External Action Service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-eu-discuss-covid-19-crisis-and-resumption-of-negotiations-on-trade-pact-101634660993158.html
19-10-2021||India||Uttarakhand rain: CM Dhami announces ₹4 lakh assistance for kin of deceased||Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on Tuesday announced an ex gratia of ₹4 lakh to the next of kin of the deceased in rain-related casualties in the state and ₹1.9 lakh to those who lost their houses. At least 34 people died and five people were reportedly missing owing to heavy rainfall in Uttarakhand that has brought all activities in the state to a standstill.Dhami said that people who have lost their livestock will be extended help as well. Earlier in the day, the chief minister undertook an aerial survey to take stock of the situation. The state government said that there are several more people who could still be missing due to the flood and could be trapped in the debris from the landslides.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday extended his condolences to those who lost their lives to the natural calamity. In a tweet he requested the citizens of the state to stay safe.Eastern Uttarakhand received heavy rainfall with Nainital and adjoining districts leading to loss of life and damage of property. Nainital’s Mukteshwar received 340.8 mm rainfall in the past 24 hours. The state recorded the highest rainfall on September 18, 1914 when it reported 254.5 mm rainfall, according to a report published in Hindustan Times.The India Meteorological Department showed Uttarakhand reported 178.4 mm rain, 485% more than the average.Dhami also asked the visitors embarking on Chardham Yatra to stay put owing to the inclement weather. The director general of Uttarakhand police Ashok Kumar said roads, bridges and railway tracks have been damaged in Kathgodam and Lalkuan in Nainital. Rudrapur in Udham Singh Nagar also reported damaged bridges and railway tracks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-rain-cm-dhami-announces-rs-4-lakh-assistance-for-kin-of-deceased-101634660216109.html
19-10-2021||India||India should not play matches with Pakistan in T-20 World Cup, says Ramdas Athawale||Union Minister Ramdas Athawale slammed Pakistan for the spurt in terror activities in Jammu and Kashmir, including targeted killings of migrant labourers, and said India should not play cricket with Pakistan as part of the T-20 World Cup. Athawale, leader of the Republican Party of India, which is an ally of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) said the country should have an ‘aar paar ki ladaai’ with its neighbour to set things right. Athawale while speaking in Pune on Tuesday said India should not play its scheduled T20 World Cup match against Pakistan on October 24 in order to teach the latter a lesson. “The neighbouring country has not learnt any lessons. If Pakistan does not stop its activities in the (J-K) Valley, then there has to be an ‘aar paar ki ladaai’ (all-out war to settle things once and for all). In J-K, attacks are taking place on migrant labourers, local Kashmiri Pandits are being targeted. It is Pakistan’s ploy to not allow development in the Valley,” Athawale said while responding to a question on the latest spate of violence in the valley. In the past fortnight, as many as 11 civilians including five labourers from outside Kashmir have been killed by terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir, prompting migrant workers to leave the valley. The string of latest round of targeted attacks has prompted reactions from some quarters with BJP leaders such Subramanian Swamy questioning if there was any urgency to hold the India-Pakistan fixture. When asked if the two countries should play cricket matches and whether he will convey his opinion to BCCI office bearers, Athawale said, “I am personally of the opinion that India should not play against Pakistan. I will express this to BCCI secretary Jayesh Shah.” The minister then went on to add that this is also his party’s stand. According to the Union minister, attempts are being made by terrorists to spread fear in the valley among the workers who are coming to the Valley from UP and Bihar. “By resorting to such militant attacks, there is an attempt to spread fear among the workers who are coming to the Valley from UP and Bihar. But the Centre will not fall prey to such tactics,” the minister added. The minister also expressed unhappiness over the rising prices of petrol and diesel, and demanded that both the state government and the central government withdraw some taxes on fuel. Athawale was in the city and interacted with the media on Tuesday, when he spoke on various national and state-level issues. Speaking about rising fuel prices, Athawale said, “It is true that the common man is suffering a lot due to increasing fuel prices. I will raise this issue in the next cabinet meeting and also brief the prime minister about how the common man is suffering.” Athawale said both state and central government should take some burden and bring down the taxes on fuel. On talks about an alliance between the BJP and the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) in Maharashtra, Athawale said, “If the BJP enters into an alliance with the MNS, it will have a negative impact on the BJP. MNS leader Raj Thackeray took a stand against north Indians. RPI is with the BJP. As a party, we are not in favour of an alliance with the MNS.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-should-not-play-matches-with-pakistan-in-t-20-world-cup-says-ramdas-athawale-101634658172592.html
19-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: VHP to protest in Delhi tomorrow over attacks in Bangladesh and all the latest news||‘Burn effigy of jihadist terrorism’: Hindu Parishad to stage protest in Delhi tomorrow over Bangladesh attacksAmid unrest in Bangladesh due to attacks on minority communities in the country, the Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) will stage a demonstration outside the Bangladesh High Commission in New Delhi on Wednesday. Read MoreBollywood actor Shilpa Shetty, Raj Kundra file ₹50 crore defamation suit against Sherlyn ChopraBollywood actor Shilpa Shetty and her husband Raj Kundra have filed a ₹50 crore defamation suit against actor Sherlyn Chopra, news agency ANI reported on Tuesday. Read MorePakistan claim about blocking submarine questioned by IndiaThe Pakistan Navy’s claim of blocking an Indian submarine from entering the country’s territorial waters was questioned on Tuesday by the Indian side. Read MoreYoga for osteoporosis: 5 yoga poses to strengthen your bonesThere are many health perks of practicing yoga every day that even scientific studies vouch for. Read More'Like he was facing the bowling machine': Butt lauds IND batter's show against ENG, says 'don't disturb opening' comboVirat Kohli-led India had an extremely prosperous outing against England in their first T20 World Cup warm-up game as they romped home to a seven-wicket win in Dubai. Read MoreKumail Nanjiani wears sherwani at Eternals premiere, reveals its Pakistani connectionKumail Nanjiani left fans back home impressed when he stepped on the red carpet at the Eternals premiere wearing a sherwani. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-vhp-to-protest-in-delhi-tomorrow-over-attacks-in-bangladesh-and-all-the-latest-news-101634655468839.html
19-10-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: October 20, 1944 — Indian troops capture Tiddim||It is reported that Tiddim has fallen. It was near Tiddim that the 1942 retreat from Burma became a stand.Seven months after the Army left Tiddim in flames and marched out on their 150-mile withdrawal to Manipur, men of the Fifth Indian Division have re-entered this village, says a Press Note. Tiddim, key to the mountain roads through the Chin hills, has been in Japanese hands since March 13 this year, when Major. General David Cowan gave orders to his 17th Indian Division to start back along the road to Imphal. The 14th Army has battled for 31 weeks through the worst of the monsoon. Tiddim was recaptured after a fortnight of intensive air attack and steadily increasing pressure by ground forces, which were deployed in a huge are round the village. The Japanese broke finally on the northern outskirts. With their strong points shattered by almost continuous bombing the fierce resistance with which they had stood up to all attacks vanished overnight. Indian troops who pushed in from the north-west and north-east entered the village without further opposition. Now they are moving on again along the road which leads from Tiddim down the Chindwin valley at Kalewa. Contact with the retreating Japanese is reported a mile from Tiddim and heavy fighting must lie ahead round Kennedy Peak and Fort White, both heavily fortified. Fighting has been in progress north of these points on the Tiddim-Kalemyo road for more than a week, as our forces were moving round in a long outflanking book that anticipated the fall of Tiddim and the enemy’s withdrawal along the road. RANGOON AIRFIELDS RAIDED Wednesday’s attack on airfields near Rangoon was the biggest sweep yet made in this theatre at such a range. Complete reports are not available, but already it is known that the sweep was highly successful. Enemy fighters made vain attempts to drive off the British and U.S. aircraft. One formation of U.S. Thunderbolts shot down two single-engined Jap fighters and destroyed three and damaged three on the ground at Mingaladon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-october-20-1944-indian-troops-capture-tiddim-101634656312754.html
19-10-2021||India||‘Burn effigy of jihadist terrorism’: Hindu Parishad to stage protest in Delhi tomorrow over Bangladesh attacks||Amid unrest in Bangladesh due to attacks on minority communities in the country, the Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) will stage a demonstration outside the Bangladesh High Commission in New Delhi on Wednesday, according to a press statement issued by the organisation. “Along with this, outrage demonstrations will be held at district places across Bharat,” the statement added.The VHP said that the demonstrations will comprise burning of effigies of “jihadist terrorism and memorandum to Mahanabim.” Quoting its central joint general secretary, Surendra Jain, the statement added that the atrocities committed on Hindus by “radical Islamic jihadists and fundamentalists” can only be compared with the brutality of the Nazis. The organisation also called for the United Nations to send a peace keeping force to Bangladesh in order to put an end to the violent attacks on Hindus.“The VHP warns the Bangladesh government that if they want to stand in the line of developing countries, they will have to break free from their radical image. Extremists will have to be dealt with in the same manner as was done in 1971,” the statement read.
19-10-2021||India||Pakistan claim about blocking submarine questioned by India||The Pakistan Navy’s claim of blocking an Indian submarine from entering the country’s territorial waters was questioned on Tuesday by the Indian side, which noted the vessel allegedly involved in the incident appeared to have been operating in international waters. A statement issued by the Pakistani military’s media arm said the navy had detected and blocked what was reportedly an attempt by an Indian submarine to enter Pakistani waters in the Arabian Sea on October 16. “It is the third incident of its kind wherein an Indian submarine has been prematurely detected and tracked by Pakistan Navy’s long range maritime patrol aircraft,” the statement said. The Pakistan Navy has been keeping a “strict monitoring watch” to safeguard maritime frontiers in the prevailing security milieu, it said. However, people familiar with the matter on the Indian side questioned whether the vessel involved in the purported incident was an Indian submarine. The people said on condition of anonymity the vessel purportedly detected by the Pakistan Navy appeared to be 140 to 150 nautical miles away from the port city of Karachi, according to GPS coordinates shown in a video released by the Pakistani military. The people said, a country’s territorial waters extend to 12 nautical miles from the shore, and any vessel can freely operate in international waters. The authenticity of the video also was not known, they added. “The recent incident reflects the deplorable Indian machinations vis-à-vis commitment and resolve of Pakistan Navy to defend maritime frontiers of the motherland,” the Pakistani statement added. There was no official word from the Indian side. The Pakistan Navy had earlier claimed it had detected Indian submarines trying to enter the country’s territorial waters in November 2016 and March 2019. Both those incidents had been dismissed by the Indian side. The militaries of two countries have been on high alert since 2019, when India conducted an airstrike targeting militants inside Pakistan following a suicide bombing at Pulwama in Kashmir that killed 40 Indian troopers. In February this year, India and Pakistan agreed to adhere to the 2003 ceasefire on the Line of Control (LoC) in Kashmir following months of back-channel contacts between the two sides.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-claim-about-blocking-submarine-questioned-by-india-101634654452322.html
19-10-2021||India||Pak navy claims it blocked Indian submarine from entering its waters: Report||Pakistan's military on Tuesday claimed that its navy blocked an Indian submarine from entering into the country’s waters last week.The incident occurred on October 16 when an Indian submarine was detected by a Pakistan Navy (PN) patrol aircraft, the military said in a statement.The navy "detected and blocked the Indian submarine on 16 Oct 21 from entering into Pakistani waters," according to the statement.It said that during the prevailing security milieu, a strict monitoring watch has been kept by the Pakistan Navy to safeguard maritime frontiers of the country.According to the statement, it is the third incident of its kind during which an Indian Naval Submarine has been prematurely detected and tracked by the Pakistan Navy's Long Range Maritime Patrol Aircraft.The army also shared a short footage of the purported incident.An incident of this nature was last reported in March 2019 when the navy had detected and thwarted an attempted entry by an Indian submarine, the statement claimed."The Pakistan Navy used its specialised skills to ward off the submarine, successfully keeping it from entering Pakistani waters," PN had said in a statement at the time.It claimed that another reported attempt by an Indian submarine was made in November 2016 which was tracked and pushed clear out of Pakistan's waters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-navy-claims-it-blocked-indian-submarine-from-entering-its-waters-report-101634648664488.html
19-10-2021||India||‘India’s future growth depends on science-driven economy’||Union minister of state (independent charge) for science and technology Jitendra Singh said on Monday that India’s future growth depends on a science-driven economy.“While India commemorates 75 years of independence, it is also an occasion to plan for the next 25 years with the conscious realisation that science and technology are going to be the main currency for the inclusive growth of India,” he said at an event organised by the ministry of health sciences. He emphasised the importance of planning ahead for successful growth. Also Read | Kerala floods: Another man-made disasterSingh added that Indian coastal areas should utilise the vast oceanic resources the country possesses as the “blue economy” offers extensive socio-economic opportunity. He said it aids the production of goods and services that have clear linkages with economic growth, environmental sustainability, and national security.Singh commended the “Deep Ocean Mission” and said it “heralds yet another horizon to harness various resources to enrich the “Blue Economy.” The “Deep Ocean Mission” was approved in June by the Modi-led government to work towards the deep exploration of the ocean for resources and develop deep-sea technologies for sustainable use of oceanic resources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-future-growth-depends-on-science-driven-economy-101634647792152.html
19-10-2021||India||IMD predicts rainfall, snow in parts of country in coming days||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has made forecasts of rain and snowfall in certain parts of the country in days to come. Even as the monsoon has retreated from most parts of India, states like Delhi, Kerala and Uttarakhand received heavy rainfall in the past few days. Experts said formation of low pressure areas and cloudbursts are behind incessant rainfall in these states.At 94.6mm of rainfall, the national capital witnessed its wettest October since 1960, according to the IMD. Just last month the city broke another record, after reporting the highest amount of rainfall since September 1944. Heavy rainfall caused waterlogging and created traffic disruptions all over the city.Uttarakhand also witnessed incessant rainfall, leading to landslides all over the state. At least 16 people have died in various rain-related incidents so far. On Monday, Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami ordered Char Dham Yatra be halted in the state for the next three days.IMD made a forecast of heavy rainfall in Uttarakhand for the next three days. "As predicted, rainfall activity has reduced significantly over northwest and adjoining central India from today (Tuesday). However, due to western disturbance and its interaction with easterlies at lower levels, fairly widespread rainfall with isolated heavy rainfall very likely over Uttarakhand on today and dry weather subsequent three days," the IMD bulletin said.Incessant rainfall triggered flooding, leading to destruction of properties, submerged roads. Several people are feared trapped under debris. Nainital was cut off from the rest of the state as three roads leading to the town were blocked owing to landslides.Heavy downpour battered Kerala since Friday, triggering landslides and heavy flooding across the state, and claiming at least 27 lives. Meanwhile, the IMD has issued an orange alert for districts such as Thiruvananthapuram, Pathanamthitta, Kottayam, Alappuzha, Ernakulam, Idukki, Thrissur, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode and Wayanad, most of which were earlier put on red alert.The state administration started opening the sluice gates of many dams to release excess water, as water levels were nearing the danger mark. The state disaster management authority carried out evacuation drives for inhabitants of low-lying areas.The weather agency has also predicted heavy rainfall in eastern and northeast India. “Intense spell of rainfall activity very likely to continue over East and Northeast India very till 20 October 2021 and reduction thereafter,” IMD tweeted, adding that “Fresh spell of rainfall activity over south peninsular India (Kerala and Mahe, Tamil Nadu and Coastal & SIK) during next 4-5 days."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-predicts-rainfall-snow-in-parts-of-country-in-coming-days-101634646986734.html
19-10-2021||India||Landslides in Darjeeling-Kalimpong feared amid heavy rain in Bengal||Heavy rains continued to lash south Bengal along with the hilly areas of Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts in north Bengal which received spells of very heavy rain over the past 24 hours. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued an orange category alert for these north Bengal areas till Wednesday, advising authorities to watch out for possible landslides. Over the past 24 hours Darjeeling and Kalimpong received 166mm and 136mm rain, categorised as very heavy . “The rain is being triggered by a low pressure area that formed over West Bengal and adjoining north Odisha. Strong south-easterly winds are gushing in. There is a forecast of enhanced rainfall activity till Wednesday across West Bengal,” said an IMD official in Kolkata. Kolkata and the coastal districts, too, received continuous rain since yesterday. While Kolkata received 37mm rain in the last 24 hours, considered moderate, weather stations located in the coastal districts recorded heavy rain. Canning in South 24 Parganas received around 102mm rain and Haldia in East Midnapore received 91mm rain since yesterday. The western parts of the state such as Purulia also received 82mm rain. West Bengal was hit by floods due to extremely heavy rains in September end and the subsequent release of excess water from dams in Jharkhand . In July-end, the state had been hit by another flood. Also Read: Bengal BJP holds protests over Bangladesh violence; spotlights plight of HindusFishermen have been advised not to venture into the sea till Tuesday as sea condition may become rough due to squalls. Thunderstorm with lightning, accompanied by gusty winds speeding up to 50 km per hour, may hit the costal districts in south Bengal, the weather department had said. “We have already faced two floods this monsoon season. In some areas the water level is yet to recede. Now we are faced with another wet spell. This could damage the standing crops. We are keeping a close watch. If necessary, people will be evacuated,” said a senior official of the state’s disaster management department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/landslides-in-darjeeling-kalimpong-feared-amid-heavy-rain-in-bengal-101634645091474.html
19-10-2021||India||Centre's hoardings written in Assamese allegedly defaced by local organisations in Barak valley: Report||Police in Silchar lodged an FIR against local organisations on Tuesday for allegedly smearing government hoardings written in Assamese with black ink in Barak valley, news agency PTI reported.Assam’s Barak Valley, which comprises Cachar, Karimganj, and Hailakandi districts, is an area predominantly inhabited by the Bengali-speaking community. The government signposts and hoardings contain both Assamese and Bangla. However, the bone of contention was with the Jal Jeevan Mission hoardings which were written only in Assamese.Unidentified people defaced the posters of the Jal Jeevan Mission in front of Silchar railway station and reportedly wrote ‘Banglay likhun’, insisting upon using the Bangla language in the posters of the Centre’s scheme. The names of two organisations were reportedly scribbled below the message written over the posters. Visuals reportedly surfaced that showed unidentified people climbing a ladder to deface the posters, news agency PTI reported. However, Hindustan Times could not verify the authenticity of the visuals.Activists of Barak Democratic Yuva Front (BYDF) and All Bengali Students Youth Organisation (ABSYO) are suspected to be associated with the incident, the report said. The BYDF questioned the usage of Bengali. Reacting to the FIR, BYDF leader Pradip Dutta Roy questioned why Bangla was not used despite being designated as an authorised official language in that part of the state following a language agitation in the 1960s.Cachar superintendent of police Ramandeep Kaur said the FIR was lodged based on a complaint made by the Jal Jeevan Mission officials. She said that strict action will be taken against those involved. “On the basis of the complaint, we have registered an FIR at Silchar Sadar police station on Monday. Appropriate action will be taken against the culprits after investigation,” Kaur said.Ironical that the language issue has cropped up only days after HCM @himantabiswa spent the whole ‘Saptami’ of #DurgaPuja with the ‘Bengalis’ of #barakvalley !Is this plain coincidence or is there a malacious intent behind ? Smells fishy !@CMOfficeAssam pic.twitter.com/ZrOB8Mi3gRSilchar MP Rajdeep Roy warned people against divisive elements, saying that they could use language as an issue to foster enmity between communities. “Do not fall prey to such designs,” Roy said. Trinamool Congress MP Susmita Dev condemned the blackening of the posters but alleged that the hoarding disrespected the ‘Language Act’.The Barak Valley is home to more than 3.6 million people. The use of Bangla as a language for official purposes was authorised following a movement by the Bengali-speaking community of the Barak valley, which saw the death of 11 protesters in police firing at Silchar railway station on May 16, 1961.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centres-hoardings-written-in-assamese-defaced-in-barak-valley-report-101634643297254.html
19-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: Bangladesh attacks conspiracy to ruin Indo-Bangla ties, says Tripura CM and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Conspiracy to damage Indo-Bangla ties’, says Tripura CM on Bangladesh attacksThe recent attacks on religious minorities in Bangladesh are part of a larger conspiracy to damage the friendly ties between India and Bangladesh, Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb said on Tuesday. Read more.Video of elephant almost getting washed away in Nainital district goes viralAn elephant stranded in the middle of a flooded Gaula river in the Nainital district of Uttarakhand on Tuesday managed to swim to safety. The video of the elephant struggling to cross the river has gone viral. Read more.Former BJP leader Babul Supriyo formally quits as Asansol MPFormer Union minister Babul Supriyo officially resigned as a member of the Lok Sabha on Tuesday after meeting Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla. He quit the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) last month and joined the Trinamool Congress. Read more.‘To keep them safe’: Priyanka says 40% seats for women in UP pollsCongress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday announced that 40 per cent of the party's tickets for the upcoming assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh will go to women. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who will also be the face of the Congress' election campaign in Uttar Pradesh, said that the decision was taken to ensure women in the state are safe. Read more.What is panic attack? Here are common signs you must knowAmerican singer and songwriter Miley Cyrus recently felt a panic attack was going to grip her in a middle of performance and eased her fears by talking to the audience. Bollywood actors like Deepika Padukone too have talked about getting panic attacks during stressful shoot scenes. But what exactly is panic attack? How do you know if you are having one? Do they indicate any serious trouble? Read more.iPhone 12 price: Get it for ₹53,999 on Flipkart; good deal? Check hereFlipkart recently hosted the Big Billion Days sale on its platform wherein it was offering deals and discounts on the purchase of various smartphones including Apple devices. But if you missed out on that sale, the Indian e-retailer is hosting the Big Diwali Sale on its platform for which it has cut iPhone 12 price in a big way. Read more.'We are hearing the same thing for so many years. You know what the result will be': Sehwag on India-Pakistan T20 WC tieWith the start of the T20 World Cup, all eyes are on the mother of all battles when India take on Pakistan in a mega blockbuster clash on October 24 at the Dubai International Stadium. Pakistan, who are yet to defeat India in a World Cup game – 50-over format and T20Is alike – would be keen to get off mark, whereas the Men in Blue would want to stretch their record to 13-0 at World Cups. Read more.Honda cars in India get virus-fighting air filter cabin. Details hereHonda Cars India on Tuesday announced that it will now be offering a new antivirus cabin air filter in its vehicles that will be able to capture various harmful germs, allergens and even viruses that can cause significant health issues. This will prove to be a significant feature at a time when there is an increasing concern around germs and viruses. Read more.Woman asks about job in 2013, gets reply in 2021. Post sparks laughterWaiting to hear back after applying for a job can be nerve-wrecking. But can you imagine what it would be like hearing back several years after you inquired about an opening. That’s what happened with this woman and her post about the whole incident has left many laughing out loud. In a post shared on Instagram, the woman detailed that she recently got rejected for a job that she inquired about eight years ago. Read more.Madhoo says husband wanted to marry her after seeing her in Diljale, she’d tell him he sees her ‘like car in showcase’Madhoo opened up about her love story with her husband, Anand Shah, and said that he was attracted to her after watching her in Diljale. She was speaking on Sunday’s episode of The Kapil Sharma Show, on which she appeared with Juhi Chawla and Ayesha Jhulka. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-bangladesh-attacks-conspiracy-to-ruin-indo-bangla-ties-101634640605895.html
19-10-2021||India||Zomato in trouble after agent’s ‘Hindi’ lesson to customer; sacks employee, reinstates later||Zomato landed in a controversy on Tuesday after a customer from Tamil Nadu alleged he was denied a refund for a missing item in his order as he didn't know the "national language" Hindi. Soon, a massive backlash followed on Twitter with many slamming the food delivery app for “imposing Hindi” on its customers. This also led to hashtags "Reject_Zomato" and "ZomatoSpeakTamil" trending on top on the social media platform."Customer care says amount can't be refunded as I didn't know Hindi. Also takes lesson that being an Indian I should know Hindi. Tagged me a liar as he didn't know Tamil. @zomato not the way you talk to a customer," a user who goes by the handle "@Vikash67456607" tweeted. He also shared screenshots of his purported chat with the customer care agent in question.The customer also urged Zomato to consider giving the agent proper training instead of terminating her. "Hello@zomato. Apart from the clarification regarding the issue, I request you to reconsider on recruiting back the employee rather than terminating. I suggest to give them a proper training instead. The legacy of Tamils is self-respect and not revenge,” he said in a tweet later.In response, Zomato issued an apology in Tamil and English and also threw in the Tamil greeting of Vanakkam. The company said it has sacked the employee as her "behaviour was clearly against the principles of sensitivity that we train our agents for on a regular basis".In a statement issued on Twitter, the company also said it was in the process of building a local Tamil call/support centre in Coimbatore in the state. "We understand food and language are core to any local culture and we take both of them seriously," it added.Vanakkam Vikash, we apologise for our customer care agent's behaviour. Here's our official statement on this incident. We hope you give us a chance to serve you better next time. Pls don't #Reject_Zomato ♥️ https://t.co/P350GN7zUl pic.twitter.com/4Pv3Uvv32uHowever, Zomato founder Deepinder Goyal said hours later they were reinstating the agent as there was no reason to sack someone and that these things can be easily learned going forward. Defending the agent further, he said it was "an ignorant mistake" on the part of the employee.In a series of tweets, Goyal lashed out at people criticising Zomato, stating that the "level of tolerance and chill" needs to be much higher in the country. "An ignorant mistake by someone in a support centre of a food delivery company became a national issue. The level of tolerance and chill in our country needs to be way higher than it is nowadays. Who's to be blamed here?” he said."And remember, our call centre agents are young people, who are at the start of their learning curves and careers. They are not experts on languages and regional sentiments. Nor am I, btw.”An ignorant mistake by someone in a support centre of a food delivery company became a national issue. The level of tolerance and chill in our country needs to be way higher than it is nowadays. Who's to be blamed here?“Having said that, we should all tolerate each other's imperfections. And appreciate each other's language and regional sentiments. Tamil Nadu – we love you. Just as much as we love the rest of the country. Not more, not less. We are all the same, as much as we are different,” he said.To be sure, India does not have a national language.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zomato-in-trouble-after-agent-s-hindi-lesson-to-customer-sacks-employee-reinstates-later-101634638961105.html
19-10-2021||India||Centre may allow private funding for wildlife conservation||The Centre may soon allow private and corporate funding for India’s wildlife conservation efforts by forming a national-level public trust, officials aware of the matter said. The proposal for this was floated at the last meeting of the standing committee of the National Board for Wildlife (NBWL) held in late September.“The budget available for the management of protected areas is insufficient. Hence, the proposal was floated... to mobilise funds from other sources. Even though it is still at a nascent stage, but we are moving in that direction,” said a Union environment and forest ministry official, requesting anonymity.Officials said the Centre would soon invite suggestions and opinions from forest officials across the country, including chief wildlife wardens of states, conservationists, experts and NGOs. A committee would be formed to study the suggestions before giving shape to the foundation.Experts have welcomed the proposal. “This is a very good idea, but the government has to ensure that the corporate sector does not have a disproportionate say in the decision-making process,” said Raman Sukumar, an ecologist, who attended the meeting.H S Singh, an NBWL member, said he suggested in the meeting that such a foundation should be formed at the state and not at the national level. “The first idea is to involve every section of the society-- be it an individual, an NGO or a corporate firm. Funds would follow.”Also Read: Maharashtra approves 10-year action plan for safety, conservation of wildlifeA National Tiger Conservation Authority official said similar foundations have been formed at the level of tiger reserves across the country.A second Union environment and forest ministry official said the money collected from tourists entering the tiger reserves are deposited in the tiger conservation foundations and are utilised for conservation. “The national foundation would be working on similar lines. In no way are we privatising our protected areas. This is only to facilitate India’s wildlife conservation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-may-allow-private-funding-for-wildlife-conservation-101634641479674.html
19-10-2021||India||Video of elephant almost getting washed away in Nainital district goes viral||An elephant stranded in the middle of a flooded Gaula river in the Nainital district of Uttarakhand on Tuesday managed to swim to safety. The video of the elephant struggling to cross the river has gone viral.JS Suhag, the chief wildlife warden (Uttarakhand), said as soon the forest officials came to know about the incident, they rushed to the spot. “The water was flowing very fast, but the elephant managed to swim back to the bank. We have alerted our staff in Nainital and surrounding areas including the Corbett landscape to remain alert and initiate rescue operations wherever they find wild animals trapped or stuck,” he said.People in many villages near the Kosi river around the Corbett Tiger Reserve have been shifted to safer places amid unseasonal rains that have triggered floods in the region. Hotels and resorts near Kosi have also been vacated.Suhag said the reserve was closed for tourists on Monday amid the rains. “The situation is comparatively better now on the Corbett side. The situation is graver on the Ramgarh side, which is on the right side of the Corbett catchment area. Many people think it is near Corbett, which it is not.”Also Read |16 killed as rain lashes Uttarakhand; roads, houses washed awayBiju Lal, the divisional forest officer (Nainital), said they are on alert since the heavy rains started lashing the district. “Our teams are cutting trees which have fallen on the roads since Monday. So far, we have cut over 15 trees to clear them for traffic.”AG Ansari, a Ramnagar-based wildlife activist, said after years the Kosi river, meandering through the Corbett, has flooded like this. “Many villagers have voluntarily shifted to safer areas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/video-of-elephant-almost-getting-washed-away-goes-viral-101634640698657.html
19-10-2021||India||21-year-old man booked for sodomising autistic boy in Assam||A 21-year-old man has been booked in Assam’s Karimganj district for sexually assaulting a 16-year-old physically challenged autistic boy late on Saturday, police said on Tuesday.In his complaint filed on Sunday, the boy’s father said his son was returning home from a mosque when Zahir Ahmed, the accused who is absconding, initially offered him some soft drink and later forcibly took him to a nearby forest area and assaulted him. When the boy returned home, he was terrified. “My son cannot talk but he showed me the injuries using sign language,” the father said. He added the boy was sodomised, had bite marks all over his body and was tortured.The accused has been booked under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and the Indian Penal Code’s Sections 377 (unnatural offences) and 275 (use of a drug or medical preparation known to be adulterated).Also Read: Protests against Bangladesh violence rock Assam’s Barak ValleyRatan Das, a local police officer, said they were trying to arrest the accused. “It is a sensitive issue... We do not want to disclose any details about the case... the accused will be arrested soon. We are investigating the matter.”Police superintendent Padmanabh Baruah said Section 377 has been abolished only in case of consensual physical relationships between two same-sex persons. “...here the victim is minor, and it is a case of rape. The victim was tortured and terrorised...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-man-booked-for-sodomising-autistic-boy-101634640158407.html
19-10-2021||India||‘Conspiracy to damage Indo-Bangla ties’, says Tripura CM on Bangladesh attacks||The attacks on religious minorities in Bangladesh are part of a larger conspiracy to damage the friendly ties between India and Bangladesh, Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb said on Tuesday.“Both India and Bangladesh share cordial relations for a long time. The fundamentalists hatched a conspiracy to damage the relationship. We have faith that the Bangladesh administration will take strict action regarding such incidents,” Deb told reporters in Agartala. He called the attacks on minorities “painful and shameful”.Deb said the Bangladesh administration has arrested some people for their involvement in the violence and they allegedly have links with fundamentalist organisations.“This is a conspiracy of fundamentalist forces hatched through attacks on religious and cultural institutions in Bangladesh during Durga Puja,” said Deb.The civil society in Tripura, too, has demanded protection for the religious minorities in Bangladesh and the arrest of the perpetrators of the violence.Tripura shares an 856-kilometer-long international boundary with Bangladesh.The violence was triggered on October 15 when hundreds of people protested in Bangladesh’s Noakhali district over the alleged desecration of the Quran.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bangladesh-attacks-conspiracy-to-damage-indo-bangla-ties-says-tripura-cm-101634639980130.html
19-10-2021||India||Sri Ram Sena leader seeks ‘to reclaim’ 17th century mosque in Karnataka||A video of Pramod Muthalik, the controversial leader of the radical Sri Ram Sena, purportedly seeking “to reclaim” the 17th century Jumma Masjid in Karnataka’s Gadag district, about 412 km from Bengaluru, like Ayodhya’s Babri Masjid went viral on social media on Tuesday. Muthalik is heard saying the mosque, which is among the biggest religious institutions in Gadaq, was a temple that was “forcibly converted” by oppressive Muslim rulers.HindutvaWatch, which calls itself an independent research initiative monitoring reports of attacks on minorities and marginalised communities in India, on Tuesday posted the video of Muthalik’s provocative speech in Gadag on Sunday.“For 72 years we had to fight for Ram Mandir. After 72 years of struggle, we were able to complete our resolve to demolish it and construct a grand temple. In the same way in Gadag, I challenge that the place known as Jumma Masjid is actually Venkateswara Temple,” Muthalik said. “During Tipu Sultan’s period, this temple is among those that were demolished, and we have evidence. We will fight for this.”“We already have two documents that state that this (Jumma Masjid) was a temple. We have applied for documents under RTI (Right to Information Act) and will start our struggle from there,” Muthalik told HT on Tuesday. He added that they would start from Gadag and then focus on other parts of the state where temples were allegedly converted into mosques and reclaim them.The comments come amid a rise in communal violence and hate crimes in the state. A video purportedly showing a group of Bajrang Dal and Vishwa Hindu Parishad members forcing their way into a church in neighbouring Hubballi-Dharwad and chanting bhajans earlier went viral on social media. The group accused Christian priests of trying to lure people from backward communities to convert.Also Read | Name a Muslim as Karnataka CM face: Congress MLA to KumaraswamyKarnataka’s Bharatiya Janata Party government has sought to introduce an anti-conversion law. The state’s legislative committee on backward classes and minorities’ welfare has ordered a survey of Churches and their personnel in the state.Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai last week stoked a controversy with his statement that appeared to justify incidents of moral policing and communal disharmony in the state. “There are several sentiments in the society. Those emotions should not be affected, and such should be the behaviour. When such emotions are hurt there is likely to be an action and reaction,” Bommai told reporters in Mangaluru, about 350 km from Bengaluru.Congress leader Siddaramaiah attacked Bommai over the remarks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sri-ram-sena-leader-seeks-to-reclaim-17th-century-mosque-in-karnataka-101634639378484.html
19-10-2021||India||Security tightened, searches intensified after J&K civilian killings||Security has been further enhanced and searches intensified across the Kashmir Valley, especially in the capital Srinagar, following a series of targeted killings that left 11 civilians dead this month. The authorities have suspended or reduced the speed of mobile internet services in parts of Srinagar’s old city and south Kashmir districts, where the attacks have been reported lately.Officials said multiple security review meetings have been held and the number of security forces deployed around key installations such as the secretariat and the airport and has been increased. “These types of attacks obviously attract a greater security response. We have intensified the measures in type and number wherever we thought necessary,” said an official, who did not wish to be named.Multiple checkpoints and roadblocks have been erected across Srinagar. “The security is very stringent, and searches have intensified. Police and CRPF (Central Reserve Police Force) parties have been patrolling in larger numbers and also there are sudden searches of vehicles...,” said Bilal Ahmad, a Srinagar resident.The number of bulletproof mobile bunker vehicles deployed at sensitive places has also been increased and the high-tech CCTV surveillance enhanced. Women paramilitary forces have also been deployed in Srinagar’s Lal Chowk for searches.Also Read: J&K civilian killings to be probed by National Investigation AgencyA second resident said the attacks have suddenly changed the city’s atmosphere. “There is an uneasy silence. Fewer people prefer to move out fearing the deterioration of the situation.”Police have detained and questioned hundreds of people as part of their probe into the civilian killings. The counter insurgency operations have also been intensified. The police last week said they killed 13 terrorists.Union home minister Amit Shah is likely to visit Kashmir in the last week of October to review the security situation and also inaugurate developmental projects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/security-enhanced-further-after-kashmir-killings-101634638658607.html
19-10-2021||India||Former BJP leader Babul Supriyo formally quits as Asansol MP||Former Union minister Babul Supriyo officially resigned as a member of the Lok Sabha on Tuesday after meeting Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla. He quit the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) last month and joined the Trinamool Congress. “Sincere Gratitude to Hon’ble Speaker Sir @ombirlakota for granting me his time tmrw at 11am to formally resign as MP. I will not hold on to the Berth/Perks/Salary of a MP now that I am no longer a part of @BJP4India that I won the seat for. If I have it in me, will win it again,” Babul Supriyo tweeted on MondaySupriyo, who began his political career with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in 2014, joined West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress (TMC) in September. “... As I have joined the TMC, there is no point in holding on to my seat in Asansol. I have come into politics because of Asansol. I will do as much as possible for that constituency,” he had said after joining West Bengal’s ruling party.Earlier he took potshots at Sisir Adhikari, who joined the BJP in March this year before Bengal assembly elections but continues to hold on to his Kanthi Lok Sabha seat which was won as a TMC candidate, saying it should be vacated. Sisir Adhikari is father of Suvendu Adhikari, the leader of Opposition in Bengal assembly, who defeated chief minister Mamata Banerjee from the Nandigram seat in the last assembly elections. Previously in July, the singer-turned-politician announced his decision to “quit politics” after he was dropped from Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Cabinet where he served as the minister of state for environment, forest and climate change. He had then categorically stated he was not joining any political party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-bjp-leader-babul-supriyo-quits-as-asansol-mp-101634638059791.html
19-10-2021||India||Focus on 2nd dose coverage: Centre to states, UTs during vaccination review meet||The Centre has urged states and Union territories to focus on the coverage of the second dose of the vaccine against coronavirus disease (Covid-10) during a review meeting held on Monday. The appeal by the Centre came as the country reached close to administering a billion Covid-19 vaccine doses.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan held a video interaction with health secretaries and mission directors of national health missions in states and UTs to review the progress of vaccination on Monday.According to a PTI report, Bhushan congratulated the states and UTs for their effort to vaccinate all citizens. During the interaction, he also highlighted that a sizeable number of beneficiaries are yet to receive their second dose of the Covid vaccine, insisting the states and UTs to focus on the second vaccination dose coverage, PTI quoted a statement from the government as saying.The Centre also advised states and UTs to work on boosting vaccination drive in districts with low vaccine coverage while exploring ways to improve access in rural areas.The states and Union Territories were advised to identify and prioritise districts having low coverage for focused action and explore requirements for mobilisation efforts, addressing local challenges, need for additional Covid Vaccination Centres and improving access in rural areas, the government statement said.To boost the vaccine drive, the Union government also pointed out that it is in a position to provide additional vaccine doses to the states and UTs if they need so that they can complete the task, the statement was further quoted as saying.Apart from that, the Centre also invited suggestions and feedback from the states and UTs in formulating new guidelines for international travel. The government has been issuing standard operating procedures over the last year for international travel.The Centre is now again in the process to review the guidelines in consultation with all stakeholders, including the Union ministry of home affairs and the ministry of civil aviation, as the second wave of the pandemic shows signs of subsiding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/focus-on-2nd-dose-coverage-centre-to-states-uts-during-vaccination-review-meet-101634632832512.html
19-10-2021||India||Congress to reserve 40% tickets in UP assembly election for women: Priyanka Gandhi||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday announced that 40 per cent of the party's tickets for the upcoming assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh will go to women. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who will also be the face of the Congress' election campaign in Uttar Pradesh, said that the decision was taken to ensure women in the state are safe.“No one protects women. I have taken this decision for women's empowerment,” she said at a press conference in Lucknow. “There is no other political motive, agenda behind this decision," she added."The Congress party has decided that it will give 40 per cent of the total election tickets to women. These tickets will be given on the basis of merit and not just on the basis of caste or religion," the Congress leader said as she urged women to come forward.Applications for the same will remain open for women till November 15, 2021.On Sunday, the party's newly-appointed campaign committee chief PL Punia announced that Priyanka Gandhi will be the face of the Congress' election campaign in Uttar Pradesh.Punia highlighted that Priyanka Gandhi fought for truth on all issues and when the Lakhimpur Kheri incident happened, she immediately left to meet the family of the victims, and was detained in Sitapur, but remained determined in her quest for justice."The people are impressed by her and currently in the entire state, no politician is more popular than Priyanka Gandhi. As far as around whom the campaign will be centred, we are fortunate that Priyanka Gandhi is available for (campaigning) all the time," Punia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-to-reserve-40-tickets-in-up-assembly-election-for-women-priyanka-gandhi-101634630953516.html
19-10-2021||India||Yes Bank case: Delhi Police likely to summon corporate lobbyist Nira Radia||The Delhi Police are likely to summon corporate lobbyist Niira Radia in connection with the alleged floating of a dummy firm used to siphon off a ₹300 crore Yes Bank loan. On Sunday, the police announced the arrest of Yateesh Wahaal, Satish Kumar Narula, and Rahul Singh Yadav in the case. Police said Wahaal and Narula are directors of Nayati Health Care and Research NCR Pvt Ltd, which Radia allegedly floated.The three accused have been booked for cheating and criminal conspiracy. Police learnt Radia allegedly floated the firm during the questioning of the three. “We learnt about her (Radia’s) links with the company after the arrest. We will issue a summon asking her to join the investigation,” said additional police commissioner R K Singh.Until Tuesday afternoon, police were yet to summon Radia.Singh said they received a complaint from one Rajeev Kumar Sharma against the company and its directors. In his complaint, Sharma told police he was the company’s vice-chairperson and executive director. Singh said that the company was earlier known as OSL Healthcare Private Limited (OSLHPL) and was incorporated to build and run a hospital in Gurugram.“Also, a MOU (memorandum of understanding) was signed between VIMHANS and OSLHPL for operating and managing VIMHANS’ IPD, OPD, Emergency and Diagnostic Services and VIMHANS was to provide its state-of-the-art medical super speciality services for psychiatry and allied services to OSLHPL,” said Singh. He added Sharma was also promised of ₹30 lakh monthly as his fees for his services. “...during the completion of Gurugram Hospital, OSL Healthcare Pvt Ltd faced a certain financial problem and majority shareholders/Directors sold their shares (51%) to M/s Naarayani Investment Pvt Ltd, the holding company of M/s Nayati Healthcare & Research NCR Pvt Ltd at the consideration of ₹99 Crores. Once the alleged persons/company entered into the shoes of the majority shareholder, they took all the major decisions. It is alleged that the company took a loan of ₹312 Crore from YES Bank for the development of Gurugram Hospital, but the money was not used for the said purpose and misappropriated by the alleged company/persons.”Also Read: 3 HDFC Bank employees, 9 others held for trying to withdraw from NRI accountPolice said the arrested persons did not pay Sharma his fee and on the basis of his complaint, the Economic Offences Wing filed a case in November 2020. Singh cited the investigation and added they found that after the loan, the arrested people transferred ₹208 to a bank account in the name of Yadav’s Ahluwalia construction.“During the verification, we found that the account was opened by Rahul Singh Yadav with a view to divert or siphon off the loan amount as it was a dummy account. The investigation revealed that the said transfer of ₹208 crore was authorised by arrested persons Yateesh Wahal and SK Narula as directors and authorised signatories of the loan account of the alleged company,” said Singh. He added the dummy bank account was opened to deceive the bank.HT has reached out to Radia for her response. The copy will be updated when she responds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yes-bank-case-delhi-police-likely-to-summon-corporate-lobbyist-nira-radia-101634633978035.html
19-10-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh crosses 120 million Covid-19 vaccine milestone||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has said that more than 120 million people have been given the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine. He made the announcement on Koo app on Monday.He dedicated the milestone to "Prime Minister Narendra Modi's able leadership" and "disciplined people of the state".“Covid-19 will definitely lose,” he further said in the post. The number of active Covid-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh now stands at 123. According to data shared by state health department, there are no active cases in 42 districts while 17 districts have just one active case under treatment.In all, nine fresh Covid cases were reported on Monday against 1,39,654 Covid samples tested in the past 24 hours, said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health.Meanwhile, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya announced on Tuesday that the cumulative vaccine doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 990 million."We are at 99 crores. Go for it India, continue to rapidly march towards our milestone of 100 crore #COVID19 vaccinations,” Mandaviya posted on Twitter.The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers (HCWs) getting inoculated in the first phase. The vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) started from February 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradehs-crosses-120-million-covid-19-vaccine-milestone-101634633563343.html
19-10-2021||India||At least 12 killed after cloudburst triggers flash floods in Uttarakhand||At least 12 people were killed after a cloudburst triggered flash floods at Ramgarh in Uttarakhand’s Nainital district on Tuesday, an official said. This took the toll from rain-related incidents in the state to at least 22 since Monday as incessant rains lashed Uttarakhand for the third day.District magistrate Dheeraj Singh Garbiyal said that at least 12 bodies have been recovered from the spot while rescue efforts continue at the scene where several people were suspected to have been buried under the muck.The cloudburst, or a sudden and very heavy localised rainfall, was reported around 5 am and led to flash floods in Ramgarh and Okhladanda blocks. “...the cloud burst in Ramgarh block, about 35 km from Nainital town, caused a flash flood. It resulted in heavy damage in Ramgarh as well as Okhladanda block ...” said Garbiyal. He added the roads leading to the affected areas have been badly damaged and forced them to seek the Army and Indian Air Force’s help. “(They) are now assisting the state agencies in the rescue and relief work.”Five people died while one was rescued in Mukteshwar after a wall of a college collapsed on a shanty.Preeti Priyadarshini, superintendent of police (Nainital), said the six people were labourers and were staying in the shanty when the wall collapsed on them Tuesday morning due to heavy rains in the area.“The local police and SDRF (State Disaster Response Force) rushed to the spot for rescue operation... five bodies were retrieved while one was rescued and sent to nearby hospital for treatment. A total of 17 people died and 915 people were rescued from various places of the district in the last 24 hours,” said Priyadarshini.At least 150 tourists, mostly from Uttar Pradesh and Delhi, were stuck in a resort in the district’s Ramnagar area after the water from overflowing Kosi river flooded it. The local police have sent a bus along with some personnel to rescue them.A bridge over the Gola river near Haldwani town of Nainital district was earlier washed away due to heavy rain on Tuesday morning, bringing the traffic completely to a standstill on the Haldwani-Sitarganj highway. Kathgodam-bound trains were also cancelled after the shunting line of the station there was washed away. “Due to the damage, all the trains towards Kathgodam have been cancelled. The railway traffic will resume after the repair works,” said Chayan Roy, the station superintendent.The water from the Nainital Lake also overflowed onto Mall Road and entered the Naina Devi temple premises.Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on the situation in the state and assured him of all the possible help from the Centre.The SDRF separately rescued over 70 people, including 49 children, trapped inside a flooded school in Uddham Singh Nagar district. SDRF Commandant Navneet Singh said they rescued them using inflatable boats and took them to the nearby safe places. He added the SDRF also rescued 22 pilgrims returning after visiting the Kedarnath shrine. “On Monday late night, ...the pilgrims were coming back after visiting the shrine and were stuck in heavy rains in Junglechatti area.”The agency also rescued 25 trekkers near Gangotri after their trek route got blocked. “On Tuesday morning, 25 more people were rescued in Raiwala village near Dehradun after they were stranded... Apart from this, 100 people from various waterlogged areas of Uddham Singh Nagar district were also rescued... on Tuesday.”Dhami chaired a meeting at the state disaster management control room to assess the damage caused to life and property. “During the meeting, he also called up the district magistrates of Rudraprayag and Chamoli to especially focus on the char dham yatra route to ensure the pilgrims do not face any problem. He is also getting regular updates from all the district magistrates on the rain situation in their respective districts,” said an official, who did not want to be named. “He also directed the authorities to provide compensation to the victims as soon as possible.”Dhami later left for aerial and ground surveillance of the rain-affected areas with disaster management minister Dhan Singh Rawat.He later appealed to the people “not to panic and keep calm.”“I urge the people to keep calm as the government is providing all possible help to the affected ones. Modi has also assured of every required help to the state to handle the situation. The air force has already sent its choppers to assist in the rescue and relief work in the affected areas,” said Dhami. “The farmers have also suffered major losses which the government is assessing.” He said the weather was expected to improve by Tuesday night after which the situation in the state will normalise.Several roads were blocked as heavy rains threw life out of gear in Uttarakhand on Monday. Three people died in Lansdowne in Pauri Garhwal district after a shanty collapsed under heavy muck brought in by the rains on Monday morning. A 53-year-old woman died in a similar incident in the Champawat district.In the hilly Pithoragarh district, at least 10 roads, including three major arteries—Tanakpur to Pithoragarh, Jauljibi to Munsiyari and Tawaghat to Darma—were blocked due to landslides on Monday.Also Read: Nainital Lake overflows, floods Mall Road as Uttarakhand sees incessant rain||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cloudburst-in-uttarakhand-at-least-10-people-feared-buried-under-muck-101634632778028.html
19-10-2021||India||How CAIT and Praveen Khandelwal are railing against e-commerce platforms||The Confederation of All India Traders, or CAIT, has always had an opinion (and not hesitated to make itself heard), especially on matters concerning small retail stores, but in recent years, the business-association-and-lobby-group, which works out of a small office in Delhi’s Karol Bagh, and its head, Praveen Khandelwal, have become important and influential voices in the space.
19-10-2021||India||Indian Army chief MM Naravane in J&K, reviews preparedness along LoC||Amid an increase in counter-terror activities in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) in which joint security forces gunned down militants in multiple encounters over the past several weeks, the Indian Army chief General MM Naravane visited the forward areas along the Line of Control (LoC) in the Jammu region on Tuesday. During his visit, the Army chief was briefed on the ground situation in the region and about the ongoing counter-infiltration operations, according to officials.Also Read | Indian Army guns down six LeT terrorists in Rajouri jungles, fire-fight on“General MM Naravane, COAS, visited forward areas of the White Knight Corps and undertook a first-hand assessment of the situation along the Line of Control,” posted the additional directorate general of public information (ADGPI) of the Indian Army, from its official handle on Twitter. “The COAS was briefed by commanders on the ground about the present situation and ongoing counter-infiltration operations.”General MM Naravane #COAS visited forward areas of #WhiteKnight Corps & undertook a first-hand assessment of the situation along the Line of Control. #COAS was briefed by commanders on the ground about the present situation & ongoing counter-infiltration operations.#IndianArmy pic.twitter.com/2c9uKC04SYIndian Army chief General MM Naravane is on a two-day visit to Jammu. On Tuesday, he visited the forward areas of the White Knight Corps and undertook a first-hand assessment of the situation along the LoC. The visit comes at a time when there has been a slew of selective killing of minorities in the Kashmir valley; eleven civilians have been killed by militants in the valley this month.According to South Block, as many as nine to 10 LeT terrorists infiltrated from Pakistan towards the jungles between Rajouri-Poonch district borders in the past two to three months. The terrorists from Pakistan are believed to have been buoyed with their recent exploits in Afghanistan, and Indian intelligence sources anticipated the potential offensive by the Pakistani terror forces. On Monday, the Indian Army gunned down six terrorists belonging to Pakistan-based Laskhar-e-Taiba (LeT) in an encounter in the Rajouri sector, while efforts by the 16 Corps troops are reportedly on to neutralise the remaining three to four Islamic jihadists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-chief-mm-naravane-in-j-k-reviews-preparedness-along-loc-101634625466514.html
19-10-2021||India||‘Go for it India’: Health minister tweets as India's Covid-19 vaccination coverage exceeds 990 million||Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Tuesday the cumulative vaccine doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive, which was launched in January this year, has exceeded 990 million. "We are at 99 crores. Go for it India, continue to rapidly march towards our milestone of 100 crore #COVID19 vaccinations,” Mansukh Mandaviya posted on Twitter.
19-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: Nainital Lake overflows amid heavy rains in Uttarakhand and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Nainital Lake overflows, floods Mall Road as Uttarakhand sees incessant rainAs incessant rain continued to lash Uttarakhand on Tuesday, the Nainital Lake in Nainital overflowed flooding the iconic Mall Road and water entered buildings and houses with people seen wading in knee-deep waters. Read more3 HDFC Bank employees, 9 others held for trying to withdraw from NRI accountThree HDFC Bank employees and nine other people have been arrested for allegedly attempting to make an unauthorised withdrawal from a very high-value NRI account, according to Delhi Police on Tuesday. Read moreFrom Cabinet to Congress, leaders and political parties shun digital meetingsSitaram Yechury is a busy man these days. The Communist Party of India (Marxist) general secretary is coordinating with leaders of at least 18 Opposition parties for a meeting—a physical one—in New Delhi. Read moreEternals first reactions: Critics call MCU film 'spectacularly weird', 'Marvel’s version of Snyder’s Justice League'Eternals premiered in Los Angeles on Monday night and though the embargo on the review is yet to be lifted, critics have taken to Twitter to share their first reactions to the Marvel Cinematic Universe film. Read more'He's forcing the management to accommodate him in the team': Laxman wants in-form batter in India's XI at T20 World CupFormer batsman VVS Laxman has suggested a few changes in India's team composition for their second warm-up match of the T20 World Cup against Australia on Wednesday. Read moreVolvo S90, XC60 petrol hybrid models launched in India. Price and other detailsVolvo Cars India on Tuesday officially launched the petrol hybrid models of S90 and XC60 with both priced at ₹61.90 lakh (ex showroom). These Volvo models are just the first of many that have been planned for the country and the Swedish car maker is underlining its commitment to a transition towards a complete petrol portfolio here. Read moreMumbai Police’s band is back with musical rendition of another classic Hindi song. WatchMumbai Police often takes to Instagram to share various types of posts. From posting advisories to reminding people about pandemic rules, their shares often talk about safety and also spread awareness. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-nainital-lake-overflows-amid-heavy-rains-in-uttarakhand-101634627874768.html
19-10-2021||India||Kerala fake antique collector Mavunkal booked for raping minor||Monson Mavunkal, who was arrested last month for selling fake artefacts and alleged cheating, was on Tuesday booked under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act for allegedly raping the daughter of one of his employees two years ago.Police said Mavunkal allegedly lured her by promising help for her education and sexually assaulted her a couple of times. In her complaint, the mother of the teenager said her daughter was sexually assaulted while she was 17 and was scared to approach the police. Since the woman was a minor at the time of the alleged assault in 2019, police booked Mavunkal under the Pocso Act. The case has been transferred to the special investigation team (SIT) probing cases against Mavunkal.“When we asked why they delayed the complaint, they said they were really scared and mustered enough courage after his arrest,” an investigator said, requesting anonymity. Many top police officers were reportedly close to Mavunkal, who used deceit to dupe people and rubbed shoulders with the who’s who of the state.Mavunkal was arrested on September 26 after five businessmen complained to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan that he cheated them of ₹10 crore by promising shares in the upcoming international antique museums in Kochi and Thiruvananthapuram. Later, other businessmen filed cheating complaints against him. A rape survivor also alleged Mavunkal threatened her to withdraw the complaint against her tormentor.Also Read: Gates of Idukki dam opened in rain-battered Kerala, rescue ops onThe government constituted the SIT, which last week recorded the statement of Italy-based Malayali woman Anitha Pullayil, who reportedly introduced many senior police officers to Mavunkal . He allegedly used his connections with the officers to cheat and intimidate gullible antique buyers. After cheating cases surfaced against Mavunkal, Pullayil told news channels she advised many allegedly conned by him to approach the police. Pullayil added she was unaware of the shady deals of Mavunkal and stayed away from him after she got an inkling regarding some of them.Details of cover-up and laxity came to light after Mavunkal’s arrest. Many police officers regularly visited his house, museum and a cosmetology clinic in Kochi that he ran on the basis of a fake degree.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-fake-antique-collector-mavunkal-booked-for-raping-minor-101634628637667.html
19-10-2021||India||Goa govt tables bill for single state-level tree authority||The Goa government on Monday tabled a bill in the state assembly that seeks to amend the Goa Preservation of Trees Act, 1987, for a single state-level tree authority to replace those at the district level. The bill proposes the authority will be in an advisory capacity and no longer be tasked with conducting tree census. It says it will have to only “maintain a record of tree cover outside forests based on the report of the Forest Survey of India”.The district-level authorities were responsible for “the preservation of all trees within its jurisdiction”. The state-level authority will now only be “advising the government and all concerned for preservation of all trees within its jurisdiction.”“The Bill seeks... to ensure [a] holistic approach with a single apex authority at the State level for effective guidance and supervision for protection and conservation of trees in Goa,” the government said in the statement. “The proposed Authority shall act as a principal advisory [body] to the government for protection, preservation and conservation of trees covered under the Act.”Also Read: Schools in Goa reopen for classes 9 to 12 with COVID-19 protocols in placeThe state has two authorities for each district. The bill proposes to have the principal secretary (forests) chair the authority. The government said the authority will be strengthened “with additional senior level members including the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, the Chief Wildlife Warden, the Member Secretary of the State Biodiversity Board to ensure larger stakeholder participation.”The bill was tabled after the Living Heritage Foundation, an NGO, expressed reservations about the feasibility of census of trees in the state given the complexity involved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-govt-tables-bill-for-single-state-level-tree-authority-101634628097737.html
19-10-2021||India||BJP objects to Rajasthan’s grant for modernisation of Muslim seminaries||The Rajasthan government has invited fresh applications for grants up to ₹25 lakh under its modernisation scheme launched in 2019 for Muslim seminaries or madrasas even as the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has accused the ruling Congress of misusing public money for religious activities. The BJP has called the scheme “Muslim appeasement”.State minority affairs minister Saleh Mohammad rejected the BJP’s criticism as “baseless politics” and underlined the scheme is in line with the Prime Minister’s 15-point programme for the welfare of minorities. “If they have issues, they should ask the Prime Minister to stop the programme,” he said.Under the scheme, the seminaries are provided with computers, internet connectivity, smart classes, furniture and other basic necessities. Mohammad said the state government wants to promote quality education for 200,000 students studying in these seminaries and allocated ₹3 crore in 2019-20, ₹5 crore in 2020-21, and ₹17 crore for 2021-22 for the scheme. He added there are 6,000 registered Muslim seminaries in the state. Mohammad said only those that fulfil the conditions under the scheme will get the grants.Also Read: Rajasthan to introduce stringent provisions to check unfair means in recruitment examsBJP leader and former education minister Vasudev Devnani said there cannot be a bigger example of Congress’s “appeasement politics” than the scheme. He added the government was providing financial support under the pretext of modernisation. “The government treasury is being used for religious activities of a certain class. The government is providing ₹25 lakh for the development of madrasas. The bonus is being given to madrasas ahead of Diwali. Is this a good use of public tax?”BJP lawmaker Ram Lal Sharma said the grants amounted to appeasement for a vote bank. “This is against the principles of the Constitution and democracy. The government should work in a democratic and unbiased manner.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-objects-to-rajasthan-s-grant-for-modernisation-of-muslim-seminaries-101634627378075.html
19-10-2021||India||Gates of Idukki dam opened in rain-battered Kerala, rescue ops on||The gates of Idukki dam on the Periyar river were opened by the local authorities in Kerala to ease the pressure on the structure in the wake of heavy rainfall in the southern state. Thirty five people have so far lost their lives in the rain-battered state.Also Read | Kerala's rain pattern has seen a big shift, say expertsAs soon as the gates opened, one lakh litre of water gushed out of the dam that is back bone of the state's hydel projects.This is the fourth time that the shutters of Asia's largest arc dam have been opened. Before today, the gates were opened in 1981, 1992 and 2018.As many as 200 families residing in the downstream have been evacuated by local authorities.Officials said that the water from the dam took an earmarked river path, submerging Cheruthony town on the way. The authorities have sounded high alert in Ernakulam and Alapuzha districts.The shutters of the Kaki Ananthodu Dam in Pathanamthitta district were opened on Monday. Moozhiyar and Maniyar dams have also been opened. The shutters of Peechi, Chimmini, Poomala, Asurankundu, Pathazhakundu and Vazhani dams in Thrissur district have been opened to prevent flooding.According to India Meteorological Department (IMD), the torrential rain were caused by a low-pressure area over south-east Arabian Sea. It has forecast more rain for the state between October 20 and 24.It has also issued a red alert for 10 dams across the state.Of the 35 deaths, 14 have been reported in Kottayam district, 10 in Idukki and one each in Thiruvananthapuram, Thrissur and Kozhikode districts.The heavy rainfall triggered landslides in many place; four houses were washed away in one such landslide at Kokkayar in Peerumedu village in Idukki district. The rescuers are searching for a person named Ansi (52) who went missing in a flash flood in Idukki.Idukki district authorities said the Navy, National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), fire force personnel and others have been engaged in rescue operations at Kokkayar and other regions.At present, 2,619 families are living in 247 relief camps across Kerala. There are a total of 9,422 people in these camps. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has directed that the relief camps should have adequate facilities, like food, clothing and bedding. Apart from revenue department, respective local self government (LSG) bodies have also been asked to take note of this. Vijayan has also directed them to seek the help of local communities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gates-of-idukki-dam-opened-in-rain-battered-kerala-rescue-ops-on-101634626230208.html
19-10-2021||India||From Cabinet to Congress, leaders and political parties shun digital meetings||Sitaram Yechury is a busy man these days. The Communist Party of India (Marxist) general secretary is coordinating with leaders of at least 18 Opposition parties for a meeting—a physical one—in New Delhi. The last such meeting on August 20 was an easier affair. It was online and leaders from Tamil Nadu to West Bengal just logged in from their offices instead of flying to the national capital.As Covid-19 cases in India continue to dip and more and more people are getting vaccinated, political parties have begun to shun digital meetings—the mainstay for India’s political and administrative activities for over 18 months. Two months after the pandemic hit India in January 2020, India’s top decision-making body, the Union cabinet, switched online for meetings by March as a nationwide lockdown was imposed to check it. Initially, a big centre table in the Cabinet room was removed to make space for the social distancing of ministers. Later, ministers were told to log on through a secured portal for online Cabinet meetings.Union cabinet meetings have been held in offline mode over the last two months. Prime Minister Narendra Modi also chaired two meetings of the Union council of ministers (78 members) in the spacious Rashtrapati Bhavan cultural centre on September 14 and September 28.President Ram Nath Kovind, whose meetings and tours were earlier restricted, addressed union ministers at the September 14 meeting. He also resumed his official tours and went to his ancestral village near Kanpur in June.Also Read: Punjab cabinet opposes Centre’s decision to extend BSF’s jurisdictionThe Congress, too, held the first offline meeting of the party’s top decision-making body, Congress Working Committee (CWC), in 18 months on October 16. Congress president Sonia Gandhi presided over three CWC, as well as two meetings with the party’s Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha lawmakers online in view of the pandemic. She also held a meeting of Opposition leaders online on August 20.The Congress also called former foreign secretaries Shiv Shankar Menon and Shyam Saran for an online briefing on Afghanistan a day before external affairs minister S Jaishankar held an all-party meeting on the situation in India’s neighbourhood in August.Yechury’s party, which once infamously opposed computerisation in West Bengal, has held meetings of its Politburo and Central Committee online. The last Politburo meeting was held offline in New Delhi last week.The Bharatiya Janata Party, too, has scheduled its next National Executive meeting offline this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-cabinet-to-congress-meetings-are-back-offline-101634625277643.html
19-10-2021||India||China ramps up scale, duration of military drills in Arunachal sector||China has ramped up the scale and duration of its military drills across the contested border in Arunachal Pradesh after a standoff with India erupted along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Ladakh sector, and the reserve formations mobilised by the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) last year are still deployed there, Eastern Army commander Lieutenant General Manoj Pande said on Tuesday. Pande said both sides were also attempting to scale up infrastructure near the LAC in the eastern sector. “Annual training exercises by PLA have increased in their depth areas. Reserve formations mobilised (after the Ladakh standoff began in May 2020) still remain in training areas in the depth,” Pande said, while briefing reporters on the LAC situation in the east at the Rupa-headquartered HQs 5 Mountain Division. He said the focus of PLA’s exercises was on integrated operations by its forces. He added that the Indian army had noted the developments across the LAC and taken counter measures to deal with any contingency. “Adequate forces are deployed in all sectors to deal with any contingency. We are also rehearsing and preparing for various contingencies that may arise,” he said. “In certain areas where our deployment was thin, steps have been taken to strengthen it.” His comments came days after the 13th round of military talks between India and China to cool tensions in Ladakh reached an impasse on October 10, with PLA not agreeing to suggestions made by the Indian Army. The military dialogue took place more than two months after the last round of talks that led to disengagement of forward deployed troops from Gogra, or Patrol Point-17A, which was one of the flashpoints on the LAC in Ladakh. Although the eastern sector has not seen the same level of activity as in Ladakh, the LAC is equally contested throughout its length, said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd). “Therefore, Eastern Command will remain prepared for all contingencies including additional deployment to strengthen the defensive posture. As long as disengagement and de-escalation remain stalled, the situation will remain tense,” he added. The Asapila sector in Arunachal Pradesh was among the areas where the Indian Army observed infrastructure development by PLA close to LAC, and it had led to a corresponding increase in troop deployment there, Pande said. Commenting on the face-offs between rival troops at Naku La in north Sikkim, he said patrols came face-to-face in the area because of differing perception of LAC, and protocols were in place to resolve the situation even though sometimes confrontations lasted longer. Scores of Indian and Chinese soldiers were involved in a tense face-off in Naku La in May 2020, with rival troops suffering injuries in the incident. Another face-off took place in Naku La between the two sides earlier this year, with the developments making the area a possible flashpoint in the east. The Indian Army has stepped up surveillance along LAC and in Chinese depth areas using satellites, long-range unmanned aerial vehicles and other hi-tech intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR) systems, Pande said. Both India and China have sharpened focus on building infrastructure in forward areas to support military deployments, he said. “PLA is taking measures to build capabilities. We are doing the same to counter the threat,” he said.General Pande said the army’s focus was on sharpening its surveillance capabilities using niche technologies including modern aerial platforms, superior network of radars, hi-tech night vision systems and modern communication equipment. Hindustan Times reported on Tuesday that the army is making a big surveillance push using latest technology to offset the requirement of deploying extra troops on the contested border with China in Arunachal Pradesh. He said the army’s new mountain strike corps, raised to counter the Chinese threat in the east, is fully operational now. “We are looking at the integrated battle group (IBG) model to enhance its operational efficiency and have better options,” he said. Existing and future threats require the army to be “agile, lean and mean” so that it can deploy at a swift pace, Pande said, explaining the significance of the IBG concept that is being embraced by the army.“Technological developments in mobility, long-range strike capability and other areas also demand we change the concept of war fighting and evolve new structures. IBGs are a logical step towards fighting and winning future wars,” he said. He added that new equipment deployed in the Ladakh sector was being simultaneously inducted in the east, with the focus being on enhancing mobility, drone and counter-drone systems, precision-guided ammunition and surveillance systems. On the vulnerability of the Siliguri corridor connecting the North-east with the rest of India, he said the armed forces, Central Armed Police Forces, Central agencies and state governments were working in tandem to mitigate the threat. Bhutan, with which China has a border dispute, is central to India’s national security as the country lies next to the Siliguri corridor and any territorial compromise made by Bhutan will have an adverse impact on Indian defences in the area. Bhutan and China on Thursday signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) on a “three-step roadmap” for expediting negotiations on their boundary dispute, prompting a cautious response from India against the backdrop of the standoff on the LAC.The agreement was signed four years after Indian and Chinese troops were involved in a 73-day face-off within Bhutanese territory at Doklam. That face-off began in June 2017 after India sent in its troops to prevent the construction of roads and infrastructure by Chinese troops in violation of agreements between Bhutan and China.Bhutan and China have held 24 rounds of talks between 1984 and 2016 to settle their border issue and, according to discussions in the Bhutanese parliament and other public records of these meetings, these discussions have only focused on disputes in the western and central sections of the boundary. The two sides have also held 10 meetings of an expert group.Pande flagged concerns about the “dual use” of villages being set up by China in forward areas, and said the army was factoring in the development in its operational planning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-ramps-up-scale-duration-of-military-drills-in-east-after-ladakh-border-row-101634624737381.html
19-10-2021||India||Nainital Lake overflows, floods Mall Road as Uttarakhand sees incessant rain||As incessant rain continued to lash Uttarakhand on Tuesday, the Nainital Lake in Nainital overflowed flooding the iconic Mall Road and water entered buildings and houses with people seen wading in knee-deep waters. A video tweeted by news agency ANI showed water gushing through roads and alleyways as people tried to reach safety.Meanwhile, an incident of cloudburst was reported in a village of Ramgarh in the Nainital district as teams of police and administration rushed to the spot. “Some injured have been rescued from the spot where cloudburst occurred in a village of Ramgarh in Nainital district. Their actual number is yet to be ascertained,” Nainital senior superintendent of police (SSP) Preeti Priyadarshini told ANI.
19-10-2021||India||Numbers Matter: As India nears one billion doses, here’s what can go wrong||India’s mass inoculation programme is closing in on a yet another major milestone this week, with close to one billion doses of the Covid-19 vaccine having been administered across the country since the start of the campaign on January 16, a little over nine months ago.
19-10-2021||India||Watch: Biker saved moments before heavy rain washes away bridge in Uttarakhand||A motorcycle rider was saved in the nick of time by alert residents of Haldwani in Uttarakhand. The biker was about to cross a bridge, which was already half washed out due to rise in water level of Gaula river following heavy rain but turned back after noise from the locals on the other side.In a video posted on Twitter by news agency ANI, the water is seen pounding the bridge, a portion of which has been washed out. A motorcycle rider is seen on the other side of the bridge, trying to cross it with headlights on.#WATCH | Uttarakhand:Locals present at a bridge over Gaula River in Haldwani shout to alert a motorcycle rider who was coming towards their side by crossing the bridge that was getting washed away due to rise in water level. Motorcycle rider turned back & returned to his own side pic.twitter.com/Ps4CB72uU9This is when one of the locals waves his hands and shouts alerting the bike rider not to cross the bridge which could be washed out anytime. The biker takes cue and returns to his side of the bride.Soon after, a significant portion of the bridge is seen washing away with the water.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a red alert for Uttarakhand with a forecast of heavy to very heavy rainfall over the next few days.The Badrinath National Highway in Chamoli district has been completely blocked due to debris at seven places following incessant rains over the last 48 hours, the district administration said on Tuesday.As a precautionary measure, the Badrinath Char Dham Yatra has been halted, and passengers en route to Badrinath Temple were stopped in safe places.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday spoke to Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami to take stock of the situation. Dhami on Monday took a detailed review of the heavy rains in the state.The chief minister briefed the Prime Minister about the situation and said the administration is fully alert. PM Modi assured Dhami of all necessary help to deal with the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-biker-saved-moments-before-heavy-rain-washes-away-bridge-in-uttarakhand-101634622853067.html
19-10-2021||India||Bhupesh Baghel visits Madpal School in Bastar, inaugurates renovation work||The students of Madpal Government School in the rural area of ​​Bastar are using 3D printers in their school's laboratory, making models of drones and alum in a chemistry lab, and performing numerous experiments. Along with this, knowledge is being acquired in a state-of-the-art way using smart classes. Government Higher Secondary School, Madpal, is today recognised as a fully equipped educational institution of excellence in Bastar district. Chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, during his two-day stay in Bastar, visited the school located in the Jagdalpur block. During his visit, he inaugurated renovation work done at the cost of ₹68 lakh and construction of an additional room at a cost of ₹31 lakh.At a time when government schools equppied with modern facilities such as smart classes, computers, laboratories, library facilities seem far fetched, this Government School, which has all modern facilities for teaching and learning for the children, is like a dream.The children in this school have all the facilities to perform new Science experiments. Among those who visited the school along with the chief minister also include industries minister and district in-charge Kawasi Lakhma, Lok Sabha MP Deepak Baij, Rajya Sabha MP Phulodevi Netam, parliamentary secretary Rekhchand Jain, Kondagaon MLA Mohan Markam, Bijapur MLA Vikram Mandavi, Chitrakot MLA Rajman Benzam, sarpanch Vandana Nag, collector Rajat Bansal and senior superintendent of police Jitendra Meena.The Chief Minister, during the visit, praised the innovations and excellent facilities for teaching as well as learning in the school. Bhupesh Baghel also interacted with the children and asked them about their studies. He appreciated the district administration, school education department, school principal and the school staff for the facilities provided in the school.While interacting with students, the chief minister asked them to make maximum use of the facilities available in the school. He interacted with students of class 10th and explained them the value of upholding one's culture. He said, “our culture is our identity. Our culture is the combined concept of our customs, colloquialism, language, way of life, art, tradition, belief, faith, value of life and architecture. We represent our culture”. He said that Chhattisgarh and Bastar have their own cultural identities. He spoke about the personality and work of Shaheed Veer Narayan Singh. On being asked by the Chief Minister, a student of class 10th, Gayatri Singh, read out text on "Chhattisgarh Environment - Art, Culture and Personality" from a book.Baghel visited Atal Tinkering, Physics, Science and Chemistry labs in the school and inquired about the facilities available there. The students answered the question with full confidence. Chief Minister congratulated the children for this. A Maths and Science exhibition was also organized in the school. The chief minister visited the exhibition and saw the models made by the children; he asked the students to explain the models in detail. Children had made useful models on topics such as division of mathematics, concept of multiplication, measurement of distances, narva, garuva, ghurva and bari, drip irrigation, water recycling, environmental protection. Models of auto sanitiser, fog sanitiser were also prepared to protect against coronavirus. Baghel appreciated imagination and creativity of the children. Many children had also prepared models based on jugaad from junk.Under the continuous guidance of collector Rajat Bansal and with the special efforts of the state's education department, Government Higher Secondary School, Madpal, has today become a fully equipped educational institution of excellence in Bastar district. Given the school's clean and beautiful infrastructure and availability of all the necessary resources, including modern labs and library, combined with qualified and committed teachers, the school can compete with the reputed private schools in terms of quality and availability of resources. Due to proper arrangement of resources in this school, poor children of rural areas are getting quality education in a school located in a remote area.At present, classes are being held for pre-secondary and higher secondary education in this school. A total of 562 children are studying in classes from class 6th to 12th, including 123 in pre-Secondary school and 439 in higher secondary school. This entire school campus has been decorated in a very beautiful and attractive form. There are a total of 16 rooms in this school, housing separte rooms for the principal's office and staff room. Modern biology, physical and chemical laboratory and Atal Tinkering lab have also been established in the school as per the present times and knowledge of science. Apart from this, 1-1 smart class with all facilities, library and sports room have also been constructed in the school. Along with proper electrical system, computer, printer, LCD projector set, OHP and drinking water, there are separate toilets for boys and girls. Along with this, cultural platform, garden with lush green trees and plants, nutrition garden and cycle stand for the students have been constructed in the school premises. The excellent system of Madpal Vidyalaya has proved that even in government schools located in villages, a model school can be made by providing proper resources including qualified teachers and necessary facilities. The innaovations in the school have been made with a commendable effort of the state government and the district administration who aim to provide conducive educational environment and quality education to the rural children in their villages and nearby schools.One of the students, named Savitri Manjhi, thanked Chief Minister Baghel for visiting them and providing all kinds of modern education facilities in the school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhupesh-baghel-visits-madpal-school-in-bastar-inaugurates-renovation-work-101634614449916.html
19-10-2021||India||J&K civilian killings to be probed by National Investigation Agency||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) will take over the probe for now into six of the 11 targeted killings of civilians in Kashmir this month with The Resistance Front (TRF) and other Pakistan-based outfits emerging as the perpetrators, people familiar with the matter said on Tuesday.The NIA is already probing a larger conspiracy in the killings and has arrested nine persons and raided over two dozen places linked with TRF. Its investigations have found the killings are part of a well-hatched conspiracy from across the border to create an atmosphere of fear in the Valley and derail the government’s efforts to increase industrial activities there, an official said on the condition of anonymity.The people cited above said the NIA has got some clues about people coordinating these attacks and more raids will be carried out. The NIA will take over the probe into the killings of Makhal Lal Bindroo, who ran a popular pharmacy in Srinagar, street vendor Virendra Paswan, Supinder Kaur, a Sikh teacher, and her colleague, Deepak Chand, as well as labourers Raja Reshi and Joginder Reshi. The federal anti-terror agency is expected to take over the probe into other five killings later.Also Read: Migrants crowd railway station to catch a train out of KashmirUnited Liberation Front (ULF), a shadowy organisation, claimed responsibility for the fresh attack on civilians on Sunday that left Raja Reshi and Joginder Reshi dead, saying it was carried out as a reprisal while asking migrant workers to leave the region. The attack on Sunday was the third on migrant workers in two days. Arvind Kumar Sah, a resident of Banka in Bihar, was killed in Srinagar and Sageer Ahmad, a carpenter from Saharanpur, was shot dead in Pulwama on Saturday. Five of the 11 civilians killed this month in Kashmir were migrant workers. Mohammad Shafi Lone, a Kashmiri taxi operator, was also killed.The Jammu and Kashmir administration has moved thousands of migrant workers to “safer areas”. Hundreds of others have left the Valley.Union home minister Amit Shah has directed top officials to deal with the flare-up on priority as a multi-agency pan-Indian effort was underway to neutralise Pakistan-linked threats in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmir-nia-to-take-over-probe-into-civilians-killing-101634622097373.html
19-10-2021||India||Indian Army guns down six LeT terrorists in Rajouri jungles, fire-fight on||The Indian Army has gunned down six terrorists belonging to Pakistan based Laskhar-e-Taiba (LeT) in the ongoing encounter in the thick jungles of Rajouri sector with efforts on to neutralise the remaining three to four Islamic jihadists by the 16 Corps troops.After the Indian Army lost nine men in engaging the terrorists in Rajouri jungles, Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Gen Bipin Rawat visited the area on October 16 to hold discussions with the local commanders handling the ongoing counter-terrorist operations. It is understood that the Indian Army commanders were told to wait or tire out the terrorists in deliberate operations rather than pro-actively engaging them on their terms.“Casualties to our troops have occurred due to the advantage the terrorists took by operating in buddy pairs of two. This allowed them to continuously change position and engage a larger body of troops, resulting in casualties,” said a Indian Army commander.According to South Block, as many as nine to 10 LeT terrorists infiltrated from Pakistan towards the jungles between Rajouri-Poonch district borders in the past two to three months. While many  infiltration bids were foiled on the LoC and along the fence, the Pak terrorists were buoyed with their success in Afghanistan and to that extent the terror surge was anticipated by the Indian Army and the security agencies.While the Indian troops were raring in “josh” to get the terrorists, on the spot instructions were issued to establish a cordon around the area with presence of terrorists. The change in tactics was that now it was left to the terrorists to make the movement to get replenishments from the nearby villages for survival and thus expose themselves as targets. “ Jungle warfare required patience and the instructions to troops are to be cautious and avoid casualties by engaging the terrorists head-on. Since time is not a constraint, we will tire out the terrorists and eliminate them,” said a commander.Although it is a matter of time when the Indian Army counter-terrorist troops eliminate the remaining terrorists, the plethora of weapons and night vision devices left by the US troops in Afghanistan will raise the level of violence in Kashmir as Pak based jihadists groups believe that they can occupy Jammu and Kashmir like Taliban militarily occupied Afghanistan.The Pakistani deep state is also brimming with confidence as they were the real force behind Taliban occupation of Afghanistan. For them, the new agenda is Islamization of Jammu and Kashmir with Pakistan terrorists taking on the Indian Army on LoC and their local proxies targeted non-Muslims to ensure that the Valley is turned into a Muslim ghetto.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-guns-down-six-let-terrorists-in-rajouri-jungles-fire-fight-on-101634621499786.html
19-10-2021||India||Prez Kovind, PM Modi and Rahul Gandhi extend wishes on Eid Milad-un-Nabi||President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Rahul Gandhi extended greetings on the occasion of Eid Milad-un-Nabi, the birth anniversary of Prophet Muhammad on Tuesday.“Good wishes to all fellow citizens, especially to our Muslim brothers & sisters on Eid-e-Milad-un-Nabi, the birthday of Prophet Muhammad. Let us take inspiration from the Prophet’s life & ideals and work for the prosperity of society and promotion of peace & harmony in the country,” the President said.
19-10-2021||India||PM to inaugurate Kushinagar airport, other projects in UP tomorrow||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday to inaugurate the Kushinagar international airport. According to Prime Minister's Office (PMO), the inauguration will be marked by landing of inaugural flight at the airport from Colombo carrying Sri lankan delegation of over 100 Buddhist monks and dignitaries, including a 12-member holy relic entourage.The Prime Minister will also participate in an event marking Abhidhamma Day at Mahaparinirvana Temple, said the PMO. Later in the day, he will attend a public function to inaugurate and lay the foundation stone of various development projects in Kushinagar. Kushinagar is the place where Gautam Buddha attained Mahaparinirvana. It is an international Buddhist pilgrimage centre, the centre point of the Buddhist circuit, which consists of other sites at Lumbini, Sarnath and Gaya.Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel, chief minister Yogi Adityanath and Union minister for Civil Aviation Jyotiraditya Scindia will also be present at the inauguration ceremony among others.The international airport will get operational this week to ease cumbersome travel of earlier times and facilitate the air travel requirements of international Buddhist pilgrims in India, said the PMO.Tourism inflow is expected to rise by up to 20 per cent with the inauguration of the flight.The Airports Authority of India (AAI) has developed the Kushinagar airport with a new terminal building spread across 3600sqm, at an estimated cost of ₹260 crore in association with the government of Uttar Pradesh considering the demand of the domestic and international visitors and pilgrimage.The new terminal is equipped to handle 300 passengers during peak hours.The airport will serve a population of more than two crores since the airport has a hinterland of around 10-15 districts and will be a great support for the large migrant population of Eastern Uttar Pradesh and Western/Northern parts of Bihar, said the PMO. This will also boost the opportunities for the export of horticultural products like bananas, strawberries and mushrooms, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-visit-kushinagar-on-wednesday-to-inaugurate-international-airport-101634619991960.html
19-10-2021||India||Kerala's rain pattern has seen a big shift, say experts||The unseasonal downpour last week left a trail of death and destruction in Kerala amid a shift in rain patterns in the state over the last five years. From the 2018 flood of the century to flash floods this month, the change is evident. Experts say the temperature over the Arabian Sea has increased by 1.2 to 1.4 degrees C in the last two decades, increasing the frequency of cyclonic events along the western coast. Usually, the temperature in the Arabian Sea is 1.5 degrees lower than the Bay of Bengal and this is one of the reasons for less cyclonic circulations and low pressure in the Arabian Sea. But of late, the situation is changing. Experts say the warming is not limited to the top layers of the sea.“...more than 90 of the heat on earth is absorbed by oceans. Usually, temperatures in the Indian Ocean and Bay of Bengal are above 28 degrees C and in the Arabian Sea, it is between 26 to 28 degrees. But the Arabian Sea is warming up fast. It is quite visible in the last decade or so,” said Roxy Mathew, a scientist with Pune’s Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology.He said a big shift in rain pattern is quite visible and added Kerala should have been very careful in land use because the state is endowed with many hills and rivers and has a slanting geographical landscape.The frequency of cyclonic circulation over the Arabian Sea has also increased manifold. There has been a 52% increase in cyclonic movement over the Arabian Sea between 2001 and 2019 and eight per cent during the same period in the Bay of Bengal. The India Meteorological Department statistics show nine cyclones or major depressions were formed in 2020, out of which four were over the Arabian Sea.Also Watch: Couple floats to wedding venue in cooking vessel in rain-hit KeralaExperts say one of the reasons for high temperature is a chemical reaction in the sea induced by pollution. According to a Central Marine Fisheries Institute of India study in 2018, major oceans will have more plastic than fish. By 2050, over 850 metric tonnes of plastics will be found in the sea whereas fish will be 821 metric tonnes. Another Alfred Wegener Institute study says seas near Mumbai, Kerala, and Andaman Nicobar Islands are among the most polluted in the world.“It is sad in Kerala discussions start only after a tragedy and everyone forgets about it soon. It is high time the state gives top priority to environmental impact studies when it takes up developmental projects. Cloud bursts, flash floods, and landslips are here to stay. The state will have to pay a heavy price if it goes ahead ignoring the climate change signals,” said M G Manoj of the Advanced Centre for Atmospheric Radar Research, Cochin University of Science and Technology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cannot-ignore-signals-of-climate-crisis-warn-experts-101634620116830.html
19-10-2021||India||Suvendu Adhikari-led BJP delegation met Bangladesh envoy over ISKCON attack||Leader of Opposition in West Bengal’s Assembly, Suvendu Adhikari, led a delegation of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders to Bangladesh’s deputy high commissioner in Kolkata to register concerns over the Friday mob attack at the ISKCON temple in the neighbouring country’s Noakhali district which resulted in the death of a Hindu worshipper.Adhikari said the delegation expressed their concern over “the injustice and atrocities” faced by Bengali Sanatani Hindus in the region. “We are committed to fight for the rights & security of the Hindus, wronged anywhere in the world,” he tweeted. He had earlier described the attacks on Durga Puja venues in the neighbouring country a well-planned assault on the Sanatani Bengali community.The Bangladesh government had ordered a probe into the matter, however, ISKCON authorities on Sunday asked for intervention by the United Nations secretary general, Antonio Guterres. The attack on ISKCON at Noakhali is the latest in a series of attacks on Hindu religious places in Bangladesh during the Durga Puja celebrations.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson in West Bengal, Samik Bhattacharya accused the Sheikh Hasina government of inaction. “Such incidents of atrocities on Hindus have increased over the past few months. The government remained a mute spectator,” Bhattacharya added.The BJP also held processions in several districts in West Bengal to protest against the attacks on Hindu temples and minorities in Bangladesh.Other political parties such as the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) have also condemned the communal violence targeting Bengali Hindus. The TMC’s general secretary and spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said, “Serious allegations of vandalism of Durga Puja pandals have poured in from Bangladesh. This is worrisome. It should be investigated. If it is found to be true, the Bangladesh government should take action.”Also Read: BJP protests after youth wing leader shot dead in Bengal’s Uttar DinajpurVice president of the ISKCON temple that was attacked last Friday, Radharamn Das claims that at least two of the temple devotees, Jatan Kumar Saha and Partha Das were killed and around 20 others were injured. The temple authorities had said that a mob first vandalised a Durga Puja pandal before attacking the devotees in the adjacent temple. The idol of Srila Prabhupada, the founder of ISKCON, was allegedly desecrated and books were set on fire.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suvendu-adhikari-led-bjp-delegation-met-bangladesh-envoy-over-iskcon-temple-attack-101634619516883.html
19-10-2021||India||India records 13,058 new Covid cases, lowest in 231 days; Kerala biggest contributor||India recorded 13,058 new Covid-19 cases in the past 24 hours, the lowest in 231 days, data published by the Union health ministry at 8am showed on Tuesday. This took the total number of Covid-19 cases reported in the country so far to 3,40,94,373, with the active infections standing at 1,83,118 (lowest in 227 days). Kerala remains the highest contributor as it reported 6,676 new cases in the last 24 hours.Meanwhile, 164 people succumbed to Covid-29 in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll to 4,52,454, the health ministry data further showed. Of total deaths, Kerala alone accounted for 60 deaths.A total of 19,470 people recuperated from the disease, sending the national recovery rate to 98.14 per cent, highest since March 2020, the ministry further said.While the weekly positivity rate (1.37% per cent) has been less than 3 per cent for the last 115 days, the daily positivity rate (1.37 per cent) has been less than 3 per cent for 49 days. The active cases now account for less than 1 per cent of total cases and it is lowest since March 2020 which is currently at 0.54 per cent.According to the health ministry, the country has so far tested 59.31 crore total samples for Covid-29. A total of 98.67 crore vaccine doses have been administered so far under Nationwide Vaccination Drive.Meanwhile, as India awaits a nod for its indegenious vaccine Covaxin, the World Health Organization (WHO) on Monday said it cannot "cut corners" in making a decision. "We are aware that many people are waiting for WHO’s recommendation for Covaxin to be included in the #COVID19 Emergency Use Listing, but we cannot cut corners," the WHO said on Twitter.India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-13-058-new-covid-cases-lowest-in-231-days-kerala-biggest-contributor-101634616562282.html
19-10-2021||India||Two weeks crucial to check fresh Covid-19 surge in West Bengal: Experts||With the Durga puja festivities coming to an end in West Bengal, the next two weeks will be crucial to keep Covid-19 cases under control in the state, health experts have warned. The state health department is planning to ramp up testing, which had dropped during the festive season, in the coming weeks senior officials said. “The number of RT-PCR tests had dropped to almost half during the puja. We are going to increase it now. While 39,661 tests were done on October 1, the number of tests dropped to around 21,217 on October 15. We have already starting ramping up [the number of] tests. On October 17, we conducted 27,148 tests. This will be increased further,” said a senior official of the state health department. During the first wave of the infection last year, West Bengal recorded maximum number of Covid-19 cases on October 22, when 4,157 new cases were registered following shopping spree ahead of Durga Puja festivities. At the peak of the second Covid wave in the state on May 14, just after the assembly elections ended this year, the daily count had shot up to 20,846. In both instances health experts blamed huge gatherings that too without adhering to safety norms for the spike. “This year we saw that Covid-19 safety protocols were flouted rampantly. Pandal hoppers hit the streets in thousands with huge gatherings seen outside puja pandals. Many were not even wearing masks, forget social distancing and sanitising. The next two weeks will be very crucial,” said Sukumar Mukherjee, member of the expert committee that was set up in 2020 to advise chief minister Mamata Banerjee on pandemic-related matters. Also Read: BJP protests after youth wing leader shot dead in Bengal’s Uttar DinajpurEven though the high court had banned entry of visitors inside puja pandals, visitors gathered in large numbers at the barricades put up outside pandals. The police had to stop the entry of visitors in one pandal at Salt Lake, which was modelled on Burj Khalifa and became a major crowd puller. The Eastern Railway too had to cancel around 13 pairs of trains to stop people from coming to Kolkata for pandal hopping on the puja days. “Even though there has been no surge yet but we are getting ripples with the daily Covid-19 cases increasing and falling. We need to increase our testing and keep a close watch. The coming weeks will be very crucial,” said Manas Gumta, general secretary of Association of Health Service Doctors in the state. This becomes all the more important because the state education department has initiated the process to reopen schools and colleges. Educational institutions are likely to reopen in November. Local trains still remain cancelled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-weeks-crucial-to-check-fresh-covid-19-surge-in-west-bengal-say-experts-101634616396541.html
19-10-2021||India||Eid Milad-un-Nabi: PM Modi, President Kovind extend greetings to nation||On the occasion of Eid Milad-un-Nabi on Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President of India Ram Nath Kovind, among other dignitaries, extended their greetings to the nation wishing for the spirit of kindness and brotherhood to prevail. Taking to his official handle on Twitter, the Prime Minister greeted fellow citizens “Eid Mubarak!” and wished for peace and prosperity all around. Meanwhile, President Ram Nath Kovind also extended good wishes and said that citizens must take inspiration from the life and ideals of Prophet Muhammad. Also Read | Eid Milad 2021: Is it a government holiday? Know significance of the day“Milad-un-Nabi greetings,” the Prime Minister tweeted this morning. “Let there be peace and prosperity all around. May the virtues of kindness and brotherhood always prevail. Eid Mubarak!”Milad-un-Nabi greetings. Let there be peace and prosperity all around. May the virtues of kindness and brotherhood always prevail. Eid Mubarak!Extending his greetings on the occasion, President of India Ram Nath Kovind tweeted, “Good wishes to all fellow citizens, especially to our Muslim brothers & sisters on Eid-e-Milad-un-Nabi, the birthday of Prophet Muhammad.”He added, “Let us take inspiration from Prophet’s life & ideals and work for the prosperity of society and promotion of peace & harmony in the country.”Good wishes to all fellow citizens, especially to our Muslim brothers & sisters on Eid-e-Milad-un-Nabi, the birthday of Prophet Muhammad. Let us take inspiration from Prophet’s life & ideals and work for the prosperity of society and promotion of peace & harmony in the country.What is the significance of Eid Milad celebrations?Eid Milad-un-Nabi is celebrated annually to commemorate the birth anniversary of Prophet Muhammad. The occasion is observed in the month of Rabi-ul-Awwal, which is the third month in the Islamic lunar calendar, commencing with the sighting of the moon. The occasion also marks the death anniversary of the Prophet.Also Read | Eid Milad-un-Nabi 2021: All you need to know about date, history, significanceOne of the most important parts of Eid Milad-un-Nabi is to celebrate the life of Prophet Muhammad: his teachings, sufferings, and character, as he is said to have forgiven even his enemies. Muslims celebrate the occasion by wearing new clothes, offering prayers, and exchanging gifts. The community assembles at a mosque or a dargah and begins their day with a morning prayer followed by a procession.This year, as per the Gregorian calendar, the Eid Milad celebrations will begin from the evening of October 18 and will last till the evening of October 19. Along with India, the festival is celebrated in Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, and other parts of the subcontinent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eid-milad-un-nabi-pm-modi-president-kovind-extend-greetings-to-nation-101634614246558.html
19-10-2021||India||'PM Modi never speaks on 2 things...': Owaisi takes a jibe||All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday, saying he never speaks on rising petrol and diesel prices, and China's transgression in Ladakh.Owaisi further remarked sarcastically that at least nine soldiers died in Jammu and kashmir, "yet we are going forward with the India-Pakistan T20 match" slated to be held on October 24."PM Modi never speaks on 2 things - rise in petrol and diesel prices & China sitting in our territory in Ladakh. PM is afraid of speaking on China. Our 9 soldiers died (in J&K) & on Oct 24 India-Pakistan T20 match will happen,” news agency ANI quoted Asaduddin Owaisi as saying in Hyderabad.Owaisi's remarks came in the backdrop of rising fuel prices which were further hiked by ₹35 paise a litre on Sunday. While the price of petrol rose to its highest-ever level of ₹105.84 a litre in Delhi, the prices in Mumbai were ₹111.77 per litre. According to reports, the auto fuel was costing a third more than the rate at which aviation turbine fuel (AFT) is sold to airlines. Meanwhile, the cost of diesel in Mumbai was ₹102.52 a litre and in Delhi, ₹94.57.Owaisi was referring to the standoff between India and China since the Galwan Valley skirmish in June last year. Since then, both the countries have held a series of talks on disengagement in the remaining friction points along the Line of Control (LAC) in Ladakh but the standoff has not ended. Recently, the 13th round of talks took place in the backdrop of two recent incidents of attempted transgressions by the Chinese troops - one in the Barahoti sector of Uttarakhand and another in the Tawang sector in Arunachal Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-never-speaks-on-2-things-owaisi-takes-a-jibe-101634611104335.html
19-10-2021||India||Infra projects in transport, tech in focus at first meeting of ‘new Quad’||The first meeting of the foreign ministers of India, Israel, the US and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) decided to establish an international forum for economic cooperation and discussed joint infrastructure projects in transportation and technology. The meeting, described in some quarters as a “new Quad”, also focused on ways to expand economic and political cooperation in the Middle East and Asia and to enhance maritime security.The meeting was joined by external affairs minister S Jaishankar and Israeli foreign minister Yair Lapid from Jerusalem, US secretary of state Antony Blinken from Washington and UAE foreign minister Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nahyan from Abu Dhabi. Jaishankar is currently on a bilateral visit to Israel.In a tweet, Jaishankar described the discussions as “fruitful” and said the foreign ministers agreed on a speedy follow-up. The Israeli foreign ministry said the four ministers intended hold an in-person meeting at Expo 2020 in Dubai in the coming months.“Discussed working together more closely on economic growth and global issues. Agreed on expeditious follow-up,” Jaishankar said.Blinken tweeted that the meeting had focused on “shared issues of concern in the region and globally, and the importance of expanding our economic and political collaboration”.Lapid, who initiated the process for the meeting during a recent visit to Washington, said at the start of the meeting: “Around this virtual table, there is a unique set of capabilities, knowledge, and experience that can be used to create the network that we all want to see created.”The synergy between the four countries will help them work together on infrastructure, transport, maritime security and other issues, he said.The key to success is moving from a “government-to-government” approach to a “business-to-business” approach and turning the initiative into a “working process that will put boots on the ground, changing infrastructure around the world”, Lapid added.The ministers decided to establish an international forum for economic cooperation, the Israeli foreign ministry said. The ministers also discussed joint infrastructure projects in transportation, technology, maritime security, and economics and trade, as well as additional joint projects, the ministry added.Each country will appoint senior professionals to a joint working group that will formulate options for cooperation.US State Department spokesperson Ned Price said in a statement that the foreign ministers “discussed expanding economic and political cooperation in the Middle East and Asia, including through trade, combating climate change, energy cooperation, and increasing maritime security”.They also discussed people-to-people ties in technology and science, and ways to support global public health in the context of the Covid-19 pandemic. Blinken reiterated the Biden administration’s “support for the Abraham Accords and normalisation agreements and discussed future opportunities for collaboration in the region and globally”, Price said.Price also told a news briefing that the US, the UAE, Israel and India share many interests and the meeting was an opportunity for the ministers to discuss a range of topics, including expanding economic and political cooperation in their respective regions, climate change, energy cooperation, and maritime security.The meeting built on the momentum created by the Abraham Accords of last year, and it was held less than a week after Blinken met Lapid and Sheikh Abdullah in-person in Washington on October 13 to review progress in the normalisation of Israel’s relations with Arab states.This normalisation can be a force for progress between Israel and Arab states and also between Israelis and Palestinians, Blinken said at the time.The three countries also launched two working groups on religious coexistence and building tolerance, and on water and energy. The trilateral partnership made it possible for the countries to discuss urgent regional security issues such as Iran and Syria, Blinken said then.India, Israel and the UAE have already stepped up trilateral cooperation, especially in trade and investment, since the US brokered the Abraham Accords in August 2020.The meeting also dovetailed with India’s efforts to build new plurilateral and multilateral partnerships focused on cooperation in areas ranging from security to connectivity and energy. India has robust defence, security and trade cooperation with Israel and the US, while the UAE is a key energy partner.The UAE is home to more than three million Indians, and security cooperation has been growing rapidly, with the first ever visit by an Indian Army chief taking place last year.India has backed the Abraham Accords process, following which Israel also normalised relations with Bahrain, Sudan and Morocco. The external affairs ministry has said these efforts are in line with India’s support for “peace and stability in West Asia which is our extended neighbourhood”.In May this year, India, Israel and the UAE concluded the first trilateral partnership whereby an Israel-based company will produce a robotic solar cleaning technology in India for a project in the emirates.A statement issued at the time by the Israeli embassy in New Delhi said the Abraham Accords agreement between Israel and the UAE had “paved the way for friendships and business partnerships across the region”. The statement added: “India being a friend of both the UAE and Israel is clearly the preferred partner to leverage the global potential of the UAE, Israel and India trilateral.”Former ambassador Vivek Katju, who closely tracks developments in the region, said it remained to be seen how the initiative by the four countries would be perceived across West Asia. “The real issue is not the agenda of economic cooperation of the four countries but how the purposes of these countries getting together are perceived by the major powers and important regional players. Will they see it as a beginning of India departing radically from its traditional approaches towards West Asia?” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-israel-uae-us-meet-to-expand-cooperation-maritime-security-101634613936348.html
19-10-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: West Bengal BJP protests after youth wing leader shot dead, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.The West Bengal unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), at 6am on Tuesday, began an eight-hour-long general strike in Uttar Dinajpur after Mithun Ghosh, the district vice president of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), the party's youth wing, was fatally shot on Sunday. Ghosh was killed by “criminals” backed by the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC), the BJP has alleged. Read moreAs India defeated England by 7 wickets in their first warm-up game of the T20 World Cup in Dubai on Monday, it was evident that the team regrouped well following the completion of the IPL less than 72 hours ago by dishing out a clinical show. KL Rahul and Ishan Kishan smoked half-centuries, while Mohammed Shami and Jasprit Bumrah looked lethal with the ball. Read moreSunny Deol, who turned a year older on Tuesday, has had his share of success in Bollywood. Having made his acting debut with Betaab in 1983, Sunny has starred in a number of hit movies, including Ghayal, Border and Gadar: Ek Prem Katha. However, his wife Pooja Deol has opted for a life away from the limelight, much like his mother Prakash Kaur. Read moreBollywood actor Katrina Kaif was snapped at Film City in Mumbai with director Rohit Shetty to promote their much-anticipated film Sooryavanshi on Ranveer Singh's show The Big Picture. The film, starring Akshay Kumar, will hit the theatres around Diwali. Katrina dressed to slay in a standout ethnic look - an embroidered saree - for the promotional event. It should definitely inspire your Diwali 2021 wardrobe. Read moreA couple in Kerala sailed to their wedding venue as heavy rains lashed the southern state. The couple was seen in a cooking vessel in Kerala’s Alappuzha. The video of the couple went viral on social media. The bride Aishwarya & groom Akash are seen sitting in a round cooking pot. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-west-bengal-bjp-protests-after-youth-wing-leader-shot-dead-and-all-the-latest-news-101634612504305.html
19-10-2021||India||BJP protests after youth wing leader shot dead in Bengal's Uttar Dinajpur||The West Bengal unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), at 6am on Tuesday, began an eight-hour-long general strike in Uttar Dinajpur after Mithun Ghosh, the district vice president of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), the party's youth wing, was fatally shot on Sunday. Ghosh was killed by “criminals” backed by the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC), the BJP has alleged.Also Read | BJP youth wing leader killed in north Bengal; acquaintance held“Mithun Ghosh, Uttar Dinajpur district VP of BJYM has been shot dead by assailants at Itahar. This has the TMC's handiwork written all over it. The bloodthirsty antisocial hounds who executed their master's orders would be taken to task when the tide turns. We won't forget Mithun Ghosh,” Suvendu Adhikari, the leader of the opposition in the West Bengal assembly tweeted on Monday. Uttar Dinajpur dist. @BJYM VP Mithun Ghosh has been shot dead by assailants at Itahar. This is TMC's handiwork written all over it. The bloodthirsty antisocial hound dogs who executed their master's orders would be taken to task when the tide turns.We won't forget Mithun Ghosh. pic.twitter.com/22WRfSmHUTMenawhile, Sukanta Majumdar, the newly-appointed state BJP chief who gave the call for the general strike, described the deceased BJYM worker as a “shaheed” (martyr). “He was shot dead by goons of the Trinamool. We have to oust this blood thirsty, jihadi government from West Bengal,” a rough translation of Majumdar's tweet read. তৃণমূলী গুন্ডাবাহিনীর দ্বারা নির্মমভাবে গুলিবিদ্ধ হয়ে শহীদ উত্তর দিনাজপুর জেলার যুব মোর্চার জেলা সম্পাদক শ্রী মিঠুন ঘোষ কে শেষ শ্রদ্ধা জানালাম।এই রক্ত পিপাসু , জেহাদি তৃণমূল সরকার কে পশ্চিমবাংলা থেকে উৎখাত আমাদের করতেই হবে। pic.twitter.com/wfFMBhnJH2Ghosh' mother and sister, too, have alleged that the TMC had a hand in his death. “My son's life was in danger as he had many enemies. He was being threatened by local workers of the ruling party,” his mother said. His sister, meanwhile, said, “Local TMC leaders had been threatening my brother for a long time. They wanted him to leave the BJP.”However, dismissing the allegations, the TMC said that Ghosh was killed due to inner clashes within the opposition party itself. “We don't know what exactly happened, but the police are investigating. By accusing us, the BJP is trying to avoid their own internal issues,” senior leader and party spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said.The police have arrested Santosh Mahato, an acquaintance of Ghosh. They are on the lookout for Sukumar Ghosh, another acquaintance of the victim.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-protests-after-youth-wing-leader-shot-dead-in-bengal-s-uttar-dinajpur-101634605974043.html
19-10-2021||India||Eid Milad 2021: Is it a government holiday? Know significance of the day||Eid Milad-un-Nabi 2021 is being observed on October 19 (Tuesday) this year, in the month of Rabi-ul-Awwal, which is the third month in the Islamic lunar calendar, commencing with the sighting of the moon. The occasion is celebrated annually to commemorate the birth anniversary of Prophet Muhammad; the date also marks the death anniversary of the Prophet. This year, as per the Gregorian calendar, the Eid Milad celebrations began from the evening of October 18 and will last till the evening of October 19.Also Read | Eid Milad, Gajalaxmi Puja: Banks in Odisha stay shut on Oct 19-20, details hereIn view of the Eid Milad-un-Nabi 2021 occasion, Odisha has informed that banks and other banking institutions in the state shall remain closed for October 19-20 (i.e. Tuesday and Wednesday), while Andhra Pradesh has also declared a public holiday on Tuesday to mark the date. Here's a primer on the Eid-e-Milad occasion:Why is Eid Milad-un-Nabi observed?Eid Milad-un-Nabi, most importantly, celebrates the life of Prophet Muhammad: his teachings, sufferings, and character, as he is said to have forgiven even his enemies. Muslims celebrate the occasion by wearing new clothes, offering prayers, and exchanging gifts. The community assembles at a mosque or a dargah and begins their day with a morning prayer followed by a procession.Also Read | Eid Milad-un-Nabi 2021: All you need to know about date, history, significanceAlong with India, the festival is celebrated in Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, and other parts of the subcontinent.Is Eid Milad-un-Nabi a government holiday?Eid Milad-un-Nabi is a gazetted holiday in India, during which government offices, post offices, banks, and other banking institutions are closed. According to custom, Islamic stores, businesses, and other Muslim organisations may also remain closed or have reduced working hours. Protocols on public transport differ according to regions, and people might have to check with local transport authorities for the rules of the day.Also Read | List of bank holidays this weekSince Eid Milad is a public holiday and a day-off for the general population in India, schools and most businesses also remain closed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eid-milad-2021-is-it-a-government-holiday-know-significance-of-the-day-101634604141734.html
19-10-2021||India||Kerala rain: Gates of Idukki, Idamalayar dams to be opened||Rain-battered Kerala will open the gates of two of its prominent dams to allay people's concerns and control the water level. The two structures are the Idukki dam - Asia's biggest arch dam constructed across the Periyar River - and Idamalayar on one of its tributaries in Ernakulam district.Rain-related incidents have claimed 35 lives across Kerala.Also Read | Kerala floods: Another man-made disasterWater minister Roshy Augustine said on Monday that water level in Idukki dam reached 2,396.86 feet at 7am on Monday and there is a possibility it would breach the upper limit of 2,398.86 feet by Tuesday. "In view of the rising water levels of Idukki dam, it has been decided to open two of its shutters by 50 centimeters to let out 100 cubic metre per second of water flow," said the minister."The decision is based on past experience and was meant to allay people's concerns," Augustine added. The Idukki dam is designed to hold 2,403 feet of water.Ernakulam district collector Jafar Malik said yesterday that two shutters of Idamalayar dam will be opened by 80 centimetres each on Tuesday. "Due to this, no significant change in the water level of the Periyar river is expected," he added.The official said that this move has been taken as a precautionary measure in anticipation of heavy rains and floods in the coming days.He further said that the people living near the Periyar river and its tributaries are requested "to be vigilant and follow the instructions of the officials and the people's representatives".The sluice gates of Kakki and Pamba dams in Pathanamthitta district have already been opened.As release of water from Idamalayar and Idukki dams would flow through Aluva, the commercial hub of Ernakulam, state industries minister P Rajeev held a meeting to deal with resulting consequences.After the meeting on Sunday, Rajeev said in a release that steps are being taken to ensure water from these two dams do not flow into the Periyar together.The announcement regarding opening of the dams comes in the wake of the general directions issued by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan in a review meeting held to assess the situation with regard to the rainfall and water levels of various dams in the state.Kerala revenue minister K Rajan and state health minister Veena George said at a press conference that red alert has been issued for 10 dams in Kerala. They also said that pilgrimage to Lord Ayyappa temple in Sabarimala has been put on hold, adding that after opening of the sluice gates of Kakki dam, water level in Pamba River will rise by at least 15cm, and it was not an ideal situation for the pilgrimage.Meanwhile, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted more rain in Kerala from October 20 to 24. It has already issued yellow alert - a warning for possible severe weather - in 11 districts of the state.Kerala received 412mm rain in the first 17 days of October, a whopping 84% of the usual 492mm of rain between October to December, according to the regional office of the IMD in Thiruvananthapuram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-rain-gates-of-idukki-idamalayar-dams-to-be-opened-101634603910386.html
19-10-2021||India||Two-day coordination meeting of BJP, RSS to begin today||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its ideologue Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) will hold a two-day coordination meeting in New Delhi starting Tuesday. The leaders will deliberate on policy-related issues at the meeting, according to new agency PTI.Top leaders of the BJP, including its secretary-general (organisation) BL Santhosh, other officer-bearers and Union ministers are expected to attend the meeting.RSS-affiliated organisations working in various sectors like education, culture and economy are expected to attend the close-door meeting.The meeting holds significance in the wake of upcoming assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and other states.Such meetings between the RSS and representatives of the BJP and its government at the Centre keep taking place for sharing of ideas and giving feedback on government policies.The RSS held a four-day-long session last month to discuss the elections due next year. The meeting was aimed at assessing preparedness of the Sangh's cadres and ensuring a smooth road to victory for the BJP.The meeting has been called at a time when farmers' agitation is about to complete an year. The farmers have been protesting against the three farm laws passed by Parliament. They want the laws withdrawn.Meghalaya Governor Satya Pal Malik on Sunday said that if the Centre would provide a Minimum Support Price (MSP) guarantee through a law, they can resolve the farmers' agitation against the farm laws.Pointing out that the agitating farmer would not compromise on less than the MSP guarantee law, Malik said that it is the only thing that farmers need.The RSS held a meeting in June to take stock of its activities and draw up a roadmap for the preparations affiliated organisations should make in anticipation of a possible third Covid-19 wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twoday-coordination-meeting-of-bjp-rss-to-begin-today-101634601893420.html
19-10-2021||India||Eid Milad, Gajalaxmi Puja: Banks in Odisha stay shut on Oct 19-20, details here||In view of Eid Milad-un-Nabi and Gajalaxmi Puja celebrations, the Odisha government has announced that banks and other ‘banking institutions’ in the state will remain shut for October 19-20 (i.e. Tuesday and Wednesday). In an official notification, the revenue and disaster management department under the Odisha government made the announcement and noted that the aforementioned institutions shall remain closed for these two days in view of the statewide celebrations.Also Read | List of bank holidays this week“Banks and other banking institutions in Odisha will remain closed on October 19 (Tuesday) and October 20, 2021 (Wednesday) on the occasion of ‘Eid-Milad’ and ‘Gajalaxmi Puja’ respectively,” said the revenue and disaster management department in a notification.Eid Milad-un-Nabi is celebrated annually to commemorate the birth anniversary of Prophet Muhammad. The occasion is observed in the month of Rabi-ul-Awwal, which is the third month in the Islamic lunar calendar, commencing with the sighting of the moon. The occasion also marks the death anniversary of the Prophet.Also Read | Eid Milad-un-Nabi 2021: All you need to know about date, history, significanceThis year, as per the Gregorian calendar, the Eid Milad celebrations will begin from the evening of October 18 and will last till the evening of October 19. Along with India, the festival is celebrated in Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, and other parts of the subcontinent.One of the most important parts of Eid Milad-un-Nabi is to celebrate the life of Prophet Muhammad: his teachings, sufferings, and character, as he is said to have forgiven even his enemies. Muslims celebrate the occasion by wearing new clothes, offering prayers, and exchanging gifts. The community assembles at a mosque or a dargah and begins their day with a morning prayer followed by a procession.Gajalaxmi Puja is celebrated in Odisha as part of a half-a-century-old tradition of the Dhenkanal district in the state. The Laxmi Puja celebrations continue for 11 days, starting from Kumara Purnima, and are marked with colourful decorations, temporary markets, music and dance programmes across the state in a grand yearly celebration where people from all religions, castes, and tribes participate.Gajalaxmi Puja celebrations in Odisha's Dhenkanal are starting on October 19 this year, the day of Kumara Purnima, and are set to continue till daybreak on October 29. However, the government has issued instructions for muted celebrations in view of the prevailing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eid-milad-gajalaxmi-puja-banks-in-odisha-stay-shut-on-oct-19-20-details-here-101634600506311.html
19-10-2021||India||‘Fruitful meeting’: Jaishankar after talks with counterparts of US, UAE, Israel||External affairs minister (EAM) S Jaishankar on Tuesday termed his first meeting with the foreign ministers of the US, UAE, and Israel as ‘fruitful’ and said the ministers discussed working together on economic growth and global issues. “A fruitful first meeting with Israeli APM and FM Yair Lapid, UAE Foreign Minister Abdullah bin Zayed and US Secretary of State Secretary Antony Blinken this evening,” the EAM said in a tweet.“Discussed working together more closely on economic growth and global issues, agreed on expeditious follow-up,” he added in the tweet.Jaishankar's remarks came after the minister along with his Israeli counterpart Yair Lapid joined a virtual meeting with US secretary of state Antony Blinken and UAE foreign minister Abdullah bin Zayed.During the meeting, the ministers discussed a range of issues including climate change, energy cooperation maritime security, and expanding economic and political cooperation in the respective regions, US department of state spokesperson Ned Price informed during a press briefing.The meeting was closed to the media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fruitful-meeting-jaishankar-after-talks-with-counterparts-of-us-uae-israel-101634600961385.html
19-10-2021||India||Babul Supriyo to resign from Lok Sabha today||Former Union minister Babul Supriyo will on Tuesday formally resign as a Lok Sabha MP after being given an appointment in this regard by Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla. The meeting with Birla will take place at 11am, Supriyo announced a day ago. “Sincere gratitude to honourable Speaker Sir Om Birla for granting me his time to formally resign as MP. I will not hold on to the berths/perks/salary of an MP now that I am no longer a part of the BJP that I won the seat for. If I have it in me, will win it again,” the singer-turned-politician tweeted. Sincere Gratitude to Hon'ble Speaker Sir @ombirlakota for granting me his time tmrw at 11am to formally resign as a MP•I will not hold on to the Berth/Perks/Salary of a MP now that I am no longer a part of @BJP4India that I won the seat for•If I have it in me, wil win it againOn September 18, Supriyo, who began his political career with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in 2014, joined West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee's Trinamool Congress (TMC). “I have been given a great opportunity. However, as I have joined the TMC, there is no point in holding on to my seat in Asansol. I have come into politics because of Asansol. I will do for that constituency as much as possible,” he said after joining Bengal's ruling party.On July 7, the two-term and sitting parliamentarian from Asansol was dropped from Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Cabinet, where he served as the Minister of state for environment, forest and climate change. Then, on July 31, Supriyo, in a Facebook post, announced his “resignation” from politics, adding that he won't join any other party. However, he deleted that part from his post later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/babul-supriyo-to-resign-from-lok-sabha-today-101634600182169.html
19-10-2021||India||Amid tensions, army chief in Jammu to review security||Army chief Gen MM Naravane travelled to Jammu region on Monday to assess the security situation and operational preparedness of troops against the backdrop of tensions over targeted attacks on civilians and a string of terrorist strikes.Naravane is visiting the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir at a time when nine soldiers have been killed in counterterror operations that began on October 11, the highest casualties suffered by the army within the span of a week in the region in recent years.Two migrant workers were killed and another injured in an attack by terrorists in Kulgam district on Sunday, the latest in a string of targeted attacks.A vendor from Bihar and a carpenter from Uttar Pradesh were shot dead on Saturday evening.The army launched its operations to counter these attacks on civilians, which have resulted in the death of 32 people so far.Five soldiers were killed in a fierce gun-battle during an operation at Chamrer in Surankote forest on Monday. Four more soldiers died in another gunfight at Nar Khas forest in Mendhar area of Poonch on Thursday evening.An army spokesperson said on Twitter: “General MM Naravane #COAS is on a two-day visit to Jammu Region wherein GOC White Knight Corps will give an update on security situation and operational preparedness. #COAS will visit forward areas and interact with troops and commanders on ground.”An army official said on condition of anonymity, “He will seek an update on the ongoing operations in Poonch area and visit forward areas to meet troops and get feedback from commanders.”Jammu and Kashmir Police believe the terrorists have been hiding in jungles since August.Another army officer said drones and a helicopter were being used in search operations in Nar Khas forest.“Para action is on, but there is nothing conclusive so far. Drones and a helicopter are being used in Nar Khas but there is no breakthrough. The search operations are on in both the places—Nar Khas and Chamrer,” said the second Army officer.“We suspect that there could be two groups [of terrorists] and one of them reached Chamrer on the way to Shopian via Pir Ki Gali, where they gunned down five soldiers,” the officer added.“Now, such operations take time because the terrain is difficult. There is thick wild growth in the dense forest of Nar Khas where natural caves are there and visibility is also an issue,” he said.The recent attacks on civilians are believed to be the handiwork of Laskhar-e-Taiba (LeT) fighters infiltrated across the Line of Control (LoC) in Poonch-Rajouri sector, security officials said. They said drones were used to drop Chinese-made pistols to overground workers of LeT and these weapons were used in the targeted killings||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-tensions-army-chief-in-jammu-to-review-security-101634585929361.html
19-10-2021||India||Kerala rain toll rises to 35; IMD sounds yellow alert for 11 districts||As the rains eased up in the worst-hit districts of Kerala, many people were shocked to discover no traces of their houses remained. Even as the death toll increased to 35 on Monday, there might still be stormy weather ahead in the southern state. The India Meteorological Department issued yellow alerts in 11 districts effective Wednesday, a warning for possible severe weather. In Kokkayar, a rescue team retrieved the body of three-year-old Sachu Sahul, while a search continues for two missing persons. In Kottayam, the death toll rose to 15 after 12 people were killed in two different landslides at Kavali and Plapalli, while three were swept away by flood waters. The St Mary’s church in Kavali saw heart-rending scenes as six people from the same family, including three children, were buried on Monday. A video clip of a house being washed away in the floods went viral on social media, and its owner, KP Jebi, a private bus driver, said his 25 years’ of savings vanished within seconds. He and his family members had a miraculous escape minutes before the house was swept away by the flash flood. “I am speechless. I have to start from the scratch,” Jebi said. The floods and landslides left many residents of Mundakayam area in Idukki homeless. Although the downpour subsided on Monday, it is still raining in the catchment areas of many dams, increasing water levels sharply. Authorities issued red alerts in 10 dams. The sluice gates of Kakki and Pamba dams in Pathanamthitta district were opened. The pilgrimage to Sabarimala hill temple was halted due to a rise in water levels in Pamba and other rivers, said state revenue minister K Rajan after a review meeting in Pathanamthitta. After opening the sluice gates of Kakki dam, water level in Pamba River will rise by at least 15cm, and it was not an ideal situation for the pilgrimage, the minister said. Pilgrims, who arrived in Kottayam and Pathanamthitta from neighbouring states, were sent back by the authorities. As dam gates were opened, many areas of Kuttanad and Alapzuha saw heavy waterlogging. Sluice gates of Asia’s biggest arch dam Idukki will be opened at 11 am on Tuesday, water resource minister Roshy Augustinesaid, after water level in the reservoir rose to 2,398 feet on Monday. It is designed to hold 2,403 feet of water. Idukki MP Dean Kuriakose has asked the state government to open a few sluice gates to ease pressure on the dam. Augustine is camping in the district to review the situation. Unlike the 2018 floods, when haphazard opening of dam gates aggravated the situation, the government is cautious this time. “In view of the rising water levels of Idukki dam, it has been decided to open two of its shutters by 50 centimeters to let out 100 cubic metre per second (100 cumecs) of water flow.“The decision has been taken to control the water level of the dam at 2,395-2,396 feet in the wake of a warning from the Central Meteorological Department that there would be heavy rains in the coming days. The decision was also based on past experience and was meant to allay people’s concerns,” the minister said in a state government release.Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday chaired an emergency meeting in the state capital to review the situation. He constituted an expert committee to regulate the release of water from some of the dams filled to bursting. The expert panel includes weather experts, hydrologists, structural engineers and climatologists. “We are closely monitoring the situation,” Vijayan said after the meeting. Kerala might witness widespread rainfall, with isolated heavy downpour for three to four days starting from Wednesday due to a fresh spell of the easterly wave, the weather department predicted. The government has opened more relief camps and advised people not to hurry back to their damaged homes. The state witnessed heavy rainfall on Friday and Saturday, which triggered flash floods and landslides at many places in Kottayam and Idukki districts. Many rain-ravaged areas turned sunny on Monday as affected people slowly pieced their lives together. At least 400 houses have been damaged in two districts, the state revenue department said.The state received 412mm rain in the first 17 days of October, a whopping 84% of the usual 492mm of rain between October to December, according to the regional Met office in Thiruvananthapuram. Some areas like Peerumedu in the Idukki district received 297mm high intensity rainfall in the past two days, it said. Meanwhile, a blame game started on Monday as the death toll rose to 35. Relief operations were delayed and warnings were not conveyed properly, opposition leader V D Satheesan of the Congress party said after visiting areas affected by landslides. “In some of the affected areas, rescue teams reached a day after the mishap,” he said. “Despite strong warnings, how did it happen? We need an answer from the government.”There was no delay on the part of the government, minister Rajan said, dismissing the complaints.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-rain-toll-rises-to-35-imd-sounds-yellow-alert-for-11-districts-101634585558057.html
19-10-2021||India||Army’s surveillance push along LAC amid increase in Chinese patrols in Arunachal sector||RUPA (ARUNACHAL PRADESH) A big surveillance push using latest technology to offset the requirement of deploying extra troops on the contested border with China in Arunachal Pradesh and a massive thrust on building infrastructure to improve connectivity with forward areas for faster mobilisation of soldiers are the top priorities for the Indian Army in the sensitive sector, the commander of a key mountain division in the eastern sector said on Monday.There has been an increase in Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) patrols along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Arunachal Pradesh sector, officials familiar with the development said on the condition of anonymity.“We are employing technology in a big way to boost our awareness of the situation. It allows us to do away with the need to push troops to forward areas in peacetime,” said Major General Zubin A Minwalla, the commander of the Rupa-based HQs 5 Mountain Division. The division’s responsibilities encompass the sensitive Tawang sector. “We are creating more (battlefield) transparency through the use of technology ---the fusion of an array of sensors including ground-based and air-based sensors, a network of radars and unmanned systems. The adversary cannot surprise us,” Minwalla said.His comments came days after the 13th round of military talks between India and China to cool tensions in eastern Ladakh reached an impasse on October 10, with PLA not agreeing to suggestions made by the Indian Army.The military dialogue took place more than two months after the last round of talks that led to disengagement of forward deployed troops from Gogra, or Patrol Point-17A, one of the flashpoints on the LAC, in early August.The use of latest technology at the mountain division’s hi-tech surveillance centre is playing a critical role in tracking the developments and PLA activities along LAC in Arunachal Pradesh and across it, Minwalla said. “We get live feeds of all their activities round the clock --- movement of troops from rear to forward areas, their patrolling patterns along LAC and steps being taken to ramp up infrastructure on the other side,” said an officer at the surveillance centre, asking not to be named. The surveillance centre is tasked with collecting, analysing and disseminating critical information to commanders on the ground.While eastern Ladakh is the focus of the current round of border tensions between India and China, the Indian Army is also keeping a strict vigil on the eastern front. “Our analysis of the situation across LAC in Arunachal Pradesh is pretty accurate. There has been an increase in frequency of PLA patrols owing to the current operational situation. There is also a slight increase in area domination patrols,” said a second officer, asking not to be named. “There is also an increase in visits to forward areas by senior PLA officers,” he added. China is also ramping up infrastructure on its side at a fast pace. The Indian Army is regularly picking up increased vehicular movement across LAC due to improved infrastructure on the Chinese side. There is a tremendous thrust on building infrastructure in Arunachal Pradesh whether it is through the development of border roads or the efforts of the civilian government, Minwalla said. “We have a confident approach in dealing the overall situation in the sector. We are not reacting to what they are doing. We have our own plans and are working on them,” he added.Several new roads, bridges and tunnels are coming up in Arunachal Pradesh to cut down travel time for the army.These projects include the Sela tunnel that forms part of a strategic road project that will reduce travel time to Tawang, a sector where the Indian Army is heavily deployed.The Sela tunnel, announced by the government in the 2018 Budget, is part of the Balipara-Charduar-Tawang road, one of the strategic projects along the Chinese border. The tunnel, which will be operational by August 2022, will cut down travel time to Tawang by at least two hours, improving border connectivity for the army.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/armys-surveillance-push-along-lac-amid-increase-in-chinese-patrols-in-arunachal-sector-101634585556931.html
19-10-2021||India||Andhra man lynched for killing woman who resisted rape: Police||A 60-year-old man was lynched by angry villagers on the suspicion of killing a 42-year-old woman when she resisted his attempt to rape her in Andhra Pradesh’s Prakasam district on Sunday night, the police said. The incident happened at Kamepalli village of Jarugumilli block at around 8.30 pm. The deceased man was identified as Vallepu Obaiah, a quack, who had been treating people for various ailments with country-made medicines, the police said.According to Singarayakonda police inspector M Lakshman, the woman, an agriculture labourer, had been taking treatment from Obaiah for the last few days for her knee joint pains. On Sunday, too, she had gone to his clinic at around 7 pm.“Preliminary investigations revealed that Obaiah, who was in an inebriated condition, attempted to rape the woman. When she resisted his attempts, he tied her limbs with ropes and hacked her to death with an axe,” Lakshman said.Though the neighbours had heard the woman’s cries, they thought it was all part of the treatment being given by the quack. However, an hour later, when a neighbour noticed Obaiah coming out of the house in a disturbed state of mind, she alerted her brother who in turn informed the police.“Immediately, Jarugumilli sub-inspector Razia Sultana went to the village along with a couple of constables and took Obaiah into custody. By then, the agitated villagers, who came to know about the alleged rape attempt and murder of the woman, started beating up Obaiah with sticks and iron rods,” the police inspector said.The villagers even assaulted the cops when they tried to stop them from beating Obaiah. By the time additional police forces from Singarayakonda rushed to the village, following an alert from the sub-inspector, Obaiah was beaten to death by the agitated villagers.Apart from Singarayakonda police, Ongole deputy superintendent of police U Nagaraju, Kandukuru DSP Srinivasul and others also went to the village and brought the situation under control.“We are yet to register the FIR and have not made any arrests so far as the murder of the man involved a large number of people. We have pressed into service dog squads and Clues Team to collect the evidence from the spot,” Lakshman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-man-lynched-for-killing-woman-who-resisted-rapepolice-101634585555260.html
19-10-2021||India||Tamil Nadu ex-health minister booked in ₹27.22 cr disproportionate assets case||A case was filed by the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption wing on Monday against C Vijayabaskar, who was the Health Minister in the previous AIADMK regime, for possession of disproportionate assets to the tune of ₹27.22 crore.The AIADMK condemned the action, saying it was yet another instance of DMK regime’s political vendetta. Vijayabaskar is the fourth former AIADMK Minister to face a case of disproportionate assets.Filing an FIR against him and his spouse as well, the anti-graft sleuths held searches in 48 locations spread across seven districts of Tamil Nadu. The locations include Vijayabaskar’s residence here and premises linked to his relatives and associates. According to the FIR, a verification process revealed that Vijayabaskar accumulated maximum assets, ‘intentionally enriched himself’ during the check period from April 1, 2016 to March 31, 2021. Vijayabaskar’s wife Ramya, by holding properties like an apartment, by making investments in partnership firms, banks, insurance policies, ‘intentionally abetted’ her husband, it said.The former Minister, during the check period, possessed pecuniary resources and properties in his name and in the name of his dependent wife to the tune of ₹27.22 crore, which is disproportionate income, it said. Listing 13 educational institutions in Pudukottai district, established by a trust formed by Vijayabaskar’s family members, the FIR said a ‘reasonable suspicion’ arose that these institutions were established by Vijayabaskar under the guise of this trust using the ‘ill-gotten money.’ A prima facie case is made out and sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act and the IPC is invoked, the FIR said. The searches were held in Chennai, Chengelpet, Kanchipuram, Coimbatore, Tiruchirappalli, Madurai and Pudukottai districts. “Each team in every location comprises at least six personnel in addition to policemen deployed for security purposes,” a vigilance official told PTI. Totally, over 250 personnel are involved in search operations.Asked if any documents or materials have been seized during searches, the official said “the process of consolidation is on in 48 locations.” After the DMK captured power in May 2021, similar case of disproportionate assets have already been filed against K C Veeramani, S P Velumani and M R Vijayabaskar, all former Ministers during the previous AIADMK regime. Searches had been carried out by the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption personnel in premises related to them.AIADMK top leaders O Panneerselvam and K Palaniswami condemned the raids and case, saying it showed political vendetta, an effort to get ‘temporary happiness’.The DMK government could not tolerate the state-wide celebrations of the AIADMK’s golden jubilee celebrations and jubilation among cadres. “The AIADMK is a great organisation, similar to a fathomless ocean,” they said in a statement, adding the party would not be cowed down by the DMK regime’s raids.Though the DMK may spread slander and “whatever may be the cases against as many party office-bearers, we would like to convey that no one will be able to stop the huge victories of the AIADMK in future.” The AIADMK’s legal wing joint secretary R M Babu Murugavel said the case against Vijayabaskar is yet another instance of DMK government’s political vendetta.“The FIR against Vijayabaskar is nothing but mere accusations. We will fight the case legally and win,” he told PTI.Murugavel, a former MLA and party’s legal advisory committee member, said the DMK government could not tolerate the enthusiasm of his party, which is celebrating the golden jubilee of its founding. Objecting searches at Vijayabaskar’s residence, where the former Minister’s wife and elder daughter were being treated for Covid-19, the advocate said it was a gross violation of human rights. Vijayabaskar, who is also the AIADMK’s organisational secretary and Pudukottai north district secretary, was elected from Viralimalai Assembly constituency in the Cauvery delta district for a third time in a row in the Assembly election held in April this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-ex-health-minister-booked-in-27-22-cr-disproportionate-assets-case-101634585553185.html
19-10-2021||India||Labourers and street vendor among 5 killed||Five non-locals, all either labourers or street vendors have been killed by terrorists in targeted attacks in Jammu and Kashmir this month. The deceased, mostly residents of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, were in Kashmir to work and earning between ₹200 and ₹700 a day.Raja Reshidev, 29On October 17, Raja Reshidev, a labourer, was shot dead by terrorists in Wanpoh area of Kulgam district. A resident of Araria in Bihar, he was staying in a rented accommodation in the Valley for the last six months and would earn ₹500 to ₹700 on a daily basis.Joginder Reshi, 31Joginder was shot dead, along with Raja Reshidev, by terrorists on Sunday. The labourer from Bangama village, Araria in Bihar was also earning somewhere between ₹500 to ₹700 per day. His mother in Bihar was reported as saying that he had moved to the valley three to four months ago in search of work.Joginder is survived by three children, news agency ANI quoted his mother as saying.Saghir Ahmad, 53On October 16, the carpenter from Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh was gunned down by terrorists in Litter in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district. Living in a rented room in Litter, Pulwama for the last one year, Ahmad plied his trade as a carpenter, earning around ₹600 - ₹700 a day.Ahmad’s wife passed away six months ago. He has four daughters and a son staying in Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan.Arvind Kumar Sah, 30Hailing from Banka area in Bihar, Sah was shot dead by terrorists in Eidgah area of Srinagar on October 16. The golgappa seller was living in a rented accommodation in Halwal with a group of non-locals for the past 10 years.According to his roommates, he used to earn somewhere between ₹300 to ₹400 on a daily basis.Virender Paswan, 55On October 5, another golgappa seller, Virender Paswan, was shot dead by terrorists at Medina Chowk in Lalbazar area. A resident of Bihar’s Bhagalpur, the 55-year-old used to live in a small rented room three kilometres away from the place where he was attacked and would earn ₹200 to ₹300 per day. Paswan is survived by four children and a wife who stay in Bhagalpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/labourers-and-street-vendor-among-5-killed-101634584887651.html
19-10-2021||India||Search ops continue in Poonch, Rajouri||Security forces on Monday continued combing operations in the forest belt of Jammu & Kashmir’s Poonch and Rajouri border districts where nine soldiers were killed in two separate gunfights with terrorists over the past week.Five Army personnel, including a junior commissioned officer (JCO), were killed in a fierce gunfight during a counter-insurgency operation in Chamrer area of Surankote forest on Monday. Four soldiers, including another JCO, died in another encounter in the Nar Khas forest in the Mendhar area of Poonch on Thursday evening.“Para action is on, but there is nothing conclusive so far. Drones and a helicopter are being used in Nar Khas but there is no breakthrough. The search operations are on in both the places—Nar Khas and Chamrer,” said an Army officer.The Jammu and Kashmir Police have said the terrorists were believed to be hiding in the jungles since August this year. A senior police officer said the terrorists believed to have sneaked in August from Balakote before reaching Nar Khas forests and Chamrer.“We also suspect that there could be two groups and one of them had reached Chamrer in Surankote on way to Shopian via Pir Ki Gali before they gunned down five soldiers on Monday last,” he added.When five soldiers were killed in Chamrer area of Surankote, the terrorists were hiding at vantage positions and had opened fire from two different directions, said people familiar with the develop- ment.“Nothing substantive was shared by intelligence agencies before five of our men were downed on Monday in Chamrer. Now, if these terrorists are there since August, it clearly shows the failure of intelligence agencies and at the same time local support to them cannot be denied,” they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/search-ops-continue-in-poonch-rajouri-101634584548946.html
19-10-2021||India||‘Terrorists told to kill non-Muslim civilians’||Instructions to kill non-Muslims in Kashmir, including by name, are being passed on to local militants in the Valley, several security officials told HT, even as they grapple to secure the soft targets.“The instructions are clear. Pakistan is directing local militants to specifically target non-Muslims,” one security official said. Another top official confirmed, saying, “Some non-Muslim names were passed on to local militants and we were able to secure them.” Neither official wished to be identified.Violence has spiked dramatically in the Valley over the last few weeks and at least 11 civilians have been killed in the month of October alone. Two non-local labourers from Bihar were killed in South Kashmir on Sunday and another grievously injured.The Valley is currently full of non-locals, especially since it is apple-picking season, and security estimates put their number at 300,000 to 400,000.To be sure, it isn’t only non-locals that are being targeted. It is also locals belonging to minority communities.Earlier in October, ML Bindroo, a well-known Kashmiri Pandit pharmacist was gunned down, as was a Sikh teacher, leading to large-scale insecurity amongst the minority communities. According to security estimates, close to 50,000 Sikhs and Pandits reside in the Valley.“Fears of a demographic change are spurring the targeted killings. The new ‘non-Muslim’ attacks also started after the Union Territory started a portal for Pandits in mid-August, to help then reclaim the property they had left behind. The Centre is perceived as being anti-Muslim,” said another official, who did not want to be identified.The administration has started moving non-Kashmiri labourers to the safety of security camps but the exercise is difficult because they have to step out for work.In a change in strategy, local youth joining the ranks of militants are now not announcing their arrival to the path of violence, so as to not garner attention. The recruitment of locals by terror outfits Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammad has not ebbed. According to home ministry officials, at least 87 locals joined the ranks of militants by August-end this year. The figure for 2020, for the same period, was 103.The Jammu and Kashmir Police has detained and arrested several hundred over-ground workers (OGWs), or those who provide logistical support to the terrorists and is hunting down the militants behind the recent spate of attacks. But as one security official, quoted above, said, “The situation is challenging because it is difficult to secure lakhs of non-locals who come in search of a livelihood.”Muslim civilians too have been killed but according to officials, it is only those classified as “informers” and “BJP sympathizers” are being attacked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorists-told-to-kill-non-muslim-civilians-101634584125794.html
19-10-2021||India||‘Quashing ’21 tribunal law violates separation of powers’||Any attempt by the Supreme Court to strike down the new law on administration of tribunals will violate the constitutionally mandated separation of powers between different organs of the State, the Union government has cautioned the top court, which is examining a clutch of petitions against the validity of the 2021 Tribunal Reforms Act.Asserting its authority to enact laws and policies, the Centre has also registered its strong objection against invocation of the principles of independence of judiciary by the Supreme Court to annul laws and rules which, it said, are otherwise valid. “The Government of India is distressed by the fact that both laws and statutory rules made by parliament and executive in areas of pure policy are being held to be void by invoking independence of judiciary when such laws and rules do not violate fundamental rights or any provision of the Constitution, and is wholly within competency,” stated the affidavit filed by the Centre through the department of revenue.“The government equally believes that the court striking down these pure matters of policy violates the separation of powers by the judicial wind of the state,” maintained the affidavit, emphasising that the Union government is ready to place before the court judicial precedents declaring the exclusive right of parliament and executive to frame policies and execute them.The response from the central government has come following strictures passed by a bench, headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana, in September for bringing back the very same provisions for administration of tribunals in the 2021 law that were struck down by the court in July.The bench observed that it is “very upset” by the government, which, it added, is “bent upon not honouring” the orders of the court and has rather sought to overrule a judgment by enacting a “replica” of the old law.A bunch of petitions, filed by Madras Bar Association, Congress leader Jairam Ramesh and others, have requested the top court to quash the new law, which was passed by both the houses in the monsoon session of parliament. The petitions argue that the Centre has re-enacted the same provisions relating to tenure and some other service conditions that were struck down in July on the ground of tinkering with independence of judiciary and violating basic structure of the Constitution.The government, however, maintained that basic structure in the Constitution can only be used to test the validity of a Constitutional amendment but has no relevance when it comes to validity of a statute.About tenure and other service conditions, it pointed out that they are all issues of policy and if the parliament is denied the right to make laws relating to policy by invoking the principle of independence of judiciary, “a vital concomitant of legislative power would be lost to parliament, violating the constitutional separation of powers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/quashing-21-tribunal-law-violates-separation-of-powers-101634583704323.html
19-10-2021||India||Need to maintain peace, stability in maritime zone to boost trade: Rajnath Singh||New Delhi There is a greater need to maintain peace and stability within the Indian maritime zone in order to boost trade and other economic activities, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Monday.Singh, while addressing the second edition of the Naval Commanders’ Conference, said India envisions the Indian Ocean region with universal values such as “rule-based freedom of navigation” and “free trade” in which the interests of all participating countries are protected.There have been mounting global concerns over China’s growing military assertiveness in the Indo-Pacific region.Last month, the Indian Navy’s anti-submarine warfare Corvette INS Kiltan had carried out a military exercise with Australian frigate Anzac in the South China Sea, a region that has been witnessing growing Chinese military expansionism.The defence ministry in a statement on Monday said, “Speaking about the rapidly changing economic and political relations across the world, Singh said that these economic interests do cause some stress in the relations.” “Therefore, there is a greater need to maintain peace and stability within the Indian maritime zones in order to boost the trade and economic activities,” he said, according to the ministry’s statement.The India Navy’s role in ensuring maintenance of peace and stability in the Indian Ocean region is going to increase manifold in the times to come, Singh said.China claims sovereignty over all of the South China Sea, a huge source of hydrocarbons. However, several ASEAN member countries, including Vietnam, the Philippines and Brunei, have counterclaims.According to the defence ministry, Singh stated that India supports consensus based principles and a peaceful, open, rule based and stable world order as a responsible maritime stakeholder.He said that only those countries whose navies are strong have been successful in gaining dominance across the world and “I am happy to say that our Navy is playing an important role in our maritime and national security”.The statement said that Singh expressed happiness that in the last five financial years, more than two-thirds of the Navy’s modernisation budget has been spent on indigenous procurement.It is a matter of great pride to know that out of 41 ships and submarines ordered by the Indian Navy, 39 are from Indian shipyards. This is a testament to the Navy’s commitment to ‘Aatma Nirbhar Bharat’, he said.The three-day long conference, which began on Monday, will focus on addressing the contemporary security paradigms while seeking ways to enhance the capabilities of the Indian Navy, the ministry stated.Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat, Army Chief General M M Naravane and Air Chief Marshal V R Chaudhari will also interact with the naval commanders during this conference to address convergence of the three Services, the ministry mentioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-to-maintain-peace-stability-in-maritime-zone-to-boost-trade-rajnath-singh-101634583516234.html
19-10-2021||India||Indian Army wins gold medal at Cambrian Patrol Exercise in UK||The Indian Army won a gold medal at the Cambrian Patrol Exercise held in the UK while competing against 96 teams representing special forces and regiments from around the world. The 4/5 Gorkha Rifles (Frontier Force) represented the Indian Army at the drill held at Brecon, Wales, during October 13-15. The event is considered the ultimate test of human endurance and team spirit and is considered the “Olympics of military patrolling”. The Indian Army team performed well in harsh terrain and inclement weather. These conditions added to the challenges of simulated situations to assess the reaction of the teams in a combat setting. The Indian Army team was lauded on its navigation skills, delivery of patrol orders and overall endurance for completing the patrol, said a statement from the Indian high commission in London. This year, only three international patrols out of the 96 participating teams were awarded a gold medal. The award ceremony was attended by Gen Mark Carleton-Smith, the chief of general staff of the British Army, who presented the gold medal to the Indian Army team. Brig Vikramjit Singh Gill, military advisor at the Indian high commission, also attended the event. The Indian high commissioner, Gaitri Issar Kumar, felicitated the Indian Army team at India House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-wins-gold-medal-at-cambrian-patrol-exercise-in-uk-101634583393543.html
19-10-2021||India||Kolkata company executive, driver found murdered||A senior corporate executive and his driver were found murdered inside the former’s three-storey ancestral house at Kankulia road in Gariahat police station area of south Kolkata on Monday morning, police said. The bodies of 61-year-old Subir Chaki, managing director of Kilburn Engineering Ltd, and his 64-year-old driver, Rabin Mondal, were found with multiple injuries on the first and second floor of the house, respectively. According to police, local residents of Kankulia road said that Chaki, who lived in New Town on the eastern outskirts of the city, was trying to sell his ancestral house for quite some time. The businessman already owned another property at a posh south Kolkata condominium, they added. Police suspect Chaki must have gone to his ancestral house to meet a prospective buyer or collect an advance payment over a deal with a buyer when the incident took place on Sunday evening.“Nobody lived on the upper floors of the house. There was nothing valuable kept that might have led to a robbery. The ground floor was rented out to a private company. Its office was closed on Sunday. When the employees reported for duty on Monday morning, they found the door connecting the ground and first floors shut from inside which was unusual,” an officer from Gariahat police station said on condition of anonymity. “Both were stabbed multiple times, including on the wrists and ankles. The blows somehow appeared to be random, not something a trained killer might have inflicted. Their mobile phones were also missing. The service providers have been asked to generate the call lists. Chaki’s bank accounts are also being checked,” a second officer who did not wish to be named said. “It seems that the accused knew that Chaki was coming to his Kankulia road home. On earlier occasions, he would send his driver with the keys when prospective buyers wanted to see the property. It is possible that Chaki might have come to collect some payment in cash. Local residents said they heard several people talking inside the house on Sunday evening. They also claimed to have heard a woman’s voice. These claims are being verified,” the officer added. The businessman’s car was found outside the building with several food packets in the back seat. An alumnus of St Xavier’s School in Kolkata, IIT-Kharagpur and IIM-Calcutta, Chaki worked with several top firms. “His son and daughter live in London and Mumbai, respectively,” the second officer cited above said. Dilip Mondal, the son of the driver, said: “My father worked for Chaki for more than 20 years. He used to come home only once a month. My father was treated well by his employer. We have no idea what happened.” Chaki used to live in the New Town apartment with his wife, mother and mother-in-law. The bodies were sent for post-mortem and later handed over to the families while a team of forensic experts collected samples from the scene of crime. A murder case was registered by Gariahat police but the investigation was taken over by the detective department of Kolkata Police on Monday afternoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kolkata-company-executive-driver-found-murdered-101634583332963.html
19-10-2021||India||Amit Shah directs officials to tackle situation firmly||New Delhi: The targeting of minorities and outsiders in the Kashmir Valley came up during the National Security Strategy Conference (NSSC) meeting chaired by Union home minister Amit Shah on Monday. During the meeting, attended by police chiefs of all the states and UTs as well as director generals of central paramilitary forces and intelligence agencies, Shah asked the security officials to deal with the flare-up of targeted violence in Jammu & Kashmir with a fort hand, an official familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity. A multi-agency pan-India effort has begun to completely neutralize Pakistan backed terror networks involved in the targeted killings of minorities and non-local labourers in Jammu and Kashmir, other people familiar with the mater added. Thus far 11 civilians, including five labourers have been killed by terrorists in the valley this month. As part of the coordinated crackdown, central agencies including the Research and Analysis Wing (RAW), Intelligence Bureau (IB), and the anti-terror and intelligence units of states will continuously share inputs about outfits such as The Resistance Front (TRF) and Islamic State of Khorasan Province (ISKP), while police forces will track and arrest sleeper cell members, overground workers and financiers of terror groups operating from Kashmir and other parts of the country, the people added. TRF is believed to be front for the Pakistan-based terror group Lashkar-e-Taiba. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) is already probing a larger conspiracy in the targeted killings and has arrested nine persons and raided over two dozen places linked with TRF. Its investigations reveal that the targeted killings are part of a well-hatched conspiracy from across the border to create an atmosphere of fear in valley and derail the government’s efforts to increase industrial activities there, a senior counter-terrorism official said on condition of anonymity. “Pakistan based handlers of proscribed terror outfit LeT and their associates based in J&K had conspired to cause extensive terror activities for harming general public. They had planned that responsibility for the terrorist acts so committed would be taken by the pseudo-acronym TRF so as to maintain plausible deniability and evade law enforcement agencies,” NIA said last week in a statement. During Monday’s meeting, Shah, who has been closely monitoring the situation in J&K , and the police and security officials also discussed strategies to deal with terrorism, left wing extremism, cyber-terrorism, narco-terrorism, the radicalization of young people and the general law and order issues in various states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-directs-officials-to-tackle-situation-firmly-101634583215116.html
19-10-2021||India||Chhattisgarh minister TS Singh Deo returns to Delhi amid power tussle with CM Baghel||Raipur: Conversations between Chhattisgarh’s top leaders and the party’s central leaders have started again amid reports of a power-sharing formula between Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and his cabinet colleague health minister TS Singh Deo, with the latter looking for clarity going forward, according to people familiar with the matter. While Baghel met senior leaders separately on Friday, Singh Deo has been in and out of the Capital for the past three days.Last Friday, on the sidelines of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting in Delhi, chief minister Baghel separately met with senior party leaders, including general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. Functionaries close to Baghel, however, denied that the meeting had anything to do with a possible change in guard. “Nothing about the power-sharing formula was discussed in the meeting on Saturday evening, nor was there any hint about it. The discussion was about the strategy of upcoming elections in Uttar Pradesh,” the functionary said. On Saturday, Singh Deo flew down to Delhi for a meeting with leaders in Delhi. Speaking to reporters at Raipur airport before leaving, Singh Deo characterised the visit as routine but said that he would call on the senior leadership. “It is a routine visit to Delhi... If I get time with senior Congress leaders of Delhi, I will definitely meet them...I called up Punia ji ( PL Punia ) but he said that he is outside Delhi… I will be there for two days and try to meet the leaders,” he said. On Sunday, Singh Deo returned to Chhattisgarh after the death of four infants at the government medical college in Ambikapur, which is his constituency. “Singh Deo has cancelled all scheduled programmes... In view of the seriousness of the issue, the health minister has directed to send a special team of health departments from Raipur and Bilaspur to Ambikapur,” a statement issued by his office on Sunday said. The health minister, however, was back in Delhi on Monday, with meetings possible over the next few days. “I believe that Singh Deo is trying to meet the party high command in Delhi and will definitely talk about the power-sharing formula. Some political development is expected in the next couple of days,” said a senior Congress leader from Chhattisgarh who asked not to be named. On August 28, even as over 45 MLAs camped in Delhi, Baghel held a marathon meeting with the top brass including Rahul Gandhi, where Baghel seemed to have bought himself time, announcing that Gandhi would soon travel to Bastar on his invitation as chief minister. The next day, when Singh Deo returned, he said that he had spoken to the leadership too and they had kept a “decision safe”. Since then, the matter has simmered both in Chhattisgarh and in Delhi, bookmarked by multiple MLAs arriving in Delhi at the start of October, and a war of words in Bilaspur, where supporters of Singh Deo alleged that they were being proceeded against by the police with bias. People close to Singh Deo said that he has not put a timeline on returning for Chhattisgarh at this moment, and the attempt is to reach a sense of clarity for all sides, particularly with the reported two-and-a-half year deadline now long gone, and assembly elections in just over two years. “Every week, rumours are rife about the power-sharing formula in Chhattisgarh… Everyone in the state is in confusion… It would be positive for Congress high command to send a concrete message and resolve this issue as soon as possible,” said Sudeip Shrivastava, a political commentator based in Chhattisgarh. In December 2018, in the aftermath of a dominant Congress performance where the party won 68 of 90 seats, even as the party’s Delhi leadership sought to put out leadership fires in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh emerged as a problem too. Four state leaders, Baghel, home minister Tamradhwaj Sahu, speaker Charan Das Mahant, and Singh Deo flew to Delhi, all eyeing the chief minister’s post. As Mahant settled for speaker, friction between Baghel and Singh Deo meant that Sahu first emerged as the front-runner; but pushed by the idea that a third leader would take the top position, Baghel and Singh Deo, along with Punia and Rahul Gandhi, reportedly arrived at a power-sharing arrangement over the next five years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-minister-ts-singh-deo-returns-to-delhi-amid-power-tussle-with-cm-baghel-101634583093057.html
19-10-2021||India||India boosts vigil along LAC||A big surveillance push using latest technology to offset the requirement of deploying extra troops on the contested border with China in Arunachal Pradesh and a massive thrust on building infrastructure to improve connectivity with forward areas for faster mobilisation of soldiers are the top priorities for the Indian Army in the sensitive sector, the commander of a key mountain division in the eastern sector said on Monday.There has been an increase in Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) patrols along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Arunachal Pradesh sector, officials familiar with the development said on the condition of anonymity.“We are employing technology in a big way to boost our awareness of the situation. It allows us to do away with the need to push troops to forward areas in peacetime,” said Major General Zubin A Minwalla, the commander of the Rupa-based HQs 5 Mountain Division.The division’s responsibilities encompass the sensitive Tawang sector. “We are creating more (battlefield) transparency through the use of technology ---the fusion of an array of sensors including ground-based and air-based sensors, a network of radars and unmanned systems. The adversary cannot surprise us,” Minwalla said.His comments came days after the 13th round of military talks between India and China to cool tensions in eastern Ladakh reached an impasse on October 10, with PLA not agreeing to suggestions made by the Indian Army.The military dialogue took place more than two months after the last round of talks that led to disengagement of forward deployed troops from Gogra, or Patrol Point-17A, one of the flashpoints on the LAC, in early August.The use of latest technology at the mountain division’s hi-tech surveillance centre is playing a critical role in tracking the developments and PLA activities along LAC in Arunachal Pradesh and across it, Minwalla said.“We get live feeds of all their activities round the clock — movement of troops from rear to forward areas, their patrolling patterns along LAC and steps being taken to ramp up infrastructure on the other side,” said an officer at the surveillance centre, asking not to be named. The surveillance centre is tasked with collecting, analysing and disseminating critical information to commanders on the ground.While eastern Ladakh is the focus of the current round of border tensions between India and China, the Indian Army is also keeping a strict vigil on the eastern front.“Our analysis of the situation across LAC in Arunachal Pradesh is pretty accurate. There has been an increase in frequency of PLA patrols owing to the current operational situation. There is also a slight increase in area domination patrols,” said a second officer, asking not to be named.“There is also an increase in visits to forward areas by senior PLA officers,” he added.China is also ramping up infrastructure on its side at a fast pace. The Indian Army is regularly picking up increased vehicular movement across LAC due to improved infrastructure on the Chinese side.There is a tremendous thrust on building infrastructure in Arunachal Pradesh whether it is through the development of border roads or the efforts of the civilian government, Minwalla said. “We have a confident approach in dealing the overall situation in the sector. We are not reacting to what they are doing. We have our own plans and are working on them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-boosts-vigil-along-lac-101634582756234.html
19-10-2021||India||CBSE exams to begin on Nov 30||The Central Board of Secondary Education on Monday announced that the term 1 exams for major subjects for Class 10 students will be conducted between November 30 and December 11; and December 1 and December 22 for Class 12.The examinations for term 2 will be conducted in March-April, the board said.Earlier this year, the board announced that the examinations would be conducted in two terms to avoid an unprecedented situation arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic — theory examinations this year were scrapped after the second wave of Covid-19 took hold.“Duration of each paper of major subject will be 90 minutes. Reading time will be 20 minutes instead of 15 minutes. Keeping in view the winter season, exam will start at 11.30am instead of 10.30am,” controller of examinations Sanyam Bhardwaj said in the official notice. The examinations will have objective-type questions.Examinations for minor subjects will start on November 17 for students of Class 10 and November 16 for Class 12, the board announced.There are nine major subjects for Class 10 and 19 for Class 12. These include core subjects like mathematics, physics, chemistry, English and economics, among others.“We have issued the datesheets of all major subjects of class 10 and 12. Now, the datesheet for minor subjects will be sent to schools because these exams would be conducted by the schools though the question papers will be provided by CBSE. But all these minor subjects are not offered by all schools therefore we will be sending datesheets to these schools,” Bhardwaj said. There are over 2,100 schools in Delhi that are affiliated with CBSE.Bhardwaj said that schools will be sanitised before examinations and the board will ensure students do not have to travel for long distances to write their exams.“I feel a large number of schools would be fixed as self-centres keeping in view the distance and comfort of students. CBSE would be putting efforts in terms of examination centres and observes so that examinations are conducted safely and in a fair manner,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbse-exams-to-begin-on-nov-30-101634582792234.html
19-10-2021||India||Target of Net zero emission against climate justice: LMDC||The Like-Minded Developing Countries — a group of developing countries which have a similar stand in the United Nations climate negotiations — have said that a net zero goal for all countries by mid-century is “anti-equity” and against “climate justice”.In a strongly worded statement, the countries said, “Despite their lack of ambition shown in the pre-2020 period, as well as in their Paris Agreement NDCs (nationally determined contributions) major developed countries are now pushing to shift the goal posts of the Paris Agreement from what have already been agreed by calling for all countries to adopt net zero emissions targets by 2050.” Net zero emissions for all countries by 2050 will exacerbate existing inequities between developed and developing countries, the statement added.The Paris Agreement refers to achieving a balance between emissions and removal by sinks in the second half of this century as a global aspiration rather than as national targets for all countries. “Achieving this global aspiration is on the basis of equity and common but differentiated responsibilities, in the context of ensuring sustainable development and poverty eradication in developing countries and taking into consideration equity,” the statement endorsed by all LMDC ministers said.During their own industrialisation phase, the developed countries have overused their domestic carbon space and used those of developing countries as well, the countries said.“Developed countries should, in acknowledgement of such historical cumulative and per capita cumulative carbon emissions, leave the remaining atmospheric space for the developmental rights of the developing world and aim for their full decarbonisation within this decade. If they continue to emit and occupy more atmospheric space for the next 30 years, the Paris Agreement’s global goals and the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change’s objective will not be met,” the statement concluded.In 2012 in Doha, developed countries agreed to revisit their emission reduction targets by the end of 2014 and to raise their ambition level. Developed countries have, in fact, increased their emissions between 1990 and 2020, the statement highlighted.On the issue of delivery of climate finance, developed countries agreed in 2010 to mobilise $100 billion per year by 2020. “Regrettably, here too they have fallen short of their agreement. In Paris, the 2020 timeline to deliver on the USD100 billion was shifted to 2025, with no assurance that it would be reached or with higher ambition, while at the same time developing countries are requested to raise their ambition on climate actions. These failures to deliver on the commitments agreed to by developed countries undermines trust and confidence in the multilateral system,” the statement said.Union environment minister Bhupender Yadav, who represented India at the LMDC ministerial meeting chaired by Bolivia on Monday, said the world needs rapid and transformative actions.“I stated that delayed climate action and lack of leadership from developed countries has increased the cost of mitigation and adaptation in developing countries… LMDC countries should closely work together to protect their interests and ensure that global efforts for net-zero should be guided by the principles of the UNFCCC and its Paris Agreement, and also by national circumstances and priorities,” Yadav tweeted after his address. LMDC countries include Algeria, Bangladesh, Bolivia, China, Cuba, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Malaysia, Mali, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, and Sri Lanka, among others.“2050 as a global goal for net zero is too little, too late. It buys wealthy countries time to continue to emit more, while resource-poor countries face the consequences in the short and medium term. Delayed mitigation also presents the risk of uncontrollable warming later this century. So, from both a scientific view, as well as the perspective of historical cumulative emissions, developed nations must bring emissions to zero or as close as possible, within this decade,” said Avantika Goswami of the climate change programme at the Centre for Science and Environment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/target-of-net-zero-emission-against-climate-justice-lmdc-101634582732401.html
19-10-2021||India||Security huddle on J&K, migrants begin to leave||The Jammu & Kashmir administration moved thousands of non-local workers to “safer areas” overnight and through the day, while hundreds others left the Valley after a string of targeted attacks on minorities and civilians, including those from outside the Union Territory, officials said on Monday.Terrorists have killed 11 civilians, including five labourers from outside Kashmir, this month, and multiple gunfights have broken out during operations by security forces to find those responsible for the attacks. The wave of violence prompted deliberations at a security huddle in New Delhi, where Union home minister Amit Shah directed top officials to deal with the flare-up on priority as a multi-agency pan-Indian effort was underway to neutralise Pakistan-linked threats in the region.On Monday, inside Srinagar’s main railway station in Nowgam, dozens of people, mostly workers from other states, could be seen anxiously waiting for a train that would take them to Banihal in the Jammu division. One of those waiting was Jitendra (who gave only one name). Jitendra, from Bihar, made a living by selling ice cream from a cart in Habba Kadal in Srinagar’s old city, but following the targeted killings, he decided to leave. He left his rented accommodation early in the morning along with six other men to catch the train to Banihal, the first leg of their journey out of the UT.Cabs, buses, trains, workers from outside the UT jumped onto whatever mode of transport was available on Monday, after another targeted attack on some workers at Wanpoh in Kulgam district on Sunday night that left two dead and another grievously injured.Many spent the night in camps set up by security forces or in police stations.The targeting of minorities and outsiders in the Kashmir valley came up during the National Security Strategy Conference (NSSC) meeting chaired by the Union home minister on Monday. During the meeting, attended by police chiefs of all the states and UTs as well as directors general of central paramilitary forces and intelligence agencies, Shah asked the security officials to deal with the targeted violence in Jammu & Kashmir with a firm hand, an official familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity.“We moved thousands of workers to secure places and are facilitating their return home,” a senior police official told Reuters, asking not to be named. A government spokesperson in Srinagar declined to comment on the movement of migrant workers.Many workers, however, also chose to stay back, a matter of livelihoods mattering more than lives. Handlers from across the border have orchestrated targeted attacks on civilians, either from minority communities such as the Pandits or the Sikhs, or outsiders, in an effort to disrupt the peace, and play on the UT’s Muslim majority’s fear of a demographic re-engineering, and to force an exodus out of the Valley.Zahir ul Islam, from Malda district in West Bengal, said they received a call from the police last night and were asked to reached the police station in Ganderbal: “We were 20 people staying in four rooms at Ganderbal; after noting down our details, we all were taken to the nearby camp at Dignibal where more than 500 non-local workers were already assembled.”He added: “Only few hundred people were given food, rest remained hungry. In the afternoon, we were allowed to go. The police officers asked us whether we wanted to go home and many of us declined.”At Sopore, non-local workers were called to the local police station late on Sunday and then kept in a school building on the national highway and in a college hostel.“When we reached police station, we were taken to a school building close to the army and police camps. Some of our colleagues left for homes early by taking cabs. We are still in the school building,” said Dalip Paswan, a labourer from Bihar. “I will stay here for some more days and will leave by mid-November.”Most of those leaving said they hoped to be back.“I did not want to go back before January, but attacks on non-locals have left all of us scared. I have been coming to this place for the past two decades, but we are worried. If things improve, I will be back but only after winter,” said Darmendra from Bihar.He added that everything was fine till the killings started. Officials were tight-lipped about the departures. This is not the first time that migrant workers have found themselves in the crosshairs of terrorists. In October 2019, soon after the imposition of governor’s rule in Jammu and Kashmir, six migrant workers were killed in South Kashmir, in a single attack at Katersoo Kulgam, while another worker from Bihar was killed in Kulgam in September. After each attack, some migrant workers left the Valley fearing for their lives, only to return the following season. Workers are hard to find in a UT where many of the locals avoid manual labour.The Jammu & Kashmir labour department says approximately 140,000 migrant workers come to Jammu and Kashmir each year, and most return once winter sets in, only to return next year. Others say the number is easily three times that.The migrant workers mostly hail from Bihar, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Punjab and work at construction sites, paddy fields, and apple orchards. Some small roadside kiosks and many are engaged as barbers, masons, jewellers or work in residents’ homes.As part of the coordinated crackdown, central agencies including the Research and Analysis Wing (RAW), Intelligence Bureau (IB), and the anti-terror and intelligence units of states will continuously share inputs about outfits such as The Resistance Front (TRF) and Islamic State of Khorasan Province (ISKP), while police forces will track and arrest sleeper cell members, overground workers and financiers of terror groups operating from Kashmir and other parts of the country, the people added. TRF is believed to be front for the Pakistan-based terror group Lashkar-e-Taiba. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) is already probing a larger conspiracy in the targeted killings and has arrested nine persons and raided over two dozen places linked with TRF. Its investigations reveal that the targeted killings are part of a well-hatched conspiracy from across the border to create an atmosphere of fear in the Valley and derail the government’s efforts to increase industrial activities there, a senior counter-terrorism official said on the condition of anonymity. “Pakistan based handlers of proscribed terror outfit LeT and their associates based in J&K had conspired to cause extensive terror activities for harming general public. They had planned that responsibility for the terrorist acts so committed would be taken by the pseudo-acronym TRF so as to maintain plausible deniability and evade law enforcement agencies,” NIA said last week in a statement. During Monday’s meeting, Shah, who has been closely monitoring the situation in J&K, and the police and security officials also discussed strategies to deal with terrorism, left wing extremism, cyber-terrorism, narco-terrorism, the radicalisation of young people and the general law and order issues in various states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/security-huddle-on-j-k-migrants-begin-to-leave-101634582672220.html
19-10-2021||India||Glasgow climate summit likely to adopt India’s plan of global solar grid||The Glasgow climate change conference (COP 26) will likely adopt an ambitious plan to build a global solar grid that was put forth by India. The plan is called One Sun One World One Grid (Osowog), and it envisages building a global solar grid that will facilitate the transfer of solar power from one part of the world to another. The International Solar Alliance or ISA is the body in charge of implementing this initiative.“The government asked ISA to carry out a study on the viability of the initiative. We hope to share a declaration (on Osowog) that can be adopted at COP 26,” said Ajay Mathur, director general, ISA. TERI, and French energy firms AETS, and EDS are also working on the plan.Osowog is one of the main issues that will be discussed at the ongoing fourth general assembly of ISA. The others are a $1 trillion investment road map for solar energy generation capacity, and a blended financial risk mitigation mechanism.The UK and the government of India will also jointly launch a global ‘Green Grids Initiative – One Sun One World One Grid’ (GGIOSOWOG) at COP 26 focused on global technical, financial and research cooperation to help facilitate cross-border renewable energy transfer projects, ISA said.The concept of a single global grid for solar energy was first suggested by India at the first assembly of the ISA in 2018. It involves building and scaling interregional energy grids to share solar energy across the globe, leveraging the differences of time zones, seasons, resources, and prices between countries and regions.“We are assessing the readiness for Osowog which would mean connecting regional grids. The sun never goes down; when one side of the planet is dark there is light on the other side. For example, East Asia gets the first light of sun and it is also where the sun sets first but India still gets sunlight when its sunset in East Asia so electricity can flow from India (to East Asia) during those hours. Similarly, west Asia and Africa can supply electricity to India when it’s dark here. The concept offers an opportunity to use solar energy 24 hours a day. ISA is studying the viability of the concept through the World Bank and Électricité de France. They have already found that under certain circumstances this transfer can be economically viable,”explained Mathur at the assembly.“With India’s Ministry of New and Renewable Energy, the World Bank and the ISA signing a tripartite agreement on Osowog, the initiative could be the world’s most important renewables catalyst,” an ISA statement added.US Special Presidential Envoy for Climate, John Kerry and the European Commission Executive Vice President for the European Green Deal, Frans Timmermans will be addressing ISA assembly on Wednesday.“With the rising share of renewable electricity, balancing demand and supply will become critical. Just as Norway acts as a giant “battery” for Europe, so can such an interconnected grid enable India and Asia to effectively use renewable power. Some studies have estimated that at more than 70-80% of renewable energy, the cost of grid integration can grow exponentially. So, building such a grid shows foresight in preparing for the low carbon energy transition,” said Ulka Kelkar, Director, Climate Program, World Resources Institute India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/glasgow-climate-summit-likely-to-adopt-india-s-plan-of-global-solar-grid-101634582619421.html
19-10-2021||India||Heavy October rain chokes Monday traffic in the Capital||Heavy rain on Monday, which made this the wettest October in Delhi since 1960, threw life out of gear in the national capital, leading to widespread waterlogging and traffic snarls with the traffic police advising commuters against taking some key arterial roads that remained jammed through the morning peak hours.The mismanagement by civic and government agencies was compounded with heavier than usual traffic on the roads as people returned to work on Monday after a long weekend due to the Dussehra break.Delhi continued its trend of breaking weather records for the 15th month in a row, as heavy rain in the National Capital Region surpassed the figure for 24-hour data in October from 1956.This year, 94.6mm of rainfall has already been recorded in the city in October. According to data shared by the India Meteorological Department, the months of October in 1910 recorded 185.9mm rainfall, 238.2mm rainfall in 1954, 236.2mm rainfall in 1956, and 93.4mm rainfall in 1960. In 2004, 89mm rainfall was recorded in all of October.On Sunday, the national capital recorded 87.9mm rainfall, the fourth highest in a day ever in October and the highest since 1956 when the city received 111mm rain, according to IMD data.As rush hour began, arterial stretches were jammed as waist-deep waters disabled several vehicles. Crucial spots in and around Minto Road, ITO, Dhaula Kuan and Moolchand were among those badly hit, as were high-profile Lutyens enclaves such as Chanakyapuri, Shanti Path and Connaught Place.Major roads were intermittently closed for movement after overnight rainfall, which continued for most of Monday. While the Pul Prahladpur underpass at the Mehrauli-Badarpur Road was barricaded for traffic again as it was flooded, long traffic jams were reported in areas including Lajpat Nagar, Ashram intersection, Moti Bagh, Sri Aurobindo Marg, Hauz Khas, Dwarka Link Road and Noida Link Road.Experts said that Delhi needs to have a traffic management plan to avert a traffic mess every time there is heavy rain. “We need a plan on two levels; one is that we need to fix our drainage systems to accommodate the current population load of the city and the second is to have a dedicated traffic management plan for rainy days. For every arterial stretch that routinely gets choked because of water logging, agencies need to come up with multiple alternative routes where traffic can be diverted. This information can be communicated to commuters via the variable messaging sign boards or through traffic police’s social media handles,” said professor Sewa Ram from the School of Planning and Architecture.An official said that the worst affected stretch was the Ring Road, where traffic crawled through for several hours at a stretch. Under-construction projects, coupled with torrential rainfall and waterlogging led to commuters getting delayed by several hours, the official said.“We had deployed maximum staff on the roads to direct traffic but there is only so much we can do during such intense and widespread rainfall. The roads are drowned in rainwater, two-wheeler riders also tend to seek refuge below flyovers, which also tends to block a portion of the road and visibility is also an issue because of which traffic movement slows down,” a senior traffic police official said, asking not to be named.Every month since August 2020, Delhi has broken at least one weather record, IMD data shows. Met officials and scientists said that while these extreme weather recordings are the immediate result of temporary atmospheric events over (and in and around) the national capital, the larger role of the climate crisis in the overall shifting of weather patterns is evident.Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change) at Skymet Weather Services, a private weather forecasting agency, said that a low-pressure area formed over the Bay of Bengal extended its impact till southwest Uttar Pradesh.“Because of this, moderate easterly winds started blowing over the northern plains, up to Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh. A deep trough was also extending from Punjab to Arabian Sea across Rajasthan and Gujarat, which also brought moisture into the region. The convergence of these two humid winds, along with a western disturbance over north Pakistan combined to form such a weather condition that led to such intense and widespread rain in the entire northwest region,” Palawat said.The city has around 150 pain points that get flooded every time it rains. On Monday, traffic officials placed diversion at several of these spots as waterlogging made them impossible to cross. Officials of the Delhi government declined a comment.East Delhi mayor Shyam Sunder Aggarwal said that the reason behind waterlogging is the bigger drains managed by PWD and flood control department not being cleared. “Corporation’s smaller drains have outfall in the bigger drains. When the larger drains are not cleared the water outflow can not be managed. Majority of waterlogging has been seen on roads bigger than 60ft,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-october-rain-chokes-monday-traffic-in-the-capital-101634582552314.html
19-10-2021||India||India is key to a safe and secure Afghanistan: Italy||G20 president Italy believes India has a key role as an important regional actor in ensuring a stable and secure environment in Afghanistan, and both countries are of the view that the Afghan people need immediate and unhindered access to humanitarian aid. While any action in tackling the humanitarian crisis and preventing an economic collapse in Afghanistan will require interacting with the Taliban, such contacts wouldn’t be tantamount to recognition of the group, Italian ambassador Vincenzo de Luca said in an interview. Speaking on the outcomes of the extraordinary meeting of G20 leaders on Afghanistan convened by Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi on October 12, de Luca said his country decided to act because of a “sense of urgency with respect to a possible humanitarian catastrophe” in the war-torn country. “Being an important regional actor, India’s involvement in consultation and coordination activities is key to ensure a stable and secure environment and effective initiatives aimed at the humanitarian assistance to Afghan people,” he said. “Italy and India share the view that Afghanistan needs immediate and unhindered access to humanitarian assistance. To this end, the continued presence of the United Nations (UN) in Afghanistan must be preserved.” Italy will contribute through a “consistent national financial pledge” and also back initiatives by the European Union (EU), which announced a one billion euro support package for Afghanistan at the October 12 meeting. Asked about G20 leaders making it clear that they will not recognise the Taliban and the opposition to unfreezing Afghanistan’s foreign assets, de Luca said, “Any action in tackling the current situation in Afghanistan would require interacting with the Taliban. If we want to respond to the humanitarian crisis effectively and to prevent the economic collapse of the country, there is no alternative to having contacts with the Taliban. This, however, will not entail their recognition.” Afghanistan has also been hit by a “crisis of the payment system and risks the collapse of its banking system”, and this must be “urgently addressed because if money doesn’t flow and payments cannot be done, the entire economy of the country might crumble, making any sort of assistance nearly impossible”, he added. The ambassador pointed to the UN’s central role in ensuring the effective distribution of aid, and said the world body has received a broad mandate to coordinate all relief efforts directed at the Afghan people. The G20 leaders’ meeting expressed support for the UN to carry out this mandate to “make sure that aid is delivered in an efficient and non-discriminatory way”. On the issue of the Taliban delivering on counter-terrorism commitments, de Luca pointed to the UN Security Council resolution 2593, which was adopted on August 30 while India held the rotating presidency of the body, and said the document contained a “strong expectation that the Afghan territory is not used to threaten or attack any country or to shelter or train terrorists, or to plan or to finance terrorist acts”. “There is a common understanding on the importance of combating terrorism in Afghanistan and on the fact that security, including counter-terrorism, and development are intertwined,” he said. “At the G20 leaders’ meeting it was clearly reiterated that Afghanistan must not become a safe haven for terrorists and a threat for international security.” During the G20 leaders’ meeting, Prime Minister Narendra Modi called for a unified response by the world community to ensure desired change in the situation in Afghanistan. However, the Chinese and Russian presidents skipped the meeting; the two countries were represented by their foreign ministers. Asked if the absence of the top leaders of China and Russia at the summit suggested there were divisions on the approach to Afghanistan, de Luca sought to play down the matter and said all G20 members were involved in the preparatory process for the leaders’ meeting and both China and Russia actively contributed to the virtual G20 foreign ministers’ meeting on Afghanistan on September 22. The G20 leaders’ meeting led to “consensus on some lines of action”, he said. This included the G20 playing an “advocacy role” within the world community to fully support UN activities, the G20 calling on “Afghan authorities to ensure the safety, security, and freedom of movement of all UN and associated personnel”, and the G20 states calling on the “Taliban to rescind their links with terrorist groups and tackle their presence on Afghan soil”. The G20 leaders’ meeting made a strong request to Afghan authorities to “respect human rights, with particular regard to women’s and minorities’ rights”, de Luca said. “The Taliban were also urged to fully respect their own commitment to allow the safe passage of those who wish to leave the country,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-is-key-to-a-safe-and-secure-afghanistan-italy-101634582432211.html
19-10-2021||India||Maha govt creates disputes to divert people’s attention from issues: BJP leader||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA and leader of opposition in the Maharashtra legislative council Pravin Darekar on Monday said that the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government’s objective is to create “disputes” on a daily basis by diverting the people’s attention from basic problems.Speaking at a press conference in Mumbai, Darekar said that no leader from the Sena-Nationalist Congress Party-Congress coalition government is ready to talk about the work done by the state’s ruling dispensation for the development of Maharashtra, according to news agency PTI.His remarks come in the backdrop of Sena’s jibe at the BJP on using central agencies such as the CBI, Enforcement Directorate (ED), IT Department and the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) for their agenda. Through its mouthpiece ‘Saamana’, Sena alleged that these attacks by the saffron party are like “using Shikhandi as a shield.”Darekar further stated that Sena was crossing their limits in their criticism of BJP leaders. His comments were in reference to Sena saying in Saamana that the saffron party was “smoking a low-quality weed.”Also Read | Are you on the side of drug sellers, consumers? Fadnavis' question to Uddhav Thackeray“People in Maharashtra know it well, who take the side of (those consuming) drugs and weed," he was quoted as saying by PTI.Dareka was shot back at NCP chief Sharad Pawar and Sena MP Sanjay Raut for their respective comments against BJP, saying that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah are “capable of making decisions” about the central government and also the security of Jammu and Kashmir.The Maharashtra BJP leader said that Sena should instead dig into the minds of their own leaders, MPs and MLAs since there is unrest within the party. “The current Shiv Sena is dominated by outsiders. I challenge Shiv Sena to count the number of outsiders in both the parties (Sena and BJP),” Darekar told PTI.On this year’s Dussehra, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray slammed the NCB for the ongoing arrest and custody of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son, Aryan Khan, in the cruise ship drugs’ case. “All they are interested in is to catch celebrities, get their pictures clicked and make some noise,” Thackeray said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-govt-creates-disputes-to-divert-people-s-attention-from-issues-bjp-leader-101634581575121.html
19-10-2021||India||Govt may consider single tax rate for online gaming||The government may consider one single tax rate for online gaming as two different rates of 18% and 28% based on the distinction between so-called games of skill and games of chance are prone to misuse and litigation on account of the overlap between the two categories, two people aware of the thinking in government circles said.A final decision on this matter will be taken by the GST Council, the apex decision-making body on matters of the indirect tax, they said on condition of anonymity. The council, a federal body, is chaired by the Union finance minister and has representations of state finance ministers. The GST Council on May 24 constituted a group of ministers (GoM) to address issues related to the online gaming sector for taxation purposes. Initially, it was a seven-member ministerial panel under the chairmanship of Gujarat. Later, on June 11, the finance minister of Telangana was added in the group as the eighth member. “The GoM is expected to submit its report to the council next month. The council may discuss all issues related to online gaming and take a considered view,” one of the people said. The GoM is to ascertain whether GST should be applicable only on the amount retained by the platform or also levied on the prize money.The second person said it is often difficult to ascertain whether a game is purely one of skill or chance. “For example, rummy is a game of skill, but distribution of cards to players is nothing but chance. Secondly, unlike physical casinos, where the age of a player can be easily verified, in online gaming platforms, there is no effective way to check entry of kids as young as 13, which could be detrimental for the society. Hence, online gaming should be treated like lottery, a sin product, and attract the highest rate of 28%.”“There is no objectively definable test or regulatory guideline or administrative forum to assess and determine if a game will be characterised as a game of skill or game of chance,” said a Niti Aayog discussion paper, quoting a report of the Sports Law and Policy Centre, a Bengaluru-based think tank focussing on sports law and policy.Like lotteries, a single tax rate on online gaming is desirable to avoid litigation, the two people said. The GST Council in December 2019 levied a uniform 28% GST on both state-run and state-authorised lotteries. Earlier, state-run lotteries attracted 12% GST, while the levy on state-authorised lotteries was 28%. The lottery industry had been demanding a uniform GST rate of 12%.“The higher rate of 28% tax on this entertainment space will certainly be subject to judicial review as these are games of skills and not of chance,” said Abhishek A Rastogi, partner at law firm Khaitan & Co. “The equally bigger issue is the valuation of service – whether tax is applicable on the aggregate value of contribution of each player, or on the margin or revenue of the online platform.”“The Council can always amend the legislation to avoid multiple interpretations and judicial reviews,” the second person said. Rastogi, however, said the government needs to take a “pragmatic approach,” else players will have no choice but “to participate on foreign online platforms,” which will be detrimental to all stakeholders.All India Gaming Federation (AIGF) CEO Roland Landers said the association has recommended that the government continue with the current GSt at 18%. Citing four precedents by the Supreme Court, he claimed online games are based on skill and should not be imputed with games of chance.AIGF’s members are leading online game operators such as MPL, Paytm First Games, Gameskraft Group, Baazi Games and Adda 52.“Various high courts have unambiguously held various online games like Online Rummy, Fantasy Sports (eg. Dream 11) etc., as games of skill and distinguished them from games of chance,” said Bipin Sapra, partner, tax and regulatory services, indirect tax at consultancy firm EY. “The online gaming platform is akin to any other e-commerce platform and connects various players who play the game. The fee charged by the platform is in lieu of the service provided and is the only taxable value.”Arguing for an 18% GST, Landers said, “This is in line with global best practices where tax rates have been seen to range from 6% to 21%... If rates are increased beyond this threshold, there is a tendency for both operators and players to resort to black market operations, even within the Indian online gaming community.”On the distinction between games of chance and games of skill, AIGF president, policy and planning, Sutanu Behuria said: “Games of skill require players to invest a lot of time and effort in training and honing their skills like any commonly played sport. Herein, games of skill are differentiated when skill clearly outweighs chance with respect to the outcome of the game.”As per the gaming acts of various states, given that gaming is a state-run subject, games such as Rummy, Poker, Bridge, Fantasy Sports and E-sports are considered games of skill, he said. Behuria is a former bureaucrat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-plans-uniform-tax-for-online-gaming-101634582312172.html
19-10-2021||India||BJP worker among four arrested over Lakhimpur Kheri violence||The Uttar Pradesh Police on Monday arrested four more people in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, taking the total number of arrests to 10, officials said.Among the four arrested was a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) worker, Sumit Jaiswal, who was present in the vehicle that allegedly mowed down four farmers during a protest against the agricultural laws on October 3. The other three arrested people -- Shishupal of Lakhimpur Kheri, Nandan Singh of Lucknow and Satya Prakash Tripathi of Kaushambi -- were present in the remaining vehicles which were part of the convoy.“Four persons were arrested on Monday by the Crime Branch of the Lakhimpur Kheri police along with the SWAT team. The SIT investigators and other senior officials are interrogating the accused and further probe is underway,” the state police said in a statement.The SWAT team also recovered a revolver and three live cartridges from Tripathi, the statement added. “The accused will be questioned about the incident and their role in it. We will also apply for their police custody remand if they fail to cooperate in the interrogation,” a senior police official said, seeking anonymity.In a video that went viral, Jaiswal was seen leaving the leading vehicle in the convoy after it rammed into the protesting farmers. He later told reporters that the vehicle was under attack as protesters pelted stones, due to which the driver lost balance and the vehicle turned turtle, leading to the accident. The vehicle belonged to Union minister of state for home Ajay Kumar Mishra Teni. Farmers maintained that the minister’s son Ashish Mishra was in the vehicle at the time of the incident. While the father and son have rejected the allegations, a murder case was registered against Ashish who was arrested on October 9. On Monday, Ashish, along with others accused in the case were also sent into judicial custody from police custody. Besides the farmers, two BJP workers and a driver were beaten to death allegedly by angry protesters, while a local journalist was also killed in the violence that ensued that day.Meanwhile, five farmers from Tikunia and nearby areas who participated in the protest on October 3 also appeared for questioning before the investigation team.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjpworker-among-four-arrested-over-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-101634582252828.html
19-10-2021||India||Lawyer shot dead in UP court, colleague arrested: Police||A 40-year-old lawyer was shot dead by a colleague at Shahjahanpur district court in Uttar Pradesh over an old rivalry on Monday, police said. The accused was later arrested and four policemen were suspended for a security lapse, they added.According to Shahjahanpur superintendent of police (SP) S Anand, advocate Bhupendra Pratap Singh was shot dead by advocate Surendra Kumar Gupta at 11.40 am when Singh visited the record room on the second floor of the complex in connection with a case. Eyewitnesses claimed they rushed to the room after a gunshot was heard and found Singh in a pool of blood. The accused fled from the spot, the SP said.“A country-made .315 bore pistol was also found near the body. We have sent the body for a post-mortem examination and formed a team to investigate the case,” he added.Gupta, however, was detained from outside his house at 2 pm after police ascertained his role with the help of CCTV footage. He was arrested after he confessed to the crime. A forensic field unit was also called in to collect evidence from the site. “Gupta has confessed to the crime... Singh had filed two dozen cases against the accused which prompted him to take the drastic step,” the SP said.An FIR under sections 302 (murder) and 120 b (criminal conspiracy) was also registered against the accused lawyer at Sadar Bazar police station.Taking strong exception to a serious crime like murder on the court premises, four police personnel, including an inspector, were placed under suspension, assistant superintendent of police (city) Sanjay Kumar said.As a mark of protest, the Bar Council of Uttar Pradesh announced that lawyers across the state will abstain from work on Wednesday. The council also demanded a compensation of ₹50 lakh and a government job for kin of the deceased. Meanwhile, opposition parties attacked the state government over the law and order situation. “The judicial fraternity is an integral pillar of our democracy. The brutal murder of an advocate on court premises in broad daylight is another chilling reminder that no one is safe in today’s UP - not women, not farmers and now not advocates,” Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted. Former chief minister and Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav said the state has become number one in the country in “ease of doing crime” under the BJP. “The public murder of the lawyer in the court complex in Shahjahanpur has exposed the truth behind the false propaganda of the ‘encounter sarkar’. Under the BJP government, UP has become ‘number one in ease of doing crime’,” he tweeted. Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati tweeted, “The murder of a lawyer on the court premises of Shahjahanpur is very sad and shameful, which exposes the law and order situation under the BJP government here and their claims in this regard. Now, finally the question arises as to who is safe in UP? The government should pay proper attention to this.” “It turns out to be a case of personal rivalry. Police also acted swiftly and arrested the accused. Of course, it is sad and unfortunate. It’s a crime, not a law and order situation. Yet, the opposition parties are playing politics over it,” a senior BJP leader said, preferring anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lawyer-shot-dead-in-up-court-colleague-arrested-police-101634582012769.html
19-10-2021||India||Has hunger increased in India?||The Global Hunger Index (GHI) 2021 rankings were released last week. India was placed at 101st rank among 116 nations covered in the report. India was ranked 94th out of 107 countries in the 2020 GHI rankings. India’s fall in the rankings has been used by some to argue there has been a worsening of hunger in the country.Such arguments, to put it simply, are wrong. They are a result of reading GHI rankings without understanding how they are tabulated. This does not mean there are no nutrition-related concerns in India. Here is a brief summary of what GHI rankings tell us.How are GHI rankings calculated?Rankings are always a relative rather than absolute measure of any indicator. GHI rankings are based on Hunger Index Scores, which are a weighted normalised average of four indicators: PUN or prevalence of undernourishment (insufficient calorie intake), CM or child mortality (mortality rate of children under the age of five), CWA or child wasting (share of children under the age of five who have low weight for height) and CST or child stunting (share of children under five who have low height for age).Each of the four components is given a standardized score based on thresholds set slightly above the highest country level values observed worldwide since 1988. The respective thresholds for PUN, CWA, CST and CM are 80, 30, 70 and 35, respectively.The standardized scores take a value from zero to 100, where zero is the lowest level of a given measure of undernourishment and 100 the highest. The aggregate GHI score is a weighted average of the four indicators where PUN and CM have a weight of one-third and CWA and CST have a weight of one-sixth each.The GHI report is unambiguous on non-comparability of scores overtime. “GHI scores are comparable with each year’s report, but not between different years’ reports...like the GHI scores and indicator values, the rankings from one year’s report cannot be compared to those from another,” the 2021 GHI report says.Moreover, the report adds that there have been significant changes to the methodology of GHI, including addition of new countries. To be sure, the latest GHI report does allow for a comparison of 2021 GHI scores over three reference years: 2000, 2006 and 2012.What has happened to India’s hunger score between 2000 and 2021?It has come down, not gone up as is being inferred by many people from the latest rankings. India’s global hunger score was 38.5 in 2000, 37.4 in 2006, 28.8 in 2012, and 27.5 in 2021.The GHI report gives a disaggregation of the four components, which yielded the aggregate global hunger score for 2000, 2006, 2012 and 2021. These statistics flag areas of concern in the fight against hunger in India. Two of the four indicators – the proportion of undernourished in the population and prevalence of wasting in children under five years of age – actually show a rise between the 2012 and 2021 reference periods for the global hunger score. On the other two indicators, there has been a secular improvement between 2000 and 2021. Hunger and undernutrition vary drastically across IndiaGiven India’s economic and social diversity, its performance in dealing with hunger and child undernutrition depend a lot on the performance of states. Some of the poorest states have the highest share in the population of children aged less than five years. Findings of the fifth round of the National Family and Health Survey (NFHS), conducted in 2019-20, show a difference in performance of states in dealing with child undernourishment. Out of the 22 states and Union Territories for which NFHS-5 data is available, the share of stunted, wasted and underweight children increased in 13, 12 and 16 states and UTs, respectively, between 2015-16 and 2019-20.“The inclusion of child stunting and wasting in the rankings like the GHI means that we have to go much beyond the issue of simple adequacy of food in the search for solutions. Child outcomes matter a lot in the long-run for societies and they are as much a result of social factors, such as the condition of women and economic conditions of households,” said Purnima Menon, senior research fellow at International Food Policy Research Institute. “Of course, there cannot be a one-size-fits-all approach to tackling child undernutrition in India, and you have to focus on the big states, where both the population of children and prevalence of undernutrition among them is big.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/has-hunger-increased-in-india-101634579740013.html
19-10-2021||India||Bengal BJP holds protests over Bangladesh violence; spotlights plight of Hindus||KOLKATA: The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday held protests across 23 West Bengal districts including state capital Kolkata against communal violence during Durga puja in Bangladesh and alleged that Hindus were being systematically targeted in the neighbouring country.Suvendu Adhikari, the leader of the opposition in the Bengal assembly, offered puja with BJP legislators at a temple in Kolkata and led a delegation to the Bangladesh deputy high commissioner’s office in the city.“He (Adhikari) expressed concern regarding the ongoing attacks on the Hindu minority in Bangladesh,” the BJP said in a statement on Monday evening.Durga Puja pandals and temples were vandalised by mobs at several places in Bangladesh on Wednesday last following posts on social media about the alleged desecration of the Quran at a pandal in Cumilla district.Hindu-owned temples and shops in Feni, about 150km from the country’s capital Dhaka, were vandalised and robbed on Saturday during clashes that broke out after a counter-attack on demonstrators protesting against attacks on Durga Puja venues in several places in Bangladesh. On Sunday, a Hindu temple was vandalised.The BJP said the attacks on minority Hindus in Bangladesh was “part of a bigger plan” to scare them away and it was with this in mind that the BJP-led central government had mooted changes to India’s Citizenship Act to protect them, a point also made on Sunday by BJP spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya.CAA, which was notified on December 12, 2019, seeks to grant Indian citizenship to persecuted minorities belonging to the Hindu, Sikh, Jain, Buddhist, Parsi and Christian communities from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan who entered India on or before December 31, 2014. The law provoked protests across the country -- in many parts, against the exclusion of Muslims from it; and in Assam, from fears that it could legitimise outsiders in the northeastern state.The BJP made CAA an issue during the March-April assembly polls which the TMC won with 213 seats.Bhattacharya said the violence against Hindus in Bangladesh was “part of systematic ethnic cleansing that started decades ago”, and went on to launch a sharp attack against the Trinamool Congress which, he said, continued the erstwhile Left Front government’s move to offer ration cards and voting rights to infiltrators from Bangladesh. This, he added, resulted in a radical change in demography in certain parts of the state and pressure on the local economy.”Toufique Hasan, the Bangladesh deputy high commissioner, did not make any statement on the development.Without naming the BJP, Trinamool Congress (TMC) Rajya Sabha member Sukhendu Sekhar Roy said, “Our leader Mamata Banerjee has already condemned the attacks. No political party should use a tragedy to carry forward its agenda.” The Left parties, including the Communist Party of India (Marxist), also voiced their protest during the day. In a memorandum submitted to the Bangladesh deputy high commissioner, the Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist) Liberation, or CPI(ML) Liberation, said, “The first attack on a Durga puja was carried out at Cumilla on the pretext of alleged disrespect shown to the Quran. This attack by fundamentalist forces was given recognition so that subsequent attacks could be carried out at Chandpur, Hajiganj, Hatia, Chittagong and other places.”“The subsequent attacks were preplanned and politically motivated,” said the memorandum signed by Abhijit Majumdar, state secretary of the CPI(ML) Liberation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-bjp-holds-protests-over-bangladesh-violence-focuses-on-plight-of-hindus-101634576673405.html
19-10-2021||India||India, Israel share ties of centuries: Jaishankar||The Indian diaspora in Israel has served as an umbilical cord that has nourished relations between the two nations, and there is a need to better document the heritage and history of the community, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said. Jaishankar made the remarks while interacting with members of the Indian Jewish community and Indologists in Jerusalem on Sunday. He is on his first visit to Israel after becoming foreign minister, and is holding talks with officials to boost bilateral relations. He said he was happy to be in Israel, a “land with which we have ties of centuries”, and amid the Indian Jewish community that has “in many ways been an umbilical cord” that has nourished these relations. Some Indian Jews were “uprooted in more difficult times and moved against their will”, while others made “more prescient choices” to move out of the country, he noted. “But among all of them, I would say that the Indian Jewish community is in many ways very unique because one, like other communities, it is a community that has existed peacefully in India for hundreds of years, which maintained its Jewish identity despite a long period of isolation from other Jewish communities,” he said. Those who chose a new life in Israel are a “basis for creating a new bond between” the two countries and the community has carried some flavours of India that have been retained or assimilated. There is the influence of the mangalsutra and mehendi among Bene Israelis, and the adorning of Torah arks with jasmine garlands and use of manara by Cochini Jews, Jaishankar said. “It is, therefore, not surprising that people like you say, ‘Israel is my fatherland and India is my motherland’,” he said. India’s connections with Jerusalem go back 800 years and the Sufi saint, Baba Farid, meditated in a cave in Jerusalem. This place later became a pilgrim lodge for travellers from India that is known as the Indian Hospice and symbolises India’s presence in the old city, Jaishankar said. Hundreds of Indian soldiers also fought and died in the region during World War I. Also Read: Jaishankar urges Israel businesses to focus on IndiaJaishankar said there is an urgent need to tap the Indian Jewish community and Indologists to better document the heritage and history of the community and societal cross flows. “How do we preserve the memory and experiences of the community elders? How do we listen to the younger generation of the community, understand their aspirations and make them a part of this living bridge? How do we enhance the reach of the work being done by the Indologists both within the community and outside? We will be happy to hear from you and would support your endeavours in this direction,” he said. Jaishankar also tweeted about a “productive meeting” with Israeli chambers of commerce and innovators. “Appreciate their visible enthusiasm for doing more partnerships with India. Many post-Covid priorities including digital, health, agriculture & green growth are natural areas for our collaboration,” he said. He said he had encouraged Israeli businesses to focus on Indian opportunities and take advantage of the country’s business-friendly policies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-meeting-with-indian-jewish-community-101634549670116.html
19-10-2021||NA||Highlights: Bengal BJP chief calls for strike in Uttar Dinajpur on Oct 19||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:West Bengal BJP chief calls for strike in Uttar Dinajpur on October 19West Bengal BJP chief Sukanta Majumdar has called a strike in Uttar Dinajpur on October 19 from 6 am to 2pm to protest against the death of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) district vice president Mithun Ghosh, who, the party claims was “murdered”. Eid-e-Milad processions banned in Mumbai, 2 locations exemptedThe office of the Commissioner of Police, Greater Mumbai, prohibited all Eid-e-Milad processions in the city, but allowed an exemption to Mumbai City district and Mumbai Suburban district, both have been allowed to take out one procession each. The processions will consist of 5 trucks carrying 5 people each. JP Nadda chairs a meeting of BJP's national general secretariesBharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national president JP Nadda chaired a meeting for the party's national secretaries on Monday in Delhi, reported news agency ANI. 4 Lakhimpur Kheri violence accused arrested by Police, SWAT teamFour Lakhimpur Kheri accused, Sumit Jaiswal, Shishupal, Nandan Singh Bisht and Satya Prakash Tripathi, were arrested by a team of UP Police and SWAT on Monday.Court rejects CBI's application for polygraphic test of Anand GiriA Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM) on Monday rejected CBI's application for polygraphic test of Anand Giri, and two other accused in relation to Mahant Narendra Giri's death. 1 policeman killed in explosion outside Balochistan University; 11 woundedOne policeman was killed in an explosion outside University of Balochistan on Monday, and 11 more were injured, reported ANI. The explosion happened by the university's main gate.Maharashtra extends timing of restaurants, shops; amusement parks Maharashtra has decided to extends timing of restaurants, shops and allow amusement parks to open from October 22, reported ANI. This decision came after a meeting between chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and the Covid task force.Russia shuts mission to Nato in response to expulsion of 8 staff membersRussia said that it would shut its mission to Nato in response to the expulsion of 8 staff members by the bloc. Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said staff at NATO's military mission in Moscow would be stripped of their accreditation from Nov. 1, and that NATO could interact with Russia via its embassy in Brussels if needed, reports Reuters.Colin Powell, first Black US state secretary, dies of Covid complications, says familyFormer US secretary of state Colin Powell died of Covid-19 related complications, his family said. Karnataka govt issues SOP for reopening schools for classes 1 to 5 from Oct 25Karnataka: Classes for std 1-5 permitted to reopen from October 25th, strictly adhering to #COVID19 appropriate behaviour and SOPs issued by the Dept of Primary and Secondary Education. Parental consent letter for physical classes is mandatory. pic.twitter.com/FnIenC2NrnKarnataka government allowed schools to reopen physically for classes 1 to 5 from October 25 and also issued SOPs regarding the same, reports ANI. TMC denies allegations of killing BJP youth leaderWB | Why will TMC murder him (BJYM VP Mithun Ghosh)? We don't know what happened exactly but the police is investigating the matter. Suvendu Adhikari's allegation is baseless. Alleging TMC for killing BJP is trying to avoid their own internal issues: TMC general secy Kunal Ghosh pic.twitter.com/hSxPjpJpKwThe Trinamool Congress has denied BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari's allegations of killing a BJP youth leader, reports ANI. Bihar deputy CM says cricket match with Pakistan should be stopped as a warning against terrorismBihar deputy CM Tarkishore Prasad said that cricket match between India and Pakistan in the upcoming ICC T20 World Cup should be halted as a signal to Pakistan against supporting terrorism, reports ANI. J&K civilian killings: Bihar police asks for deployment of more patrol teamsA request has been made to ensure deployment of Police teams&patrolling in the areas where people of Bihar reside&work in J&K. Bihar Govt has also requested J&K admn to form special team & ensure arrest of& strict punishment for terrorists involved in killings: Bihar Police (2/2)Bihar DGP spoke with J&K's chief secretary and DGP over the civilian killings by terrorists in the UT that claimed the lives of four people of Bihar and left one injured, reports ANI. The Bihar police asked ensure ensure the deployment of police teams and patrolling in the areas where people of Bihar reside and work in J&K. Defence minister Rajnath Singh launches ‘Integrated Unmanned Road Map for Indian Navy’‘Integrated Unmanned Road Map for Indian Navy’ was launched by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh at the Naval Commanders' Conference in Delhi. pic.twitter.com/treQPbYE5DUnion defence minister Rajnath Singh attended the second edition of the Naval Commanders' Conference and launched the ‘Integrated Unmanned Road Map for Indian Navy’ at the conference in Delhi, reports ANI. PM Modi to inaugurate Kushinagar International Airport, UP, on Oct 20, airport to be operational this weekPM Narendra Modi will inaugurate Kushinagar International Airport in Uttar Pradesh on 20th October 2021 in the presence of Gov Anandiben Patel, CM Yogi Adityanath & Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia among others. The International Airport will get operational this week pic.twitter.com/hfGxqfZKTyPrime minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the Kushinagar International Airport on Wednesday (Oct 20) in the presence of Governor Anandiben Patel, CM Adityanath and Union civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia, reports ANI. The airport will be operational this week. SP's Nitin Agarwal elected deputy speaker of Uttar Pradesh assemblySamajwadi Party's (SP) Nitin Agarwal elected as the Deputy Speaker of Uttar Pradesh assembly. pic.twitter.com/9Q3pEXFStvSamajwadi Party's Nitin Agarwal has been elected as the deputy speaker of the Uttar Pradesh assembly, news agency ANI reported. Jaishankar, Israeli counterpart agree to mutually recognise Covid vaccination certificates, reports ANITel Aviv, Israel: EAM Dr S Jaishankar and Israel's Foreign Minister Yair Lapid agreed on mutual recognition of the vaccination certificates. #COVID19 pic.twitter.com/kSNtQnmE5JExternal affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Israeli counterpart Yair Lapid agreed on the mutual recognition of Covid-19 vaccine certificates of the two countries, reports ANI. Covid-19: JP Nadda congratulates Uttarakhand for 100% first dose coverageUttarakhand has administered 1st dose of corona vaccine to every adult citizen. I congratulate the people, health workers & govt of Uttarakhand for this achievement. Under the leadership of Hon. PM @narendramodi, India's vaccination campaign is the largest & fastest in the world.BJP president JP Nadda congratulated people and government of Uttarakhand for administering Covid-19 vaccine to all eligible adults. Punjab CM Channi condemns Centre's move to expand BSF's jurisdiction, asks Badal to not politicise issuePunjab CM Channi Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi condemned the Union government for its move to expand the Border Security Force's jurisdiction in the border state.condemns Centre's move to expand BSF's jurisdiction. He also responded to Sukbir Singh Badal's criticism on Sunday and asked him not to “misuse this sensitive issue”.Myanmar junta to release over 5,600 prisoners jailed for anti-coup stirMyanmar's junta chief Min Aung Hlaing said on Monday that the junta will release 5,636 prisoners jailed for protesting against this year's February coup, adding that the ruling military in the country is committed to peace and democracy. Read moreAmit Shah to hold meeting with police chiefs of all states todayUnion home minister Amit Shah will on Monday hold a meeting with the police chiefs of all states and Union Territories (UTs) to discuss overall security situation and other policing/law and order issues.Bihar leaders condemn civilian killings in J-K, demand strong action from CentreLeaders across the political spectrum in Bihar on Monday condemned the recent killing of civilians, including those from the state, in Jammu and Kashmir and urged the Centre to take strong action against those involved. Read moreDelhi reports 1st death due to dengue this yr, total cases at 723The national capital has reported its first death due to dengue this year and the total number of cases have climbed to 723, the civic body said on Monday. 'Situation in J-K is worrisome': Sena MP Sanjay Raut on civilian killingsSituation in J&K is worrisome. Bihari migrants,Kashmiri Pandits,Sikhs are being targeted...When its about Pak, you talk of surgical strikes.Then,it should be done for China too...Defence Min or HM need to tell the nation what's the situation J-K & Ladakh: Sanjay Raut, Shiv Sena pic.twitter.com/cWckhCBTpwBJP chief JP Nadda chairs National Office bearers meeting at party headquartersBharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national president JP Nadda is currently chairing the National Office bearers meeting at party headquarters in Delhi. Alert in Assam over threats of attacks by Pakistan’s ISI, al QaedaThe Assam Police have issued an alert about possible attacks in the state by Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) and al Qaeda over alleged violence against Muslims. Read moreIndia records 13,596 new Covid-19 cases; lowest single-day tally in 230 daysIndia continued the downward trend in daily Covid-19 caseload, recording 13,596 new cases in the last 24 hours, according to Union health ministry data on Monday morning. Read moreTerror group ULF claims responsibility for Sunday's attack in KulgamTerrorist group ULF has claimed responsibility for Sunday's attack in Kulgam; warns non-locals to leave Kashmir or face consequences. Maharashtra CM to chair meeting of state's Covid task force todayMaharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will on Monday chair a meeting of the state's Covid-19 task force, according to news agency ANI. Death toll due to rain in Kerala rises to 24, rescue ops continueTill now, 24 people have lost their lives due to rain-related incidents in Kerala. Rescue operations are continuing in all affected areas of the state. Read moreUttarakhand: Very heavy rain expected, says IMD; issues red alertThe Dehradun centre of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday issued a red alert for Uttarakhand on Monday (October 18) with a forecast of heavy to very heavy rainfall. An orange alert is already in place from October 17-19. Read moreGrambling State University shooting: One dead, university operating as normal nowThe Grambling State University in United States' Louisiana, which saw a shootout on Sunday, is operating as normal now, according to reports on Monday. "GramFam, now is the time to be Unapologetically Unified as we rally to comfort one another after this morning's incident. The campus has been cleared for normal operations, however, homecoming events scheduled for 10/17 have been canceled along w/classes on 10/18," the University tweeted. Multiple shots were fired at the campus which resulted in the death of a person while dozen others were injured.  Rain lashes parts of Delhi and adjoining areasSeveral areas in the national capital and adjoining areas witnessed heavy rainfall on Monday. The current temperature in Delhi has come down to 21 degrees Celsius. The India Meteorological Department, meanwhile, has predicted light to moderate intensity rainfall in the Delhi-NCR region on Monday. Delhi govt’s ‘Red Light on, Gaadi off’ campaign to begin from todayThe Delhi government will from Monday begin its ‘Red Light On, Gaadi Off’ campaign in a bid to reduce pollution in the national capital. The campaign, which tells commuters to switch off the engines of their vehicles as soon as they stop at a red light, was first introduced by the government last year. Read moreOver 350 people including Americans leave from Kabul airportThe ninth evacuation flight from Kabul carrying 353 evacuees departed for Qatar on Sunday marking one of the largest evacuation flights from Afghanistan since the Taliban's hostile takeover in August, CNN reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-october-18-2021-101634517636117.html
