20-10-2021||India||UP man’s death in police custody sparks row, Priyanka Gandhi visits kin in Agra||Agra A Dalit sanitation worker died in police custody after being arrested on charges of theft in Agra, triggering a political storm on Wednesday with Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra briefly stopped on her way to meet the kin of the deceased. Arun Kumar, 31, died in police custody after his health suddenly deteriorated during interrogation late on Tuesday, said Agra police. He was arrested on charges of stealing ₹25 lakh from maal khana (storage room where confiscated items are kept) of Jagdishpura police station in Agra on Sunday. “Kumar was picked up from Tajganj area on Tuesday and during interrogation, he admitted to his involvement in the theft and said that the stolen cash was kept in his house. A police team recovered ₹15 lakh cash from his house. However, during the recovery, he suddenly fell ill and was rushed to a nearby hospital where he was declared ‘brought dead’ by doctors,” Muniraj G, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Agra, said. The kin of the deceased, however, alleged that Kumar was tortured by police. They demanded a compensation of ₹1 crore, a government job and action against the concerned policemen.“A case has been registeredunder section 302 (murder) of IPC onthe basis of a complaint by the kin of the deceased who has sought action against the concerned policemen. The district magistrate was contacted and the body was sent for post mortem. Further action will be taken on the basis of the post-mortem report and the investigation,” the SSP said. Following the theft on Sunday, six policemen, including the station house officer, were suspended for negligence.The death was condemned by Opposition politicians in the state that goes to the polls in early 2022 with the Congress and the Bahujan Samaj Party attacking the state government. Priyanka Gandhi left Lucknow by road for Agra at about 3 pm, but was stopped by Lucknow Police at the Lucknow-Agra Expressway on the grounds that the Agra district magistrate (DM) had requested to refrain political leaders from visiting the area. “Do I need somebody’s permission whenever I move out of Lucknow? Is there a problem... why am I not being allowed to go to Agra, is there a law and order issue?” she asked policemen who stopped her motorcade. “Someone has died, how can it be a law and order issue? Ask the DM by calling him. It is too much that I cannot go out anywhere and should remain confined in a guest house in Lucknow,” she added. Police said she was neither taken into custody nor arrested. “Because of the massive crowds, the movement of traffic was being hampered and she was first asked to either go to the party office or her residence but when she did not agree, she was sent to the police lines,” Lucknow police commissioner D K Thakur was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. The Congress UP in-charge was later allowed to proceed along with three others, party spokesperson Anshu Awasthi confirmed. She reached Agra at 10.30 pm and met Kumar’s family at around 11.30 pm. “A high-level investigation should be held and action taken against the policemen, and the victim’s family should get compensation,” Priyanka Gandhi tweeted. Lucknow Police later allowed four people, including state Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu and senior leader Acharya Pramod Krishnam, to accompany Priyanka to the spot. The sanitation worker’s death was also condemned by BSP chief Mayawati. “The death of a sanitation worker in police custody in Agra is very sad and shameful. The UP government should give strict punishment to the culprits and should also provide help to the victim’s family in every way. This is the BSP’s demand,” she tweeted. Celebrations to mark Valmiki Jayanti, the birth anniversary of Valmiki who wrote the Hindu epic Ramayana, were called off in the district on Wednesday.“There is much anger and grief among Valmikis in the city over the death of community member Arun Kumar, allegedly in police custody. We have called off all celebrations and will not stop till his family gets justice,” Vinod Allahabadi, senior vice president of Local Self Body Workers’ Union, said.“We demand a compensation of ₹1 crore for family members of the deceased, a government job to one of his dependents and prison for guilty policemen against whom a case for murder should be registered. In case the administration fails to meet the demands, the Valmiki community will not hesitate to go on a strike across Agra Nagar Nigam,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-man-s-death-in-police-custody-sparks-row-priyanka-gandhi-visits-kin-in-agra-101634754502738.html
20-10-2021||India||Dichotomy between Maoist surrender and rehab numbers||Only 3% of Maoists that surrendered in Chhattisgarh in the past three years have passed muster of the state Screening and Rehabilitation Committee (SRC), which decides if those surrendering to the state are eligible for benefits under the surrender and rehabilitation schemes of the government. Data accessed by HT from the beginning of 2018 shows that while Chhattisgarh, the state hit worst by the state-Maoist conflict over the last two decades, claims a record total of 1,462 Maoist surrenders, only 113 of these were actually sent to the SRC for screening, and only 47 were found fit enough to receive the benefits under the surrender and rehabilitation scheme.The process of rehabilitation by the government is meant to begin the day a Maoist surrenders, either to the state police, or administration or the central paramilitary forces that are posted in Chhattisgarh. Most Maoists that surrender immediately receive a protsahan rashi (encouragement reward), now set at ₹10,000. An interrogation is meant to follow where their rank is verified with police intelligence records, and recoveries recorded if they are surrendering with weapons or arms and ammunition, which increases the amount due to the person, given that there is a reward attached with each kind of weapon. Finally, the names and records must be sent to the SRC. This screens their antecedents, and if they pass muster, the surrendered Maoists become eligible for government benefits. The objectives of these guidelines for surrender, the Union ministry of home affairs says, is to “wean away misguided youth and hardcore naxalites who have strayed into the fold of the naxal movement and now find themselves trapped into that net and to ensure that the naxalites who surrender do not find it attractive to join the naxal movement again.” However, the MHA also adds that “tactical surrenders by those elements who try to make use of the benefits extended by the Government to further their vested interests should not be encouraged”.The benefits that a surrendered Maoist is eligible for in Chhattisgarh are significant: ₹5 lakh for a high ranking Maoist (category 1), and ₹2.5 lakh for middle and lower cadre Maoists (category 2A and 2B respectively); a monthly stipend of ₹6,000 for a maximum period of 36 months; additional incentives for recovered weapons; and study and house-building grants.While category 1 is defined as “State Committee members, Regional Committee members, Central Committee members and Politburo members”, category 2-A refers to area commanders, sub-zonal commanders and zonal commanders. Any other hardcore cadres, Dalam members and identified LWE (left wing extremism) cadre involved in heinous crimes will come under category 2-B.But to receive these benefits, the Maoists must be cleared by the SRC.The composition of the SRC is an additional director general of police (ADGP) or inspector general of police (IG)-level police officer from the state police, a representative from the state home department, and a representative of Central Armed Police Forces. The definition set by the MHA, for screening says, “The naxalite who surrenders may be a hardcore, underground naxalite cadre and a member of a Dalam and surrenders in accordance with the comprehensive surrender and rehabilitation policy being implemented by the concerned State Government. Rehabilitation of surrendered naxalite should be confined to dalam members and above, other ranks and overground supporters/sympathisers being considered only in exception cases. The authority designated by the concerned State Government for the purpose should ensure that the surrenderee is a genuine naxalite and the naxalite should make a clear confession of all the criminal acts committed by him/her including names of planners and other participants, names of financers, harbourers, couriers, details of the naxal organizations, arms / ammunition and the property looted/distributed/disposed of by the naxalite and organization to which the naxalite belongs, which may be verified.” The numbersThe records of the Chhattisgarh Police show that 1,462 surrenders have taken place in the past 33 months, from January 1, 2018, to September 25. Of these, as many as 1,223 were in the three districts of Dantewada, Sukma and Narayanpur. Of the 1,462 recorded surrenders, the district police administrations only sent 113 cases for scrutiny to the SRC, of which 47 were approved, and 66 were rejected. In 2018, 18 were approved by the committee of which only one was a “category 1” cadre. In both 2019 and 2020, the number approved was 14 (all category 2A and 2B) and this year, till September 25, only one surrender has been approved by the committee. The last meeting of the committee was on June 26 and another meeting of committee is scheduled in November, officials said. The SRC generally meets twice a year. The debate around surrendersHuman rights activists, who work in Bastar, said that the numbers are evidence that most surrenders that occur in the region are fake, and that this required an explanation from the police. Bela Bhatia, a human rights activist and lawyer, said, “Does this mean cases shown as surrenders are actually fake surrenders? The police in Chhattisgarh should be asked to explain. Our ground work has shown that ordinary villagers get picked up and are given the option to surrender or face imprisonment. Rather than facing long years behind bars, individuals settle for the former.” Senior police officials in Chhattisgarh defended the low number of cases being sent to SRC and being approved but claimed that the poor surrender numbers of top cadres is cause for concern.“Only those Maoists who have rewards on their heads and have police records are considered for compensation under governments’ surrender and rehabilitation policy, and that too if the surrender is approved by the state-level committee. Many lower cadres surrender before the police and go back to their villages and live a normal life. We don’t compensate them because they are not active. The aim of these small cadres when they surrender is to remove themselves from polices’ list and live a life without police fear,” said OP Pal, deputy director general (DIG) of State intelligence Bureau (SIB), and Surrender and Rehabilitation officer of Chhattisgarh, the head of the SRC. The DIG further said that lot of these surrendered Maoists are low-level cadres or a part of the “Jan Militia”, who have no bounty on their heads. “However, there are other benefits for them in different departments including – Below Poverty Level (BPL) cards, education and hostel facilities for their children, various health services, houses under state or central schemes, training for self-reliance and employment, if they are eligible for government jobs including induction in the police force,” Pal said. Activists, however, point out that these are routine benefits available to all. An IPS officer working in Bastar said that even in the case of cadres with bounties, there are bureaucratic challenges, such as what lists their names appear on. “Even with cadres who have rewards, many do not have their profiles in the state headquarters’ records, so their names are not approved,” he said, adding that the state intelligence bureau list should be regularly updated.The official added that with the primary LWE districts in Chhattisgarh-Dantewada, Bijapur, Sukma and Narayanpur, being geographically contiguous with Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, a region from where much of the top Maoist leadership hails, most choose to surrender in their home states. “It is a fact that very few senior cadres are surrendering in Chhattisgarh. This is because there is no pressure on them here as there have hardly been any arrests, or encounters where they have been reached, which means there is less incentive or fear to surrender. They largely operate in south Bastar which still has vast swathes where they are completely in control. Most importantly, most of the senior cadres are from AP and Telangana and more likely to surrender in their home states,” said the officer.Another police official based in Raipur said that the surrender of low-level cadre, despite them not making the basic SRC grade, should be seen as a positive sign. “Yes, this (low approval rate under SRC) is an issue of concern and the reasons should be discussed by the police and government. But, I believe that the surrender of lower cadre is also a positive sign because it reflects that people are leaving the movement and shifting from Maoist ideology or they have lost faith in Maoism,” said the officer. The people caught in betweenYet, for those Maoists who surrendered under the impression that they would be the recipient of the long list of benefits, but failed to make the grade, these debates bring little solace. Mahru Ram Punem is now part of the police, with the Narayanpur’s District Reserve Guard, carrying a gun again, a protagonist in a battle he was trying to escape. The DRG is a wing of the state police raised in May 2015, which operates in Bastar, and is comprised primarily of locals and surrendered Maoists, with the operational argument for them being that they provide innate knowledge of both the Maoists and the difficult terrain. “I had ₹8 lakh reward on my head when I surrendered in 2014. I was a platoon commander in Indravati Area Committee. I got ₹10,000 on the day and since then, I have received nothing. I have written many times to senior police officers but all of it has been in vain. In 2018, the police inducted me in the district DRG, but I have not received what I was promised,” said Punem, now posted in Narayanpur. Intelligence officers operating in Bastar said that there is clearly a question mark on the effectiveness of the state’s surrender policy if so many of the surrenders were “jan militia” with little to no stated police records. “It’s almost ironical that the state police claims that most of its surrenders are jan militia, who will not find mention in the surrender policy. This is only beefing up numbers to hide that very few active Maoists are actually surrendering. Area Committee Members (ACMs) or Divisional Committee Members (DCMs) seldom do it. The surrender of militia is like pruning the tree, which will constantly regenerate,” said one.But for 32-year-old Madka Varte, the process of surrendering to the Dantewada Police has brought another deep fear, typical to others like him. Varte is a resident of Mahrakarka village, falling under the Malangir Area Committee in the Maoist lexicon. He surrendered to the Dantewada Police in 2020, and was given at the time, ₹10,000 and nine goats. “Seven of the goats are now dead, and I have nothing left. Worse, because I surrendered, the Maoists think I am a police informer. I live in fear,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dichotomy-between-maoist-surrender-and-rehab-numbers-101634754443964.html
20-10-2021||India||At CBI-CVC meet, PM calls for zero tolerance to corruption||iPrime Minister Narendra Modi called on the Central Bureau of Investigation and the Central Vigilance Commission to have a “zero tolerance” policy towards corruption and ensure that there were no safe havens for those committing crimes against the country.Addressing a joint conference of the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) and Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) virtually, Modi said that over the past seven years, the work of his government has given people faith that corruption can be stopped.“People of the country have faith today that they will get benefits of government schemes without any give and take or without any middlemen.”Comparing this with the record of the previous government he said they lacked the will to control corruption.“The way the earlier government functioned, it lacked the political and administrative will to fight corruption. Today, there is a political will and administrative reforms are also being carried out to achieve the goal.”The second term of the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance government was marked by several high profile corruption scandals and a popular protest against corruption and it is widely believed that its loss in the 2014 elections was partly on account of this. PM reminded the officers about their responsibility. “You have to remember that your partnership is with this ‘mitti’ (soil), with Maa Bharti (Mother India).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/atcbicvcmeet-pm-calls-for-zero-tolerance-to-corruption-101634754349769.html
20-10-2021||India||Opposition plans to challenge Centre’s BSF order during Winter session||New Delhi: India’s opposition parties protesting the enhanced jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) in three states have drawn up a plan to challenge the Union government’s order in Parliament . They have included the subject “border management” for review in the parliamentary home affairs panel on Wednesday to pave the way for the scrutiny of the new BSF rule. On October 11, the Union government notified the jurisdiction of the BSF has been extended to another 35 kms from the border from the current 15 kms in three states—Punjab, Assam and West Bengal. It also notified that in Gujarat, which shares international border with Pakistan, the jurisdiction has been brought down to 50 kms from 80 kms. It stayed the same (50 km) in Rajasthan. BSF has explained that the changes bring uniformity to its jurisdiction across border states, and government officials have pointed out that the enhanced jurisdiction is also a function of technology, such as drones, being used to drop weapons, explosives, drugs and cash from across the border, but opposition parties have protested the move which they see as the Union stepping on the turf of states. The executive amendments were made under section 139 (1) of the 1968-era BSF Act, but opposition parties such as the Trinamool Congress and Congress have latched on another provision under the same section, 139(3), to seek an amendment of the order in the winter session of Parliament that is likely to start in mid- November. 139(3) states “Every order made under this section shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each house of Parliament while it is in session for a total period of thirty days.” The same section also gives power to lawmakers to approve or modify the order. 193(3) of the BSF Act adds that the executive order will be effective after “both houses agree in making any modification in the order or both Houses agree that the order should not be made.” The order is automatically approved after 30 days if there is no further modification. For the Opposition to negate the new BSF order, it has to pass a motion in the house against the new amendments, which looks unlikely given the numbers. Parliament is no stranger to Opposition’s challenge against executive orders on central laws. In 2012, then Opposition parties such as the BJP and the Left, wanted amendments on the changes in FEMA rules that allowed foreign investment in retail stores. FDI in multi-brand retail turned into a major political clash and the UPA even lost its crucial ally Trinamool Congress over the proposed entry of foreign capital into the sector. In 2018, when the Narendra Modi government notified the automatic route for up to 49% foreign investment in defence firms, the Congress and other opposition forces sought to challenge it. In both cases, the Opposition couldn’t succeed and the notifications were approved. At the first meeting of the revamped panel on home affairs on Wednesday, some Opposition leaders suggested that border management should be included in the context of the new amendments in the BSF rules. Chairman Anand Sharma (of the Congress) suggested that it can be added in the pending subject on coastal security. “The first meeting on border security which would cover the BSF issue, is likely to be held in November. It has been also decided that all concerned states as well as the union home secretary will be asked to depose before the panel,” a member said.The TMC, which is vehemently opposed to the power of the BSF to arrest anyone or conduct search operations within 50 km from the border without informing the local police, alleged that the new order has a political undertone. “Out of 23 districts in WB, 10 will be affected by this new order. It will also apply to 21 of the 42 Lok Sabha seats and practically the entire North Bengal (BJP’s bastion in Bengal) will come under the purview of the new order,” said a senior TMC leader who asked not to be named. The TMC and the BJP fought an intense and bitter election that the former won with a clear majority. Relations between the two sides have worsened further since then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-plans-to-challenge-centre-s-bsf-order-during-winter-session-101634754381964.html
20-10-2021||India||5 dead, many stranded amid rains, landslides in Bengal and Sikkim||At least five people, including two children, have died in various rain-related incidents in the tiny Himalayan state of Sikkim and the tea growing region of north Bengal which have been witnessing torrential downpour (no floods) and major landslides since Monday night. Normal life was thrown out of gear and hundreds of tourists, who thronged the popular hill destinations during the Durga Puja season, were stranded after National Highway-10, the main road linking Gangtok with the rest of the country, was snapped due to landslides in the area. The arterial roads connecting various spots in Darjeeling and Kalimpong hills were damaged at several points while NH-10 was believed to be damaged in at least 16 areas. Power supply and mobile network services were also affected. Two children, aged 8 and 10 years, were washed away in the swelling waters of Torsa River in Alipurduar on Wednesday. One died in West Bengal’s Kalimpong district on Tuesday, two died in Sikkim on Monday. .A home guard, identified as Suman Thapa, went missing after a landslide in Darjeeling.Several teams of National Disaster Response Force and civil defence have been deployed in these areas for rescue work.In a letter to West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, BJP MP from Darjeeling district, Raju Bista, sought additional teams of forces to tackle the situation.“Several areas such as Rimbick-Lodhoma, Tangta-Jaldhaka, Tukdah-Teesta Valley, various parts of Mirik subdivision, Lopchu-Peshok, Algara-Lava and Goke-Bijanbari have been virtually cut off from the rest of the country due to landslides. Over 50 houses have been damaged and a few hundred families could be rendered homeless,” he said. In the foothills in Siliguri, four houses were swept by Balasan River near Matigara. Darjeeling district magistrate S Poonambalam said: “Roads, which were closed due to landslides, are being gradually cleared and opened for traffic. Tourists were being rescued and provided relief.” The Rangpo Bridge, which connects Sikkim and West Bengal, was found to be in a precarious condition after the supporting pillars were damaged as the powerful Teesta river swept embankments at many points. East Sikkim district magistrate Ragul K, who took stock of the situation at the border town at Rangpo, said: “We have decided to allow the movements of light vehicles only.” The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said that the intensity of rain would decline in the next 48 hours. “Very heavy rain was recorded in the districts of north ,including Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Jalpaiguri. We had issued a red alert for Wednesday. The intensity of rain is likely to decrease over the next two days even though there would be light to moderate rain,” Sanjib Banerjee, deputy director general of IMD’s regional office in Kolkata, said. According to an IMD official, Darjeeling received around 233mm rain while Kalimpong received around 199mm rain in the last 24 hours. “Jalpaiguri and Siliguri at the foothills in north Bengal received around 151mm and 195mm rain, respectively, during the same period,” said a IMD official in Kolkata. While south Bengal too witnessed heavy rainfall in the past few days, the intensity has now reduced. While IMD stations located in coastal areas such as Canning, Haldia and Digha recorded more than 100mm of rain on Monday, in the last 24 hours, the amount of rain in these stations dropped to less than 25mm. Kolkata received just around 6.3mm rain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-dead-many-stranded-amid-rains-landslides-in-bengal-and-sikkim-101634754155263.html
20-10-2021||India||8 trekkers among 14 missing after heavy snowfall in Uttarkashi||Dehradun: Fourteen people, including eight trekkers from West Bengal and Delhi, were reported missing in two separate incidents amid heavy snowfall in Uttarakhand’s Uttarkashi district, officials said on Wednesday. In the first incident, on October 14, a team of 17 people left for a trek to Chitkul via Harsil in Uttarkashi district. They were supposed to reach Chitkul on October 19, but 11 of them went missing on October 18. “The team had gone for trekking near Lamkhaga Pass which is a 90km long trekking route passing through the remotest valleys of Kinnaur in Himachal Pradesh and Gangotri in Uttarkashi. However, on Monday, due to snowfall in the area, 11 went missing. Six of them, all porters, managed to go to the ITBP camp in Chitkul village in Kinnaur and inform them about the incident on Tuesday,” said Jai Panwar, consultant to Uttarkashi district on disaster management. “Of the 11 missing from the trekking route, eight are trekkers while three are porters. Seven of the eight trekkers hailed from West Bengal while one is from Delhi. The three porters were local,” he added.In the second incident, three porters went missing on October 17 when they were accompanying ITBP personnel to their posts near the Indo-China border in Uttarkashi. “The ITBP officers, who informed the SDRF to seek help in finding them, said that the local porters had left for the border with ITBP men on October 15. However, on October 17, they got separated from the ITBP men due to heavy snowfall and went missing. The ITBP informed the district administration on the same on Tuesday evening after which on Wednesday, a chopper of the air force left with the SDRF personnel to search the missing people,” said Panwar, adding that a team of ITBP personnel had also left from their base in Neelapani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-trekkers-among-14-missing-after-heavy-snowfall-in-uttarkashi-101634754149323.html
20-10-2021||India||Overflowing Naini Lake floods Nainital’s Mall Road||Dehradun: With parts of Nainital district receiving the highest-ever rainfall in the last 124 years, water from Naini Lake overflowed its bank and flooded the iconic Mall Road and Naina Devi temple complex on Tuesday. Several visuals on social media showed people wading through ankle-deep floods as water from the mango-shaped lake, which is situated at a height of 1,938 metres, overflowed and entered residential and business areas. Even fish from the lake spilled over to the streets, prompting a few local residents to put them inside a bucket and release them later into the lake.Some people were also spotted kayaking down the flooded Mall Road. “You could swim and move in a boat on the flooded road here. I also saw fish in large numbers moving in the waters on the road. I have never seen such a sight here before,” Pawan Singh Bisht, who runs a shop near the lakeshore, said. Noted environmentalist Ajay Singh Rawat, who lives in Nainital, said it is for the first time that the lake has overflown to such an extent. “In 1995, the water had overflown to some extent. But this time, it has happened in a big way. I don’t think such a case has happened here before,” he said. Generally, Rawat said, local authorities tend to release the waters into Baliyanala when the water level rises in the lake. “But this time, the rains were so severe that it left the entire area inundated,” he said. In 1880, 151 people were killed after a major landslide hit Nainital’s Sher Ka Danda area. Following this, a 79 km drain network was built by the British along the slopes and Nainital was divided into safe and prohibited zones for construction. “But constructions have come up in the same zones as well. And some constructions are over three storeys. Many drains have narrowed down due to encroachment and dumping of solid waste inside them. This has affected the free flow of rainwater into the lake,” Rawat said. Maruti Sah, president of Talital market association in Nainital, alleged that the authorities opened the gate of the lake late despite a rain alert in the district. “They opened the lake gate manually at 1.30 pm on Tuesday but it was already late. They should have opened the gate well in advance,” he said, adding that several people and traders around the lakeshore were affected.Varun Adhikrai, a resident of Nainital who works as a consultant geologist with the railway ministry in North East, said the overflowing of the lake may impact the stability of its slopes and sidewalls. “One overlooked factor which can contribute to slope instability around the lake is the sudden fluctuation in the water level. A full lake itself creates pressure on the slope walls on its sides. And when the water level suddenly drops by even a few metres, it can lead to slope instability on the sides of the lake and even cause a landslide,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/overflowing-naini-lake-floods-nainital-s-mall-road-101634754148082.html
20-10-2021||India||State govt to get initial results of 7th sero survey on Monday, detailed report||The preliminary results of the seventh round of the serological survey conducted in Delhi last month to estimate the population-level exposure to the Sars-CoV-2 virus (which causes Covid-19) are likely to be submitted to the state government on Monday, according to officials aware of the matter.“This round of the survey was conducted in great detail, so it will take some time to analyse the data. However, a preliminary report will be submitted on Monday. A more detailed report is likely to be submitted in early November, around Diwali,” said an official from Delhi’s health department who asked not to be named. Diwali this year will be celebrated on November 7.The complete report will also contain information about vaccine eagerness or hesitancy, which was among the “extensive list of questions” for which data was collected digitally during the survey, said the official.The government roped in three non-governmental organisations to help collect data during the current survey.Sero surveys are blood tests that check for antibodies to a virus. They are a good measure of the exposure of a population to the pathogen. They are also a proxy for the level of broad immunity that exists in the population, although the best immunity is that achieved through vaccination.A portion of the samples collected will also be analysed for neutralising antibodies that specifically target the Sars-CoV-2 virus. This will help researchers correlate the level of IgG antibodies detected in semi-quantitative tests (which just show whether levels of an element are high or low) to the level of neutralising antibodies and thereby estimate the protection that a person has from the coronavirus disease.This will be the Delhi government’s first complete survey after the brutal fourth wave of infections, which saw the city add over 28,000 infections at its peak.The last round of the survey in Delhi in April was interrupted due to the emergence of the fourth wave. Just 13,000 samples were collected, instead of the 28,000 targeted.These samples, however, returned a reading of nearly 56%, which means 56 of every 100 residents of the Union territory were exposed to the virus. The previous five surveys returned readings of 56.13%, 25.5%, 25.1%, 29.1%, and 22.6% respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/state-govt-to-get-initial-results-of-7th-sero-survey-on-monday-detailed-report-101634754052581.html
20-10-2021||India||New weapons deployed in east to counter China||BUM LA (ARUNACHAL PRADESH): The Indian Army has positioned new weapon systems in the eastern sector to strengthen its posture against the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA), which has ramped up military drills across the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Arunachal Pradesh amid the lingering border row in Ladakh, officers familiar with the development said on Wednesday.The new weapons deployed in the sector include the M777 ultra-light howitzers that can be swiftly deployed and redeployed in challenging mountainous terrain using the CH-47F Chinook helicopters, said one of the officers cited above.The army has also inducted the upgraded L-70 anti-aircraft gun, a legacy weapon manufactured by Swedish arms firm Bofors AB, into the eastern sector to tackle aerial threats. This is the first time the upgraded L-70 gun has been positioned in high altitude, said a second officer.Both M777 and L-70 guns are held by regiments holding ground near LAC.“There are many places where heavier artillery guns cannot be deployed because of the terrain. But the M777s can be sling-loaded to Chinooks and swiftly inserted there,” said Brigadier Sanjeev Kumar, the commander of an artillery brigade in Arunachal Pradesh.The 155 mm/39-caliber M777 howitzers have a range of up to 30km. “But it is capable of striking targets at ranges of more than 40km in some areas where the geography allows the shells to fly in rarified air,” Kumar said at a forward location at a height of 13,500 feet in the Bum La sector.Their tactical mobility has enhanced the army’s capabilities significantly, he added.The arsenal in Kumar’s brigade includes the 155 mm FH 77 BO2 guns, better known as Bofors.“If the enemy were to launch an offensive in this sector, the M777s and the Bofors will play a key role in crushing it,” said an officer whose unit is located barely two km from LAC.The M777s are also deployed in Ladakh where India and China have been locked in a border row for over 17 months.India ordered 145 howitzers from the US for $750 million in November 2016.The M777s are a key component of the army’s field artillery rationalisation plan (FARP), cleared in 1999. The ₹50,000-crore FARP lays down the road map for inducting new 155mm weaponry, including tracked self-propelled guns, truck-mounted gun systems, towed artillery pieces and wheeled self-propelled guns. The plan seeks to equip 169 artillery regiments with a mix of nearly 3,000 guns over the next decade, as previously reported by Hindustan Times.M777 manufacturer BAE Systems has delivered 25 ready-built howitzers and the remaining 120 guns are being built locally in collaboration with Mahindra Defence under the Modi government’s Make in India initiative.An M777 howizer weighs only 4,218kg, which is half the weight of conventional artillery guns deployed in the northern and eastern sectors.The upgraded L-70 guns that have just arrived in the eastern sector are capable of shooting down modern combat aircraft, armed helicopters, unmanned aerial vehicles and smaller drones.The guns, upgraded indigenously by Bharat Electronics Limited, have a range of 3.5 km.“The induction of upgraded L-70s here is an important capability upgrade. The biggest threat we face here is the aerial threat,” said a senior officer, asking not to be named.The upgraded L-70s have superior target acquisition and tracking capability with high resolution electro-optical sensors consisting of a thermal imaging camera and a laser ramge finder, said Captain Sariya Abbasi, a troop commander with an air defence regiment equpped with the guns.“The gun is also equipped with a new radar for enhancing fire accuracy. It can be integrated with tactical and fire control radars for more flexibility in deployment,” she said, during a demonstration of the gun’s capability at a forward location near LAC.Abbasi said the legacy gun was now a sophisticated air defence weapon.On Tuesday, Eastern Army commander Lieutenant General Manoj Pande said new equipment deployed in the Ladakh sector was being simultaneously inducted in the east, with focus on enhancing mobility, drone and counter-drone systems, precision-guided ammunition and surveillance systems.He also said the army had strengthened its deployment in areas where it was previously thin, and adequate forces were deployed to deal with any contingency.Soldiers on the ground are prepared for any eventuality and train hard daily to succeed in assigned missions.“Our defences and preparations are such that any misadventure by the adversary will be thwarted, no matter where he comes from,” said Major Rufus Johnson, a company commander of 18 Kumaon deployed at a height of 15,500 feet near LAC.Rufus is in charge of a location that forms the first line of defence against the Chinese near Bum La. There are scores of such locations along LAC in Arunachal Pradesh (the army calls them ‘integrated defended locations’) that have the responsiblity of thwarting adventurous moves by the enemy.At Johnson’s location, one of the many forward locations that HT visited on Wednesday, drills have been structured to instil aggression in soldiers.They follow something called Plan 190, as do other forward-deployed soldiers umder Tawang-based HQs 190 Brigade. It involves aggressive training, vigorous exercise, and meditation.“To deal with a wicked enemy and to carry out our unique operational role, it’s critical to instill aggression in soldiers. It prepares them to fight in a treacherous environment,” Rufus added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-weapons-deployed-in-east-to-counter-china-101634753301873.html
20-10-2021||India||PM pushes for enhancing storage facilities for crude||rime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday called for enhancing storage facilities for crude oil during a virtual meeting with chief executives of global oil companies.Those who attended the meeting included Amin Nasser, president and CEO of the world’s biggest oil producer Saudi Arabian Oil Co, Russia’s OAO Rosneft chairman and CEO Igor Sechin and London-based BP Plc CEO Bernard Looney.“Talking about the oil sector, he said that the focus has shifted from ‘revenue’ to ‘production’ maximization. He also spoke about the need to enhance storage facilities for crude oil,” the Prime Minister’s Office said in a statement.This comes against the backdrop of plans by Indian Strategic Petroleum Reserves Ltd (ISPRL) to sell 2.17 million barrels of crude oil each to Hindustan Petroleum Corp. Ltd (HPCL) and Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd (MRPL) by December, totalling 4.34 million barrels.This is the sixth such meeting that Modi has held with CEOs of energy majors. Attendees also included petroleum and natural gas minister Hardeep Singh Puri, Schlumberger Ltd CEO Olivier Le Peuch, Honeywell president and CEO Bryan Glover, Reliance Industries Ltd chairman Mukesh Ambani and Vedanta chairman Anil Agarwal.Modi’s call comes as India reels under high transportation fuel prices.India’s strategic petroleum reserves have started supplying crude oil to state-owned refiners. Last year, India bought crude oil at $19 a barrel to fill up its 5.3 million tonnes (mt) of strategic reserves, saving $685.11 million in the process. However, India has an existing crude storage capacity of 5.3 mt built at a cost of $600 million sufficient to meet around nine-and-a-half days of India’s crude oil requirements. The government has also approved the construction of an additional 6.5 mt of strategic crude oil reserves to support 12 days of crude oil requirements.In comparison, countries that are part of the International Energy Agency (IEA) hold 1.55 billion barrels of public emergency oil stocks. In addition, 650 million barrels are held by industry under government obligations and can be released as needed.“Prime Minister recounted that since 2016, the suggestions provided in these meetings have been immensely useful in understanding the challenges faced by the oil and gas sector. He said that India is a land of openness, optimism and opportunities and is brimming with new ideas, perspectives and innovation. He invited the CEOs and experts to partner with India in exploration and development of the oil and gas sector in India,” the PMO said.Speaking at the Fifth India Energy Forum by CERAWeek, Puri said, “India believes that access to energy must be affordable and reliable.”India has been making repeated appeals to the Opec- plus grouping that also includes Russia to hike production, as global energy markets across fuel sources including crude oil, gas and coal have been on a boil due to inadequate investments in view of the energy transition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pmpushes-for-enhancing-storage-facilities-for-crude-101634753058043.html
20-10-2021||India||Flood-hit families recount horror as rain abates in Uttarakhand||Dehradun/Haldwani/Rudrapur: 54-year-old Kiran Negi was asleep in her home in Almora early on Tuesday morning, with her husband and two grandchildren aged 12 and 16 right next to her, when a loud noise outside woke her up with a start.In a few minutes, her home was crushed under boulders and rubble. Negi somehow managed to muster enough strength to extricate herself, but her family remained trapped for hours. The body of her husband, Anand Negi, 60 was removed by rescue workers around 12 pm on Tuesday . Her two young grandchildren were all pulled out -- alive, but injured. “We were sleeping in the house early in the morning when we heard a big blast-like sound. Soon after, heavy muck and boulders came crashing down on our house burying us under it. I couldn’t understand what had happened. I’m not sure how, but I somehow stood up and came out of the house. My husband and grandchildren couldn’t, and got buried in it. It was not rain, but death pouring from the clouds on Tuesday,” a sobbing Negi said over the phone. At least 52 people have died so far after record rains lashed Uttarakhand over the last three days. Of the deaths, 28 have been in Nainital district, which saw the Naini lake overflowing, prompting frantic rescue operations from the Army, NDRF and SDRF. Nine of these deaths occurred after a cloud burst in the Ramgarh block of the district early on Tuesday morning. Apart from Nainital, Champawat district reported 8 deaths, followed by Almora with 6.  In shock after coming out of the house, Negi began screaming for help, and neighbours rushed to do their best. “But they could not rescue them from the debris. After some time, the personnel from SDRF and NDRF (state and national disaster relief forces) came to rescue the three. They could only retrieve the body of my husband. My two grandchildren were rescued, but they were seriously injured,” she said. The two were rushed to a nearby hospital, and are now in a stable condition. Like Negi, 65-year-old Munni Devi from Chopra village near Nainital couldn’t stop her tears after losing her 32-year-old son, Manoj Kumar, who was swept away by an overflowing stream of water near his home in the village on Tuesday night. Kumar, worked as a storekeeper in a hotel in Nainital, was returning home on his motorbike when he lost control while crossing a stream of water. His body was recovered by rescue workers a few kilometres away from the spot on Wednesday morning. “The rains took my young son. I lost a piece of my heart. I had never imagined I would see this day at this age,” said an emotional Devi. Even as the village mourned, Devi prayed and said, “I just pray to Lord Kedarnath that such rains should never happen again which take someone’s dear ones away from them,” Munni Devi said. SDRF commandant Navneet Singh Bhullar who has been on the ground in Rudrapur to monitor and assist in relief and rescue said, “We have already rescued many people in the last three days. Several rescue operations are still on in the affected areas with additional deployment of personnel in sensitive areas.” Close to 1500 people have been rescued since Tuesday in different parts of the state, officials said.Six NDRF teams have been deployed in Udham Singh Nagar, two teams each are stationed in Uttarkashi, Chamoli and one each in Dehradun, Champawat, Pithoragarh and Haridwar. “Two teams and a sub-team have been deployed in Nainital while one sub-team is placed at Almora,” an NDRF spokesperson said.In Rudrapur town of Udham Singh Nagar district, which witnessed heavy flooding on Tuesday, 48-year-old Nandlal Gangwar remembers frantic moments of horror. “The floodwater stormed suddenly into our house and didn’t give us a chance to carry our clothes, ration or valuables. My family ran towards the terrace leaving everything behind. Our fridge, TV, washing machine, clothes, ration and all other valuables are completely destroyed,” said Gangwar. Gangwar spent the day on Tuesday, with the rest of his family on the terrace of his home, waiting for the water of the river Kalyani, in spate at the time, to subside. “We only got down in the morning on Wednesday when the floodwater level reduced,” she said.Earlier on Wednesday morning, chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami visited affected areas of the state promising all possible help. “There has been massive damage. It will take time to return to normalcy - roads were washed away, there were landslides, rivers changed their routes, villages were affected, bridges collapsed,” Dhami said. “We want to assure the people that our government is with them in this hour of need. We are providing every possible help including food and medicines to the needy and will continue to do so,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/floodhit-families-recount-horror-as-rain-abates-in-uttarakhand-101634753072554.html
20-10-2021||India||Taliban dy PM meets Indian diplomats; both sides discuss concerns||NEW DELHI: A Taliban team led by deputy prime minister Abdul Salam Hanafi held talks with a delegation of Indian diplomats on the margins of a regional conference on Afghanistan hosted by Russia on Wednesday and reportedly discussed the need to address the concerns of both sides. There was no official word from the Indian side on the talks held on the sidelines of the “Moscow Format” meeting, which brought together diplomats from 10 countries, including India, Pakistan and China, and the Taliban delegation. The talks represented the first contact between the Indian side and a top member of the Taliban’s interim cabinet, which was formed last month after the group marched into Kabul on August 15 following the collapse of the Ashraf Ghani government. On August 31, India’s envoy to Qatar had met senior Taliban leader Sher Mohammed Abbas Stanekzai. A statement issued by Taliban spokesman Zabiullah Mujahid said the delegation led by Hanafi met the Indian team led by joint secretary JP Singh, head of the Pakistan- Afghanistan-Iran desk in the external affairs ministry on the sidelines of the Moscow Format meeting. “Both sides considered it necessary to address each other’s concerns and improve diplomatic and economic relations,” Mujahid said. The Indian side expressed its readiness to provide humanitarian assistance to the Afghan people, he added. People familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity that the Taliban spokesman’s remarks were not a full and accurate reflection of the discussions. India has said repeatedly in recent weeks that it stands ready to help the Afghan people against the backdrop of a looming humanitarian crisis. Earlier, diplomats from the 10 countries and the Taliban team discussed crucial issues such as providing humanitarian aid to Afghanistan and countering terror emanating from Afghan soil.A joint statement issued after the Moscow Format meeting noted the Taliban’s reaffirmation of previous commitments to “prevent use of the Afghan territory against its neighbours, other states in the region and the rest of the world”. Expressing concern at the activities of proscribed terrorist organisations in Afghanistan, the parties “reaffirmed their willingness to continue to promote security in Afghanistan”. The 10 countries called on the Taliban leadership to take “further steps to improve governance and to form a truly inclusive government that adequately reflects the interests of all major ethno-political forces”. They also called on the Taliban to “practice moderate and sound internal and external policies, adopt friendly policies towards neighbours of Afghanistan...and respect the rights of ethnic groups, women and children”.While expressing concern at the deteriorating economic and humanitarian situation in Afghanistan, the parties proposed to convene an international donor conference under the auspices of the UN as soon as possible. In his opening remarks, Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov called on the Taliban to prevent anyone from using Afghan territory against the interests of third countries, primarily the immediate neighbours and the Central Asian states. The Indian side was represented by joint secretary JP Singh and joint secretary (Eurasia) Adarsh Swaika. Discussions at the Moscow Format meeting dragged on for more than six hours, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity. Lavrov, who held a separate meeting with the Taliban delegation before the Moscow Format meeting, said he had discussed with the Taliban leaders the need to prevent the use of Afghan soil against other countries. Pointing to the lack of stability in Afghanistan, Lavrov said: “Numerous terrorist groups, primarily the Islamic State and al-Qaeda, are trying to take advantage of this in turn, and are once again rearing their heads and launching brazen [and] deadly attacks in various parts of the country.” Speaking in Russian, he added, “Unfortunately, the problem of drug production in Afghanistan remains acute. Today there is a real threat of an overflow of terrorist and drug activity, including those masquerading as migration flows, onto the territory of neighbouring countries. In this context, for obvious reasons, we are especially concerned about the Central Asian region.” Countering these threats to the security of Afghanistan and the surrounding region requires a “timely, adequate response both within the country and from external partners”, Lavrov said. “We call on the Taliban movement to strictly follow the line of preventing anyone from using the territory of Afghanistan against the interests of third countries, primarily against Afghanistan’s immediate neighbours - the countries of Central Asia, our friends and allies.” The people cited above said the diplomats of several countries, including India, raised the counter-terrorism commitments made by the Taliban during the Moscow Format meeting. Lavrov also said sustainable peace could be achieved in Afghanistan through the formation of an “inclusive government, which should fully reflect the interests of all ethnic and political forces”. Hanafi, in his speech, contended the Taliban takeover of August 15 had resulted in a “historic transformation” that took place “without bloodshed and destruction”. According to the text of his speech released by the Taliban, he said the security situation in Afghanistan is “satisfactory” and the Afghan people “have a responsible government committed to the national interest and safeguarding political freedom”. The Afghan people, Hanafi said, expect the world community to “have a formal interaction” with the Taliban government as the “isolation of Afghanistan is of no benefit”. He also called on the US to lift a freeze on the foreign assets of Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taliban-dy-pm-meets-indian-diplomats-both-sides-discuss-concerns-101634752704287.html
20-10-2021||India||Kerala rain: Toll rises to 42; at least 3.5k families shifted to relief centres||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday said that 42 people have died due to rain and landslides and six people are still missing. He said 304 relief centres have been opened across the state and financial assistance will be provided to those affected by the rains.Vijayan also said that 217 houses were completely destroyed in the rains and landslides. He further added that 3,851 families were shifted to rehabilitation camps.Kerala has been hit by heavy rain over the past week and several parts of Kerala have been affected by floods. The India Meteorological Department issued an orange alert for Kottayam, Pathanamthitta, and Idukki districts. Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad and Kannur have also been issued orange alerts by the IMD.“The India Meteorological Department (IMD), has sounded an orange alert for Kottayam Thiruvananthapuram, Pathanamthitta, and other districts. Other districts that have been issued with an orange alert include Ernakulam, Idukki, Thrissur, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad and Kannur districts,” the IMD said.The state government issued a high alert for places falling on the banks of the Periyar river as water released from the Idukki dam reached flood-prone areas of Aluva in Kochi earlier on Wednesday, news agency PTI reported. However, Kerala electricity minister K Krishnankutty said on Tuesday that there was no reason to be concerned about the increase in the water level of the Periyar river. He added that the electricity board suffered losses worth more than ₹18.24 crore due to the incessant rains.The state legislative assembly paid homage to the flood victims on Wednesday and adjourned the House till Monday in order to give MLAs time to tend to relief work in their respective constituencies.Kerala has 11 National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams deployed to help with rescue operations. Vijayan said that the Army, the Indian Air Force (IAF) and the Navy have also been roped in to help with rescue operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-rains-toll-rises-to-42-at-least-3-5k-families-shifted-to-relief-centres-101634748988989.html
20-10-2021||India||‘We love India…a huge friend’: Israeli PM Bennet after meeting Jaishankar||Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennet on Wednesday said that his country loves India and sees it as a “huge friend". “I speak on behalf of Israelis. We love India. We view India as a huge friend and we’re looking forward to expanding our relationship in all fields and all dimensions,” Bennet was quoted as saying in an official statement issued by his media adviser.The meeting between Jaishankar and Bennet took place earlier in the day and saw the two leaders discuss varied topics revolving around “strengthening the strategic alliance, expanding bilateral ties and deepening the warm friendship” between India and Israel.Along with Jaishankar, Bennet also thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for their “personal commitment” to the alliance between Israel and India.Meanwhile, Jaishankar extended an invitation to Bennet on behalf of PM Modi to make his first official visit to India.On Monday, Jaishankar met his Israeli counterpart Yair Lapid wherein both parties agreed to renew negotiations on a free trade area agreement (FTA) from November, and also to mutually recognise Covid-19 vaccination certificates. Following the meeting, the Indian minister said that the two nations are aiming to finalise the FTA by mid-2022.Similar to Bennet, Lapid too showered praises on India and his “friend Jaishankar” for visiting Israel that also marked a “precursor of events” to be held in 2022 on the occasion of 30 years of bilateral ties between Israel and India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-love-india-a-huge-friend-israeli-pm-bennet-after-meeting-jaishankar-101634751444369.html
20-10-2021||India||Why court mentions Rhea, Showik Chakraborty in order denying Aryan Khan's bail||The special NDPS court on Wednesday refused to grant bail to Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmum Dhamecha in connection with the cruise rave party. In its detailed order, the court laid out the reasons why it has denied bail to the accused. The cases of Rhea Chakraborty and Showik Chakraborty were mentioned in the order.The order referred to additional solicitor general Anil Singh's argument that Showik Chakraborty was also not in possession of drugs when the Narcotics Control Bureau arrested him. But the Bombay high court said that Showik appeared to be an important link in the chain of drug dealers. "He was in touch with different dealers. He had monetary transactions with them. Disclosure by each of them has led to the discovery of the involvement of others. Hence it is not desirable to release the applicant on bail at this stage," the order said citing the high court's past verdict regarding Showik.Only Aryan Khan has the details of...: 5 things court said while denying bail to SRK's son"...As held in the case of Shwoik Chakraborty, since accused are part of the conspiracy, each of them is liable for the entire quantity of drugs seized. Case of each accused can not be segregated from each other and can not be considered in isolation," the court said commenting on the present case of Aryan Khan. No drugs were found on Aryan Khan, but the court in its verdict stated that his case is not separate from the others who were arrested with drugs in their possession.The order then mentioned Rhea Chakraborty's case and said, "In the authority od Rhea Chakraborty (supra), it has been made clear that all offences under NDPS Act are non-bailable...Jurisdiction to grant bail is circumscribed by the provisions of Section 37 of the NDPS Act which can be granted in the case when there are reasonable grounds to believe that accused is not guilty of such offence and that he is not likely to commit any offence while on bail."Bollywood actor Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik Chakraborty were arrested last year in connection with the drug angle of Sushant Singh Rajput's death. They were accused of procuring drugs for Sushant. They got bail after spending months in jail. Their arrest last year brought Bollywood on NCB's radar as the agency questioned many Bollywood personalities in the last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-court-mentions-rhea-showik-chakraborty-in-order-denying-aryan-khan-s-bail-101634751217520.html
20-10-2021||India||SKM reiterates demand for fair probe into Lakhbir Singh murder, alleges conspiracy to defame farmers’ protest||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of farmers union, on Wednesday restated its demand for a “comprehensive investigation” regarding the murder of Lakhbir Singh by a group of Nihang Sikhs near the protest site at Delhi’s Singhu border. The body also said that the “true story” behind the murder should be revealed and called it an “attempt to tarnish the image of the farmers’ movement.”"We reiterate our demand for a comprehensive investigation into the conspiracy related to the brutal murder at the Singhu border on October 15. While the attempt to tarnish the image of the farmers' movement has not succeeded, the true story behind the whole episode has to come out to reveal to the world what the BJP is up to," the SKM said in a statement.The SKM’s demands came after the body of Lakhbir Singh, a Dalit farm labourer, was found tied to a barricade at the Singh border, where the farmers have been protesting against the three farm laws. He was killed by a group of Nihang Sikhs who had alleged that the victim had desecrated a Sikh holy book. After the incident, the SKM had distanced itself from the Nihangs and said that neither the accused in the case nor the victim were related to the union.Meanwhile, the victim’s family has denied the claim that he had disrespected a holy book and has also requested a high-level probe into the murder. Also, four people have been so far arrested in connection with the killings and are currently in police custody."As more news emerges about a group of Nihang Sikhs having met the Union agriculture minister in the presence of other people with dubious antecedents, and even about the offer of money for leaving the morcha sites, the SKM reiterates its demand for a comprehensive investigation into the conspiracy related to the brutal murder at the Singhu border," the SKM further said in its statement.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/skm-reiterates-demand-for-fair-probe-into-lakhbir-singh-murder-alleges-conspiracy-to-defame-farmers-protest-101634750851613.html
20-10-2021||India||Haryana CM announces financial aid of ₹5 crore for flood-hit Uttarakhand||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has announced a financial aid of ₹5 crore for Uttarakhand government owing to the natural disaster in the northern hill state, an official statement issued on Wednesday read. “Chief minister…said there has been a huge loss of life and property in Uttarakhand due to the natural calamity,” the statement added.Khattar also expressed “deep grief” over the loss of lives due to incessant rain and other related incidents triggered by flash flood in Uttarakhand, and condolences to the families of deceased individuals, the statement further read.
20-10-2021||India||India, UK to discuss advanced propulsion systems for warships on Friday||NEW DELHI: India and the UK will discuss the British side’s offer to supply advanced electrical propulsion systems for warships at a meeting on Friday that will coincide with a visit by foreign secretary Liz Truss and chief of defence staff Gen Nicholas Carter.The UK also plans to have a more enduring presence in the western Indian Ocean by deploying two offshore patrol vessels in the region from 2022, and a littoral defence group based around amphibious vessels from 2023, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity.The first meeting of a working group to discuss cooperation on integrated full electric propulsion systems will be held in Mumbai on Friday as part of engagements during a visit by the UK carrier strike group led by the HMS Queen Elizabeth, Britain’s largest warship.The UK is seen as a leader in these propulsion systems, which are used in the Type 23 frigate and Type 45 destroyer that are part of the carrier strike group. The Indian side has shown interest in the systems, and the people cited above said the two sides were in the very early stage of talks on the issue.Experts and operators from both sides will participate in Friday’s meeting to frame terms of reference for further discussions. The British side developed integrated full electric propulsion systems and removed risks associated with them while developing the Type 45 vessels, the people said.Almost 10% of the UK carrier strike group’s global deployment has been devoted to interactions and exercises with the Indian Navy and the two sides will conduct Exercise Konkan Shakti, the first wargames involving all three services of both countries during October 25-27. These drills are part of the shared interest of the two countries to ensure a free and open Indo-Pacific.The naval interactions are expected to continue even after the UK carrier strike group ends its deployment in November in view of the UK’s plans to deploy the offshore patrol vessels in the western Indian Ocean in 2022, later and a littoral defence group. These deployments are expected to be done from Oman, the people said.The littoral defence group is a new formation based around amphibious warships and Royal Marines that are aimed at allowing the UK to carry out maritime security tasks, including counter-terrorism, evacuation missions, humanitarian assistance and disaster relief. The people cited above did not rule out the possibility of joint patrols between the British warships and vessels of regional countries such as India.Truss, who will begin a three-day visit to India on Friday, will hold talks with external affairs minister S Jaishankar in New Delhi before travelling to Mumbai for talks with business leaders on Saturday. The UK side is keen to launch negotiations with India on a free trade agreement as part of the Roadmap 2030 launched by the two sides in May.The UK chief of defence staff, Gen Carter, will hold talks with his Indian counterpart, General Bipin Rawat. The Royal Navy chief, Admiral Tony Radakin, who is set to take over as chief of defence staff in November, will also be in India and will hold talks with his Indian counterpart. Defence and security is one of the five elements of the India-UK comprehensive strategic partnership, the others being trade and investment, climate change, health, and the “living bridge” for the flow of ideas and people between the two sides. The UK’s integrated review of security, defence and foreign policy, unveiled in March, included a tilt towards the Indo-Pacific to unlock new opportunities across the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-uk-to-discuss-advanced-propulsion-systems-for-warships-on-friday-101634750842406.html
20-10-2021||India||Diplomats from 12 countries participate in the event to open Kushinagar airport||NEW DELHI: Senior diplomats and officials from 12 countries with sizeable Buddhist populations, including Sri Lanka and Japan, joined the inauguration of Kushinagar international airport on Wednesday as part of India’s drive to popularise the Buddhist tourism circuit.Besides Sri Lanka’s sports minister Namal Rajapaksa, ambassadors of Bhutan, Cambodia, Laos, Myanmar, Thailand and Vietnam and senior diplomats from Mongolia, Nepal, Japan, South Korea, Sri Lanka, and Singapore participated in the ceremony led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to open the airport.The move comes against the backdrop of China’s efforts to project soft power through public diplomacy focused on Buddhism. The officially atheist Chinese Communist Party hosts the so-called World Buddhist Forum every three years. In recent years, China has sought to project that it will have the final say in choosing the next Dalai Lama while contending that India should have no role in the process.The inaugural international flight at the airport arrived from Sri Lanka with a delegation led by cabinet minister Namal Rajapaksa, the son of Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa. The delegation included 100 Buddhist monks, four state ministers and senior officials.“We believe the opening of Kushinagar [airport] will increase the number of travellers from Sri Lanka and also travellers from all over the world,” Rajapaksa said, adding it was an honour that his delegation was on the first flight to land at the airport. The Sri Lankan monks belong to different sects and prominent temples in more than 20 districts across the country. The only documented relics of Lord Buddha in Sri Lanka, the Piprahwa relics that are kept at Waskaduwa Viharaya in Kalutara, were brought by the delegation. The Kapilvastu relics of India, which have travelled abroad for display only six times in the past, were sent to Sri Lanka in 1978 and 2012.Buddhism is seen as an important bridge connecting the people of India and Sri Lanka. The advent of Buddhism in Sri Lanka in the 3rd century BC is linked with the arrival of Prince Mahendra and Princess Sanghamitra, the children of Emperor Ashoka.During a virtual India-Sri Lanka Summit in September 2020, Modi announced an outlay of $15 million to promote Buddhist ties between the two countries. Kushinagar has an important place on the global Buddhist map because of its rich heritage. Lord Buddha attained “Mahaparirvana” in the city and other important sites such as Sravasti, Kapilvastu and Lumbini are located nearby. These factors attract pilgrims from countries such as Cambodia, Japan, Myanmar and Thailand to Kushinagar. A large number of foreign devotees visited the Mahaparinirvana Temple in the pre-Covid-19 period.The new airport is expected to pave the way for more flights to Kushinagar from Buddhist countries. Vietnamese ambassador Pham Sanh Chau and Thai envoy Pattarat Hongtong said the new airport will reduce the distance for travellers from their countries bound for Buddhist sites and also boost tourism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/diplomats-from-12-countries-participate-in-the-event-to-open-kushinagar-airport-101634749342259.html
20-10-2021||India||'Hardeep Singh Puri saying bad things..': Congress replies to minister's jibe, posts PM's old photo||Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Tuesday posted photos of the Gandhi family members sitting inside aircraft and said those who fly in luxury should convince Congress-ruled states to reduce taxes and levies on the air traffic fuel. "Those whi fly in luxury must know that low ATF priced make flying affordable and fulfil PM Modiji's vision of 'hawai chappal se hawai jahaj' through UDAN scheme. Posting a photo of young Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi travelling with Indira Gandhi and Sonia Gandhi and another photo of Rahul Gandhi alone, the minister said, "Instead of questioning low ATF prices they should convince Congress-ruled states to reduce taxes & levies on fuel."
20-10-2021||India||Over 1,000 people evacuated in Uttarakhand so far amid incessant rain: NDRF DIG||Amid rain fury in northern hill state Uttarakhand, as many as 17 teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been deployed in the state for carrying out rescue and relief work, deputy inspector general (DIG) of the force Mohsen Shahedi told news agency ANI on Wednesday.He added that a total of 1,300 people have been evacuated and shifted to safe locations across the state. The 17 teams include those from Delhi and Dehradun along with two teams from Uttar Pradesh and six separate teams that were already deployed in the hill state as part of the pre-monsoon arrangement.Also Read | ‘My friends died in their sleep’: Uttarakhand rain fury leaves trail of despairShahedi said that Almora, Champawat, Udham Singh (US) Nagar, and Nainital are the most hit districts due to heavy rain in the state.The incessant rain in Uttarakhand has washed houses away, flooded roads and even caused Nainital Lake to overflow. The death toll in multiple rain-related incidents has shot up to 50, officials told Hindustan Times on Wednesday. Of the deceased persons, 30 are from Nainital, six from Almora, two from Champawat, two from US Nagar, and one in Bageshwar district. Furthermore, nine houses have been destroyed due to heavy rain.Meanwhile, two persons are missing after a fresh landslide was triggered in Dungri village in Chamoli district on Tuesday night, district magistrate Himanshu Khurana told ANI. Rescue operations by local administration and disaster management teams are underway, he added.Chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami has conducted aerial surveys of affected regions in Kumaon, and also spoke to authorities to take stock of the situation. He has already announced an ex gratia of ₹4 lakh each to the next of kin of deceased and ₹1.9 lakh to those who lost their houses in rain-related incidents in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-1-000-people-evacuated-in-uttarakhand-so-far-amid-incessant-rain-ndrf-dig-101634744059042.html
20-10-2021||India||CBI files charge sheet in Dhanbad judge murder case, still probing ‘conspiracy’||NEW DELHI:  The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Wednesday filed a charge sheet for the death of Dhanbad judge Uttam Anand, accusing the two men on an autorickshaw of “deliberately” mowing on July 28 morning when he was on his morning walk, people familiar with the development said.The charge sheet has been filed before 90 days, the stipulated time to file a charge sheet in a criminal case after the accused’s arrest, so that the two men arrested for the 49-year-old judge’s murder, Lakhan Verma and Rahul Verma, do not get default bail, said an officer who didn’t want to be named.They have been charged for the murder of Uttam Anand while “further investigations into the larger conspiracy” will continue, said the officer cited above, A special investigation team of CBI was probing the case and questioned several hundred people. A lie detector test and a psychoanalysis test was also conducted on the duo.The judge was fatally knocked down by an autorickshaw when he was on a morning jog in Dhanbad. The Supreme Court and the Jharkhand high court had taken suo motu cognisance of the hit-and-run incident in which the judge was killed after CCTV footage showed a three-wheeler swerving on an empty road to hit down as he was jogging.The Supreme Court later also expressed distress over rising incidents of physical and verbal attacks on judges throughout the country.CCTV footage showed that he was jogging on one side of a wide road at the Randhir Verma Chowk when the autorickshaw veered towards him, hit him from behind and fled the scene.The CBI has recreated the scene, while experts of the Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL) have also collected evidence from the spot.The case was handed over by the Jharkhand government to CBI, which dispatched a 20-member team led by investigator VK Shukla under the overall supervision of joint director Sharad Aggarwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-files-charge-sheet-in-dhanbad-judge-murder-case-still-probing-conspiracy-101634744662190.html
20-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: BJP workers protest missing school teacher in Odisha's Kalahandi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Odisha missing school teacher case: BJP workers bring Kalahandi to a standstillThe Bharatiya Janata Party on Wednesday demanded the resignation of Odisha home minister DS Mishra and imposed a 12-hour shutdown in Kalahandi protesting against the disappearance of a lady teacher. The opposition party also protested against the government after an unidentified body buried in the playground of the school where she taught was found. Read moreBJP says open for alliance with parties that put 'national interest' first, calls Amarinder Singh ‘patriotic’A day after former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh’s announcement on floating his own party, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday reciprocated to Singh’s offer for a "seat-sharing agreement" and said that the party is ready to join hands with anyone who prioritises national interest. Read moreVirat Kohli the bowler, Rohit Sharma's sixes, Ashwin's wickets: 5 big takeaways for India in warm-up match vs AustraliaIndia pretty much ticked all the boxes in their second and last warm-up match against Australia on Wednesday in Dubai ahead of the main rounds of ICC T20 World Cup 2021. Read moreAryan Khan denied bail: Shah Rukh Khan’s Raees director says ‘outrageous’, Swara Bhasker calls it ‘abdication of law’Actor Shah Rukh Khan’s elder son Aryan Khan’s bail application was rejected on Wednesday by a Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) court. The development was criticised by filmmaker Rahul Dholakia and actor Swara Bhasker. Read moreHow closure of schools is affecting kids' social and intellectual developmentConfined to their homes with little outdoor time and social interaction, many children are still reeling under the impact of Covid-19 pandemic. For young children, especially those below 5, it could mean delay in many developmental milestones. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-bjp-workers-protest-missing-school-teacher-in-odisha-s-kalahandi-and-all-the-latest-news-101634742914888.html
20-10-2021||India||Why keep out private doctors out of ₹50 lakh Covid insurance scheme, asks SC||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked the Centre to explain why doctors and health workers battling the Covid-19 pandemic in private clinics and dispensaries were excluded from the ambit of the central insurance scheme promising ₹50 lakh to families of health workers who died battling the deadly pathogen.“Prima facie the objective of the scheme is to provide social security to health professionals in view of the risks they faced due to Covid-19, be it in public or private institutions,” the bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and BV Nagarathna said on a petition by family members of seven doctors who died in Mumbai during the first and second wave of the coronavirus pandemic.On March 9, the Bombay high court held that private hospital staffers were not entitled to insurance coverage under “Insurance scheme for hospital workers fighting Covid-19” unless their services were “requisitioned” by the central or state government.The scheme, which was launched on March 30, 2020, under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package (PMGKP), assured ₹50 lakh to the family of health workers employed in public healthcare institutions who died due to Covid. It was extended only to those private hospital staffers and contract workers whose services were “requisitioned” for Covid duties by the state or central government hospitals or autonomous institutions such as AIIMSA Union health ministry statement on Wednesday said the scheme, which was due to end on 20 October, will continue for another six months. The statement said 1,351 claims have been paid under the scheme during the past 19 months. It did not indicate the number of claims which were filed, or rejected. The funds for the scheme were allocated from the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF), and released through the New India Assurance Company.As the bench issued notice to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and the Maharashtra government on Wednesday, the judges noted that the petition raised issues of considerable public importance since it has bearing on the security of health professionals who served the nation during Covid-19.Though the petition before the high court was filed by the widow of one medical practitioner, the court allowed the family of seven doctors (including the petitioner before the high court) to appear before the top court in view of the “nationwide consequences” flowing from the order.The court requested the solicitor general Tushar Mehta to assist in the matter when it comes up for hearing next after three weeks. “We request the solicitor general to assist the Court with regard to the interpretation of the scheme and to ensure the object underlying the insurance scheme is duly fulfilled,’ the order said.Pradeep Arora, one of the petitioners who appeared in person before the top court, faulted the high court order as it failed to consider an order issued by the Commissioner of Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation on March 31, 2020, directing all clinics and private medical establishments to remain open to serve Covid-19 patients even when the nationwide lockdown was in place.This order was passed pursuant to an earlier order of the state government on March 14 under the Epidemic Act 1897 requiring all medical institutions to remain at the disposal of the municipal commissioner for steps to prevent and contain Covid-19.He said doctors were forced to keep their clinics open due to fear of criminal action, and, in the process, lost their lives treating patients.The initial petition in the Bombay high court was filed by Kiran Bhaskar Surgade, who lost her husband, a doctor who operated his private clinic in Thane, to Covid-19 on June 10 last year.She first approached the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation to file a claim under the PMGKP insurance scheme. But her request was rejected by the insurance company on September 7, 2020, on the ground that her husband’s dispensary was not recognised as a Covid-19 dispensary. Surgade appealed against the insurance company’s decision in the high court.While her petition was pending before the high court, the Maharashtra government asked the Union health and family welfare secretary if the central scheme could be extended to all private practitioners. The Centre, however, reiterated that unless the services of any private practitioner was “requisitioned” by any public hospital or autonomous institution run by the government, they will not be entitled to claim insurance benefit.The high court dismissed the widow’s petition, relying on this letter.“The letter (by Union Government) categorically states that for a private healthcare provider to be covered under the scheme, he or she must be “drafted” by the State/Centre for Covid-19-related responsibilities,” the high court said.“Considering that Surgade’s services were not requisitioned as mandated under the scheme, we are unable to extend the applicability of the scheme to persons who fall outside the ambit thereof. Resultantly, no relief can be granted to the petitioner,” the court added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-keep-out-private-doctors-out-of-rs-50-lakh-covid-insurance-scheme-asks-sc-101634742621945.html
20-10-2021||India||2 LeT terrorists involved in attack on Bihar labourers killed in encounter||J&K Police and the Army have neutralised two terrorists who were involved in the recent killing of two labourers from Bihar on October 17 at Wanpoh, the police said on Wednesday. One of them is Laskar-e-Taiba commander Gulzar Ahmad Reshi, IGP Kashmir confirmed.Police said based on specific inputs of the presence of the terrorists, a joint leam of the Police and the Army launched a cordon and search operation, which was fired upon by the terrorists ensuing the gunfight.Earlier on Wednesday, two terrorists were killed in a gunfight in Shopian and one of them was LeT commander who allegedly shot dead a carpenter on Saturday. A terrorist, identified as Adil Ahmad Wani, who was gunned down in Shopian in the earlier encounter on Wednesday, was active in the Valley since 2020.In the last two weeks, 15 terrorists have been neutralised, inspector-general (Kashmir) Vijay Kumar said.Civilians, especially non-local people who have come to J&K for work, have been the target of the recent terrorist attacks in the Valley. On Saturday, last week, a golgappa seller from Bihar Arvind Kumar was shot dead in Eidgah while a labourer from Uttar Pradesh Sagir Ahmed Ansari was killed in Pulwama. Wani, the terrorist who was killed earlier today, was involved in Ansari's death, police said. On Sunday, terrorists fired indiscriminately at the Wanpoh area of Kashmir's Kulgam area killing two labourers from Bihar Raja Reshi Dev, Joginder Reshi Dev. Another labourer from Bihar Chunchun Reshi Dev was reportedly injured.The targeted killing of the civilians began in the first week of October and since then hundreds of people have been interrogated or detained. Security agencies have intensified searches across the Kashmir valley as targeted killing has spread scare among migrant workers who have begun to leave the region. Union home minister Amit Shah is likely to visit the Union territory in the last week of October to review the security situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-let-terrorists-involved-in-attack-on-bihar-labourers-killed-in-encounter-101634741302531.html
20-10-2021||India||Odisha missing school teacher case: BJP workers bring Kalahandi to a standstill||The Bharatiya Janata Party on Wednesday demanded the resignation of Odisha home minister DS Mishra and imposed a 12-hour shutdown in Kalahandi protesting against the disappearance of a lady teacher. The opposition party also protested against the government after an unidentified body buried in the playground of the school where she taught was found.The BJP accused Mishra of facilitating the escape of the prime accused from a police barrack from neighbouring Bolangir’s Titlagarh on Sunday, news agency PTI reported. The disappearance of the teacher has caused furore in the state. The accused was arrested from a sugarcane field in Bolangir on Tuesday. The accused is the president of the managing committee of the school where she taught.The teacher, who is 24 years old, went missing on October 8. The police on Tuesday exhumed half burnt and mutilated body from 10 feet under the playground of the school at Mahaling where she taught. The family claimed that the body was that of the missing teacher.The accused was booked under Section 366 of the IPC (kidnapping a woman to compel her to marry or to cause her defilement).BJP’s protesters halt daily lifeThe Kalahandi district came to a standstill following the shutdown call, police officials told PTI. They said that BJP workers in large numbers took the street and picketed in important locations. Some BJP workers also blocked roads, burnt tyres and protested in front of government offices.Some BJP Mahila Morcha members attempted to enter DS Mishra’s residence in Bhubaneswar and threw eggs at it. Police forces were deployed near the minister’s house immediately.Bhawanipatna, Junagarh, Jaipatna, Kesinga, Narla, M Rampur, Dharamgarh and Lanjigarh areas also came to a standstill following the shutdown call. Business establishments and educational institutions remained closed while shops and roads were also deserted. The NH-26 also wore a deserted look due to the shutdown.BJD and BJP workers come face to faceNaktiguda witnessed Biju Janata Dal (BJD) workers come face to face with BJP workers but the former left the site and the picketing staged by the BJP workers continued.BJP calls for bandhThe BJP called a Bolangir bandh on Thursday over this issue. The BJP as well as the Congress are demanding the resignation of Mishra and a CBI probe into the incident. The party state president Samir Mohanty demanded Mishra’s resignation over the incident. He said that he should step down as it was his constituency and the accused was close to him. Odisha’s leader of opposition PK Naik asked Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik to conduct a CBI probe. He in a letter also said that Mishra should resign for sake of a neutral enquiry.In his letter he said the accused allegedly also physically exploited girl students admitted to the school and the college which are run by him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-missing-school-teacher-case-bjp-workers-bring-kalahandi-to-a-standstill-mamita-meher-101634740242300.html
20-10-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: On October 21, 1977 — Parliamentary set up for Pakistan; accord at leaders’ meet||Rawalpindi A constitutional conference today reached agreement on general lines for a federal parliamentary Government for Pakistan, a spokesman said. The accord, reached after four days’ consultation among leaders of Pakistan’s political parties, called for a Prime Minister responsible to the National Assembly, a strong Central Government and autonomous provinces with adequate economic resources.The agreement, signed today by Pakistani leaders convened by President Z. A. Bhutto, also provided for an Assembly of 200 members and a Senate of 60 members, the former to be elected by popular vote and the latter by provincial Assemblies.Islam is to be the State religion guaranteed by the new constitution. The new constitution provides that the President be chosen by an electoral college made up of Senate and National Assembly members. Immediately after the agreement was signed, President Bhutto told Radio Pakistan that the constitution could now be prepared within the stipulated time, reports UNI. Mr Bhutto had earlier fixed March 23, next year, as the deadline for the promulgation of the new constitution.Observers believed that with the President becoming a titular head under the new set-up, Mr Bhutto would step down to become the Prime Minister in whom will reside effective power. Baluchistan Governor Mir Ghaus Bakhsh Bizenfo and North West Frontier Province Governor Arbab Sikandar Khan Khalil, both leaders of the National Awami Party, expressed satisfaction over the accord.Mr Bhutto congratulated all the leaders who participated in the talks and said each one of them had contributed to the agreement reached. Mr Bizenjo said in the upper house, to be known as the Senate, all the provinces would have equal representation. The provision for equal representation of all provinces, which is borrowed from the American constitution, will give Sind, Baluchistan and NWFP the same say in the Senate as Punjab, which accounts for more than 60 per cent of Pakistan’s population.Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Abdul Hafiz Peerzada said that at today’s meeting, a consensus was reached on “equitable distribution of power” between the Centre and the provinces. Mr Peerzada told newsmen in Rawalpindi that there was complete unanimity of views at the constitutional talks. He described the agreement reached as “an ideal arrangement under the circumstances which ensures the country’s unity and integrity.”Announcing the details of the formula, Mr Peerzeda said that all actions of the Government would be taken in the name of the President but the chief executive would be the Prime Minister. “The President will Act on the advice of the Prime Minister in all matters and his advice will be binding in all respects,” he added. The country shall be known as the ‘Islamic Republic of Pakistan.’ An amendment to the permanent constitution, when it had been framed and passed, will require an absolute majority of not less than two-third members of the lower house. The amendment Bill must be passed by the Senate by a simple majority. The judiciary and the Election Commission are to be independent of the executive. Fundamental rights shall be guaranteed, and safeguards will be provided against preventive detentions. The Prime Minister shall be from the lower house. It shall be the right of the Prime Minister to seek dissolution of the National Assembly even during the pendency of a motion of no-confidence against him. If the Prime Minister thinks that members of the House are not acting in accordance with the mandate of the people, he will ask for a dissolution which will be granted. Special provisions have been made to ensure stability in the country. These will apply mutatis mutandis to the legislatures of the four provinces. A vote of no-confidence shall not be moved during a budget session.A vote of no-confidence shall not be moved against the Prime Minister unless by the same resolution, the name of another member of the Assembly is proposed for Prime Ministership. The proposed constitution must now go before the constitutional commission of the National Assembly before being submitted to a final vote, probably before the end of next April.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthis-day-on-october-21-1977-parliamentary-set-up-for-pakistan-accord-at-leaders-meet-101634737942052.html
20-10-2021||India||Asaram’s son Narayan Sai suffers setback in SC, judges cancel HC order on furlough||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Wednesday set aside the Gujarat high court order accepting the appeal for furlough from self-styled preacher Asaram’s son Narayan Sai, ruling in favour of the Gujarat government decision to reject the request on the ground that Sai’s release could lead to disruption of public peace and tranquillity.In its ruling, the bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and BV Nagarathna cited Narayan Sai’s track record during and after the trial that led to his conviction. “The conduct after the trial, in jail, has not been shown to be above reproach,” the bench said, concluding that the Gujarat Police was fully justified to decline his furlough request.Sai was convicted in April 2019 in a rape case on a complaint by two women who alleged to have been raped between 2002 and 2005 at a Surat ashram run by him and his father Asaram. He was convicted for rape, assault, unnatural offences and criminal conspiracy and is serving a life term.After the Gujarat Police turned down his request for release on furlough on May 8, he approached the high court, which directed the authorities on June 24 to release him on a two-week furlough. The Gujarat government quickly petitioned the Supreme Court against the high court order and was granted a stay.“The opinion of the Sanctioning Authority under the Bombay Furlough and Parole Rules 1959 does not suffer from perversity nor does it consider material extraneous to the Rules governing the grant of furlough,” the bench said, pointing that the order rejecting furlough “adduced a number of circumstances which cumulatively indicate that the release of the respondent (Sai) on furlough may lead to a violation of public peace.”Furlough is one of the two types of leave granted to convicts; parole is the other one. A prisoner is entitled to release on furlough on serving time in jail subject to the condition of demonstrated good behaviour before the prison authorities.The Supreme Court bench referred to the threat that Sai and his followers posed to the complainant in the rape case and other persons who deposed at the trial. “An attempt has been made to threaten and suborn the investigating team and the witnesses. The respondent and his father have a mass following of persons who owe loyalty to them and there is a reasonable apprehension of disruption of public peace and tranquillity,” the court said, noting that Narayan Sai also attempted to bribe public officials during the trial.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who argued the appeal for the state government, had pointed out that Narayan Sai was already granted a two-week furlough under the 1959 Rules in December 2020 since the request was made to attend to his mother’s health who had suffered a cardiac arrest. But since Sai sought furlough again within six months, the Director-General of Police turned down the request on grounds of public peace and tranquillity, and unsatisfactory conduct in jail.The state government pointed out that even the jail superintendent did not favour his release since Sai kept a mobile phone inside the jail illegally and attempted to make contacts with the outside world. He was also accused of assaulting and murdering witnesses by his followers, besides threatening police officials and inspectors of the Income Tax Department. This, Tushar Mehta said, was ground under the 1959 Rules to deny furlough. Moreover, the police weighed the crime of which he was convicted to be a heinous offence.Mehta cited the provision in the rule that made it clear that prisoners did not have a legal right to furlough. He also cited a 2006 judgment of the Supreme Court that underlined that furlough is not an absolute right and the idea was to periodically allow the convict to have a family association and avoid the ill-effects of continuous stay in jail.The bench held, “The grant of furlough must be balanced against the public interest and can be refused to certain categories of prisoners. Although furlough can be claimed without a reason, the prisoner does not have an absolute legal right to claim furlough.” These principles, the Court said, must be applied in the context of each individual case.Narayan Sai sought to rebut the charges against him, claiming that all allegations against him pertained to the period prior to 2016, after which there were no complaints. He even argued that after being granted parole in December 2020, he did not violate any conditions of furlough and nor was there any disruption of law and order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/asarams-son-narayan-sai-suffers-setback-in-sc-judges-cancel-hc-order-on-furlough-101634737401511.html
20-10-2021||India||Only Aryan Khan has the details of...: 5 things court said while denying bail to SRK's son||As the Special NDPS court refused Aryan Khan bail in connection with the cruise rave party, it said that all accused in the case acted in conspiracy with each other and all of them are connected in the same thread. The conspiracy angle needs to be proved, but prima facie it is clear that all of them are part of a bigger nexus, the court said.Here are the five observations that the special NDPS court made about Aryan Khan and the case1. Aryan Khan was in touch with other drug dealers who appear to be part of an international drug network. The NCB is trying to trace these persons and check their criminal records.
20-10-2021||India||Centre issues norms for international arrivals, makes negative RT-PCR test must||The Centre on Wednesday revised the existing guidelines for international arrivals to India. The revised guidelines, which will come into effect from October 25, require mandatory RT-PCR report showing samples tested as negative for passengers to board an international flight to India.“In view of increasing vaccination coverage across the globe and the changing nature of the pandemic, the existing guidelines for international arrivals in India have been reviewed,” the ministry of health and family welfare said in a notification.International scheduled commercial flights to India was suspended till October 31 owing to the coronavirus diseases (Covid-19) pandemic. However, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation allowed international cargo flights and those approved by the regulator on select routes to operate.The Indian government banned international commercial flights since March 23, 2020, to check the spread of the Covid-19 infection. It eased the restrictions on flights in certain countries with which India has had an air bubble arrangement during the past year.The air bubble pact between the two countries allows the operation of special international flights by the national carrier between their territories. India has formed air bubble pacts with around 25 countries, including the United States, the United Kingdom, the United Arab Emirates, the Maldives, the Netherlands, France, Germany, Qatar and Bhutan.The revised guidelines laid down protocols to be complied with international travellers as well those to be followed by airlines, points of entry — including airports, seaports and land border — for risk profiling of passengers.However, the Indian government travellers fromc ertain countries, including European Union, the United Kingdom, South Africa, Brazil, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand and Zimbabwe, would need to follow additional measures on arrival in India, including post-arrival Covid-19 testing.Know what the revised guidelines are:A.1. Planning for Traveli. All travellers shoulda. Submit self-declaration form on the online Air Suvidha portal (www.newdelhiairport.in) before the scheduled travel.b. Upload a negative Covid-19 RT-PCR report. This test should have been conducted within 72 hours prior to undertaking the journey.c. Each passenger shall also submit a declaration with respect to authenticity of the report and will be liable for criminal prosecution, if found otherwise.ii. They should also give an undertaking on the portal or otherwise to ministry of civil aviation, through airlines before they are allowed to undertake the journey that they would abide by the decision of the appropriate government authority to undergo home quarantine or self-health monitoring, as warranted.iii. Continuing with the earlier approach, travellers from certain specified Countries (based on epidemiological situation of Covid-19 in those countries) are identified for additional follow up. These include need for additional measures as detailed in para (xv) below. The listing of such specified Countries is a dynamic exercise based on evolving situation of Covid-19 across the world and will be made available on the websites of ministry of health and family welfare, (mohfw.gov.in) and the link of the same will be available at website of ministry of external affairs and Air Suvidha Portal.iv. There are countries which have agreement with India on mutual recognition of vaccination certificates of nationally recognised or WHO recognised vaccines. Similarly, there are countries which presently do not have such an agreement with India, but they exempt Indian citizens fully vaccinated with nationally recognised or WHO recognised vaccines. On the basis of reciprocity, the travellers from all such countries which provide quarantine-free entry to Indians are allowed certain relaxations on arrival (category A countries). The listing of such countries is available on websites of ministry of health and family welfare (mohfw.gov.in) and the link of the same will be available at website of ministry of external affairs and Air Suvidha Portal. This is also a dynamic list and will be updated from time to time. The travellers from category A countries shall upload their fully vaccinated certificate on the Air Suvidha portal.A.2. Before Boardingv. Do’s and Don'ts shall be provided along with ticket to the travellers by the airlines/agencies concerned.vi. Airlines to allow boarding by only those passengers who have filled in the self declaration form on the Air Suvidha portal, uploaded the negative RT-PCR test report.vii. At the time of boarding the flight, only asymptomatic travellers will be allowed to board after thermal screening.viii. All passengers shall be advised to download Aarogya Setu app on their mobile devices.A.3. During Travelix. In-flight announcement about Covid-19 including precautionary measures to be followed shall be made at airports and in flights and during transit.x. During in-flight crew shall ensure that Covid-appropriate behaviour is followed at all times.xi. If any passenger reports symptoms of Covid-19 during flight, he/she shall be isolated as per protocol.A.4. On arrivalxii. Deboarding should be done ensuring physical distancing.xiii. Thermal screening would be carried out in respect of all the passengers by the health officials present at the airport. The self-declaration form filled online shall be shown to the airport health staff.xiv. The passengers found to be symptomatic during screening shall be immediately isolated and taken to medical facility as per health protocol. If tested positive, their contacts shall be identified and managed as per laid down protocol.xv. Travellers from specified countries at risk [as mentioned in para (iii) above] will follow the protocol as detailed below:a. If traveller is coming from a country with which India has reciprocal arrangements formutual acceptance of WHO approved Covid-19 vaccines (Category A):i. If fully vaccinated: They shall be allowed to leave the airport and shall selfmonitor their health for 14 days’ post arrival.ii. If partially/not vaccinated: The travellers need to undertake the following measures: Submission of sample for post-arrival Covid-19 test at the point of arrival after which they will be allowed to leave the airport, Home quarantine for 7 days, Re-test on the 8th day of arrival in India and if negative, further selfmonitor of their health for next 7 days.b. If traveller is coming from a country excluding those covered under Category A, they would be required to undergo the measures as mentioned in para a (ii) above, irrespective of their Covid-19 vaccination status.xvi. Travellers from countries excluding those countries at risk, will be allowed to leave the airport and shall self-monitor their health for 14 days post-arrival. This is applicable to travellers from all countries including countries with which reciprocal arrangements for mutual acceptance of WHO approved Covid-19 vaccines also exist.xvii. Travellers under home quarantine or self-health monitoring, if develop signs and symptoms suggestive of Covid-19 or test positive for Covid-19 on re-testing, they will immediately selfisolate and report to their nearest health facility or call National helpline number (1075) or the state helpline number.ALSO READ | Singapore welcomes more tourists under quarantine-free programmeInternational travellers arriving at seaports/land portsxviii. International travellers arriving through seaports or land ports will also have to undergo the same protocol as above, except that facility for online registration is not available for such passengers currently.xix. Such travellers shall submit the self-declaration form to the concerned authorities of government of India at seaports/land ports on arrival.The Union health ministry earlier this month issued travel guidelines and said based on the evolving scenario, the revised guidelines stood withdrawn and the earlier advisories on international passenger arrival issued on February 17 would be applicable to all travellers arriving in India from the United Kingdom.India imposed a new rule that British nationals arriving in India, irrespective of their vaccination status, will have to undergo 10 days of mandatory quarantine from October 4 as part of the reciprocal actions initiated by the Centre following the Covid-19 vaccine certification row between the two countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-issues-norms-for-international-arrivals-makes-negative-rt-pcr-test-must-101634731120566.html
20-10-2021||India||Fabindia, other brands which offended boycott brigade||Fabindia withdrew an advertisement after facing backlash over “Jashn-e-Riwaaz”, a collection of clothes for the upcoming festive season. Bharatiya Janata Party leader Tejasvi Surya argued the collection was an “attempt of abrahamisation of Hindu festivals” and that the models in the advertisement were “depicted without traditional Hindu clothes”. Several social media users also called for boycotting Fabindia. In the last few years, several other brands including Zomato, Unilever, Manyavar and Tanishq have faced similar backlash:-- Manyavar’s ad featuring actor Alia Bhatt drew a similar backlash in September this year for hurting religious sentiments. The ad showed Bhatt, who was playing a bride, critiquing the idea of “kanyadaan” and questioning why daughters are considered “paraya dhan”. While the ad appealed to many, it also drew backlash from people who were offended and argued that Manyavar misinterpreted the Hindu tradition.-- Jewellery brand Tanishq last year faced backlash for its “Ekatvam” campaign that depicted an interfaith baby shower. It removed the advertisement for the campaign. The brand also issued an apology for hurting “public sentiments”.-- In 2019, Hindustan Unilever Limited faced a similar backlash for its Red Label advertisement which was themed on Ganesh Chaturthi. In the ad, the brand showed a man visiting a Ganesh idol sculptor ahead of the festival only to defer his purchase on realising that the sculptor is Muslim. However, the buyer eventually makes the purchase after having tea with the sculptor.Also Read: Fabindia withdraws Diwali ad after row over Urdu phraseHindu Janajagruti Samiti asked the company to remove the ad and tweeted: “We appeal Red Label Chai and HUL News to remove ads insulting religious sentiments of Hindus and apologise to Hindu Community.” --Surf Excel’s Holi ad “Rang Laaye Sang” based on Hindu-Muslim harmony drew flak for “hurting the sentiments” of Hindus and “portraying the festival in a bad light”. -- Food delivery app Zomato found itself mired in controversy when netizens questioned its decision to advertise on Republic TV. Actress Swara Bhaskar tweeted, “Hey @zomatoin @zomato@deepigoyal I’m your regular customer.. do u plan to #DefundTheHate & pull your ads from hate espousing channels like @Republic_Bharat ? I’m not okay with my money even indirectly funding this kind of communal bigoted hate! Pls let your consumers know..”Zomato responded to Bhaskar’s request and said, “Hi Swara, please note, we don’t endorse any content except our own. That being said, we are looking into this.” Zomato’s reply to Bhaskar triggered calls for the app’s boycott.-- Food delivery app Swiggy faced backlash when it responded to a satirical tweet related to farmer protests. “Had an argument with my Bhakt friend over a farmers protest. He said that we are not dependent on farmers for food. We can always order food from Swiggy. He won,” the tweet from an anonymous handle said.Swiggy’s official account responded by saying: “sorry, we can’t refund education.” The comment triggered trolling and backlash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fabindia-other-brands-which-offended-boycott-brigade-101634733141278.html
20-10-2021||India||Developed nations to fund solar projects through international alliance: RK Singh||RK Singh, minister of power and new and renewable energy demanded that developed countries fund solar power projects in poor countries through the International Solar Alliance. During the ministerial plenary of ISA’s fourth general assembly on Wednesday, Singh said the developed world cannot say, sorry it’s not my business when it comes to funding clean energy projects.“It is your business. You developed using fossil fuels and occupied most of carbon space. This emergency of climate change in some ways you have created,” he said in his opening remarks. He added that for the developing world some carbon space should be free. “We have 800 million people around the world without access to energy and ISA can play a major role in ensuring that access. It is incumbent upon the entire developed world to enable the ISA to do this,” Singh said.He warned that if there is no funding from developed countries, ultimately development in emerging and poor economies will be fossil fuel based. He said that the time had come to fulfil the unmet pledges made in previous climate conferences to make 100 billion dollars available for the transition . “Not for India, but for other countries which need clean energy,” Singh said, asking for directing funding to ISA to set up solar parks, renewable energy parks in countries with low energy access to help them develop clean energy generation options.John Kerry, US Special Presidential Envoy on Climate said that the global target to reach net zero emissions by 2050 needed dramatic action in the present decade. “To keep 1.5 degrees Celsius within reach, we need to take dramatic action during this critical decade in order to reduce emissions by half worldwide. If we don’t do enough between 2020 and 2030, we can’t achieve net zero by 2050 and we certainly can’t keep in limit the rise of the earth’s temperature by 1.5 degrees.” But, he also made it clear that US alone shouldn’t be expected to invest in solar energy.Also Read | Extreme weather events in Kerala linked to climate crisis: ExpertsKerry said the US has targeted a 50-52% reduction in U.S. economy wide greenhouse gas emissions in 2030 and a roadmap published by the US department of energy recently shows how solar energy could economically generate 40% of the country’s electricity supply by 2035. “But its not enough for the United States to invest in solar energy. Nearly 90% of greenhouse gas emissions come from outside the United States and that’s why the International Solar Alliance is so critical,” he said. Kerry said solar is the cheapest source of new electricity in more than a dozen countries, spanning India, China, Saudi Arabia, Australia, Egypt, Chile and more but it still counts for just over 2% of global electricity.Frans Timmermans, European Commission Executive Vice President for the European Green Deal said EU will support investment in renewable energy as there was a huge appetite for sustainable investment support for small-scale renewables, roof top and community level projects and offshore wind projects. “I am hugely impressed by India’s commitment of having 450 GW of renewables by 2030. To make it happen, there is need for massive investment. Many European nations and EU want to be part of that development. We will need technology transfers and sharing of technology. There is a 1 million Euro support programme that will allow the deepening of cooperation between EU and ISA including by connecting and mobilising academic, financial and business communities,” he said, adding that after Netherlands and France that joined ISA in the beginning, six other EU members have joined the alliance and EU will urge the other 19 members to be part of ISA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/developed-nations-to-fund-solar-projects-through-international-alliance-rk-singh-101634732661328.html
20-10-2021||India||YS Sharmila begins 4,000km marathon march; Telangana’s KCR is her prime target||HYDERABAD: YSR Telangana party president YS Sharmila on Wednesday kick-started her marathon padayatra (march) aimed at ending, what she called, the “autocratic rule” of Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) president K Chandrasekhar Rao and bringing back “Rajanna Rajyam,” the welfare state envisioned by her father YS Rajasekhar Reddy who died in 2009.Sharmila’s mother YS Vijayalakshmi flagged off the padayatra after a massive public rally at Ranga Reddy district’s Chevella town from where her husband YS Rajasekhar Reddy started his 1,500km “Praja Prasthanam” padayatra across united Andhra Pradesh in 2003 and brought the Congress party to power in 2004 assembly elections.Addressing the rally, YS Sharmila, sister of YSR Congress party president and Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, said she was going on a marathon padayatra to end the “arrogant and dictatorial rule” of KCR, as the chief minister of Telangana is known.“Today, I am taking the first step towards heralding a welfare state in Telangana and dethroning the dynastic rule of the TRS. I shall touch every village and meet every villager during my journey,” she said.Vowing to expose the alleged corruption of the TRS government, YS Sharmila described KCR as the worst chief minister of any state in the country and accused him of pushing the revenue surplus state into a debt-ridden state with indiscriminate borrowings.“Hundreds of educated unemployed youth have died by suicide due to lack of employment opportunities and many others turned into daily wage workers. Though official records say there are 1.90 lakh vacancies in the state, the TRS government has not issued a single job notification so far,” she said.Sharmila also accused the TRS government of neglecting the weaker sections. “After TRS came to power in 2014, KCR announced that he would make a Dalit as the first chief minister of Telangana. He also promised three acres of land to each Dalit family. But he did not fulfil even a single promise. On the contrary, atrocities on Dalits have gone up during the TRS regime. He also has not done anything for OBCs (other backward classes),” she said.She also criticised the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), blaming them for not taking the TRS government to task for corruption. “The Telangana Congress president A Revanth Reddy has no guts to fight against the government, as he was involved in the cash-for-vote scandal. The BJP is hand-in-glove with the TRS and has not been able to prove the cases against KCR,” she said.Vijayalakshmi said only Sharmila could make the Bangaru Telangana (golden Telangana) a reality. “My daughter has the courage and commitment to fulfil the aspirations of the people and dreams of late YSR,” she said, appealing to people to bless her daughter.Sharmila hopes to break all the records as part of her walkathon. YSRTP official spokesman Tudi Devender Reddy said as per the route map, she would undertake padayatra for nearly 4,000 kilometres across the length and breadth of Telangana state in a span of 14 months covering 90 assembly constituencies. “On average, she will walk for 12-15 km a day,” Reddy said.The previous record in the padayatras is held by her brother Jagan Mohan Reddy. He walked a distance of 3,648 km over a span of 341 days starting from November 6, 2017. The “Praja Sankalpa Yatra” ended on January 9, 2019, months before people voted in Andhra Pradesh’s April 2019 assembly elections. His party won 151 of the assembly’s 175 seats, and YS Jagan Mohan Reddy succeeded in replacing TDP’s N Chandrababu Naidu.According to Sharmila’s schedule for the foot march, she will walk a distance of 10 km from Chevella and halt at Nakkalapalli village. “Every day, she will begin the padayatra at 8.30am and take a break at 12.30pm. She will resume the walk at 3pm and conclude at 6pm,” the party spokesman said.She will hold a “Mata Muchata” (chit-chat) programme at the location selected for the night halt where she intends to interact with villagers to hear their problems.The schedule and route for her padayatra has been mapped out by a team of the Indian Political Action Committee (IPAC), the political consultancy group founded by political strategist Prashant Kishor.“She is expected to touch at least three blocks in each assembly constituency. In all, she will address nine big public meetings,” the party spokesman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ys-sharmila-begins-4-000km-marathon-march-telangana-s-kcr-is-her-prime-target-101634731401320.html
20-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: Goa ex-CM Dayanand Narvekar joins AAP and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Former Goa deputy CM Dayanand Narvekar joins Aam Aadmi PartyNarvekar was accused of misusing his position as the Goa Cricket Association chairman in 2002 to print and sell fake tickets for an India-Australia one day international match. Read more here. As Uttarakhand rain deaths rise to 50, Oppn hammers BJP govt for ‘inaction’Uttarakhand politics: The state BJP said the Congress and AAP should come forward to help people in the affected areas but were indulging in politics over the deaths. Read more here. Janhvi Kapoor doing yoga in hills is the mid-week workout motivation we need, video insideJanhvi Kapoor escaped to the hills recently, and from there, she shared a video of herself practising yoga. It is all the mid-week workout motivation we needed today. Read more here. ‘Hardik Pandya hasn’t started bowling in nets yet': Rohit Sharma says India searching for 6th bowler in T20 World CupT20 World Cup 2021: Rohit said Hardik has not yet started to bowl in the nets but he is hopeful that the all-rounder will start to roll his arms over soon and will be available any time in the main rounds of the ICC T20 World Cup 2021 in UAE and Oman. Read more here. Habit: Sidharth Shukla’s final music video has Shehnaaz Gill fighting back tears, watchShehnaaz Gill can be seen fighting back tears in the music video of Habit, which marks Sidharth Shukla’s swansong. Watch it here. 2022 Range Rover teased ahead of global debutThe fifth-generation Range Rover is set for an unveil on October 26. Read more here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-goa-ex-cm-dayanand-narvekar-joins-aap-101634728912803.html
20-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan moves high court after special NDPS court denies bail||Aryan Khan's lawyers on Wednesday moved the Bombay high court after the special NDPS court denied bail to Aryan Khan in connection with the cruise rave party. Aryan Khan has already spent 13 days in Arthur Road prison starting from October 8. On October 1, the special NDPS court heard both the NCB and Aryan Khan's lawyers and reserved the verdict for October 20. The first week of November will be a vacation for the court because of Diwali. Hence, the lawyers are attempting for an early hearing of the case by the high court. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh who is the counsel for the Narcotics Control Bureau said they have been informed of the mentioning of the plea in the high court by Khan's lawyers. Senior advocates Satish Maneshinde and Amit Desai were present before the single bench of justice Nitin Sambre to mention the plea. But, the court did not allow mentioning on Wednesday. Khan's advocates are likely to mention it on Thursday morning at 10.30am.Aryan Khan's drug-related chat with debut actress: Why didn't court grant bail? What's next?Here is a timeline of what happened so far in the Aryan Khan caseOctober 2: NCB raided a Goa-bound cruise and busted a rave party based on aspecific tip-off.October 3: Aryan Khan and seven others were detained and arrested in connection with the case. He was remanded in NCB custody for a day.October 4: Aryan Khan's NCB custody was extended till October 7.October 7: Aryan Khan's bail plea was rejected and he was sent to 14-day judicial custody.After that Aryan Khan's lawyers moved to the special NDPS court.October 13-14: The special NDPS court heard Aryan Khan and the NCB counsels and reserved the verdict for October 20.October 20: The special NDPS court rejected bail to Aryan Khan.While Aryan Khan's lawyers argued that no drugs were found on him, the NCB argued that the quantity of the recovery is immaterial here as he is part of a nexus. The 6 gram charas recovered from Arbaaz Merchant was for the private consumption of Aryan Khan and Arbaaz, the NCB claimed. On Wednesday, the NCB presented Aryan Khan's drug-related chats with a new actor, providing more evidence of Aryan Khan's connection with the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aryan-khan-moves-high-court-after-special-ndps-court-denies-bail-101634729145885.html
20-10-2021||India||20 cases of betting registered during IPL: Central Crime Branch, Bengaluru||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) in Bengaluru on Wednesday said it has so far registered 20 cases of betting during the Indian Premier League (IPL), one of the biggest sporting events globally.“In the recently concluded IPL, CCB booked (a) total of 20 cricket betting cases and seized ₹78 lakhs, arrested 27 accused,” Sandeep Patil, Joint Commissioner of Police (CCB), said in a statement on Tuesday.The statement came even as online gaming companies have approached the Karnataka high court seeking a stay on the legislation banning all gambling apps in the state.Patil told HT the cases were registered over the last two to three weeks or during the IPL season. “All this (cases) happened before the ban,” Patil said. He added gambling in itself is an offence under the Karnataka Police Act.The Karnataka Police (Amendment) Bill was passed last month and banned “any act or risking money, or otherwise on the unknown result of an event including on a game of skill.”The online gaming industry, which gained significant traction during the Covid-19 pandemic-induced lockdown, was slated to grow from 360 million gamers to 510 million by 2022, according to a 2021 report by All India Gaming Federation and EY. The report estimated that online real money game players were expected to grow from 80 million in 2020 to 150 million by 2023.Also Read: After a dip in tally, Karnataka logs 349 fresh Covid cases, 14 deathsEstimates indicate that Karnataka, known for its prowess in technology, accounts for around 15% of the country’s market.According to the Internet and Mobile Association of India, 92 gaming companies registered in Bengaluru employed over 4,000 people and, in the last three years alone, attracted ₹3000 crores in investments.Patil said the amendment to the law empowers police to crack down on such service providers.To be sure, most online gaming and gambling apps have disabled their services in Karnataka after the notification of the law on October 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/20-cases-of-betting-registered-during-ipl-central-crime-branch-bengaluru-101634727981021.html
20-10-2021||India||Main accused confesses to killing woman found buried on Odisha school campus||A day after the partially burnt body of a 26-year-old woman teacher was exhumed from a pit in an under-construction stadium on a school campus in Odisha, the main suspect in the case on Wednesday confessed to killing her, police said. The woman went missing on October 8 after leaving her home in the Bolangir district. Her family lodged a police complaint accusing Gobind Sahu, the president of the school managing committee, of having a role in her disappearance. Sahu was detained but he managed to escape on Sunday. He was arrested on Tuesday.Police said Sahu has confessed to murdering the teacher on October 8 in his car before burning the body and burying it in the pit. “We would produce Sahu before a court today (Wednesday),” said Bolangir police superintendent Nitin Kushalkar. Four others who allegedly helped Sahu have been detained.Police did not comment on the reason behind the murder.Investigators said Sahu, who started out as a civil contractor before setting up schools, told his interrogators that he took the teacher for shopping on October 8 before allegedly killing her. “The murder seems premeditated as Sahu had the pit dug up...on October 6... for installing a cellphone tower. After killing her, Sahu likely poured petrol on the body for charring the body quickly... before burying the body in the pit. The impact of the heat was so much that the (woman’s) skull has disintegrated. Some salt was also put on the body for quick decomposition,” said a police officer, requesting anonymity.Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has called a 12-hour bandh in Bhawanipatna town demanding the sacking of minister Dibya Shankar Mishra. It alleged Sahu ran the school and a sex racket under Mishra’s patronage.Also Read: Odisha to deploy drones to keep an eye on jail inmates and their activitiesThe teacher’s family has also alleged she threatened to expose the racket.BJP leader Pradipta Naik has written to chief minister Naveen Patnaik demanding a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe as Mishra is in charge of the home department. “As the minister is at the centre of controversy over giving protection to Sahu, it will hamper the investigation if he continues his office,” he wrote.Mishra was immediately unavailable for commentsAparajita Sarangi, the BJP Member of Parliament from Bhubaneswar, said the teacher would not get justice if the probe remained with the Odisha Police. “CBI should be handed over charge for fair and impartial probe. For last 20 yrs, CM (chief minister) has been saying law will follow its course. The question is will law be permitted to follow its course,” she tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/main-accused-confesses-to-killing-woman-found-buried-on-odisha-school-campus-101634727200857.html
20-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan's drug-related chat with debut actress: Why didn't court grant bail? What's next?||The special NDPS court completed the hearing of both sides in the bail application and assembled on Wednesday to only deliver the verdict. Once again, Shah Rukh Khan's son was denied bail and will now have to stay in the Arthur Road prison for some days more.This is the fourth time that Aryan Khan's bail plea in connection with the cruise rave party has been denied after he was arrested on October 3 from a Goa-bound cruise.WATCH | Aryan Khan can't leave jail: Bail plea rejected againWhy didn't the court grant bail to Aryan Khan?As his bail plea was rejected on Wednesday, Aryan Khan's lawyer said they were waiting for the detailed court order before moving to the high court. The Narcotics Control Bureau earlier argued that Aryan Khan should not be granted bail as he was part of a drug nexus which the agency is probing. It said that Aryan was not new to drugs, though no drug was found on him. The drugs found on Aryan Khan's friend Arbaaz Merchant were for Aryan and Arbaaz's personal consumption, the agency said.Aryan Khan's counsel, on the other hand, said his WhatsApp chats might have been misinterpreted and many of those chats might be from the time when Aryan Khan was abroad, where many things are legal.In the latest development, the agency on Wednesday submitted Aryan Khan's WhatsApp chats with a new actor of the industry. Those chats were drug-related, the agency claimed. The details of these chats or the name of the actor have not been revealed. What's next for Aryan Khan and other accused in the case?Aryan Khan and the other accused in the cruise rave party were sent to judicial custody on October 7. Since October 8, they are lodged in Arthur Road jail. They have already spent 1.5 weeks in jail. The first week of November is the vacation for courts. Khan's lawyers have moved the high court on Wednesday after the denial of the bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aryan-khan-s-drug-related-chat-with-debut-actress-why-didn-t-court-grant-bail-what-s-next-101634726239117.html
20-10-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh man accused of stealing ₹25 lakh from police dies in custody||A man suspected to be involved in the theft of ₹25 lakh at Agra’s Jagdishpura police station allegedly died shortly after a police team took him to his residence to recover the cash, a police officer said.Senior police superintendent Muniraj G said the suspect, Arun Kumar, was a sweeper, who would clean the station. He added Kumar confessed to stealing the money from the station’s maalkhana on October 17 and said the cash was at his home. “The police team took him along and went to his house... during the recovery, Kumar’s health deteriorated, and he was rushed to a nearby hospital...where he was declared brought dead.”Kumar belonged to the Valmiki community, which cancelled the celebrations of Valmiki Jayanti on Wednesday in protest against his alleged custodial killing. Kumar’s family has demanded ₹1 crore compensation, a government job and action against guilty policemen.Also Read | UP cops ‘dragging feet’ in Lakhimpur Kheri violence case: Supreme CourtMuniraj G said a case has been registered and based on Kumar’s post-mortem report and investigation, further action will be taken.Vinod Allahabadi, a local resident, said there is much anger and grief among Valmikis. “We have called off all celebrations on the occasion of Valmiki Jayanti and will not stop till justice is ensured.” He said in case the administration fails to meet their demand, the Valmiki community will go on a strike and stop all work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-held-for-theft-dies-in-agra-101634726661044.html
20-10-2021||India||UP cops ‘dragging feet’ in Lakhimpur Kheri violence case: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Wednesday pulled up the Uttar Pradesh police for ‘dragging its feet’ in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case. The top court's remarks came after statements of only four witnesses were recorded in the case under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.Eight people, including four farmers and a journalist, were killed during a farmers' protest on October 3 after an SUV belonging to a Union minister's convoy ran over them."We think you (UP police) are dragging your feet. Please dispel that impression," a bench of Chief Justice of India NV Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli observed, questioning senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for the Uttar Pradesh government, why the statements of 40 other witnesses were not recorded yet.Salve informed the apex court that he had submitted a report on the incident in a sealed cover. "A concern was stated that the State was going soft on the accused, now everybody is arrested and they are in jail. As of today, 10 accused are arrested. There are two crimes which were driving into farmers and the other one in which a person was lynched," he said.The statements of other witnesses were being recorded, but the courts had shut (due to Dussehra break), Salve added.The Supreme Court has asked the Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the case to get more witnesses to record their statements. The hearing has been adjourned to October 26.The bench asserted that the SIT must identify the vulnerable witnesses, provide them protection and record their statements under Section 164 CrPC, as it will have more evidentiary value.'Until interrogated, you won't find out'Questioning the Uttar Pradesh government on why police custody of other accused was not sought, the Bench said, "Until and unless they are interrogated by police, you won't find out."Salve told the Supreme Court that the phones of the accused had been seized and the videos had been sent for forensic examination. "If the forensic reports come, there may not be a need for further questioning," he added.This is not the first time the apex court expressed dissatisfaction over the steps taken by the Uttar Pradesh government in the "brutal murder" of eight persons in Lakhimpur Kheri. On October 8, the top court had said it is "not satisfied" with the action taken in the violence and also questioned the Uttar Pradesh government regarding the delay in arresting accused Ashish Mishra.The law must take its course against all accused, the court had observed and asked the Uttar Pradesh government whether in other murder cases the police issue summons instead of arresting the accused. Not arresting the accused is sending a "wrong message", the Bench had observed.Local farmers have blamed Union minister of state for home affairs Ajay Kumar Mishra 'Teni' and his son Ashish Mishra for the violence that left eight dead.Ten people, including Ashish Mishra, have been arrested so far in connection with the case. Ashish Mishra had allegedly mowed down farmers with his car.Videos are also being circulated on social media where a Mahindra Thar, belonging to the convoy, was seen knocking down protesters from behind. However, the Minister and his son denied the charges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-cops-dragging-feet-in-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-case-supreme-court-101634720664947.html
20-10-2021||India||8 trekkers missing in Uttarakhand’s Uttarkashi amid snowfall||At least 14 people, including eight trekkers from West Bengal and Delhi, have gone missing at separate places in Uttarakhand’s Uttarkashi district amid snowfall, officials said on Wednesday.Jai Panwar, a consultant with the Uttarkashi district administration on disaster management, said, “Of the 11 missing from a trekking route, eight are trekkers while three are porters. Seven of the eight trekkers are from West Bengal while one is from Delhi. The three porters are locals.” He added on October 14, the eleven went trekking near Lamkhaga Pass on a 90km long route through the remotest valleys of Kinnaur in Himachal Pradesh and Gangotri in Uttarkashi.“On Monday, due to snowfall in the area, 11 of them went missing. Six of them, all porters managed to reach an ITBP (Indo-Tibetan Border Police) camp in Chitkul village in Kinnaur and informed them... on Tuesday,” said Panwar. He added a local trekking agency in Uttarkashi informed the district disaster management department about the trekkers going missing on Wednesday.“...the porters who returned told them (agency) that two of the trekkers are injured. The district disaster management department soon informed the air force which then sent one of its choppers for the search and rescue operation... The situation will be clearer after the team reaches the spot,” said Panwar.Also Watch: Char Dham Yatra resumes after 3-day halt; Uttarakhand death toll rises to 40 Three porters accompanying ITBP personnel to their posts near the India-China border in the district separately went missing on October 17.“The ITBP officers...said the local porters had left for the border with ITBP men on October 15. However, on October 17, they got separated from the ITBP men due to heavy snowfall and went missing. The ITBP informed the district administration about this on Tuesday evening after which on Wednesday, a chopper of the air force left with the SDRF (State Disaster Relief Force) personnel to search for the missing people,” said Panwar. He added a team of ITBP personnel has also left from their base in Neelapani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-trekkers-missing-in-uttarakhand-s-uttarkashi-amid-snowfall-101634725280136.html
20-10-2021||India||Former Goa deputy CM Dayanand Narvekar joins Aam Aadmi Party||Former Goa deputy chief minister Dayanand Narvekar on Wednesday joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) ahead of the assembly elections early next year even as his induction brought focus to his past, which is tainted with allegations of corruption. “I had offers from many parties, but I decided to choose a party that is non-corrupt, non-controversial, and one that is taking the people’s issues forward. The AAP has a good structure and presence in 20-25 constituencies,” Narvekar said. The AAP is positioning itself as an alternative to the Congress and the BJP in Goa. Narvekar added that when he met AAP’s national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, he was surprised to learn about his government’s “accomplishments”. “This party has a good name at the national and international level,” he said.Narvekar’s past has led to rumblings within AAP, which started out on an anti-corruption plank. He was accused of misusing his position as the Goa Cricket Association chairman in 2002 to print and sell fake tickets for an India-Australia one day international match. Thousands of spectators, some with genuine tickets, were refused entry into an already full stadium. He was booked and arrested for cheating and corruption. Also Read: After pressure from Opposition, Goa govt backtracks on contentious Trees BillNarvekar, who served as vice president for the Board of Control for Cricket in India between 2009 and 2012, was also accused of handing over government land acquired for setting up an IT Park to real estate firms in Goa’s prime Dona Paula locality. The project was later scrapped. He has denied any involvement in the scams saying he was never convicted.Narvekar was first elected to the assembly in 1977 when he was 27. He was re-elected until 2012 when he lost to Glenn Ticlo of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). He floated his own political party after quitting Congress in 2014 but was effectively inactive in politics until he joined the AAP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-goa-deputy-cm-joins-aap-101634724860672.html
20-10-2021||India||Caging drunkards, imposing fine: Nat community's experiment in Gujarat to fight the menace||In a bid to fight the menace of alcoholism, the Nat community in some villages of Gujarat has adopted a social experiment - caging and fining those found in an inebriated state. The idea of setting up a makeshift cage for drunkards was first floated by the community in Motipura village of Ahmedabad district, reported news agency PTI citing village sarpanch Babu Nayak. People caught drunk were incarcerated for a night in the makeshift cage and a fine of ₹1,200 was imposed on them.The report suggests that the method was soon replicated in 24 villages that had a sizeable number from the Nat community with high liquor consumption in a dry state with a strong prohibition law. The community has claimed that the move has been effective as more members are getting dissuaded from consuming liquor and a lesser number of people are getting caught every year, according to PTI."In 2017, we first decided to impose a fine of ₹1,200 on drunkards, but the community members later realised that was not enough, so the rule of caging such people for a night was framed," PTI Nayak as saying.The members of the community caught drunk are provided with only a bottle of water for the night and a container to relieve themselves. Villagers have claimed that the experiment has also led to a reduction in the instances of domestic violence. A team responsible for keeping an eye on such people also acts on tip-offs from villagers."The fine imposed by the community is collected and spent on religious and social works. We also offer money as financial support to widows and the poor for marriage of their daughters," PTI quoted Rajesh Nayak, another member of the Nat community, as saying.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/caging-drunkards-imposing-fine-nat-community-s-experiment-in-gujarat-to-fight-the-menace-101634722524586.html
20-10-2021||India||NDPS court rejects Aryan Khan’s bail application in drugs’ case||A special Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act court on Wednesday refused bail to Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood star Shahrukh Khan. Special NDPS judge VV Patil also rejected bail applications filed by Aryan’s friend Arbaaz Merchant and model Munmun Dhamecha. The trio was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in connection with the cruise drug bust of October 2. A team of NCB officials headed by the agency’s Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede acted on a specific tip off and searched some passengers slated to take Cordellia cruise to Goa from the International Cruise Terminal at Green Gate in Mumbai. Their rooms booked on the cruise ship were also searched. The agency claimed to have seized multiple drugs such as 13 grams of Cocaine, 5 grams of Mephedrone, 21 grams of Charas, and 22 pills of MDMA (ecstasy) and ₹1.33 lakh in cash from the cruise. 14 persons were intercepted and after hours of interrogation, 23-year-old Aryan, Arbaaz, 26, and Dhamecha, 39, were placed under arrest in the afternoon of October 3. The trio moved the special NDPS court after a Metropolitan Magistrate on October 10 rejected their bail applications, holding them not maintainable before him. NCB opposed Aryan’s bail plea, contending he was in touch with a person abroad who appeared to be part of an international drug trafficking network. The agency also claimed there was sufficient material in the form of pictures, WhatsApp chats to show that the 23-year-old was part of an illicit drug chain. Also Read: Sanjay Gupta reacts to Aryan Khan’s case, calls it a ‘suspicious arrest’The agency also maintained that Aryan’s case could not be separated from others, from whom independent seizure of contraband in commercial quantity was made, as “all the accused were part of an illicit drug chain.” It was alleged that Aryan Khan was a regular consumer of the contraband since the last few years and 6 grams Charas, allegedly found on Arbaaz, was meant for the duo’s consumption. On Aryan Khan’s behalf, it was argued that by no stretch of imagination the boy can be said to be involved in illicit drug trafficking or international drug racket and that he cannot be linked to any of the seizures made by the NCB. His counsel added that even if it was accepted that Aryan was a consumer, the charge attracts maximum punishment of a year and therefore he deserves to be released on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ndps-court-rejects-aryan-khan-s-bail-application-in-drugs-case-101634722640374.html
20-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan's bail application rejected, will remain in Arthur Road jail||Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan, will continue to remain in jail after the special Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) court on Wednesday dismissed his bail plea application in the Mumbai cruise ship drugs’ case. The 23-year-old has been lodged in Arthur Road jail since October 7 after being initially held by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on October 2.Besides Aryan, the court rejected the bail applications of other accused persons Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha.Aryan, Merchant and Dhamecha were among eight accused who have so far been held by the NCB in the drugs case that was busted after the central agency raided Cordelia – a Goa-bound cruise ship, earlier this month.The case has created enormous buzz and also saw NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede alleging that he is being followed by and spied on by two Mumbai Police personnel. His security was tightened last week after he met Maharashtra director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Pandey, seeking the same.Mumbai Police chief Hemant Nagrael took cognisance of the complaint later, and ordered an additional commissioner of police to inquire into the allegations and submit a report.Prior today, the last time the court met was on October 14 in order to hear arguments in the matter. At the time, the NCB opposed Aryan's bail application, with the agency's lawyer Anil Singh saying that the 23-year-old is a regular consumer of drugs as per his WhatsApp chats. Singh also referred to Bollywood actress Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik in the late Sushant Singh Rajput's death case, saying that not being found in possession of drugs doesn't rule out the requirement to stay behind bars. The NCB counsel said no drug was found from Showik's possession but the matter was probed regardless.Last week, Aryan along with others were shifted to the general cell of the Arthur Road jail, following the completion of their isolation period, news agency PTI had reported citing jail officials. He also received a money order of ₹4,500 from his family and spoke with his parents Shah Rukh Khan and Gauri Khan over a video call, news agency ANI had reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/special-ndps-court-rejects-aryan-khan-2-others-bail-application-in-drugs-case-101634721762769.html
20-10-2021||India||'Inaccurate': Govt slams magazine article claiming digital divide in India||Reacting to a recent story on India's tech-based governance in a renowned magazine and the digital divide that is highlighted, the government on Wednesday claimed that the article is “inaccurate and biased", "betrays a severe lack of journalistic diligence" and “contradicts even the past reports” in that publication.Taking cognisance of an article published in The Economist on October 16, titled, ‘India’s high-tech governance risks leaving behind its poorest citizens’, which highlighted that while India's administrative infrastructure such as Aadhaar has propelled conveniences as digital payments, internet shopping and online schooling, millions are still left out of the tech-based government benefits because of India’s size and poverty and challenges in areas of electricity supply and mobile and internet connectivity.An excerpt from The Economist story read, “Given India’s immense scale and complexity, and with its deep pool of highly skilled workers, its governments have increasingly turned to high-tech solutions for all sorts of problems. Generally these have eased burdens on both rulers and the governed, despite some expected glitches. Administrative infrastructure such as Aadhaar has propelled such conveniences as digital payments, internet shopping and online schooling. Yet precisely because of India’s size and poverty, tens of millions still are left out—because they are poor, illiterate, disabled, lack electricity, do not possess a smartphone or cannot connect to a mobile or Wi-Fi network.”Calling the claim factually wrong, the government said that the total number of Aadhaar card holders above the age of 18 has reached 129.48 crore as of June 21, 2021. “As per UIDAI data in the last one year, the UIDAI has issued around 36 crore new Aadhaar cards to the adult population. In this period the highest number of Aadhaar cards was issued in January 2021 when 53.4 lakh (5.34 million) new Aadhaar card holders were added to the list of Indian population having a digital identity,” the government said in a rejoinder issued in response to The Economist article.The government also quoted excerpts from another article published in The Economist on September 5, 2020, titled, ‘Time for proof’, to claim that the recent story contradicts past reports in the publication."Creating a digital ID system is hard and expensive. Yet India, a gigantic and largely poor country, has managed it. Its "Aadhaar" biometric system has created digital identities for 1.3bn people….it has streamlined government services and massively reduced fraud. If rural Indians can prove who they are online, it is scandalous that many Brits and Americans cannot," the rejoinder quoted an excerpt from the September 2020 article in The Economist.In the recent article, the author narrated the story of one Reena Devi, a mother of two from Bihar, who reportedly didn't receive widow pension benefit after she misplaced her Aadhaar card.“With no phone, no registered postal address and no record of her birth date, Ms Devi was unable to retrieve her unique number," an excerpt from the article read, underscoring the concern that while Devi was lucky to get help, “In a few tragic cases those who have lost access to subsidised food because they cannot link their old ration cards to new Aadhaar cards, or because fingerprint readers in remote towns do not work properly, have starved to death.”The government, in the rejoinder, called out the “wrong observations” to say that in such cases, the resident can easily retrieve their Aadhaar card by visiting the nearest Aadhaar enrolment centre. “The resident may be provided with an Aadhaar number after furnishing his/her demographic details and authenticating the biometrics. In case, if demographic details like address, date of birth, phone number etc. are also not available, then, the resident can visit the nearest Aadhaar Seva Kendra or concerned UIDAI, Regional Office,” the government said in its response.It also slammed the article for commenting that India's vaccination programme against Covid-19, launched in January, faced hurdles of digital and literacy divide and largely left out poor and illiterate people initially because slots for the vaccine shots could only be booked on the Co-WIN portal - in English - until June when the Centre allowed walk-ins at and spot bookings at inoculation centres.Calling it incorrect, the government said apart from English and Hindi, 10 regional languages options are available on the Co-WIN platform, including Assamese, Bengali, Gujarati, Kannada, Marathi, Malayalam, Odia, Punjabi, Tamil, and Telugu.The government further said that “online registration and prior booking of appointment is not mandatory to avail vaccination services.” It also highlighted that apart from online registration and appointments, Co-WIN offers several modes for registration and vaccination of beneficiaries, including assisted registration through Common Service Centers, assisted registration through 1075 helpline, on-site or walk-in registration and vaccination for people belonging to facilitated cohorts such as people who don’t have access to the internet or smartphones.“The vaccinators who operate the vaccination session do the on-site registrations. The beneficiary is not required to use the Co-WIN digital interface in such cases,” the government said in the rejoinder.Highlighting India's pace of vaccination against Covid-19, the government said that the country has administered the highest number of Covid-19 vaccine doses in the world. “As of October 19 morning, India has administered more than 99 crore doses of Covid vaccine and is likely to touch the 100 crore or one billion doses shortly,” the rejoinder read.“As per the data available on Our World in Data, the US follows India with over 40 crore (400 million) Covid vaccination, and Brazil has administered 25.6 crore (256 million) Covid vaccine doses,” it further read.The government said in the average pace of daily Covid-19 vaccination, India again leads the table with over 4-6 million daily doses (rolling 7-days average). “Countries like the US, France, the UK, Brazil and Russia are all under 1-2 million daily doses (rolling 7-days average),” the rejoinder claimed.The Economist article attributed to surveys by Lokniti-CSDS, a polling group, to show that four-fifths of Indian families use public food supply schemes, of which 28% say they have been denied rations at some point owing to problems with Aadhaar. “The biometric ID has helped curb theft and corruption, but less so than non-tech reforms to the food system,” an excerpt from the story read.The article misses some important facts about food security and the role of technology in ensuring the rightful targeting of beneficiaries in India under the Targeted Public Distribution System (TPDS), the rejoinder claimed in response.“As part of the technology-driven TPDS reforms, significant progress has been made at the national level during the past 6-7 years. These reforms inter-alia include digitisation of all ration cards data (100% achieved in all states/Union territories), Aadhaar seeding (>90% at the national level), installation of electronic Point of Sale (ePoS) devices at the FPSs for transparent distribution (~93% at the national level), portability of ration cards under One Nation One Ration Card (ONORC) plan (enabled in 34 states/Union territories), etc,” the government wrote in the rejoinder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/inaccurate-govt-slams-magazine-article-claiming-digital-divide-in-india-101634713173218.html
20-10-2021||India||No harm for Congress: Rawat reacts to Captain's new party announcement||Congress leader and Punjab Congress in-charge Harish Rawat on Wednesday reacted to Amarinder Singh's decision of floating a new political party, which might be open to seat arrangement with the BJP, and said that Amarinder's announcement of floating a new party will not hurt the Congress in Punjab. It will actually divide the votes of Congress's rivals in the state, Harish Rawat said, "Our votes will depend on the performance of the Channi government. The way Channi has started, it has created a good impression before Punjab and the entire nation."Talking on Amarinder Singh, Rawat said, "Who can stop him if he can't stay with his old commitment to secularism? He was considered a symbol of 'Sarvdharm Sambhav' and was connected to Congress' traditions for long. If he wants to go, he should.""Who can forgive BJP that has kept farmers at the borders for 10 months? Can Punjab forgive them for the manner in which farmers' agitation has been dealt with? His statement is really shocking. It seems he has killed the 'secular Amarinder' within him," Rawat said.Capt Amarinder hand in glove with BJP, backstabbed Congress: Randhawa, PargatFollowing an acrimonious episode with the Congress after his resignation from the post of the chief minister, Amarinder Singh on Tuesday announced that he will soon float his own political party. He also said if the farmers' issue is revolved, then he is hopeful of a seat arrangement with the BJP."The battle for Punjab's future is on. Will soon announce the launch of my own political party to serve the interests of Punjab and its people, including our farmers who've been fighting for their survival for over a year," Singh said Tuesday.Amarinder Singh had earlier announced he would quit the Congress. His meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah which the Captain said was to discuss the farmers' protest also raised speculation whether the Captain was planning to join the BJP. At that time Amarinder Singh clarified that he would not join the BJP.The farmers' issue for which the Captain has been raising his voice stands in the way of Captain supporting the BJP or Captain's proposed new party coming to a seat-sharing agreement with the BJP.Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder S Randhawa said, "Captain Amarinder Singh has destroyed himself by announcing a seat arrangement with BJP, whom he has always abused. BJP should hold an enquiry on Amarinder Singh over his whereabouts after the resignation in 1984 and his relation with Pakistan.""There must be some pressure on him. Many cases have been filed against him and his children. We have no fear of Amarinder's decision," the deputy CM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-he-wants-to-eat-crow-harish-rawat-reacts-to-amarinder-singh-s-new-party-announcement-101634719440765.html
20-10-2021||India||TMC says Congress emulating it by promising 40% tickets for women in UP||Amitoj Singh KalsiThe Trinamool Congress (TMC) has said the Congress was emulating the former by promising 40% tickets for women for the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections while hoping this is genuine and not tokenism.Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday emphasised the prevalent “politics of hate” can be countered by women while announcing the reservation in tickets for them.Soon after Priyanka Gandhi’s announcement, TMC tweeted, “Under the visionary leadership of (West Bengal chief minister) @MamataOfficial (Mamata Banerjee), AITC (All India Trinamool Congress) has shown the way to ensure increased participation of women in politics in this country. We’re the first party to give 40% seats to women in LS (Lok Sabha) elections! Amid such dire times, @INCIndia (Congress) is understandably trying to emulate and one can only hope that this is genuine and not tokenism. If they are to be taken seriously, they must give 40% seats to women in states other than UP (Uttar Pradesh) as well.”Also Read | Capt Amarinder hand in glove with BJP, backstabbed Congress: Randhawa, PargatBharatiya Janata Party leader Chandra Mohan said the Congress has never worked for women and is now talking about 40% reservation only in view of 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-says-congress-emulating-it-by-promising-40-tickets-for-women-in-uttar-pradesh-101634718500137.html
20-10-2021||India||BJP, SP trade barbs over inauguration of Kushinagar International Airport||Uttar Pradesh’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and opposition Samajwadi Party (SP) traded barbs over the inauguration of the Kushinagar International Airport on Wednesday. SP leader Akhilesh Yadav said the BJP was taking credit for the project, whose groundwork was done when he was the chief minister from 2012 to 2017. “..they didn’t even put a brick for the foundation …came to inaugurate a project inaugurated during Samajwadi Party (SP) rule...,” Yadav tweeted after Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the airport.“BJP leaders must remember that merely becoming a pilot does not mean you own the plane...”Also Read | Longest runway in UP, 8 flights every hour: Everything about Kushinagar airportBJP leader Vijay Bahadur Pathak hit back. “Why are you so sad?.... When work has been done by Modi ji and (chief minister) Yogi (Adityanath) ji, then, of course, inauguration too would be done by them....” he said in his tweet.State BJP chief Swatantra Dev said the Kushinagar airport project reflected the clear vision of the state’s all-around development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-sp-trade-barbs-over-kushinagar-airport-101634717779976.html
20-10-2021||India||Assam: 2 arrested in Cachar for defacing hoardings written in Assamese||Two members of All Bengali Youth and Students Organisation (ABYSO) of Assam have been arrested in Cachar district for defacing hoardings advertising the Central government’s Jal Jeevan Mission, written in the Assamese language .Those arrested have been identified as Samar Das (38) and Raju Deb (37), both are residents of Silchar town. However, secretary of ABYSO, Rathindra Das said the duo was not involved in the act of smearing the hoardings. “They just extended support to the protest. Police on Tuesday initially called them to get some details but later arrested them. We are moving for bail today,” Das said.He added that his organisation “does not support acts of disrespect to any language” and it “strongly condemned” such behaviour.Members of the youth wing of newly formed political party, Barak Democratic Front, have been citing the amended Assam official language act to demand that all official communication including Central government hoardings are written in Bengali language instead of Assamese in the Barak valley.The Front’s founder Pradip Dutta Roy was also summoned by Cachar police chief on Tuesday afternoon and interrogated for two hours in connection with the smearing incident. Roy later released a statement saying the front didn’t plan to smear the hoardings and it was done without his consent. He, however, lodged an FIR against the director of Jal Jeevan Mission and deputy commissioner of Cachar district for alleged violation of the language act of the state.Roy, also a former lawyer of the Gauhati high court,alleged that the police were harassing innocent people and abusing the law. “These two persons are innocent, they just participated in a protest and were not involved in the act of defacing the hoardings. Also, the charge under IPC 425--an act with intention of destruction or damage to any public property-- is bailable and the police could have released them from the police station itself,” he said.The Assam Official Language Act, 1960, which mandated Assamese as the official language of the state, was amended in 1961 after mass protests by Bengali speaking people, especially in the Barak Valley, led to the death of 11 people at Silchar station on May 19, 1961. The amendment provided for the use of Bengali as the administrative language in Bengali-majority Barak Valley comprising Cachar, Karimganj and Hailakandi districts.The members of BDF argue that the protest against the hoardings was to reinforce the Assam Official Language (Amendment) Act of 1961, which was overlooked by local administration time and again.“Silchar station is the place where 11 people laid their lives while defending their mother tongue. Installation of Assamese posters at the railway station was an intentional move to hurt sentiments of the Bengalis,” said Kalparnav Gupta from BDF youth wing. Also Read | Assam: Students of primary section attend school after nearly 2 yearsThe senior members of Barak Democratic Forum clarified that their protest was not against Assamese or any other language, and they were only protesting against the “forceful imposition” of a particular language among the Bengali speaking people.However, social media platforms were flooded with posts condemning BDF. Silchar MP Rajdeep Roy called the defacing incident a “conspiracy”. “Ironical that the language issue has cropped up only days after Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sharma spent DurgaPuja with the ‘Bengalis’ of Barak Valley. Is this plain coincidence or is there a malicious intent behind it ? Smells fishy!,” Roy wrote on twitter.Silchar MLA Dipayan Chakraborty alleged that BDF members were “anti-nationals”. “First or all, I want to know who these people are? When the entire Barak valley came on streets to protest against the violence on Hindus in Bangladesh, these people kept mum. Now, they are trying to divert the protest by provoking an unnecessary debate. I strongly condemn this,” Chakraborty said.President of Assam Jatiya Parishad, Lurin Jyoti Gogoi sought action against the guilty and said that people from diverse backgrounds lived peacefully in Assam.President of Assam Pradesh Congress committee, Bhupen Kumar Borah said 27 linguistic communities including Bengalis lived together in Assam and the Assamese language was used widely as a common language.Several regional organisations including the All Assam Students Union (AASU), Asom Jatiyatabadi Yuba Chatra Parishad (AJYCP), Bir Lachit Sena criticised the defacing and called for the arrest of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-2-arrested-in-cachar-for-defacing-hoardings-written-in-assamese-101634717179886.html
20-10-2021||India||As Delhi sets out to introduce TDRs, weighing the benefits and shortcomings||New Delhi: Delhi is all set to get a new policy that will incentivise the conservation of privately-owned heritage properties and ecologically sensitive areas, and compensate people who give their land for essential infrastructure services.
20-10-2021||India||Longest runway in UP, 8 flights every hour: Everything about Kushinagar airport||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday inaugurated an international airport in Uttar Pradesh Kushinagar, giving a major boost to Buddhist tourism circuit. The airport will put this town in east UP on global aviation map, and serve as a hub of connectivity for many other small towns in the region.Also Read | 'First flight’s landing akin to paying obeisance to revered land', says PMWith a length of 3.2 kilometres, the Kushinagar airport has the longest runway in Uttar Pradesh, reported Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan. It is 45 metres wide.The airport apron will be able to accommodate four big aircraft, Livehindustan further said.Ambassadors of India's neighbouring countries like Sri Lanka and Thailand, where Buddhism is practiced by a majority of people, hailed the inauguration of the airport in Kushinagar, saying the move will benefit their respective citizens who plan to come to the city where Lord Buddha is believed to have attained Mahaparinirvana.Also Read | ‘Great honour’: Namal Rajapaksa on being onboard first flight to land at Kushinagar airportThe airport has the capacity to handle eight flights every hour (four arrivals and four departures), Livehindustan reported. The peak passenger capacity of the airport is 300 passengers per hour.The government is working towards starting night operations too, Livehindustan further reported.The Kushinagar airport has been constructed at a cost of ₹260 crore; its passenger terminal is spread across 3,600 square kilometres.Union civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia, who was also present at the inauguration event, said that Kushinagar airport will connect Buddhist pilgrim sites. He announced a direct Delhi-Kushinagar flight from November 26, and said Mumbai and Kolkata will be connected soon.Soon after the announcement, SpiceJet said in a release that flights on the Delhi-Kushinagar-Delhi sector will operate four times a week on Mondays, Wednesdays, Fridays and Sundays.Scindia also said that as many as 54 new airports have come up in the last seven years.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, meanwhile, said that the state government is working on 11 airports, including two international airports at Ayodhya and Gautam Buddh Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/longest-runway-in-up-8-flights-every-hour-everything-about-kushinagar-airport-101634715057307.html
20-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: Security forces gun down 2 terrorists in J&K encounter and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.J&K: Security forces gun down 2 terrorists in Shopian encounterTwo terrorists were killed on Wednesday in an encounter with a joint team of police and security forces in the Shopian district of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K), the police said. The security forces had launched a search-and-cordon operation earlier in the day in the Dragad area of Shopian, after receiving intelligence inputs about the presence of terrorists. Read moreDelhi-Kushinagar direct flights 4 times a week from Nov 26, announces ScindiaUnion civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia on Wednesday announced that the government will begin a direct flight between Delhi and Kushinagar. Read morePunjab: BSF recovers made-in-Pakistan pistols, heroin near international borderThe Border Security Force (BSF) has recovered 22 pistols (mostly Pakistan made), pistol magazines and heroin inside the paddy fields near the international border in Punjab's Ferozepur. Read moreThe White Tiger's Adarsh Gourav to star alongside Meryl Streep, David Schwimmer in ExtrapolationsActor Adarsh Gourav, of The White Tiger fame, is set to share screen space with the likes of Meryl Streep, David Schwimmer, Kit Harington, and Gemma Chan in Scott Z Burns' climate change anthology drama series, Extrapolations. Read more'Should you play Bhuvneshwar Kumar or Shardul Thakur?': Parthiv Patel on selection dilemma for India at T20 World CupAs India gear up for their opening game at the T20 World Cup against Pakistan, the big question that continues to circle Virat Kohli & co. remains who will make it into the playing XI. Read moreCraving for lachcha paratha? Have paneer paratha instead, says nutritionistFestival season is here and you may be tempted to indulge in some lip-smacking delicacies with your friends and family. But here's a note of caution. Loading oneself with high-calorie food may lead to spike in sugar levels of people with diabetes or those with heart troubles. Read moreU'khand rain: Char Dham Yatra resumes after 3-day halt; death toll rises to 40Char Dham Yatra in Uttarakhand, which was halted due to rain, resumed on Wednesday. The pilgrimage was suspended from October 17-19 amid warnings of very heavy rainfall. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-security-forces-gun-down-2-terrorists-in-j-k-encounter-and-all-the-latest-news-101634712596655.html
20-10-2021||India||October is the new June: India’s chaotic rain calendar||New Delhi: At least 62 people have lost their lives in extreme rainfall events in the states of Kerala and Uttarakhand in the past few days. Delhi witnessed its seventh highest non-monsoon (outside the June-September period) in the 24 hours ending 8:30 am on October 18. While people in Delhi woke up to a hill-station like weather on Monday morning, many hill stations in India’s Northeast are facing an exceptionally dry and hot October.
20-10-2021||India||J&K: Security forces gun down 2 terrorists in Shopian encounter||Two terrorists were killed on Wednesday in an encounter with a joint team of police and security forces in the Shopian district of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K), the police said. The security forces had launched a search-and-cordon operation earlier in the day in the Dragad area of Shopian, after receiving intelligence inputs about the presence of terrorists. One of the slain terrorists has been identified as Adil Wani, who was active since the July of 2020 and was involved in the killing of a poor labourer at Litter in Pulwama. As per police officials cited by news agencies, the search operation turned into an encounter after the terrorists opened fire on the joint team of police and security forces, who hit back with retaliatory gunfire. In the ensuing operation, the two terrorists were killed, the officials said.However, the identity and group affiliation of the other slain terrorist has still not been ascertained, police officials said, adding that an investigation is underway in this regard.Last week, joint security forces had trapped top Lashkar-e-Taiba commander Umar Mushtaq Khandey during a similar encounter in the Pampore area of Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir.Khandey is among the top militants who the security forces were targeting since a hitlist was released by the police in August this year. He was allegedly involved in the killing of two policemen at Baghat in Srinagar district earlier this year, inspector-general of police (Kashmir) Vijay Kumar said in a tweet.A total of 15 terrorists have been killed so far in the eight encounters conducted by the security forces after the recent civilian killings in Jammu and Kashmir, according to the police. After the killings of civilians, a number of terrorists had run away to south Kashmir, as per officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-security-forces-gun-down-2-terrorists-in-shopian-encounter-101634707852457.html
20-10-2021||India||‘First flight’s landing akin to paying obeisance to revered land’, PM in Kushinagar||Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated Kushinagar International Airport in Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday, which will improve connectivity to Buddhist pilgrimage sites in India. Referring to the maiden flight from Sri Lanka that arrived at the airport on Wednesday with over 100 Buddhist monks and dignitaries on board, Modi said the flight’s landing was akin to paying obeisance to the revered land. Kushinagar is a sacred Buddhist site, where Lord Buddha is believed to have delivered his last sermon and attained salvation or Mahaparinirvana.“It (airport) is a result of hopes and aspirations of decades... Kapilavastu and Sarnath are nearby as is Bodh Gaya where he [Lord Buddha] gained enlightenment… these are places of reverence for people from Laos, Korea, Sri Lanka, Japan, Indonesia among others,” Modi said He added that as a parliamentary representative from the region, he also feels a sense of accomplishment on the completion of the project. Modi represents Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh.Also Read: Namal Rajapaksa says ‘great honour’ to be on first flight to land at Kushinagar Modi underlined the fillip that the airport will give to economic activity and tourism in the region. He added that farmers, entrepreneurs and a host of other people will benefit from the connectivity offered by the new airport. “It will create an ecosystem of economy, tourism and create avenues of employment.” “Whether it is aastha or ananda (faith or pleasure), modern infrastructure is a prerequisite,” he said, stressing the need to develop roads, airways and waterways along with hotels, and the internet for boosting tourism.He said the Union government is working to augment air connectivity and that of the 900 plus new routes that have been approved in the last seven years, services have already begun on 350.He referred to the accessibility of air services. Modi added amid improved services, many people are now flying. “ In UP (Uttar Pradesh), nine new airports have become operational. There will be newer airports In Ayodhya, Azamgarh, Moradabad, Shrawasti, Aligarh … soon.”Till 2017, the state had only four operational airports--one each at Lucknow, Varanasi, Gorakhpur and Agra. After 2017, five airports have become operational--Prayagraj, Kanpur, Hindon, Bareilly, and Kushinagar International airport. With this, the state now has nine airports operational. Meanwhile, Samajwadi Party president and former chief minister, Akhilesh Yadav accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of taking credit for projects launched by them. “When they (BJP) didn’t even lay a brick for the foundation…and yet they come to inaugurate a project launched during the Samajwadi Party time with their scissors, ribbons, garland and sweets... BJP leaders must remember that merely becoming a pilot doesn’t mean you own the plane. They should also remember that the groundwork of the highway project on which you are taking off, has been prepared by someone else,” Yadav tweeted soon after the prime minister unveiled the project. The Samajwadi Party said on Tuesday that the project was sanctioned in 2016 when Yadav was the state’s chief minister. At the event, PM Modi also referred to the Air India sale as a big step that will give new energy to the aviation sector. Modi’s comments come weeks after Tata group emerged as the winning bidder for Air India paving the way for the disinvestment of the loss-making carrier.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said the new airport is a flight of development for the people of eastern Uttar Pradesh. He added that from 1947 to 2014, the state had only two functional airports, Lucknow and Varanasi. “Connectivity was with only for 15 or 16 places. Now we have nine functional airports and will be connected to 75 places. Construction of an International Airport is on at war-footing in Ayodhya and the second one in Gautam Buddha Nagar.”The Jewar airport in Gautam Buddha Nagar (Greater Noida) will be NCR’s second airport. Union aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia said direct flights four times a week between Delhi and Kushinagar will begin from November 26. He added the airport will then be connected with Mumbai and Kolkata too. “The airport will connect eight main Buddhist religious centres. What was not possible for years is being realised today,” Scindia added. Commenting on how the project was accelerated, Scindia said that , across India, from 34, the number of airports has increased to 181 in the past seven years. Congress spokesperson Zeeshan Haidar slammed both the BJP and the SP. “I agree with the Samajwadi Party about the BJP wrongly claiming credit for projects. However, the SP too must remember in whose period the clearance for the big-ticket projects that SP chief Akhilesh Yadav so often refers to had come about... As for the BJP, I will say that inviting Modi for inaugurations won’t help the chief minister because people now know that all such big-ticket activity happens only around elections,” Haidar said. (with inputs from Lucknow)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-flight-s-landing-was-akin-to-paying-obeisance-to-the-revered-land-pm-modi-on-kushinagar-airport-101634712379346.html
20-10-2021||India||Supreme Court sets aside 2-week furlough granted to Asaram's son Narayan Sai||The Supreme Court on Wednesday set aside the order of the Gujarat high court granting a 14-day furlough to rape convict Narayan Sai, son of self-styled godman Asaram Bapu. A bench of Justices DY Chandrachud and BV Nagarathna allowed the appeal of the Gujarat government challenging the June 24 order of the high court granting furlough to Sai.The top court said that furlough is not an absolute right and it depends on various factors. It said the jail superintendent has given a negative opinion for a grant of furlough to Sai as a mobile phone was found from his cell.On August 12, the top court had stayed the Gujarat high court order giving two-week furlough to Sai.The top court had issued a notice to Sai on the Gujarat government's plea challenging the high court's single-judge order of June 24 and stayed it till further orders.It had said that the proviso to Rule 3(2) of the Bombay Furlough and Parole Rules 1959, provides that a prisoner sentenced to life imprisonment may be released on furlough “every year” after he completes seven years actual imprisonment.The single-judge bench of the high court ordered the release of Sai on furlough for two weeks on June 24, 2021, but the division bench had stayed it till August 13, and thereafter the state has moved the top court challenging the June 24 order.The state government has contended that under the rules and even in a judgement of this court, it has been held that furlough is not an absolute right and it depends on various factors.It had said Sai and his father were arrested for offences under rape charges and they wield considerable influence with money and muscle power.On April 26, 2019, Sai was convicted under the Indian Penal Code sections 376 (rape), 377 (unnatural offences), 323 (assault), 506-2 (criminal intimidation), and 120-B (conspiracy) by a Surat court and sentenced to life imprisonment.In 2013, Asaram was arrested for allegedly raping a girl in Rajasthan after two Surat-based sisters had accused Asaram and his son of sexual exploitation.The elder sister had accused Asaram of sexually assaulting her between 1997 and 2006 when she lived at his Ahmedabad ashram.The younger sister had accused the godman's son of sexual assault when she lived at Asaram's ashram in the Jahangirpura area of Surat between 2002 and 2005.The incidents of multiple sexual assaults and unnatural sex with the victim had taken place between 2002 and 2005, but the case against Sai had been filed only in 2013.Sai was arrested from the Delhi-Haryana border in December 2013.When Sai was in jail, the Surat police had claimed to have unearthed elaborate plans to bribe police officers, doctors, and even judicial officers to weaken the case against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-sets-aside-2-week-furlough-granted-to-asaram-s-son-narayan-sai-101634710512721.html
20-10-2021||India||Kovind to arrive in Patna today for Bihar assembly centenary celebrations||President Ram Nath Kovind will arrive in Patna on Wednesday for a two-day visit to Bihar for the centenary celebrations of the state assembly building on Thursday. The building hosted the inaugural session of the joint Bihar and Orissa Provincial Council on February 7, 1921.Kovind will address the Bihar assembly members and visit the Takht Harmandir Sahib, the birthplace of Guru Gobind Singh, and the Mahavir Mandir.Bihar assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha called the centenary year celebrations a memorable event and a reminder of the glorious traditions of the legislature.Also Read | Bihar bypolls: Eye on Tarapur, JD(U) inducts son of veteran politicianKovind was the Bihar governor before he became the President in 2017. Soon after he was sworn in as the President, he visited the state to launch Bihar’s third phase of the agriculture road map. Later, he visited the state for the convocation ceremonies at Rajendra Agriculture University and NIT Patna and the international Dharma-Dhamma conference at Rajgir.Kovind will also lay the foundation of Shatabdi Stambh (centenary column) being built to showcase Bihar’s history and plant sapling of Bodhi tree during his two-visit to the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kovind-to-arrive-in-patna-for-bihar-assembly-centenary-celebrations-101634710459219.html
20-10-2021||India||‘Great honour’: Namal Rajapaksa on being onboard first flight to land at Kushinagar airport||Namal Rajapaksa, Sri Lanka's minister of youth and sports, described as a “great honour” for him and his delegation to be on the first flight that landed at the Kushinagar International Airport in Uttar Pradesh, inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday. Speaking to reporters after arrival, he also expressed hope that the opening of the airport will lead to even more people from his country visiting Kushinagar, and India.Also Read | PM Modi inaugurates Kushinagar airport in boost to Buddhist pilgrimage circuit“It's a great honour for myself and my delegation to be on the first flight to land at the Kushinagar International Airport. Already, there are many tourists coming to different states of India from Sri Lanka and all over the world. Most of us (foreign visitors) travel to Kushinagar via land. Having direct access to cities such as Kushinagar will be always a great helping hand for tourism,” Rajapaksa said.Also Read | 'UP now has 9 airports, Kushinagar will boost international tourism', says CMTourism between the two countries has always been very “robust,” the minister further said, adding that Indians, in large numbers, visit the island nation. “We also have Sri Lankans coming to different places in India, especially Varanasi, Prime Minister's (Narendra Modi) constituency. Now we believe that opening up Kushinagar will increase the number of travellers from Sri Lanka, and also those from all over the world, especially the Buddhists,” Rajapaksa added.Also Read | Delhi-Kushinagar direct flights 4 times a week from Nov 26, announces ScindiaThe city is a sacred site for the followers of Buddhism as this is where Lord Gautam Buddha is believed to have delivered his final sermon, and also the site of his salvation or “Mahaparinirvana.” Buddhists comprise nearly 70 per cent of Sri Lanka's more than 20 million-strong population.The very first flight to arrive at the newly-built airport departed from Colombo with a 100-member Sri Lankan delegation, including Rajapaksa, in the early hours of the day. Besides him, the delegation comprises the country's PM and his father Mahinda Rajapaksa, ministers and Buddhist monks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/great-honour-namal-rajapaksa-on-being-a-passenger-on-first-flight-to-land-at-kushinagar-airport-101634707038808.html
20-10-2021||India||Punjab: BSF recovers made-in-Pakistan pistols, heroin near international border||The Border Security Force (BSF) has recovered 22 pistols (mostly Pakistan made), pistol magazines and heroin inside the paddy fields near the international border in Punjab's Ferozepur. The recoveries were made in the Khemkaran area on Tuesday.The BSF said in a release that it recovered the ammunition based on an intelligence input from the Punjab Police.It further said that a search operation was jointly carried out by the BSF and Punjab Police. The team found a shoulder bag lying inside a paddy field (about 10 metres from the International Border) from which the recoveries were made.Forty four magazines and 100 round ammunition, along one packet of opium was also found, the force said.An FIR was registered against unknown persons under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, and Foreigners Act.The seized items were handed over to the Punjab Police, said the BSF.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-bsf-recovers-made-in-pakistan-pistols-heroin-near-international-border-101634709076708.html
20-10-2021||India||Delhi-Kushinagar direct flights 4 times a week from Nov 26, announces Scindia||Union civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia on Wednesday announced that the government will begin a direct flight between Delhi and Kushinagar. Scindia was addressing an event in Kushinagar where an international airport was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.The Union minister said that the Delhi-Kushinagar direct flight will begin from November 26 and operate four days a week. The initial flights will be operated by budget airlines SpiceJet.He further said that the airport will also have direct flights from Mumbai and Kolkata soon.Others present at the event included Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel, chief minister Yogi Adityanath and several dignitaries.The airport was inaugurated with the first flight arriving from Sri Lanka, that included a delegation led by the island nation's minister Namal Rajapaksa, son of PM Mahinda Rajapaksa, comprising around 100 senior Buddhist monks, four state ministers and other senior officials on the auspicious occasion of Vap Poya Day.The airport has been built at an estimated cost of ₹260 crore and the new terminal building is spread across 3,600 square metres. It has been developed by the Airport Authority of India (AAI) in association with the Uttar Pradesh government.The Kushinagar International Airport is the ninth airport in Uttar Pradesh, located at one of the major Buddhist pilgrimage centres around the world where Lord Buddha attained Mahaparinirvana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhikushinagar-direct-flights-4-times-a-week-from-nov-26-announces-scindia-101634707550768.html
20-10-2021||India||Fifty-five people from Chhattisgarh stuck in Nainital, rescue ops on||Fifty-five tourists from Chhattisgarh, including 44 women and four children, are stuck in Uttarakhand’s Nainital following heavy rainfall there, officials said on Wednesday. They arrived there last week.“The tourists from Durg are stuck in Kainchi Dham after a landslide there. An army unit reached the spot Tuesday evening and provided food and other help. They are presently at a school in the area. We are in touch with them, and rescue operations will start soon,” said Dipanshu Kabra, commissioner, public relations, Chhattisgarh.Chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has directed top officials to coordinate with the administration in Uttarakhand to ensure the safe return of the tourists.The death from rain-related incidents reached 46 in Uttarakhand on Wednesday while eleven are missing.Also Read |Uttarakhand rains: Overall death toll reaches 46, at least 10 still missingA flash flood swept through Ramgarh in the Nainital district, where the popular lake town was also inundated and cut off from the rest of the state on Tuesday. A number of landslides were also reported.An unusual western disturbance – a rain system that originates in the Mediterranean region – swept across the northern plans and slammed into the Himalayan ranges, triggering extremely heavy rain spells.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fiftyfive-people-from-chhattisgarh-stuck-in-nainital-101634707759059.html
20-10-2021||India||Speed up apple harvest, growers told as IMD predicts heavy snowfall in Kashmir||The horticulture department has issued an advisory to fruit growers in Kashmir asking them to speed up apple harvest after the India Meteorological Development (IMD) on Tuesday issued a warning saying a fresh western disturbance approaching the region could result in heavy snowfall and rains from Friday.The IMD warned that heavy snowfall could lead to damage to the apple orchards and temporary disruption of traffic along major highways in hilly areas. “There is an advisory from IMD, so we have asked growers without wasting time, they should harvest apples in the orchards where apples are still on trees,” said horticulture department director Ajaz Ahmad Bhat. He added that the apple growers should also prune trees and ensure proper drainage in the orchards. “People should not panic but start working to save their orchards and crop,” he said.Also Read: Security beefed up, searches intensified across KashmirSnowfall in the first week of November in Kashmir in 2018 damaged orchards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/speed-up-apple-harvest-growers-told-as-imd-says-snowfall-likely-in-kashmir-this-week-101634707278814.html
20-10-2021||India||'UP now has 9 airports, Kushinagar will boost international tourism', says chief minister Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday hailed the inauguration of an international airport in Kushinagar, saying it will not only benefit the state but also the country. The airport was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Adityanath said that the airport will catapult Kushinagar in eastern Uttar Pradesh on the international aviation map."From 1947 to 2014, Uttar Pradesh only had two functional airports in Lucknow and Varanasim and connectivity was with only for 15 or 16 places," said the chief minister. "Now we have nine functional airports and will be connected to 75 places."He also said that construction of an international airport is on at war footing in Ayodhya and a second one in Gautam Buddha Nagar.Also Read | Jyotiraditya Scindia announces Delhi-Kushinagar direct flightThe inauguration of the airport was marked by the landing of the inaugural flight at the airport from Colombo, carrying the Sri Lankan delegation of over a hundred Buddhist Monks and dignitaries including the 12-member Holy Relic entourage bringing the Holy Buddha Relics for exposition."Many Buddhist tourists are come to Kushinagar from all over the world. most of them travel to Kushinagar by land. Giving access to cities like Kushinagar will always give a helping hand to tourism. I am sure a lot of good experience will come from Sri Lanka," said Namal Rajapaksa, who is leading a delegation from Sri Lanka."Having international flights will give a boost to Thai people who come to Kushinagar. it will become much easier and comfortable to visit the town now," said Thailand's ambassador Pattarat Hongtong.Adityanath welcomed the dignitaries to Uttar Pradesh. The Kushinagar international airport has been built at an estimated cost of ₹260 crore. It will facilitate domestic and international pilgrims to visit the Mahaparinirvana sthal (place) of Lord Buddha and is an endeavour in connecting the Buddhist pilgrimage holy sites around the world.The airport will serve nearby districts of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar and is an important step in boosting the investment and employment opportunities in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-now-has-9-airports-kushinagar-will-boost-international-tourism-says-cm-101634706541060.html
20-10-2021||India||Landslides in Darjeeling–Kalimpong hills due to heavy rain; tourists stranded||Heavy rain continued to batter the hilly regions of Darjeeling and Kalimpong in North Bengal and neighbouring Sikkim, triggering landslides at multiple places and leaving tourists stranded. While at least three people were killed till Tuesday night, there were no fresh reports of any casualties on Wednesday morning, officials said.The National Highway 10, which connects Sikkim with West Bengal and the rest of the country, remained virtually cut off as landslides were reported from several points. “In the last 24 hours, Darjeeling received around 233mm rain, while Kalimpong received around 199mm rain. Jalpaiguri and Siliguri at the foothills in north Bengal received around 151mm and 195mm rain during the same period,” said an India Meteorological Department (IMD) official in Kolkata.The intensity of the rains in south Bengal has come down. Coastal areas such as Canning, Haldia and Digha received more than 100mm rain on Monday. In the last 24 hours, the amount of rain dropped to less than 25mm. Kolkata received just around 6.3mm rain.“There have been many landslides. So far there are no reports of loss of human lives,” said S Poonambalam, district magistrate of Darjeeling.One person died in Kalimpong on Tuesday when the vehicle he was driving fell down from a cliff after being hit by an uprooted tree during a landslide. Two persons were killed in Sikkim on Monday when their car was hit by boulders.Also Read: Monsoon is over. But why is it raining so much in October? Here’s the answerRoads in Kalimpong, Kurseong, and Darjeeling were badly hit. The road connecting Kalimpong via Lava was closed at several places towards Kalimpong and Gorubathan. The administration has issued an advisory saying the only route which seems to be motorable was via Ghoom and Kurseong.Hundreds of tourists and their vehicles were stranded at Lava in Kalimpong district. In Kurseong and Sikkim several houses were badly damaged due to the incessant rains and landslides. The additional support pillars of Rangpo Bridge connecting Sikkim with West Bengal are severely damaged.“We are trying to restore the roads for at least smaller vehicles by Wednesday afternoon. For heavy vehicles to pass through, it would take time,” said Subodh Chettri, an executive engineer in Darjeeling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-in-darjeeling-kalimpong-hills-trigger-multiple-landslides-tourists-stranded-101634706738607.html
20-10-2021||India||Will work towards building network of 200 airports: PM Modi in Kushinagar||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday that efforts will be directed towards building a network of over 200 airports, heliports and water domes in the nation in the next 3-4 years. He made the remarks at the inauguration ceremony of the Kushinagar International airport, which is being touted as a key move to boost Buddhist pilgrimage circuit around the world. The inauguration of the airport was marked by the landing of a flight from Colombo (Sri Lanka), carrying a Sri Lankan delegation of over a hundred Buddhist monks and dignitaries.The Prime Minister arrived in Uttar Pradesh today, for the inauguration of the airport and launching of key projects. Kushinagar, among the most important pilgrim spots for Buddhists, is the final resting place of Gautama Buddha where he attained Mahaparinirvana after his death.Also read: Delhi-Kushinagar direct flights 4 times a week from Nov 26, announces ScindiaAddressing the event, PM Modi said that the airport is a result of decades of hopes and expectations. “My happiness is two-fold today. As curious about the spiritual journey, I've a sense of satisfaction. As a representative of Purvanchal area, it is time for the fulfilment of a commitment,” he added. PM Modi further informed Indian airline SpiceJet is starting a direct flight between Delhi and Kushinagar in a matter of weeks. Among those present at the ceremony were Union minister of civil aviation Jyotiraditya Scindia, Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel, chief minister Yogi Adityanath and other dignitaries.Also read: ‘Great honour’: Namal Rajapaksa on being onboard first flight to land at Kushinagar airportMeanwhile, Sri Lankan sports minister Namal Rajapaksa appreciated PM Modi's “gesture” of inviting Srilankan airlines to be the first international carrier at Kushinagar airport. "It (Kushinagar International Airport) is a great gesture of PM Modi and especially inviting Srilankan airlines to be the first international carrier to land at Kushinagar International Airport," Namal Rajapaksa, who arrived in Uttar Pradesh with a delegation of monks, said. The representatives from all major countries practising Buddhism were present at the Kushinagar inauguration function, including those from Myanmar, Vietnam, Cambodia, Bhutan, Thailand and Nepal.The Kushinagar International airport has been built at an estimated cost of ₹260 crore and will facilitate domestic and international pilgrims to visit the Mahaparinirvana sthal of Lord Buddha. The endeavour will connect the Buddhist pilgrimage holy sites around the world and also boost the investment and employment opportunities in the region. The Union Cabinet gave its approval for the declaration of Kushinagar airport in Uttar Pradesh as an International Airport in June 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-inaugurates-kushinagar-airport-in-boost-to-buddhist-pilgrimage-circuit-101634705901050.html
20-10-2021||India||PM Modi addresses CVC-CBI joint meet, hails digital tools in checking corruption||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday virtually addressed a joint conference of the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in Gujarat, in which he hailed a New India which is increasingly using digital tools to push back against age-old corrupt practices. Declaring that India of the 21st-century “innovates, initiates, and implements”, Prime Minister Modi said that people here are seeking a transparent system, efficient processes, and smooth governance. This, he said, will be made possible through the implementation of new-age digital tools.“In the last 6-7 years, the government has succeeded in instilling the confidence that it is possible to contain corruption,” the Prime Minister said at the CVC conference. “Today there is the political will to attack corruption and continuous improvement is also being carried out at the administrative level.”“New India is no longer ready to accept that corruption is part of the system,” said Prime Minister Modi. He added that his government trusts citizens instead of doubting their intentions; barriers were removed and long redundancies in the system were ended with the use of technology. “This approach of trust and technology has strengthened efficient governance and ease of doing business,” said Prime Minister Modi.Speaking of the ways in which digital technology has aided in streamlining the bureaucratic processes by eliminating corruption, the Prime Minister pointed out that long queues to avail of government services have now been significantly reduced. Citizens can now directly claim the benefits from government portals instead of resorting to corrupt middlemen who took a cut of the revenue.“Thousands of compliance certificates and NOCs were needed till now, which led to corruption; all this has been eliminated,” the Prime Minister said. “The processes have been made faceless. Due to the increased digital footprints, it has become easier for investigating agencies to conduct probes.”Prime Minister Modi also reminded citizens that although it is the government that has made laws, its implementation is the responsibility of every citizen. He also called upon the officers of CBI and CVC to rededicate themselves to abolish corruption from all walks of national life. Pointing out that “corruption takes away the rights of people and hinders the pursuit of justice for all”, Modi urged the officials to work towards the nation’s progress and increase the collective power of the nation.Recalling his Independence Day call for simplification of laws and procedures, the Prime Minister called upon CVC and CBI, and other anti-corruption institutions to remove such processes that come in the way of new India. “You need to strengthen New India’s policy of zero tolerance for corruption. You need to implement laws in a way that poor come close to the system and the corrupt moves out of it”, the Prime Minister concluded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-addresses-cvc-cbi-joint-meet-hails-digital-tools-in-checking-corruption-101634704003930.html
20-10-2021||India||Kushinagar airport: Sri Lankan delegation of over 100 people to land first||An inaugural flight from Colombo carrying a Sri Lankan delegation of over 100 people, including Buddhist monks and five ministers, and holy Buddha relics will land in Uttar Pradesh’s Kushinagar as Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate an international airport there on Wednesday. The airport has been built as part of efforts to connect Buddhist pilgrimage sites. Modi will also inaugurate and lay the foundation stones of 12 development projects worth over ₹180 crore in the poll-bound state.In a tweet, Modi said, “Tomorrow (Wednesday) is a special day for our infrastructure and civil aviation sector. The Kushinagar International Airport will be inaugurated, with the inaugural flight landing from Colombo, whose passengers include a group of respected monks. This airport will benefit UP (Uttar Pradesh) and Bihar.”Kushinagar is a sacred Buddhist site where Lord Buddha is believed to have delivered his last sermon and attained salvation or Mahaparinirvana. Modi will also participate in an event marking Abhidhamma Day at the Mahaparinirvana Temple there, pay his respects to the reclining statue of Lord Buddha and plant a Bodhi tree sapling. Abhidhamma Day symbolises the end of three-month rainy retreat--varshavaas or vassa--for the Buddhist monks. The monks stay at one place in vihara and monastery and pray during this period.“The highlight of the event is the Exposition of Holy Buddha Relic being brought from Waskaduwa Sri Subuddhi Rajvihara Temple, Sri Lanka by the Mahanayaka of the temple. In 1898, Archaeologists from the Archaeological Survey of India excavated a large mound in the estate of British landowner, William Claxton Peppe in Piprahwa, Sidharthnagar district U.P (Uttar Pradesh). It is 160 km from Kushinagar,” a culture ministry statement said. Also Read | Abhidhamma Day: Here’s why it holds significance for BuddhistsMonks from Thailand, Myanmar, South Korea, Nepal, Bhutan, and Cambodia, and foreign envoys will also attend the event.Modi will also visit an exhibition of paintings of Ajanta frescos, Buddhist sutra calligraphy, and Buddhist artifacts excavated from Vadnagar and other sites in Gujarat.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/buddhist-monks-to-land-1st-at-kushinagar-international-airport-after-inauguration-101634705598723.html
20-10-2021||India||Toll from rain-related incidents has reached 50 in Uttarakhand: Officials||The toll from rain-related incidents has reached 50 in Uttarakhand, officials said on Wednesday, a day after a flash flood swept through Ramgarh in the Nainital district, where the popular lake town was also inundated and cut off from the rest of the state. An unusual western disturbance – a rain system that originates in the Mediterranean region – swept across the northern plans and slammed into the Himalayan ranges, triggering extremely heavy rain spells.Officials said 30 people have died in the Nainital district, six in Almora, two in Champawat, two in US Nagar, and one in Bageshwar district since Tuesday. The rest of the deaths were reported on October 17 and 18 in the state. Nine houses have also been damaged across the state due to heavy rains.On Wednesday, four bodies were recovered from Ramgarh and two from Kainchi Dham area in Nainital. Around 500 people stranded on the Kainchi-Bhwali were also rescued.Also Read | Uttarakhand rain: Over 45 dead; Amit Shah to take stock of situation todayState Disaster Response Force personnel on Tuesday carried out rescue operations in waterlogged areas of Rudrapur in US Nagar, using rafts at some places.Chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami conducted aerial surveys of affected areas in Kumaon. He took stock of the emerging situation and spoke to officials.On Tuesday, Dhami told local media that 34 people have been killed in rain-related incidents in the state. He announced ₹4 lakh compensation each to the kin of those killed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/toll-from-rain-related-incidents-reaches-46-in-uttarakhand-101634704818485.html
20-10-2021||India||Bangladesh attacks trigger protests with civil society members criticising govt||Attacks on Hindus in Bangladesh since the Durga puja festival have triggered protests with prominent civil society members criticising the Sheikh Hasina government for failing to protect the religious minority. Hundreds of Dhaka University students on Monday held a protest at Shahbag Square in the heart of the Bangladesh capital and demanded protection for Hindu citizens. Most of these students were Muslims, said media reports. They were joined by monks of the International Society for Krishna Consciousness, whose temples were vandalised in the attacks.The Shahbag Square emerged as a symbol of resistance against fundamentalist forces in Bangladesh in 2013 when thousands took part in an agitation, demanding capital punishment for 1971 war criminal Abdul Quader Mollah and a ban on electoral activities by his organisation, the Jamaat-e-Islami.Mashrafe Bin Mortaza, a former Bangladesh cricket captain and member of the parliament of the ruling Awami League, expressed his anguish over the violence on Twitter. “I witnessed two defeats yesterday. One was that of the Bangladesh cricket team, which pained me, while the other was the defeat of the entire nation that crushed my heart. This is not the red and green (the national bicolour) we wanted. All the dreams and our hard-earned struggle died in seconds. May Allah offer us wisdom,” Mortaza tweeted on Monday.The communal violence coincided with Scotland’s victory over Bangladesh by six runs in the ICC Men’s T20 World Cup. Mortaza wrote in Bengali, the official language of Bangladesh.Hours later, noted Indian lyricist and poet Javed Akhtar tweeted: “What is happening in Bangladesh is a matter of great shame. Those who are trying to crush a vulnerable minority are bullies, cowards and sick communalists. How can Sheikh Hasina who is known for secular values let this happen under her watch?”Bangladeshi filmmaker Mostofa Sarwar Farooki wrote on Tuesday: “I do not believe there can be anything that police cannot achieve. Nobody can commit a crime and disappear in thin air. Bangladesh is waiting to know who committed these crimes and waiting to watch them face trial.”Over a dozen organisations in West Bengal have held protests against the violence since Monday. Over three dozen, actors, writers, poets and painters have taken part in the demonstrations.Also Read | Bangladesh violence: VHP to hold nationwide protests todayThe West Bengal Imams Association said those involved in the violence were insulting Islam and the Quran. “Those who carried out random attacks across Bangladesh, saying the Quran was insulted at one of the Durga pujas, not only showed disrespect for Islam and the Quran but insulted both. Nobody has to study rocket science to understand that the alleged act of insult to the Quran was a well-planned conspiracy to create communal tension,” said Muhammad Yahiya, the chairman of the association representing Muslim clerics.National award-winning director Srijit Mukherji, who is married to Bangladeshi actress Rashid Mithila, condemned the violence. “Strongly, strongly condemn. A barbaric act,” Mukherji tweeted.Ahead of the by-polls to four assembly seats in Bengal on October 30, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which won two of these seats in the March-April elections, held protests in Kolkata and all 23 districts on Monday and Tuesday. The BJP demanded the implementation of the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and National Register of Citizens (NRC) in Bengal. It has claimed that the attacks on Hindus in Bangladesh are part of a “systematic ethnic cleaning” that started decades ago.The CAA offers citizenship to non-Muslims who entered India from Afghanistan, Pakistan and Bangladesh before 2015 to escape religious persecution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/communal-violence-in-bangladesh-triggers-protests-101634703738420.html
20-10-2021||India||Centre asks schools to take responsibility of self prescribed books||The Union government has asked schools to take responsibility for the textbooks they prescribe to students -- other than those approved by the national or state councils (NCERT or SCERTs) -- and told them to put up a list of books on their website or notice boards, declaring that their content has been “thoroughly checked”.The directions are part of the education ministry’s guidelines on “school safety and security” published earlier this month. The schools must follow a “whole school safety approach” covering all aspects of the school community and can impact holistic development, the guidelines said, listing including pedagogy, syllabi, textbooks, and assessments as part of the factors that affect the students’ growth.To this end, the guidelines said that schools, both private and public, should take extra caution while prescribing books other than those that are recommended by the NCERT, SCERTs, or the concerned education boards. “It is the responsibility of principals/school heads and teachers to carefully analyse syllabi and textbooks selected by the school (in case school is not following textbooks prescribed by NCERT/SCERTs). It should not promote any kind of discrimination based on caste, class, religion, gender, ethnicity, or language,” the guidelines added.“It should promote sensitivity towards environmental protection, gender parity, inclusion, and ethical behaviour, etc. Promote healthy habits of eating, cleanliness, and sanitation, reading, working together, helping each other, and collaboration in place of competition, etc.,” they said.The schools have been asked to put up a list of prescribed books on its website and notice board, along with a declaration “to the effect that the school owns the responsibility of having thoroughly checked and having gone through the content of the books”.There have been instances in the past where objectionable content was found in school textbooks, and NCERT or CBSE denied prescribing that book. For instance, in 2012, a Class 6 textbook being taught in some CBSE-affiliated schools in Delhi that said “meat-eaters cheat, lie and commit sex crimes” created an uproar. CBSE later came out with a statement saying that it did not prescribe the textbook.In 2018, CBSE included a clause in its by-laws warning schools of serious consequences, including loss of affiliation, in case they select books with objectionable content.A senior NCERT official, who asked not to be named, said: “It’s important that schools should make a list of such books public and own the responsibility. It is not possible for NCERT or SCERTs to go through the content of the books they do not prescribe,”The guidelines were sent to all states and Union territories on October 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-asks-schools-to-take-responsibility-of-self-prescribed-books-101634703011415.html
20-10-2021||India||PM Modi to interact with global business leaders from oil and gas sector||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with chief executive officers (CEO) and experts of the global oil and gas sector on Wednesday at 6pm to discuss key issues and potential opportunities in the sector, the Prime Minister’s Office said in a statement on Tuesday. “The broad theme of the upcoming interaction is promotion of clean growth and sustainability. The interaction will focus on areas like encouraging exploration and production in hydrocarbon sector in India, energy independence, gas based economy, emissions reduction – through clean and energy efficient solutions, green hydrogen economy, enhancement of biofuels production and waste to wealth creation,” the press note from the PMO said. The meeting comes in the backdrop of fuel prices rising to record levels in India partly due to crude oil prices increasing internationally while New Delhi looks for ways to reduce its heavy dependency on crude oil imports, which currently stands at 85% of its total fuel basket. Also Read: India moves a step forward in achieving E20 fuel dreamCEOs and experts from leading multinational companies (MNCs) and international organisations will be participating via video conferencing in the event, the sixth such annual interaction between the PM and global leaders in the oil and gas sector, which began in 2016. The deliberations are focused on “key issues of the sector and exploration of potential areas of collaboration and investment with India”, the official communique said. The Union Minister of Petroleum and Natural Gas Shri Hardeep S Puri will also be present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pmmodi-to-interact-with-global-business-leaders-from-oil-and-gas-sector-101634702778178.html
20-10-2021||India||Indian Railways to dissolve IRSDC after Centre's recommendation||The Indian Railways has ordered to dissolve Indian Railway Stations Development Corporation (IRSDC). This was informed in a letter the Railway Board issued on Monday.In a communication to all General Managers, the board ordered that all necessary procedural formalities for closure of IRSDC should be initiated.This is in line with recommendation from the cabinet secretariat to integrate, and undertake structural reforms in various bodies under Railways Ministry. It had also suggested merger of various railway's institutions.These recommendations were part of a report on the Rationalisation of Government Bodies under the Ministry of Railways prepared by Sanjeev Sanyal, Principal Economic Advisor, Ministry of Finance."The stations managed by IRSDC shall be handed over to respective Zonal Railways and all the projects related documents shall be handed over to respective Zonal Railways by IRSDC. Zonal Railways will further develop the stations' projects," the letter from the Railway Board said.With this step, IRSDC is the second organisation under the Ministry of Railways to be shut down after the closure of the Indian Railways Organisation for Alternative Fuel (IROAF) on September 7, 2021.IRSDC, the nine-year-old special purpose vehicle (SPV), is a joint venture between the Indian Railway Land Development Authority and IRCON.To fast track the redevelopment of railway stations and harness the true value of commercial development, many tools have been developed by IRSDC during its nine-year journey to streamline all processes for planning, designing, tendering, implementation and management of railway stations in India.The recommendations made by Sanyal in his report also talked about upgrading all 125 railway hospitals and bringing railway schools under the Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan (KVS).On the merger of PSUs, Sanjeev Sanyal's report pointed out the overlaps in the functions of Centre for Railway Information Systems (CRIS).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-railways-to-dissolve-irsdc-after-centre-s-recommendation-101634702214484.html
20-10-2021||India||PM Modi pays tribute to Maharishi Valmiki, recalls his contributions||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday paid tribute to Maharishi Valmiki on the occasion of Valmiki Jayanti and recalled his seminal contributions towards chronicling our rich past and glorious culture."I bow in reverence to Maharishi Valmiki on the special occasion of Valmiki Jayanti. We recall his seminal contributions towards chronicling our rich past and glorious culture. His emphasis on social empowerment keeps inspiring us," tweeted PM ModiThe prime minister also shared an audio clip from Mann Ki Baat, broadcasted a few days ahead of Valmiki Jayanti last year, in which he talked about Maharishi Valmiki.PM Modi, in his 17th episode of 'Mann Ki Baat 2.0' on October 25 last year, had said: "Maharishi Valmiki's lofty ideals continue to inspire millions of people and provide them strength. He is a beacon of great hope for millions of the impoverished and Dalits... instils hope and belief within them. He says that if anyone has willpower, one can achieve anything with ease. It is this willpower, which provides the strength to many young people to do extraordinary things.""Maharishi Valmiki emphasised positive thinking - for him, the spirit of service and human dignity were of utmost importance. Maharishi Valmiki's conduct, thoughts and ideals are the inspiration and guiding force for our resolve for a New India. We will always be grateful to Maharishi Valmiki for composing an epic like Ramayana to guide the future generations," he added.Every year, Valmiki Jayanti is celebrated on the full moon day of the Ashwin month to mark the birth anniversary of Maharishi Valmiki.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-pays-tribute-to-maharishi-valmiki-recalls-his-contributions-101634701742224.html
20-10-2021||India||WATCH: In Punjab's Ferozepur, a biomass plant generates electricity with paddy stubble||Amid increasing concerns over air pollution stemming from the stubble burning practice in northwest India, a biomass power plant in Punjab's Ferozepur has managed to generate electricity using paddy stubble. According to officials at the plant, the biomass power facility uses 600 tons of paddy stubble per day, which equates to around 2 -2.5 lakh tons of stubble per year. The initiative is being deemed favourable for farmers as well, since they get to sell their paddy to such biomass facilities, thus generating income.Satish Bedi, the general manager (commercial) at the Sukhbir Agro Energy Limited, told the ANI news agency, “The power plant's capacity is 18 MW per hr, it is stubble based and uses 600 tons of stubble in a day and around 2-2.25 lakh tons of stubble in a year.”Bedi added that this initiative is favourable for farmers as they are paid for selling stubble.“This is favourable for farmers,” the official was quoted as saying by the agency. “We take all the stubble from farmland and the land becomes empty for farming again. Farmers are also paid for selling the stubble. It is cherry on top for them.”It was reported by the Hindustan Times earlier this month that the Centre has been pushing the Punjab government to focus on ex-situ management of the crop stubble, in view of the fact that the paddy harvest season is on. Tying the stubble in bundles and supplying it as fuel in biomass-based power generation plants, industrial boilers, and coal-based-super critical power generating units is the most common form of ex-situ management, with experts claiming that the overall management cost is lowered this way.The Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) has also asked the state’s three thermal power plants to use paddy stubble as fuel to the extent of 10 per cent of total annual coal use. Two of these plants are with the state government.Satish Bedi, the official at the Sukhbir Agro Energy Limited, said that if more power plants are set up in the state, more electricity would be generated and the stubble burning problem could be eliminated.“If 24-26 plants like this are set up in Punjab, we would generate a lot of electricity for the state,” he said. “This will resolve the environmental problem and also eliminate the stubble burning problem. Moreover, this plant provides direct employment to 1500 people, which will help in employment generation as well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-in-punjab-s-ferozepur-a-biomass-plant-generates-electricity-with-stubble-101634699844646.html
20-10-2021||India||Maharashtra govt extends restaurant timings till midnight, shops till 11pm||In view of the decline in Covid-19 cases, the Maharashtra government has extended the timings of restaurants and eateries till midnight and shops till 11pm from Tuesday onwards. Preparations have also been made for reopening of colleges from Wednesday. For the fourth consecutive day, Maharashtra recorded fewer than 2,000 Covid-19 cases (1,638) on Tuesday.The state government defended the extension granted to restaurants and shops citing the upcoming Diwali season. “In the wake of the upcoming festival season, it is now felt that restrictions imposed on times of functioning for various establishments such as shops, restaurants, hotels, among others, will lead to more crowds in the shorter duration they are currently allowed to function,” cited the notification. It, however, said that all other Covid-19 restrictions will remain in place.Also Read: Maharashtra sees 4th straight day of fewer than 2,000 Covid-19 casesHotels and restaurant associations welcomed the move but said they wanted more. “The additional two hours will provide much-needed succour to the beleaguered hospitality industry. Our sector was the worst affected by Covid-19 restrictions. However, we wish extensions were granted till the pre-Covid deadline of 1.30am,” said Pradeep Shetty, senior vice- president, Hotel & Restaurant Association of Western India (HRAWI). Shivanand Shetty, president, Indian Hotels and Restaurants Association, (AHAR) also demanded restoration of the “original timing” of operation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/restaurants-hotels-shops-timings-extended-in-maharashtra-101634700558025.html
20-10-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: YS Sharmila to begin 4000-km foot march today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.YS Sharmila, the younger sister of Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, is set to undertake a padayatra (foot march) on Wednesday to “understand people's problems and find solutions” in context with her allegation that 7,000 farmers had committed suicide in the past seven years in Telangana during the rule of chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao (KCR). Read moreTerminal Two at Britain's Manchester Airport will reopen after Greater Manchester Police found no security threat following reports of a suspicious package, a spokesperson for the airport said on Tuesday."...Greater Manchester Police is satisfied that there is no security threat and has lifted the cordon that was in place," the spokesperson said in a statement, adding that the terminal will reopen within the next hour. Read moreIndia opener KL Rahul feels the legendary MS Dhoni, who is with the Indian side as a mentor for the T20 World Cup, can give any of the cricketers a run for their money. Rahul said that despite being on the other side of 40, the former skipper can hit the farthest sixes beating some of the muscular youngsters. Reac moreBollywood actor Sara Ali Khan rarely disappoints when it comes to her ethnic collection. Moreover, the star's love affair with traditional ensembles - be it sharara sets or suits or lehengas - has always given the fashion world some stunning moments. So, it makes sense that we look at her recent outfits for inspiration to ramp up our wardrobe for Diwali 2021 party. If you are one of us, worry not, because her latest look in a fusion yellow sharara set will definitely come to your rescue. Read moreClothing brand Fabindia deleted an advertisement from social media after facing backlash from BJP leaders. The brand had come out with a collection called ‘Jashn-e-Riwaaz’ for the upcoming festive season. BJP leaders accused Fabindia of defacing the festival of Diwali by linking the festival to Urdu terms. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-ys-sharmila-to-begin-4000-km-foot-march-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101634698773996.html
20-10-2021||India||Fresh rain likely over Kerala, TN; parts of east and northwest India||A fresh spell of heavy rain is likely over Peninsular India including Kerala and Tamil Nadu on Wednesday and Thursday while a fresh western disturbance is likely to affect the Western Himalayan region and bring scattered rain over Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and northwestern plains on October 23, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).Rain is likely to reduce significantly over northwest and adjoining central India from Wednesday. Uttarakhand is also likely to see dry weather for the next 2 days following which a fresh western disturbance is likely to affect the Western Himalayan region from October 22 and cause scattered to fairly widespread rain/snow over Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan and Muzaffarabad on the 22nd of October, with isolated heavy rainfall a day after. Isolated to scattered rain/snow over Himachal Pradesh is likely on October 22 and 23 and isolated to scattered rainfall is likely over Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana, northwest Rajasthan on October 23.A low pressure area is lying over Bihar and neighbourhood. Due to strong southerly or south-easterly winds from the Bay of Bengal, heavy rainfall is likely to continue over east & northeast India till Wednesday with moderate rainfall, thunderstorms and lightning at isolated places over Odisha and Jharkhand, Gangetic West Bengal and Bihar. Also Read | Monsoon is over. But why is it raining so much in October? Here’s the answerIsolated very heavy rain is also very likely on Wednesday over Sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Arunachal Pradesh, Bihar, Assam and Meghalaya. A fresh spell of easterly wave is likely to affect south Peninsular India and cause fairly widespread rainfall with isolated heavy rain likely over Kerala, Mahe, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry & Karaikal, coastal Karnataka and south interior Karnataka till October 23. Moderate to severe thunderstorms accompanied with lightning are very likely over east Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Sikkim and Odisha during the next 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fresh-rain-likely-over-kerala-tn-parts-of-east-and-northwest-india-101634699417845.html
20-10-2021||India||Monsoon is over. But why is it raining so much in October? Here's the answer||From north to south, many states in India are witnessing heavy rainfall in the month of October, even after the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the southwest monsoon has completely withdrawn from most of north India.In Delhi, October has emerged as the wettest month since 1960. In Uttarakhand, nearly 50 people have died due to landslides triggered by heavy rainfall, which also blocked key highways. In Kerala, the authorities had to open gates of a number of dams due to water levels breaching danger marks.So what is the reason behind this sudden downpour? According to IMD, an unusual western disturbance - a rain system that originates in the Mediterranean region - swept across the northern plans and slammed into the Himalayan ranges, triggering extremely heavy rain spells often regarded as cloudbursts."A western disturbance interacted with the easterlies to cause conditions for extremely heavy rain over Uttarakhand. There was a low-pressure area over Bihar which was bringing in a lot of moisture and the western disturbance helped cloud development and rain," said DS Pai, Scientist and head of climate research and services.And then there was the impact of climate change. “Climate change has increased moisture holding capacity of the atmosphere all around the world. So of course, climate change has a role to play but also local synoptic features need to be considered,” Pai added when asked about reports of cloudburst in Ramgarh block, about 35km from Nainital town.He also said that in the post-monsoon period, such intense rainfall events occur in Maharashtra also.The IMD has forecast more rainfall for Odisha and West Bengal, which have already been pounded by low pressure area-induced heavy showers over the past three days, throwing life out of gear in places.According to the Met department, the states will have to brace for downpour over the next two days, despite the low-pressure system having moved to Bihar.Water levels in Subarnarekha, Budhabalang and Jalaka rivers in northern Odisha are on the rise, according to the weather department. The MeT office has issued a yellow warning for Sundargarh, Keonjhar, Mayurbhanj and Balasore. In West Bengal, it has warned of extremely heavy rainfall over Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Alipurduar till Wednesday and downpour till Thursday over all sub-Himalayan districts.
20-10-2021||India||Andhra Pradesh bandh today, call given by TDP after attacks on its offices||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) has called for a bandh (shutdown) in Andhra Pradesh today over attacks on its offices, for which it blamed the YS Jagan Mohan Reddy regime. TDP chief N Chandrababu Naidu called the attacks "state sponsored terrorism".He demanded a through inquiry on the attacks at TDP state headquarters at Mangalagiri in Guntur and its offices in several other districts, and imposition of President's Rule in the state by invoking Article 356 of the Constitution.Naidu alleged that Director General of Police Gautam Sawang had colluded with the chief minister and perpetrated attacks on the TDP cadres in a pre-planned manner.The TDP chief wrote a letter to Union home minister Amit Shah stating how the law and order collapsed totally in the state under the present regime. In response, Naidu said that Shah assured to look into the matter and asked for making a formal police complaint about the attacks.Naidu also spoke to Governor Biswa Bhushan Harichandan on phone and complained to him about the attacks by the YSRCP cadres on the TDP offices and leaders.The attacks took place after TDP spokesman Kommareddy Pattabhi held a press conference and criticised the state government for not taking any action against rampant ganja cultivation in the tribal areas of Visakhapatnam.Pattabhi found fault with the police for serving notices on a former TDP minister Nakka Ananda Babu, who alleged that certain YSRC leaders were involved in the smuggling of narcotics. In the process of criticising the Jagan government, the TDP spokesman used some foul words against the chief minister.Pattabhi’s foul-mouthing of Jagan evoked strong protests from YSRCP leaders and cadres, who went on a rampage and attacked the TDP offices in several parts of the state. They also burnt the effigies of TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu and raised slogans against Pattabhi and Naidu."My house has been totally ransacked today. They have done it because I questioned the state government about the dealings of drugs in Andhra Pradesh. Wherever you go in the country, drugs are being supplied from Andhra Pradesh. So, I and the party senior leaders questioned him," Pattabhi told news agency ANI after the attacks.YSRCP legislator from Guntur T J R Sudhakar Babu said the TDP leaders had crossed all limits of decency in using foul language against the chief minister. “We don’t mind if the TDP leaders criticize people’s issues and policy issues of the government. But we won’t tolerate if they use abusive language against our leader,” he said.Meanwhile, DGP Gautam Sawang appealed to the people to maintain restraint. He also said that action will be taken against the perpetrators of violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-bandh-today-call-given-by-tdp-after-attacks-on-its-offices-101634694333210.html
20-10-2021||India||Telangana: YS Sharmila to begin record-breaking 4000-km foot march today||YS Sharmila, the younger sister of Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, is set to undertake a padayatra (foot march) on Wednesday to “understand people's problems and find solutions” in context with her allegation that 7,000 farmers had committed suicide in the past seven years in Telangana during the rule of chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao (KCR). Sharmila, the founder of the YSR Telangana Party, had made her allegations in an official press statement released last month and laid out details about the foot march that she said will begin from October 20. In the padayatra to be launched today, Sharmila, according to reports, aims to cover 4,000km in 400 days.Also Read | YSRTP chief Sharmila announces padayatra from October 20The foot march in Telangana is expected to cover 90 constituencies across the state, barring the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) area, according to details laid out in the YSR Telangana Party press release. “The purpose of the padayatra is not only to hear and know the problems of people but also to find solutions to those problems,” party founder Sharmila was quoted as saying in the press release.Elaborating on the allegations raised over farmers' deaths, YS Sharmila said that attacks on Dalits in Telangana have increased by 800 per cent during KCR's rule, while liquor sales grew by 300 per cent and so did attacks on women. She said that a padayatra – a strategy undertaken by former chief minister late YS Rajasekhara Reddy – is an ideal way to hear out the people and find solutions to the problems regarding any issue.“Following in his (former chief minister late YS Rajasekhara Reddy) footsteps, we are also going to undertake padayatra for almost a year from October 20,” she said in the press release. “It is 'Praja Prasthana Yatra'”.Meanwhile, YS Sharmila also hit out at the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), alleging that they have sold themselves out to the KCR-led Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS). She added that her party, the YSR Telangana Party, would also enlighten the people about this issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-ys-sharmila-to-begin-record-breaking-4000-km-foot-march-today-101634691995487.html
20-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Supreme Court to hear today PIL seeking fair probe||The Supreme Court will on Wednesday hear a public interest litigation (PIL) regarding the violent incident in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri earlier this month, which led to the deaths of eight people - including four farmers and a journalist. The court took up the case suo motu and in the last hearing, pulled up the Uttar Pradesh police for unsatisfactory progress in the probe, in which the son of a Union minister is among those chief accused in the incident.Also Read | Lakhimpur Kheri: The violence, the aftermath and the politicsAshish Mishra, the son of Union minister of state for home affairs Ajay Mishra, was arrested by the cops six days after he was accused in the incident in Lakhimpur Kheri's Tikunia village, following a series of interrogation summons, drawing sharp criticism from the opposition who alleged that police action was delayed in view of the political status of the accused. The Supreme Court had also expressed its dissatisfaction over the investigation conducted by the state government in the case and asked the UP government to direct its state police chief to ensure that the evidence in the case is protected till the time another agency takes over.The Lakhimpur Kheri incident is currently being probed by a special investigation team (SIT) set up by the Yogi Adityanath government, which on Tuesday released pictures of six people standing near an SUV that was set ablaze during the October 3 incident. The team has assured that details of those giving information will not be revealed besides informers will be given due rewards.Also Read | What happened in Lakhimpur Kheri: Sequence of events according to both sides“The SIT team probing the October 3 violence has got some photos and videos,” an SIT official was quoted as saying by the PTI news agency. “We are releasing photographs and appeal to people to identify them. Six photographs have been released for identification.”So far, 10 people, including Ashish Mishra, have been arrested in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. Farmers allege that Mishra was present in one of the vehicles which ran over the group of people during the incident. The Union minister's son, however, denies the charge and instead claims that he was present in Banbirpur village at the time to attend a wrestling event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-supreme-court-to-hear-today-pil-seeking-fair-probe-101634688903547.html
20-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan drugs case: Mumbai court expected to pass order on bail plea today||The special Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) court will on Wednesday hear the bail plea of Aryan Khan. The 23-year-old is in Arthur Road jail; he was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) during a raid on a cruise ship on October 2.Khan was initially sent to the custody of NCB for questioning, but a Mumbai court later denied NCB's plea for further extension of custody and sent Khan to 14-day judicial remand on October 7. His multiple bail petitions have so far been rejected.Besides Khan, the bail application of other accused Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha will also be heard on Wednesday.The court had posted the matter for October 20 after hearing arguments on October 13 and 14. Additional Session Judge VV Patil had said that he would pronounce his order on October 20.Khan, the son of actor Shah Rukh Khan, was among eight people arrested after an NCB raid on Cordelia, a holiday cruise ship anchored in Mumbai that was set to leave for Goa later that evening.Following the raid in which 13 grams of cocaine, 5 grams of mephedrone, 21 grams of charas, and 22 pills of MDMA (ecstasy) and a sum of ₹1.33 lakh in cash was recovered, 20 people were arrested under various sections of the NDPS Act.In the last hearing, the NCB told the court that there was evidence to show that Khan was a regular consumer of drugs for the past few years. Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Anil Singh said the accused (others along with Khan) were going to the cruise and "planned to have a blast".While the agency said nothing was recovered from Khan personally, his WhatsApp chats reveal links with drug peddlers, some of them part of an international drug trafficking network. The NCB was in touch with the external affairs ministry to identify people in the network, the ASG said.Khan's lawyer Amit Desai said the agency can't rely on WhatsApp chats to arrest his client. He argued that these chats needed to be seen in context of the language of the youth, which may seem to be a "torture" for the older generation. Desai also rejected all the allegations of Khan's link with drug peddlers or illicit drug trafficking.Khan's arrest has led to political slugfest in Maharashtra, with the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) alliance slamming the central agency and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) hitting back alleging the NCB probe into the larger drug nexus is being hindered which will be bad for the country.Meanwhile, Khan has been given his qaidi number which is N956. He is being kept in the general cell. He was recently allowed to speak to his parents Shah Rukh Khan and Gauri Khan via video call from inside Mumbai's Arthur Road Jail for 10 minutes and also received a money order of ₹4,500 from them.Khan was counselled along with the seven others at the NCB office on Sunday where he told the officers that from now on, he would work for the society and devote himself to the country and the poor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aryan-khan-drugs-case-mumbai-court-expected-to-pass-order-on-bail-plea-today-101634689142024.html
20-10-2021||NA||Highlights: Priyanka Gandhi reaches house of Arun Valmiki in Agra||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra reaches Arun Valmiki's house in AgraCongress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has reached the house of Arun Valmiki in Agra. He was a sanitation workers who was held in connection to theft and later died in police custody.  Priyanka is currently inside the house of Valmiki and is accompanied by party's Uttar Pradesh president Ajay Kumar Lallu and leader Pramod Krishnam.Locals in Nainital's Ramgarh say area suffered large-scale devastationUttarakhand | Locals of cloudburst-hit Ramgarh in Nainital district say the area has suffered large scale devastation"I have suffered a loss of ₹40-50 lakhs. A portion of my house is completely damaged. The tank that I built for fish farming is also damaged," says a local. pic.twitter.com/XeBb7ULyxIAfter a cloudburst hit Ramgarh in Nainital district in Uttarakhand, locals said the  region has suffered large-scale devastation. “I have suffered a loss of ₹40-50 lakhs. A portion of my house is completely damaged. The tank that I built for fish farming is also damaged,” ANI reported quoting a local.Haryana announces financial aid of ₹5 crore for Uttarakhand govtHaryana announces financial aid of ₹crore for Uttarakhand government in view of the destruction in the northern hill state due to heavy rain, an official statement on Twitter read.CBI files chargesheet against two in Dhanbad Judge murder caseThe Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Wednesday filed a chargesheet against wheeler driver Lakhan Verma and his accomplice Rahul Verma in the July 28 Dhanbad Judge murder case. The agency said that further probe into the matter is on, and that the chargesheet has been lodged within 90 days lest the two accused persons get bail.Two LeT terrorists killed in J&K's KulgamAccording to latest updates, as many as two Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) militants have been killed in Jammu and Kashmir's (J&K) Kulgam. This comes amid the spree of civilian killings that have been haunting the Union territory (UT) since earlier this month. Jammu and Kashmir Police said that the militants were involved in killing of two migrant labourers in Wanpoh district on Sunday.Kerala CM announces state awards similar to Padma awardsKerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday announced that the state cabinet has decided to introduce state awards in line with Padma awards. “We will give 'Kerala Jyothi' (to 1 person in a year), 'Kerala Prabha' (2 persons in a year) and 'Kerala Sree' (5 persons in a year) awards from this year onwards,” he was quoted as saying by ANI.42 people died due to rains, landslides between Oct 12 and 20: Kerala CM VijayanAs many as 42 people have died due to rains and landslides between Oct 12 and 20  in Kerala, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan told news agency ANI on Wednesday. Six people are missing, and 304 relief centres have been set up in the state. “Financial assistance to affected people will be given shortly,” Vijayan added.US ready to vaccinate kids aged 5-11 against Covid: White HouseUnited States is ready to administer Covid-19 vaccine doses to children aged 5-11 from next month, AFP reported quoting White House.UP govt ends night curfew across state due to declining Covid casesThe Uttar Pradesh government has ended night curfew across state from today onwards due to declining Covid-19 cases, home department officials said.Mansukh Mandaviya to launch a song and an audio visual film to mark India's 100 cr Covid vaccination coverage on Oct 21Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya will launch a song and an audio visual film to celebrate the the milestone of administering 100 crores Covid-19 vaccine doses at New Delhi's Red Fort on Thursday.Vladimir Putin orders week-long paid holiday to curb Covid-19 infections in RussiaAmid increasing cases of coronavirus infections in Russia, President Vladimir Putin has ordered week-long paid holiday in order to bring down cases, AFP reported.Cong general secretary Priyanka Gandhi allowed to visit AgraCongress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has finally been allowed to visit Agra to meet the family of deceased sanitation worker Arun Valmiki. She was earlier detained by Uttar Pradesh Police in Lucknow.Jharkhand HC extends interim relief of no coercive action against Rahul Gandhi over his alleged ‘Modi surname’ remarkJharkhand High Court has extended the interim relief of no coercive action against Congress leader Rahul Gandhi till December 7 in connection with a defamation case filed against him over his alleged “why all thieves share the Modi surname” remark.Britain fines Facebook with over £50 million for information breachThe United Kingdom has fined social networking company Facebook with over £50 million for information breach, AFP reported on Wednesday.Aryan Khan approaches Bombay HC to seek bail in drugs caseFollowing dismissal of his bail application by a special NDPS Court in Mumbai on Wednesday, Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan, has approached Bombay High Court to seek bail in the cruise ship drugs case.Negative RT-PCR test mandatory for international tourists in IndiaThe central government on Wednesday issued fresh guidelines for international arrivals wherein it made a negative RT-PCR test report for Covid-19 mandatory for all tourists. The test must be conducted 72 hours prior to the journey and each passenger also need to submit a declaration regarding the authenticity of the report, an official statement read.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra detainedCongress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has been detained in Lucknow while en route to Agra. She was going to meet Arun Valmiki, a sanitation worker, who was held in connection of theft and later died in police custody.Punjab forms SIT to probe killing of Tarn Taran man at Singhu borderPunjab has formed a special investigation team (SIT) led by Varinder Kumar, ADGP and Director, Bureau of Investigation, to probe the killing of a Dalit man from Tarn Taran district at the farmers protest site in Delhi's Singhu border. Three Nihangs have surrendered in the matter and are currently in police custody for the same.NDPS Court rejects Aryan Khan, 2 others' bail plea in drugs' caseThe special Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) Court on Wednesday rejected the bail application of Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan, actor Arbaaz Merchant and model Munmun Dhamecha in the cruise ship drugs' case. Read full report here.SRK's manager, Aryan Khan's lawyer reach Sessions Court in MumbaiAhead of court's order on Aryan Khan's bail plea application today, his father and Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's manager Pooja Dadlani, and Aryan's counsel Satish Maneshinde have reached the venue in Mumbai.PM Modi lays foundation of various projects in KushinagarPrime Minister Narendra Modi lays the foundation stone of various development projects in UP's Kushinagar.Lakhimpur Kheri case: SC adjourns matter to Oct 26Supreme Court adjourns hearing in Lakhimpur Kheri violence case to October 26 after UP govt seeks more time to record witness' statements.Shopian encounter: 1 terrorist identified, say policeOne of the terrorists neutralised in Shopian has been identified as Adil Ah Wani, who was active since last July. He was involved in the killing of one poor labourer at Litter, Pulwama. So far, 15 terrorists have been neutralised in two weeks: Vijay Kumar, IGP KashmirCompensation of ₹50,000 per hectare for farmers: KejriwalI've given orders that farmers who have lost their crops will be given compensation of ₹50,000 per hectare. All SDMs-DMs are conducting surveys, I hope it will be completed within two weeks after which you'll get your compensation in bank accounts in another two one-and-a-half to two months: Arvind Kejriwal, Delhi CMTwo terrorists killed in encounter in J&K's Shopian#ShopianEncounterUpdate: 02 unidentified #terrorists killed. #Search going on. Further details shall follow. @JmuKmrPolice https://t.co/nSsCPqdjhwTwo unidentified terrorists killed in encounter in J&K's Shopian.BJP MLA says ‘praying for bail to Aryan Khan’I'm praying that Aryan Khan should get bail today as it is a fundamental right as per the Constitution. Our battle is not against a person but against drugs: Ram Kadam, BJP MLAExplosion in Kabul; no info on casualtiesExplosion occurs near Dehmazang Square in Kabul, reports TOLO News; no information available on casualties.PM Modi inaugurates UP's Kushinagar airportPrime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurates Uttar Pradesh's Kushinagar airport in key move to boost Buddhist pilgrimage circuit.'Delhi-Kushinagar direct flights from November 26'Delhi-Kushinagar direct flights four times a week from November 26. Direct flights to connect airport to and from Mumbai, Kolkata soon: Jyotiraditya Scindia, Civil aviation ministerPM Modi speaks at CVC-CBI joint conferencePM Modi addresses CVC-CBI joint conference, spotlights how digital tools helped in fighting corruptionPunjab: Police-BSF recover arms at Pakistan borderPunjab Police's Counter Intellegence (CI) wing and the Border Security Force (BSF) have, in a joint operation, recovered a cache of arms and ammunition along the barbed wire fence at the India-Pakistan border in Khemkaran.14,623 new Covid-19 cases and 197 deaths in IndiaIndia logs 14,623 new Covid-19 cases, 19446 recoveries and 197 deaths. Total cases rise to 34,108,996 including 33,478,247 recoveries, 452,651 deaths and 178,098 recoveries.Traffic restored on Nainital-Kaladhungi roadNainital-Kaladhungi road, which was blocked yesterday due to heavy rainfall, has been reopened. Traffic movement has been started now: Ashok Kumar, Uttarakhand DGPNew Zealand records 60 new Covid-19 casesNew Zealand records 60 new Covid-19 cases, including 56 in Auckland. Total 28 deaths since beginning of pandemic.At least 21 dead, 24 missing in NepalAt least 21 people have died, while around 24 are still missing due to flooding and landslide incidents in Nepal on Tuesday due to heavy rainfall: OfficialsChina reports 30 new Covid-19 casesChina reported 30 new confirmed Covid-19 cases for October 19 as against 25 a day earlier, according to the country's health authority.Petrol, diesel prices hiked by 25 paise in DelhiPrice of 1 litre petrol and diesel hiked by 0.35 paise each in Delhi. Petrol retailing at ₹106.19 per litre while diesel at ₹94.92 a litre. North Korea carries out another missile testNorth Korea tested new submarine-launched ballistic missile, reports Korean Central News Agency (KCNA).US Capitol attack: Trouble for Trump aide Steve BannonThe US House of Representatives committee probing the January 6 Capitol attack “unanimously approves” report recommending contempt-of-Congress charges against former President Donald Trump's aide Steve Bannon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-october-20-2021-101634689108745.html
20-10-2021||India||Bangladesh violence: VHP to hold nationwide protests today||The  Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) will on Wednesday stage nationwide demonstrations, including outside the Bangladesh High Commission in New Delhi, against attacks in the neighbouring country targeting its minority Hindu community over alleged desecration of the Holy Quran at a Durga Puja pandal last week.  In a press statement on Tuesday, the VHP, quoting its general secretary Dr Surendra Jain, said that the ongoing violence can only be compared with the "brutality of the Nazis."Also Read | ‘Burn effigy of jihadist terrorism’: Hindu Parishad to stage protest in Delhi tomorrow over Bangladesh attacks“Atrocities are being committed on Hindus by radical Islamic jihadists and fundamentalists. There is no sign of a stop to the sequence of brutal atrocities against the Hindus. Now the United Nations should take the initiative in this matter, and send its Peace Keeping Force to Bangladesh without any delay,” the statement read.  Press Statement:Hindu Genocide intolerable; UN should send Peace Keeping Force: @drskj01 Nationwide protest on 20th ; burn effigy of Jihadist terrorism & Memorandum to Mahamahim pic.twitter.com/MNn7fy5ZGOIslamic fundamentalists are bent on making Bangladesh a country devoid of Hindus, the statement further stated. “We caution Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina to follow her Raj Dharma (duty of law), and ensure the safety and security of her minority Hindu society and get the anti-humanists exemplary punished,” the VHP said.During its pan-India protests, the VHP plans to burn effigy of “jihadist terrorism.” The outfit will also submit a memorandum to President Ram Nath Kovind.Attacks on Hindus in Bangladesh began during last week's Durga Puja festivities, when a video, showing alleged desecration of the Quran at a pandal in Cumilla, went viral. Since then, violence against members of the community has been reported from many parts of the country, including capital Dhaka.The Jamaat-e-Islami (JEI) is suspected to be behind these attacks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bangladesh-violence-vhp-to-hold-nationwide-protests-today-101634686684979.html
20-10-2021||India||Boost for Buddhist pilgrimage: PM Modi to inaugurate Kushinagar airport today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Wednesday inaugurate the Kushinagar International Airport at the site of Lord Buddha's Parinirvana in Uttar Pradesh. The move is aimed at boosting tourism on the Buddhist circuit on the back of three markers for economic development - trade, tourism, and technology. The inauguration event today is expected to be attended by the ambassadors of at least 10-15 countries where Buddhism is practised and preached. More than 100 priests and eight high priests from Sri Lanka, led by the country's prime minister Mahinda Rajapaksa's son Namal, will also be present.The Kushinagar airport has been built at an estimated cost of ₹260 crore; it will serve the nearby districts of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar and is being looked at as an important step in boosting investment and employment opportunities in the region. The airport will facilitate domestic and international pilgrims to visit the 'Mahaparinirvana' site of Lord Buddha and is an endeavour to connect the Buddhist pilgrimage holy sites around the world, according to a statement issued by the Prime Minister's Office (PMO).Also Read | Kushinagar airport inauguration today: 8 UP airports servicing 74 destinationsThe PMO said that Modi will visit the Mahaparinirvana Temple in Kushinagar to participate in an event marking Abhidhamma Day before he moves on to attend the public function and the subsequent inauguration of the airport. At the temple, the Prime Minister will pay his respects to the reclining statue of Lord Buddha and will also plant a Bodhi tree sapling. Later on, Prime Minister Modi will be laying the foundation for several other developmental projects, including the Rajkiya Medical College, which will be built at a cost of over ₹280 crore, and 12 other developmental projects worth over ₹180 crore.The city of Kushinagar is being linked with other Buddhist sites by dedicated trains for Indians and foreigners interested in pilgrimage or religious tourism. Uttar Pradesh chief minister will be present at the event and is also expected to address a rally afterwards in the region along with the Prime Minister.Also Read | New Kushinagar airport is step towards India firming its Buddhist legacyMeanwhile, a flight carrying the Sri Lankan delegation of over 100 Buddhist monks and dignitaries - including the 12-member holy relic entourage bringing holy Buddha relics for exposition - will land at the Kushinagar airport shortly after its inauguration to mark the successful operation of the runways. The delegation comprises anunayakas (deputy heads) of all four nikatas (orders) of Buddhism in Sri Lanka; Asgiriya, Amarapura, Ramanya, Malwatta as well as five ministers of the Lankan government led by cabinet minister Namal Rajapakshe.Other eminent Buddhist monks from Sri Lanka, Thailand, Myanmar, South Korea, Nepal, Bhutan and Cambodia, as well as ambassadors of various countries, will also be attending the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/boost-for-buddhist-pilgrimage-pm-modi-to-inaugurate-kushinagar-airport-today-101634686581133.html
20-10-2021||India||Abhidhamma Day: Here's why it holds significance for Buddhists||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Wednesday visit Kushinagar in eastern Uttar Pradesh to inaugurate an international airport and attend an event marking Abhidhamma Day at Mahaparinirvana Temple.Also Read | PM Modi to inaugurate Kushinagar airport todayEminent monks from Sri Lanka, Thailand, Myanmar, South Korea, Nepal, Bhutan, Cambodia and ambassadors of various countries will also take part in the event.What is Abhidhamma Day?The day marks the end of three-month rainy retreat - Varshavaas or Vassa - for the Buddhist monks and nuns during which time they stay at one place and pray.The Union culture ministry and International Buddhist Confederation, in association with the government of Uttar Pradesh, is organising the Abhidhamma Day on the auspicious occasion of Ashwin Poornima.The story behind Abhidhamma DayThis day is mostly celebrated in countries where Buddhism is practiced by majority of the population. According to widely held belief, this is the day when Lord Buddha came back to earth from heaven.He is believed to have gone to the heaven to teach Abhidhamma Pitaka (a basket of ultimate things) to his mother. The teaching took three months after which Buddha came back to Earth. His followers too mark the three-month time by staying at one place and praying.Celebrations in KushinagarAccording to a Culture Ministry release, the highlight of the event is the exposition of Holy Buddha Relic being brought from Waskaduwa Sri Subuddhi Rajvihara Temple in Sri Lanka by the Mahanayaka of the temple.These relics are accepted as real relics (bone fragments, ashes, pieces of Jewels) of the Buddha.These relics were found in Piprahwa, Sidharthnagar district of Uttar Pradesh, about 160 km from Kushinagar, in 1898. A part of the relics was sent to the King of Thailand and another part was sent to the King of Burma.The Prime Minister will offer prayers to the Holy Relic and also visit the Mahaparinirvana temple to offer flowers and Chivar (a monk's robe) to the reclining statue of Buddha.Paintings of Ajanta frescos, Buddhist sutra calligraphy, Buddhist artefacts excavated from Vadnagar and other sites in Gujarat will also be exhibited.Importance of KushinagarThe ancient city of Kushinagar is the final resting place of Gautama Buddha, where he attained Mahaparinirvana after his death.It is among the most important pilgrim spots for Buddhists since ancient times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/abhidhamma-day-here-s-why-it-holds-significance-for-buddhists-101634687202422.html
20-10-2021||India||After pressure from Opposition, Goa govt backtracks on contentious Trees Bill||The Goa government on Tuesday backtracked and referred the contentious Goa Preservation of Trees Amendment Bill to a Select Committee after pressure from the Opposition, which alleged that the government was downgrading the authorities to ‘advisory’ bodies via the amendment. The Bill, which was introduced in the Goa Legislative Assembly on Monday with the intention of revamping the Goa Tree Authorities, however, also included clauses that the opposition claimed would vastly reduce the powers of the statutory bodies and reduce them to only an advisory function with reduced power. “Via this amendment, the tree authorities will be reduced to an advisory function. They will be rendered toothless and only be reduced to giving advice to the government departments regarding the preservation of trees,” independent legislator Rohan Khaunte said. “The proposed Authority shall act as a principal advisory [body] to the government for protection, preservation and conservation of trees covered under the Act,” the government said.However, perusal of the sections of the Bill revealed that the powers of the authority were set to be curtailed from having the authority ensure preservation of all trees within its jurisdiction to now only having the power “to advise the Government and all concerned for preservation of all trees within its jurisdiction”. The mandate to carry out a tree census was also set to be removed and instead be replaced with a mandate to “maintain a record of tree cover… and take measures, whenever and wherever required, to further increase the tree cover.”After hearing arguments from the opposition benches, the Goa Chief Minister, perhaps because it is the final session of the Goa Legislative Assembly agreed to relent and directed that the Bill be referred to a select committee, where it is likely to lapse. Another Bill, introduced by the Goa government on Monday, The Goa (Verification of Tenants) Bill, 2021 that, among other provisions, proposed to introduce a prison term up to six months for landlords who fail to verify the antecedents of their prospective tenants was also referred to a Select Committee. The two day session that concluded on Tuesday is the last session scheduled of the assembly before the state goes to polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-pressure-from-opposition-goa-govt-backtracks-on-contentious-trees-bill-101634675814386.html
20-10-2021||India||Blaming state’s lockdown policy, Kerala hotel owner dies by suicide||A hotel owner in central Kerala allegedly died by suicide on Tuesday, after writing a detailed post on social media in which he squarely blamed the government’s lockdown norms. His body was found on the railway tracks and he reportedly posted the message hours before his suicide, police said.In a social media post, he said his hotel business was doing relatively well but the pandemic- induced lockdown broke him totally. In the note he said he took many loans from banks and private financiers and in the present scenario it was quite impossible to repay these liabilities. He blamed the government for his death.“You can have hundreds of people in the mall and many in liquor outlets. Buses and marriage halls run with maximum capacity. If more than ten people sit in the hotel the owner will be hauled up. The government’s lockdown policy is quite unscientific and arbitrary,” he said in the note. In the touching note he also said his youngest son was afflicted with autism “and he has every right to live like any other child of his age”. In the note he also asked philanthropists and others to extend a helping hand to his wife and two children.At the end of his note he also made a strange request. “Police officers who recover my phone kindly entrust it to my daughter because she has online classes.” He was perhaps referring to a recent incident in which a police officer was suspended for keeping the phone of a suicide victim whose body was found on the railway tracks. During investigation it was found that the police officer was using the smart phone after changing its SIM card.(Suicide is not a solution. Please contact helpline nos: 1056 and 0471-2552056) .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/blaming-state-s-lockdown-policy-kerala-hotel-owner-dies-by-suicide-101634673955814.html
20-10-2021||India||Odisha to deploy drones to keep an eye on jail inmates and their activities||With liquor, cannabis, mobile phones and other such items making it to jails, the Odisha government plans to install high-tech drones for stricter aerial surveillance of the inmates as well as to keep an eye on activities in the prisons.Director General of Prisons, Santosh Upadhyay said the drones which would be operated from a control room would help mount watch over unlawful activities, hard-core prisoners and also monitor other unwanted developments inside the sprawling premises of the jails that are not covered under CCTV surveillance.“The process for procurement of the drone cameras has been completed. As per the initial estimate, each drone set up will cost around ₹4 lakh,” he said.The prison directorate would also procure 20 body cameras for Jharpada Special Jail in Bhubaneswar and Choudwar Circle Jail in Cuttack district. The jail personnel coming in direct contact with inmates will be equipped with the body cams.“Cameras will be used by the staff to record any wrongdoing by inmates in areas not covered by CCTV cameras, during searches when inmates return from courts and hospitals and while shifting notorious criminals to hospitals,” said Upadhyay.The two jails will have prisoner calling system under which biometric details of all prisoners including two telephone numbers will be collected. The inmates will be asked to provide two telephone numbers of their family or acquaintances with whom they would like to speak. After verification, the numbers will be fed into the calling system.A prisoner will be allowed to talk for a maximum of five minutes and pay ₹5 per call. The facility will have auto-disconnection system. The new calling system which will be gradually expanded to other jails will help curb misuse of existing phone systems where inmates have often been found allegedly making illegal contacts.In May this year, the chief warden of Jharpara special jail in Bhubaneswar was suspended after mobile phones, SIM cards, mobile chargers, mobile batteries, a pen drive and cannabis were recovered from the prison. A video of dancing and ganja smoking in the same jail had earlier gone viral on social media bringing embarrassment to the prisons department. In April this year, police in Koraput district had seized cash, a mobile phone, dumb-bells, iron rods and a pen drive from some under-trial prisoners following a raid at Jeypore sub-jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-to-deploy-drones-to-keep-an-eye-on-jail-inmates-and-their-activities-101634672573854.html
20-10-2021||India||Corporate bigwig knew those who accompanied killers, indicates probe into Kolkata killings||Investigation into the murders of Subir Chaki, managing director of Kilburn Engineering Ltd, and his driver Rabin Mondal in Kolkata on Sunday evening has shown that both of them knew the people who took the killer to the scene of the crime, police officers involved in the probe said on Tuesday. The probe suggested that the murders were committed by more than one person and they might have been hired for the job. The officers suspect that Chaki was killed first. Some employees of Kilburn Engineering Ltd were questioned by the police on Tuesday at the Mumbai-headquartered company’s office in central Kolkata. The bodies, which bore multiple stab injuries, were found inside Chaki’s ancestral house at Kankulia Road in the Gariahat police station area of south Kolkata on Monday morning. Chaki’s body was found on the first floor while the driver’s body was lying on the second floor. Chaki, 61, who lived at New Town on the eastern outskirts of the city with his wife, mother and mother-in-law and also owned property at a posh south Kolkata condominium, was trying to sell the old three-storey building for the last six years, residents of Kankulia Road told the police. In the past, Chaki sent Mondal, 64, with the keys when prospective buyers came to see the property. The police suspect that Chaki could have been close to sealing a deal and hence came to the house on Sunday. This has raised the possibility of a cash transaction. Officers from the homicide section of the detective department of the Kolkata Police, who are carrying out the investigation, took a sniffer dog to the scene of the crime on Tuesday. “The dog picked up a smell and led the officers to the Ballygunge railway station located less than a kilometre away. The dog went to a platform after climbing the over-bridge. It is possible that someone who came to the house either on Sunday or earlier walked down to the station to board a train,” an officer said on condition of anonymity. Trains passing through the Ballygunge junction station carry passengers to remote parts of South 24 Parganas district as well as the Sealdah station in central Kolkata from where trains leave for most parts of the country. “The investigators on Tuesday recreated the crime scene using a three-dimension imaging device. Statements of local residents were recorded since they claimed to have heard several voices, including that of a woman, coming from the house on Sunday. Security camera footages are also being examined,” the officer added. “We are not ruling out professional rivalry as the motive although preliminary information points towards the sale of the property which should cost around ₹2 crore because of the prime location,” said a second police officer. The Kolkata Police did not officially share any information with the media. Chaki’s car was found on the road outside the building. A number of food packets and some legal documents were found inside the vehicle. Members of Chaki’s family told the police that he called them on Sunday evening and talked about some repair work required at the house. His phone was switched off around 7 pm. Mondal’s phone was switched off as well. Since both devices were stolen, police are examining call lists collected from the service providers. Nobody lived in the upper floors of the house. There was nothing valuable there that might have led to a robbery, officers said. The ground floor was rented out to a private company. Its office was closed on Sunday. When the employees reported for duty on Monday morning, they found the door connecting the ground and first floors shut from inside, which was unusual. Chaki, who studied at Kolkata’s St Xavier’s School, IIT Kharagur and IIM, Kolkata, worked for well-known companies all his life. His son and daughter live in London and Bengaluru respectively. Chaki earlier worked as president (manufacturing) for Eveready Industries India Limited and as director for McNally Sayaji Engineering Limited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/corporate-bigwig-knew-those-who-accompanied-killers-indicates-probe-into-kolkata-killings-101634671493982.html
20-10-2021||India||Security beefed up, searches intensified across Kashmir||Security has been enhanced and searches have been intensified across Kashmir, especially in Srinagar, following a series of targeted killings that left 11 civilians dead this month, officials familiar with the developments said.Mobile internet services have either been suspended or their speed reduced in parts of Srinagar’s old city and south Kashmir districts where the attacks were reported.Multiple security review meetings have been held and the number of security forces deployed around key installations, such as the secretariat and the airport, have been increased in the wake of the attacks, the officials cited above said.“These types of attacks obviously attract a greater security response. We have intensified the measures in type and number wherever we thought necessary,” one of the officials said on condition of anonymity.Multiple checkpoints and roadblocks have been erected across Srinagar. “The security is very stringent and the searches have been intensified. Police and CRPF (Central Reserve Police Force) parties have been patrolling in larger numbers… vehicles are also being searched,” Bilal Ahmad, a Srinagar resident, said.Besides, the number of bulletproof mobile bunker vehicles deployed at sensitive places has also been increased and the high-tech CCTV surveillance enhanced. Women paramilitary forces have been deployed in Srinagar’s Lal Chowk to assist with the searches.“There has been an uneasy silence ever since the attacks took place. Fewer people prefer to move out fearing the deterioration of the situation,” another resident said, preferring not to be named.Hundreds of people have been detained and questioned as part of the probe into the civilian killings so far.The counter insurgency operations by forces have also been intensified. Last week, police claimed to have killed 13 terrorists in the region.Union home minister Amit Shah, who chaired a meeting with state police and chiefs of Central Armed Police Forces on Monday to discuss various security issues, is likely to visit Kashmir in the last week of October to review the situation and also inaugurate developmental projects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/security-beefed-up-searches-intensified-across-kashmir-101634669424020.html
20-10-2021||India||Woman hacked to death for silver anklets in Rajasthan||A 55-year-old woman was found dead with her throat slit and feet severed in Jamwaramgarh area of Jaipur rural, with police suspecting it to be a case of theft. Jaipur rural SP Shankar Dutt Sharma said the woman’s body was found by villagers in Khatepura village.The deceased, identified as Geeta Devi, must have gone to the forest to graze cattle when she was attacked, the SP said. “This seems to be a case of loot as the silver anklets that she had been wearing were apparently taken away by the killers,” Sharma added.Following this, a case was registered under section 302 of Indian Penal Code and a probe is underway, police said. A team of 300 cops have been formed to nab the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-hacked-to-death-for-silver-anklets-inrajasthan-101634669453536.html
20-10-2021||India||After a dip in tally, Karnataka logs 349 fresh Covid cases, 14 deaths||Karnataka on Tuesday logged 349 new cases of Covid-19 and 14 deaths, taking the total number of infections to 2,984,022 and death toll to 37,967, the health department said.The day also saw 399 discharges, pushing the total number of recoveries to 2,936,926.Bengaluru Urban accounted for 161 new cases, as the city saw 125 discharges and 5 deaths.Total number of active cases in the state is at 9,100.While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.41 per cent, case fatality rate (CFR) was at 4.01 per cent.Apart from Bengaluru Urban, Udupi recorded 3 deaths, while one death each was reported from Dakshina Kannada, Dharwad, Kodagu, Mysuru, Tumakuru and Uttara Kannada.After Bengaluru Urban, Mysuru logged the highest of 37 new infections, Dakshina Kannada 24, Hassan 23, and Uttara Kannada 19.Bengaluru Urban district now has a total of 12,49,662 positive cases, followed by Mysuru 178,802 and Tumakuru 120,574.Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 1,226,666, followed by Mysuru 176,041 and Tumakuru 119,231.Cumulatively a total of 49,574,033 samples have been tested, of which 85,022 were tested on Tuesday alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-a-dip-in-tally-karnataka-logs-349-fresh-covid-cases-14-deaths-101634669214125.html
20-10-2021||India||Odisha woman’s burnt body found, could be of missing teacher: Police||A partially-charred body of a woman was found in an under-construction stadium of a private school at Odisha’s Kalahandi district on Tuesday, with police suspecting that the body could be of a 26-year-old teacher who went missing earlier this month, officials familiar with the matter said.The teacher had accused Gobind Sahu, the president of the school’s managing committee, of running a sex racket in the premises and had reportedly threatened to expose his wrongdoings, the officials added. While Sahu has been apprehended, the opposition in the state alleged that the key suspect is a close aide of minister of state for home Dibya Shankar Mishra who is trying to protect him. They demanded his sacking and a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation into the matter.Police discovered the body at the school premises in the village during the probe into sex racket charges, the officials cited above said on condition of anonymity. The deceased’s family have identified the body by the items found at the spot, the officials said.“As the body is partially-burnt, it would be sent for DNA testing,” Bolangir deputy superintendent of police Bata Krushna Mishra said.Officials said that the teacher left her home to meet Sahu on October 8. After finding her phone switched off, her family on October 9 called Sahu who reportedly asked them not to worry about her whereabouts, the officials added. The woman’s father alleged that Sahu was running a sex racket in the school and his daughter was killed as she had threatened to “expose his deeds”.Sahu was apprehended from his house in Bolangir district. Three constables were suspended on charge of dereliction of duty.BJP leader Namitarani Sahu alleged that “the teacher was raped by Sahu” during Mishra’s reported frequent school visits. Reacting to the demand for his resignation, Mishra told PTI that “anyone found guilty will be punished”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-woman-s-burnt-body-found-could-be-of-missing-teacher-police-101634669068641.html
20-10-2021||India||Have nothing to learn from RSS ‘Shakha’, says Kumaraswamy||JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy on Tuesday said he has nothing to learn from RSS ‘Shakha’ as he alleged that people who were trained there have indulged in watching “blue film” at the legislative Assembly, when the session was on.The former Chief Minister was responding to state BJP President Nalin Kumar Kateel’s recent invitation to him to come to RSS Shakha and learn about the activities of the Sangh.“...I don’t want their (RSS) companionship. Haven’t we seen what was taught in RSS Shakha? How to behave in the Vidhana Soudha....watching blue film while the assembly session is on. Isn’t such a thing taught to them (BJP) at RSS Shakha? Do I have to go there (to RSS shakha) to learn this?” Kumaraswamy asked.Speaking to reporters here on the sidelines of the bypoll campaign, he said, “I don’t want their Shakha. Whatever I have learnt from the Shakha here, the Shakha of the poor is enough. I have nothing to learn from theirs (RSS Shakha).” Kumaraswamy was referring to an incident in 2012, when the then three ministers were caught on camera allegedly watching porn clipping on mobile phones in the state assembly during its proceedings, causing an embarrassment to the then BJP government.The three ministers had resigned following the incident.Recently, referring to a book, Kumaraswamy had said that the RSS, as part of its ‘’hidden agenda’’, has created a team of bureaucrats in this country, who are now placed at various institutions.He had also said the BJP governments at both the Centre and in Karnataka were functioning on the directions of the RSS, and PM Narendra Modi was its “puppet”.Following this, Kateel had invited him to come to RSS Shakha and learn about the Sangh’s activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/have-nothing-to-learn-from-rss-shakha-says-kumaraswamy-101634669095087.html
20-10-2021||India||Won’t tolerate moral policing, says Karnataka home minister||Karnataka’s home minister Araga Jnanendra on Tuesday said that instances of moral policing and other communal violence in the state will not be tolerated even as the number of such crimes appear to be on the rise in the southern state.“Such incidents will not be tolerated,” Jnanendra said, adding that such matters will be investigated without any consideration for the perpetrators’ religious identity.“When the police take stricter action, a message will go to such people,” he added.The statements come after at least dozen instances of moral policing and communal hatred surfaced in the border district of Belagavi, about 500 kms from Bengaluru.In one incident, a boy was assaulted by a group of Muslim men for talking to a girl from their community in a bus stop. The accused were seen assaulting the boy and pulling the veil off the girl and demanding to know her name and address.In another incident, which happened on October 8, a group of villagers teared down board of a chicken shop for keeping it open despite a Hindu festival being celebrated in the nearby temple.A third incident, that happened on October 14, was of an auto driver who took an inter-faith couple to a remote location, called his associates and assaulted the boy for being with a Muslim girl. In this incident, the assaulters even robbed the couple of their valuables.The police in the district have said that they will register a complaint if the victims come and register a complaint.A person aware of the developments said that the police have tried to strike a compromise between the assaulters and the victims, leading to delays in filing of cases that was further emboldening other groups to resort to such crimes.The incidents of moral policing comes barely a month after the brutal killing of 24-year-old Arbaaz Aftab in Belagavi district on September 28. Arbaaz was found on the railway track as his head and leg were severed and laid on the track between Khanapur and Desur line. According to the police, the parents of the girl who was supposedly in a relationship with Arbaaz had given a contract to a local Hindu fringe group, Sri Rama Sene Hindustan, to murder the boy.The police have arrested 10 people in the case based on the complaint by the mother of Arbaaz, who first suspected the role of the girl’s parents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wont-tolerate-moral-policing-says-karnataka-home-minister-101634669035368.html
20-10-2021||India||Girl detained for poising 4 of family to death over ‘discrimination’ in Chitradurga||A minor girl has been detained in Chitradurga’s Gollarahatti area, about 200 kms from Bengaluru, for allegedly poisoning and killing four family members as she felt rejected by her parents and others, police said on Tuesday. She was detained on Sunday.This was the girl’s second attempt to poison her family, which turned out be a success. In her first attempt, the mother had suspected another lady for the murder bid, a senior police official from the district said. The girl is now in an observation home and will soon be sent to the Juvenile Justice Board, police further said.The incident took place on July 12 when four persons from the family died after consuming poison mixed in their dinner while one person had survived. “First we had registered a case of 174 or suspicious death (on July 13),” Radhika G, the superintendent of police (SP) of Chitradurga district said on Tuesday. The SP said that all five members ate the Ragi Mudhe or ragi ball, a staple diet in rural parts of southern Karnataka and two hours later, they fell sick, started vomiting and cried in pain, while the girl stood silently and watched their suffering. The girl’s family members who died are her father, mother, grandmother, and sister, while her brother, who also fell sick due to poisoning, survived. During the course of the investigation, very few persons suspected the girl, who is just under 18, of having something to do with the crime. “Since she was a minor girl, we did not interrogate thoroughly. But once we got the FSL report, we got direction on how to take the case forward,” the SP said. Initially, the police had suspected an angle of jealousy among the neighbours and other villagers as the family was doing fairly well financially. Police said that since the needle of suspicion was always on others, she could get away with anything and felt “emboldened”. The girl went back to her grandmother’s house where she enjoyed staying. The police then sent women constables almost everyday to meet the girl and gain her confidence. A woman constable who spoke the Lambani language earned the girl’s trust and after 4 to 5 days, she revealed her role in the incident. The SP said that the girl had blamed at least three other persons of having forced her to commit the crime but after investigation it was found that the girl was trying to mislead the probe. Once she said that a lady named Gauri Bai had threatened to poison the family and in two other instances she blamed two boys for having pressurised her in committing the crime. But in all three cases, the stories did not match, pointing the needle of suspicion back on the girl. She later revealed that she was just a few months old when her parents sent her to live with her grandmother, where she was very happy. But about 3-4 years ago, her parents brought the girl back and things started changing. Her family, including the father’s mother, used to scold her for not doing well in school, going to work or for her obsession with watching TV. The SP said that TV serials had a deep impact on her. She also nursed a feeling of neglect as her parents showered love on her brother and younger sister while she was beaten and chided for every small mistake. She had picked up a bottle of discarded pesticide when she went to work in the fields as she could read the words “poison” written on the bottle. She then plotted to poison her family even though she was not fully aware that she was committing murder, the police said. . The SP said that the girl is now in an observation home and will soon be sent to the Juvenile Justice Board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/girl-detained-for-poising-4-of-family-to-death-over-discrimination-in-chitradurga-101634668914762.html
20-10-2021||India||Bengaluru records 125% rise in October rainfall, infra crumbles||The city received 233 mm of rainfall till October 18 as against the normal of 104 mm, registering an increase of 125%, as per Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) data. .Continuous rains over the last couple of weeks have once again exposed the chinks in Bengaluru’s poor quality of infrastructure and planning or the lack of it.On Monday, Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai himself acknowledged the lack of town planning and unscientific methods used for creating new residential layouts or providing basic amenities in existing ones.The rains have left a trail of destruction, misery and suffering of people living in low lying regions of the city and other places where drains and lakes have overflowed into the homes and basements in several localities.The increase in the eight zones of Bengaluru ranges between 62% to 222% recorded in the west side of the city, data from the Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) said.At least 21 persons have died so far in Karnataka since the beginning of October, according to KSDMA data.Thousands of homes have been damaged and hundreds of animals and livestock have died during the same period as rains continue in the state.At least 14 districts have received large excess rains or higher than 60% departure, 6 districts have received excess rains, according to data. Five districts have received near normal rains while six more have recorded a deficit.Chikkaballapura, about 60.kms from Bengaluru, has recorded the highest departure at 150% as the district received 235 mm of rains since October 1 as against the normal of 94mm.The rains have damaged crops in over 471,000 hectares of agriculture and horticulture crops, according to data.During the same period, all major divisions of Karnataka received over 46% more rains than usual with 89% of all taluks recording higher than normal rain this year.“This is what happens when a town is built without town planning,” Bommai said after visiting HSR Layout, an upscale locality in the southern part of Bengaluru, thereby acknowledging one of the biggest challenges in India’s IT capital and how the civic authorities continue to dodge blame.Bommai said that earlier there were many lakes that took in the water but now the layouts or residential localities are interfering with the natural flow of water, causing an impact that has led to water logging, flooding and damages to property.The quality of infrastructure in Bengaluru is among the poorest in the country and at least 18 people died in the city, which prides itself of being the technology capital of India, due to civic apathy last year, according to data by the National Crime Records Bureau.At least 400 out of the fortune 500 companies globally have a presence in Karnataka but the quality of infrastructure, toxic and encroached lakes, pot-hole laden roads, traffic snarls, unplanned expansion and other problems have contributed to the rapidly deteriorating quality of life in the city.The corruption in civic agencies have also led to approval of several buildings without proper plans or engineering, making them prone to collapsing. There have been at least six buildings that have collapsed in the city over the last couple of weeks.According to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), there were 185 dilapidated buildings in the city according to its survey carried out in 2019. However, only 10 among these were demolished and people continue to reside in several other buildings even today. A recent rapid survey revealed that the total number of dilapidated buildings is in excess of 400.Gaurav Gupta, the chief commissioner of the BBMP had earlier told Hindustan Times the rains had caused some shifting of soil and weakened foundations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-records-125-rise-in-october-rainfall-infra-crumbles-101634668853976.html
20-10-2021||India||Naidu accuses YSR Congress of vandalising TDP offices, demands Prez rule in Andhra||Alleging a complete breakdown of law and order in Andhra Pradesh under the YS Jagan Mohan Reddy regime, Telugu Desam Party (TDP) president and former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu on Tuesday demanded imposition of President’s Rule in the state by invoking Article 356 of the Constitution.Naidu also called for a complete shutdown across the state on Wednesday in protest against the alleged vandalism by the YSRCP leaders and cadres on the TDP offices in several parts of the state since Tuesday morning.Describing the alleged vandalism by the YSRC cadres as state-sponsored terrorism, Naidu alleged that Director General of Police Gautam Sawang had colluded with the chief minister and perpetrated attacks on the TDP cadres in a pre-planned manner.“The TDP state headquarters is very close to the DGP office. Yet, the police remained mute spectators when the YSRCP mobs were vandalising our party office with sticks, rods and stones. Similar attacks were carried out on all the TDP offices across the state in collusion with the police,” he said on Tuesday.The TDP chief also called up Union home minister Amit Shah and complained to him about the alleged attacks by the YSRCP mobs on the TDP state headquarters at Mangalagiri in Guntur district and party offices in several other districts. He told him that several TDP workers were injured in the attack, and scores of vehicles were damaged by the frenzied mobs.Naidu requested Shah to see that adequate security and protection be provided to the TDP offices and party leaders by the Central police force. “The Union minister assured to look into the matter and asked for a formal police complaint about the attacks,” an official statement from the TDP office said.The TDP chief also spoke to Governor Biswa Bhushan Harichandan on phone and complained to him about the attacks by the YSRCP cadres on the TDP offices and leaders.It all began with a press conference by TDP official spokesman Kommareddy Pattabhi in the morning, where he criticised the state government for not taking any action against rampant ganja cultivation in the tribal areas of Visakhapatnam.Pattabhi found fault with the police for serving notices on a former TDP minister Nakka Ananda Babu, who alleged that certain YSRC leaders were involved in the smuggling of narcotics. In the process of criticising the Jagan government, the TDP spokesman used some foul words against the chief minister.Pattabhi’s foul-mouthing of Jagan evoked strong protests from YSRCP leaders and cadres, who went on a rampage and attacked the TDP offices in several parts of the state. They also burnt the effigies of TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu and raised slogans against Pattabhi and Naidu.At Mangalagiri, the YSRC cadres attacked the TDP headquarters and ransacked the office and damaged vehicles. They also attacked Pattabhi’s house and damaged the furniture.YSRCP legislator from Guntur T J R Sudhakar Babu said the TDP leaders had crossed all limits of decency in using foul language against the chief minister. “We don’t mind if the TDP leaders criticize people’s issues and policy issues of the government. But we won’t tolerate if they use abusive language against our leader,” he said.Meanwhile, DGP Gautam Sawang made a statement not to get agitated by the provocative language being used by the political parties. “We shall take appropriate action against those who instigate people with their comments. At the same time, we will not hesitate to take stern action against those who take the law into their hands,” he said.Appealing to the people to maintain restraint, the DGP said action would be taken against the perpetrators of violence. “Additional police forces have been deployed all over the state to prevent any retaliatory attacks,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/naidu-accuses-ysr-congress-of-vandalising-tdp-offices-demands-prez-rule-in-andhra-101634668619986.html
20-10-2021||India||‘Destructive activities are carried out in name of development’: Madhav Gadgil||Mindless construction in the Western Ghats and the Himalayas is worsening climate disasters, ecologist Madhav Gadgil said in an interview on Tuesday. The Western Ghats Ecology Expert Panel, which was constituted by the central government and chaired by Gadgil, had recommended in 2011 that 75% of the 129,037 sq. km of the Western Ghats – spanning Gujarat, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Goa and Kerala – be declared an environmentally sensitive area because of its dense, rich forests and large number of endemic flora and fauna. The panel’s recommendations were not implemented. Gadgil said the climate crisis and unsustainable land use will trigger bigger disasters on India’s west coast. Excerpts from interview:The scale of devastation we are seeing due to extremely heavy rainfall in October is unprecedented in Kerala and Uttarakhand. Why is this happening?It is not unprecedented. In the Western Ghats, such disasters have been happening frequently in the past few years. In the Himalayas, we have seen instances of such flooding over the past 50 years. The Chipko agitation in Uttarakhand in 1972 was partly triggered by flooding in the Alaknanda because of cutting of trees and hill slopes. These activities have only increased over the years. The Himalayas are even more fragile compared to the Western Ghats because they were created out of sediments from the sea during the collision of the Indian and Eurasian plates. The Himalayan soil is susceptible to landslides and erosion. The Western Ghats, on the other hand, were created out of volcanic rocks. In both these regions, we are seeing extremely destructive activities in the name of so-called development. Road projects cutting through hillsides are common to both regions. In 2019, I traveled to Puthumala in Kerala after the landslides and saw several small landslide sites leading up to the big one. These were all along a road construction project. Rock quarries are proliferating along these construction sites to provide construction material. This is leading to a gradual crumbling and weakening of the hills.The findings of the Western Ghats Ecology Expert Panel were quite revealing. You foresaw these disasters in Kerala and Konkan, and even pointed out the most vulnerable districts correctly. Why do you think your recommendations were not implemented?I know what kind of vested interests are prevailing. They are nurtured. They are the construction lobby who work so that the rich can make more and more money. People in the Konkan have now started talking a great deal about improper construction of bridges, high embankments and highways in vulnerable areas. In Chiplun, which was badly affected by floods this monsoon, the construction lobby has encroached on the estuary. They found free land, encroached on it and made a lot of money. These vested interests are dominating everywhere in the Western Ghats, and are functioning illegally.Is it only these construction projects or has climate change also exacerbated disasters in the Western Ghats?Climate change is having a perceptible impact on the entire west coast. Sea level is increasing, and the pattern of cyclone formation has changed. Cyclonic activity had reduced over Bay of Bengal and increased over Arabian Sea, including a spike in severe cyclones. All along the west coast, the coastal regulation zone has been crumpled under the feet. Mangroves are being destroyed and several ports are being built to support the demand for construction. These will be devastated by cyclones in the future. In another five to 10 years, cyclones will impact the entire region. Gujarat and Maharashtra have already seen the impact with Cyclone Tauktae and Cyclone Nisarga but Karnataka, Goa and Kerala will also be devastated.The environment ministry is planning to amend the Forest Conservation Act of 1980 to bring significant changes to forest governance in India, including facilitating private plantations for harvesting. How will this impact biodiversity?Such amendments are in flagrant violation of the Forest Rights Act of 2006. Local communities at least nurture and protect forests because they get non-timber forest produce from it. The forest rights law is not being implemented. Instead, private plantations are being considered, which will replace natural vegetation, leading to devastation of biodiversity. Wildlife will also be forced out, which will have a huge cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhav-gadgil-interview-destructive-activities-are-carried-out-in-name-of-development-101634668617841.html
20-10-2021||India||Hotel owner in Kerala dies by suicide, blames pandemic||Hours after writing a detailed message on social media slamming the state government’s Covid-19 lockdown norms, a hotel owner in central Kerala allegedly died by suicide. His body was found on the railway tracks, the police said.In social media post, the man wrote that his hotel business was doing relatively good, but Covid-19 pandemic-induced lockdown pushed him on the verge of being broke. In the note, he said that he took multiple loans from banks and private financiers and was finding it “impossible to repay these liabilities”.“You can have hundreds of people in the mall and many in liquor outlets. Buses and marriage halls run with maximum capacity. If more than ten people sit in the hotel, the owner will be hauled up. The government’s lockdown policy is quite unscientific and arbitrary,” he said in the note.He also wrote that his youngest son has autism “and he has every right to live like any other children of his age.” He asked philanthropists and others to extend a helping hand to his wife and two children.(If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist.) Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hotel-owner-in-kerala-dies-by-suicide-blames-pandemic-101634668615033.html
20-10-2021||India||Zomato defends, reinstates staff a day after plaint by TN customer||A day after the restaurant aggregator and food delivery company Zomato fired its customer service employee after a complaint by a customer who alleged that he was denied refund for not knowing Hindi , the company reinstated the employee to service saying it was “an ignorant mistake”.The company founder Deepinder Goyal announced reinstating the sacked agent in a series of tweets on Tuesday.A tweet from a user who goes by the handle “@Vikash67456607” triggered a major Twitter backlash, with the hashtag “Reject_Zomato” trending on top at the microblogging site on Monday. Vikash had tweeted he ordered food on Zomato and complained that an item was missing. “Customer care says amount can’t be refunded as I didn’t know Hindi. Also takes lesson that being an Indian I should know Hindi. Tagged me a liar as he didn’t know Tamil. @zomato not the way you talk to a customer,” he tweeted and tagged the company while sharing screenshots of his purported chat with the customer care agent.In its statement, Zomato said the company was “sorry” for the behaviour of its employee and terminated the agent.On Tuesday, Goyal took to Twitter to defend the agent, saying most people at the call centre were young people “at the start of their learning curves.”He said “an ignorant mistake by someone in a support centre of a food delivery company became a national issue. The level of tolerance and chill in our country needs to be way higher than it is nowadays. Who’s to be blamed here?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zomato-defends-reinstates-staff-a-day-after-plaint-by-tn-customer-101634668476888.html
20-10-2021||India||Kerala received 135% extra rainfall in Oct: IMD||As Kerala braces for another spell of downpour from October 20, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) data shows that the southern state has received 135 per cent excess rain during the period from October 1 to 19.During the heavy spell on October 16 when the IMD issued a Red alert indicating extremely heavy rainfall, numerous incidents of landslips and other rain-related accidents were reported from south-central districts of Kerala, resulting in at least 24 deaths.The season’s rainfall data on IMD website shows that the normal rainfall for the period of October 1 to 19 was 192.7 mm whereas the actual rainfall was 453.5mm.There is a “large excess departure” of 135 per cent, the website says.“During October-December, through the north-east Monsoon, the state receives an average rainfall of 491.6 mm, which is 16.8 percent of the annual rainfall. This year, the state has received 453.5 mm rain during Oct 1-19, instead of the usual 192.7 mm. This means that the state has already received over 90 per cent of this season’s rainfall,” a senior IMD official told PTI.Except for Thrissur and Alappuzha , all other districts have received over 100 per cent of the usual rainfall. While Kozhikode saw the highest increase (223 per cent excess), Alappuzha saw the least increase (66 per cent) in rainfall.The official said the heavy downpour which the state witnessed recently marks withdrawal of the southwest monsoon which normally ends by September 30.Kerala has received excess rain due to the low pressure zones that developed near Lakshadweep coast in the South-Eastern region of the Arabian Sea and in the South-Eastern parts of the Bay of Bengal.After a relative respite of two days, the IMD today issued an orange alert for 11 districts of Kerala indicating heavy rainfall on Wednesday.The IMD sounded the alert for Thiruvananthapuram, Pathanamthitta, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Idukki, Thrissur, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad and Kannur districts on October 20.The weatherman has put 12 districts on orange alert on Thursday also.It has been issued for all districts other than Kannur and Kasaragod on October 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-received-135-extra-rainfall-in-oct-imd-101634668556973.html
20-10-2021||India||Gates of three dams opened as Kerala battles heavy rainfall||Shutters of Cheruthoni dam, part of the Idukki reservoir in Kerala, were opened on Tuesday to create more storage capacity in anticipation of the heavy rainfall predicted in its catchment area over the next two days.Shutters of Idamalayar dam in Ernakulam and Pampa in Pathanamthitta were also opened in the morning as water in these reservoirs had almost reached the danger levels.Three sirens were sounded prior to the opening of each of the shutters of Cheruthoni dam, which was last opened three years ago, Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) said in its Facebook page.The first shutter was raised at 11.00 AM, the next one at 12.00 PM and the third one at 12.30 PM, it said.The shutters were raised, by 35 centimetres, in the presence of state Minister for Electricity K Krishnankutty and Kerala Water Resources Minister Roshy Augustine who thereafter, visited the Idukki arch dam and the Cheruthoni town to assess the situation.Speaking to the reporters after the shutters were opened, Augustine said, “The situation is calm presently. Water released from the dams is flowing normally. Inflow to the dam is reduced presently. Due to the rule curve, things were carried out accurately and timely. The decision (to open the dam’s shutters) was taken to ensure people do not face any problems.”Krishnankutty, who also spoke to the reporters, said opening of the shutters was carried out on the basis of scientific data and the rule curve.“Politicians did not decide it. Experts did,” he added.Earlier in the day, shutters of Idamalayar and Pampa reservoirs were opened in the wake of an increase in their water level and more rains predicted in the coming days in Kerala.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued orange alerts for 11 districts, barring Kollam, Alappuzha and Kasaragod, on Wednesday and 12 districts, except Kannur and Kasaragod, on Thursday.Orange alert means an area is expected to receive heavy to very heavy rainfall which could range between 64.5 mm to 204.4 mm.According to IMD data, the southern state has already received 135 per cent excess rain during the period from October 1 to 19.The state government on Monday had opened the shutters of Kakki and Sholayar dams to release surplus water.The Ernakulam district administration on Tuesday morning confirmed the opening of shutters 2 and 3 of Idamalayar dam by 50 centimetres each.Opening of shutters 3 and 4 of the Pampa dam by 45 centimetres each was confirmed by the Pathanamthitta district administration on Tuesday.Despite opening of the shutters of the three dams, the water level in the concerned rivers -- especially Periyar and Pampa -- will not rise to the levels as seen in 2018, government officials said and added that people need not panic fearing a repeat of what happened back then.Later in the day, Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan issued a statement asking people living in hill regions, low lying areas and along the banks of the rivers, whose dams have been opened, to exercise caution and move to relief camps set up across the state.State Health Minister Veena George visited the Aranmula-Pampa Satrakkadavu to assess the water level in Pampa river and thereafter, told reporters that as the water is receding into the low lying areas in Pathanamthitta district and in view of the IMD warning of heavy rains, people from Upper Kuttanad region -- where people were seen on news channels wading through waist-deep water -- were being shifted to relief camps.State Revenue Minister K Rajan, while speaking to media this morning, said if people refuse to move out of risk prone areas, the government would be forced to “arrest” and shift them to the camps.“Our aim is to save lives,” he said.The CM, in his statement issued later in the day, also said that as the monsoon recedes, extreme levels of rainfall over a short period was expected and due to the same, there would be an increase in the risk of landslides and overflowing of rivers.He said the State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA) has issued a stern directive to the people in hill areas and river banks to remain vigilant till the current situation normalises.Meanwhile, the district administrations in Pathanamthitta and Ernakulam have put on hold all quarrying activities till October 24.In Ernakulam’s Aluva-Kalady area, fishermen and their boats were brought in via trucks in preparation for rescue and evacuation of people who might get stranded if the water level of Periyar, which flows through the district, rises like it had in 2018 when heavy rainfall and opening of the dams had flooded homes there.The Ernakulam district administration also said that water from the Idukki reservoir will reach the Aluva-Kalady basin at midnight and people should remain alert.In Alappuzha, where several places have been flooded, the state has set up 100 relief camps which are presently housing around 7,126 people from about 2,000 families.The state government had on Monday announced that Idukki dam, built across the Periyar river, Idamalayar in Ernakulam and Pampa dam, in Pathanamthitta, were going to be opened on Tuesday.Even though rains subsided in several parts of Kerala on Monday, after receiving heavy downpour last week, the decision to open shutters of these dams was taken as water levels there had reached close to the danger marks and more rains were expected from Wednesday.In view of the prevailing situation and expected worsening of weather conditions, the government has cancelled pilgrimage to the Lord Ayyappa shrine in Sabarimala for the Thula masam poojas.According to the State Disaster Management Authority, the number of rain-related deaths in Kerala from October 12 to October 18 stood at 38.During the same period, at least 90 houses have been destroyed in the rains while 702 have been partially damaged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gates-of-three-dams-opened-as-kerala-battles-heavy-rainfall-101634668553775.html
20-10-2021||India||Accused in Kerala pregnant jumbo death surrenders||One of the accused in the death of a pregnant elephant in Kerala’s Malappuram last year — which caused nationwide outrage — surrendered before a local court in Palakkad on October 16, a senior police officer confirmed on Tuesday. Thirty-eight-year-old M Riyasuddin was subsequently remanded in judicial custody for a week, the officer added. “He discreetly approached the court which remanded him in judicial custody. We will move the court for police custody,” the senior officer who did not wish to be named said. Riyasuddin is the second accused in the case. His father, Abdul Kareem, 64, is the prime accused in the case and is still at large, police said. A case was registered against the duo in June last year after they fed a 15-year-old pregnant elephant a pineapple stuffed with crackers. The elephant died after the crackers blew in her mouth. She stood in Velliyar river for days but succumbed to injuries. A post-mortem examination later revealed that the elephant died due to asphyxia as a result of water entering its lungs.Both the police and forest departments had filed separate complaints in connection with the case. The father and son run a small agricultural farm along Palakkad-Malappuram border. Three farm workers were also arrested in this regard. On Tuesday, the forest department moved an application in Mannarkkad court to get the custody of the accused. “After getting the custody of the accused, the department will inquire whether he was involved in other similar cases,” Mannarkkad divisional forest officer M K Surjith said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/accused-in-kerala-pregnant-jumbo-death-surrenders-101634668494046.html
20-10-2021||India||Don’t review evaluation policy for Class 12, CBSE urges Supreme Court||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has urged the Supreme Court not to review its evaluation policy for Class XII Board exams, as it opposed a clutch of petitions filed by students who are aggrieved by their scores on account of the poor past performance of their schools.Submitting its affidavit on Monday, CBSE said the option of taking the improvement exams was available to the students and couldn’t claim violation of their rights when the marking was done as per the evaluation policy, which was also approved by the top court in June.The Board’s affidavit has been filed in response to petitions filed by over two dozen students from Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Jammu and Kashmir and Rajasthan.The petitions, filed through advocate Ravi Prakash, have demanded that a school’s poor past performance should not be counted while awarding final scores under the evaluation policy notified on June 17 and approved by the apex court on June 22. “Accepting the request of the petitioners would not only mean deviating from the evaluation policy which has been accepted well across the country but, would also result in revising the results of all the students which is already settled and based on which almost all universities have almost completed their admission process,” the CBSE affidavit read. The Board stated that between August 25 and September 15, it conducted Class XII examinations for students who were not satisfied with the assessment done based on the policy. “As the petitioners fall under such category of students, they had the option available with them to appear in the improvement examinations. Therefore, they are not entitled to claim reliefs, as prayed for, in the writ petition,” the affidavit added. As per the policy, the marks scored in the later examination were to be considered final.The CBSE’s affidavit, filed by advocate Rupesh Kumar, will be taken up by a bench of justices AM Khanwilkar and CT Ravikumar on Wednesday.Class XII exams were cancelled this year due to Covid-19 and the evaluation policy was formulated that assessed students based on their performance in classes X, XI and XII on a ratio of 30:30:40, respectively. The total marks awarded had to be in consonance with the past performance of the school in Class XII Board examinations. Further, the policy also talked about moderating the final marks based on the historical performance of the school by taking the best overall performance in the previous three years’ Board examination.The petitioners produced a chart to the court, comparing their scores calculated on basis of the 30:30:40 method and the final scores awarded by CBSE. One of the petitioners who scored 91.27% ended up getting 66% when the results were moderated based on the school’s past performance, showing a variance of over 25%. Similarly, another petitioner who scored 85.4% ended up getting 54% showing a variance of over 31% after the school’s performance was factored in. On August 8, the CBSE notified a dispute redressal mechanism, as per the court’s directions, under which the petitioner students complained against the CBSE policy to their respective schools. The grievance was forwarded to the Board that dismissed the representation as it found the marks to be in conformity with the evaluation policy. The petitions filed through advocate Ravi Prakash urged the CBSE to pass a reasoned order and consider amending the policy in view of the future of the petitioners.Even the schools where the petitioners studied supported their cause and told the CBSE that the previous batch of students was poor in academics and this should not come in the way of the present batch, which had performed better.The CBSE said, “The evaluation policy provides for taking into consideration the historical performance of the school, subject-wise mean, overall school average and moderation criteria for which a special software was developed by the Board…the answering respondent (CBSE) was bound to take into consideration not only the actual performance of the students but also the past performance of their school.” The Board also stated that the chart presented by the petitioners was based on a wrong reading of the evaluation policy as it considered the actual performance of students and not the past performance of the school.Further, the Board submitted that the issue with regard to the ‘historical/past performance of the school’ to be taken as one of the components for the purpose of declaring the result was already considered and approved by the Supreme Court by its June 22 order while considering a petition seeking cancellation of Class XII Board examinations.The Board further clarified that since the marks awarded to the petitioners was in accordance with the policy, there was no occasion to reconsider their representations by passing a detailed, reasoned order.The court had issued notice on the petitions on October 8 following which it closed for Dussehra vacation and fixed the matter on the reopening day (Wednesday) and directed the CBSE to submit its response by then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-review-evaluation-policy-for-class-12-cbse-urges-supreme-court-101634668433615.html
20-10-2021||India||Extreme weather events in Kerala linked to climate crisis: Experts||The havoc wrought by heavy rain in Kerala last week in which 39 people were killed has a clear imprint of climate change, say weather scientists. In the last three years, the state has seen at least four flash floods of which the 2018 floods were the worst. Scientists link the fast-changing weather pattern to the rise in surface temperature of the Arabian Sea in the last two decades, leading to higher cyclonic circulations. According to the India Meteorology Department, there was a 52% increase in cyclonic movement over the Arabian Sea between 2001 and 2019, and an 8% decrease in the Bay of Bengal during the same period. IMD statistics showed that nine cyclonic or major depressions had formed in 2020, of which four were over the Arabian Sea. Roxy Mathew, a planet scientist with the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, Pune, said the temperature over the Arabian Sea has increased by 1.2 to 1.4 degrees Celsius in the last two decades.“Usually, the temperature in the Arabian Sea is 1.5 degrees lower than the Bay of Bengal and this is one of the reasons for less cyclonic circulations and low pressure in the Arabian Sea. But of late, the situation is changing. What is disturbing is that warming is seen not only in the top layers of the sea but also in the deeper layers of the ocean,” Mathew said. He added, “We all know that more than 90% of the heat on earth is absorbed by oceans. Usually, temperatures in the Indian Ocean and Bay of Bengal are above 28 degrees Celsius and in the Arabian Sea, it is between 26 and 28 degrees Celsius. But the Arabian Sea is warming up fast. It has been quite visible in the last decade or so.” Dr Dr V S Vijayan, a member of the Madhav Gadgil committee on Western Ghats and founding director of Salim Ali Centre for Ornithology, said the state was yet to learn its lessons from the 2018 tragedy in which close to 400 people died. “It is sad that in Kerala, discussions start only after a tragedy, but everyone forgets about it soon. Cloud bursts, flash floods and landslips are here to stay. The state will have to pay a heavy price if it goes ahead ignoring the climate change signals,” said Dr M G Manoj of the Advanced Centre for Atmospheric Radar Research with the Cochin University of Science and Technology. Vijayan said Kerala can take the lead in implementing the UN General Assembly resolution of 2017 on sustainable development. “Our overdependence on natural resources will be reduced and we can think of a better tomorrow. Whether you take Uttarakhand, Kerala or the Northeast, calamities are leaving untold miseries. But for this, we need a committed political leadership,” he said. The UNGA resolution is a set of suggestions to achieve a better and more sustainable future for all by 2030. Noted ecological scientist Madhav Gadgil, who headed an expert group to study the degradation of the Western Ghats, said people will have to take more proactive roles to protect their place of living, surroundings, and environment. “I agree that lopsided developmental activities have aggravated the intensity of natural disasters. But I still have hope from Kerala — it is the first to take up decentralised planning. Let people take up their bread-and-butter issues along with sustenance,” Gadgil said, adding that states like Maharashtra and Goa also experience similar tragedies year after year but Kerala gets wider publicity and reach. Mathew said a big shift in the rain pattern in Kerala is visible. “Though monsoon rainfall may decrease, the number of heavy rainfalls will increase, leading to more flash floods and landslides,” Mathew said, adding that Kerala should have been very careful in land use because the state, endowed with many hills and rivers, has a slanting geographical landscape. Apart from global warming, scientists have also found that the dumping of plastic waste in the sea has also led to a rise in surface temperature. According to a study conducted by the Central Marine Fisheries Institute of India in 2018, major oceans will have more plastic than fish by 2050. By then, over 850 metric tonnes of plastic will be found in the sea whereas fish will be 821 metric tonnes.Another study conducted in 2017 by a world body, Alfred Wegener Institute, says the seas near Mumbai, Kerala and Andaman and Nicobar Islands are among the most polluted in the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/extreme-weather-events-in-kerala-linked-to-climate-crisis-experts-101634668375094.html
20-10-2021||NA||Highlights: Plane crash in Texas, all 21 on aboard survive, reports AFP||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:‘Situation in Garhwal is almost under control, Char Dham to resume from Wednesday' says DGPUttarakhand DGP Ashok Kumar said the "situation in Garhwal is almost under control, routes have been reopened & 'Char Dham Yatra' will be resumed from tomorrow", reported ANI.Plane crash in Texas, all 21 on aboard survive#BREAKING Plane crash in Texas, all 21 on aboard survive, says fire service pic.twitter.com/x7QQLBmxRTAmarinder Singh says he will launch his own party soonFormer Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh says he will soon announce launch of his own political partyFormer Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh told PTI that he will launch his own political party soon. Singh, a Congress veteran, was replaced by Charanjit Singh Channi, following which a war of words ensued between him and other party members. PM Modi extends condolences to those who died in Uttarakhand rainfallI am anguished by the loss of lives due to heavy rainfall in parts of Uttarakhand. May the injured recover soon. Rescue operations are underway to help those affected. I pray for everyone’s safety and well-being.Death toll due to rain rises to 34 in UttarakhandUttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami said 34 people have lost their lives due to rain related incidents in the state and five are feared missing, reported ANI.Russia orders first Covid-19 restrictions in Moscow since summer#BREAKING Moscow orders first Covid restrictions in capital since summer pic.twitter.com/ivssmqP67v22 people have died due to recent heavy rain in Uttarakhand22 people have lost their lives due to heavy rains in the state: Uttarakhand GovernmentNira Radia, her sister summoned in alleged Yes Bank siphoning caseLobbyist Nira Radia and her sister have been summoned by Delhi Police in connection with an alleged siphoning off a ₹300 crore Yes Bank loan.12 arrested for attempting fraudulent withdrawal from NRI accountDCP Delhi said 12 people, including three HDFC Bank employees, were arrested for attempting a fraudulent with account from an NRI account, reported ANI.Shilpa Shetty, Raj Kundra file defamation suit against Sherlyn ChopraBollywood actor Shilpa Shetty and her husband Raj Kundra have reportedly filed a ₹50 crore defamation suit against actress Sherlyn Chopra, reported ANI. Chopra had filed a complaint against Shetty and Kundra alleging sexual harassment, cheating, and criminal intimidation. Bengal VHP writes to Bangladesh deputy high commissioner over 'violence on Hindu community'Bengal unit of Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) wrote to the deputy high commissioner of Bangladesh in Kolkata on Tuesday over the recent “violence” against the Hindu diaspora there, reported ANI.6 people from Gujarat stranded in Badrinath & Kedarnath, says minister 6 people from Gujarat are currently stranded in Badrinath and Kedarnath and due to incessant rainfall rescue helicopters cannot reach them, state disaster management minister told ANI on Tuesday.200 people stuck in Uttarakhand resort evacuated200 people stuck in Lemon Tree resort along Ranikhet-Ramnagar route have been evacuated in Uttarakhand, news agency ANI said citing DGP Ashok Kumar. Nainital flash flood death toll reaches 17, many feared missingDeath toll in Nainital flash flood reached 17 on Tuesday, and many more people are feared missing. Nainital was cut off from the rest of the state with three roads leading to the popular tourist spot blocked due to a series of landslides.Uttarakhand CM conducts aerial survey of flood hit areas Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami conducted an aerial survey of flood hit areas on Tuesday. “Did an aerial survey of the areas affected by excessive rain and reached Rudraprayag to take stock of the damage caused by the disaster. Instructions have been given to the administration to extend all possible help to the people affected by the disaster,” he tweeted.MoS health visits Serum Institute of India in PuneMoS Health Dr Bharati Pravin Pawar visits Serum Institute of India, Pune"Conveyed my gratitude for playing crucial role in Covid vaccination campaign in India especially when we're on the way of achieving 100 cr vaccination of our citizens under the leadership of PM,"she tweets pic.twitter.com/2CYfkMPXIWCongress to field 40% women candidates in UP assembly polls40% of Congress' candidates for the upcoming UP assembly elections will be women, announces Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. Babul Supriyo resigns as Lok Sabha MPThe formal resignation letter as per rules & a personal note of gratitude to Hon'ble Speaker Sir @ombirlakota pic.twitter.com/lviZyRi74fFormer Union minister Babul Supriyo meets Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla in Delhi, formally resigns as MP.Delhi woman stabbed to death allegedly by jilted lover22-year-old woman stabbed to death by a man, who is suspected to be her jilted lover, in Bindapur area of Dwarka district.‘My heart is heavy as I began my political career with the BJP’My heart is heavy as I began my political career with the BJP. I thank PM Modi and home minister Amit Shah for showing confidence in in me. I left politics wholeheartedly. I thought that if I'm not a part of the party, I shouldn't keep seat for myself: Babul Supriyo after meeting Lok Sabha Speaker Om BirlaIndia's Covid-19 vaccination coverage tops 99 croreWe are at 99 crores 💉Go for it India, continue to rapidly march towards our milestone of 100 crore #COVID19 vaccinations. pic.twitter.com/jq9NKnw8tF“We are at 99 crores. Go for it India, continue to rapidly march towards our milestone of 100 crore #COVID19 vaccinations,” tweets Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya.Planning 1-day protest for victims of violence in Bangladesh, says ISKCONProtests are going in many parts of the world. We are planning a one-day protest and prayer meetings for the victims in Bangladesh, on 23rd October, all over the world (in almost 150 countries) at all ISKCON centers and also at different locations: Radharamn Das, vice president, ISKCON, KolkataNCP leader Eknath Khadse's wife appears before EDNationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Eknath Khadse's wife Mandakini Khadse appears before Enforcement Directorate for inquiry in a case related to Pune land scam.NIA to probe J&K civilian killingsNational Investigation Agency (NIA) to take over probe in killings of civilians in Kashmir, will look at "larger conspiracy."PM Modi speaks to Uttarakhand CM over rain situationPrime Minister Narendra Modi speaks to Uttarakhand CM Pushkar Singh Dhami and state minister Ajay Bhatt, and takes stock of the situation there due to heavy rains.India records 13,058 new Covid-19 cases and 164 deathsIndia's Covid-19 tally reaches 34,094,373 with 13,058 new Covid-19 cases. Toll at 452,454 with 164 fresh fatalities. In the last 24 hours, Kerala reported 6,676 new cases and 60 deaths.PM Modi extends greetings on Eid-e-MiladMilad-un-Nabi greetings. Let there be peace and prosperity all around. May the virtues of kindness and brotherhood always prevail. Eid Mubarak!“Milad-un-Nabi greetings. Let there be peace and prosperity all around. May the virtues of kindness and brotherhood always prevail. Eid Mubarak!” tweets Prime Minister Narendra Modi.President Kovind greets nation on Eid-e-MiladGood wishes to all fellow citizens, especially to our Muslim brothers & sisters on Eid-e-Milad-un-Nabi, the birthday of Prophet Muhammad. Let us take inspiration from Prophet’s life & ideals and work for the prosperity of society and promotion of peace & harmony in the country.Good wishes to all fellow citizens, especially to our Muslim brothers & sisters on Eid-e-Milad-un-Nabi, the birthday of Prophet Muhammad. Let us take inspiration from Prophet’s life and ideals and work for the prosperity of society and promotion of peace and harmony in the country: President Ram Nath KovindOwaisi takes jibe at PM Modi over upcoming India-Pakistan match#WATCH | PM Modi never speaks on 2 things -- rise in petrol and diesel prices & China sitting in our territory in Ladakh. PM is afraid of speaking on China. Our 9 soldiers died (in J&K) & on Oct 24 India-Pakistan T20 match will happen: AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi, in Hyderabad pic.twitter.com/Q0AabFZ0BUPM Modi never speaks on two things: rise in petrol and diesel prices and China sitting in our territory in Ladakh. He is afraid of speaking on China. Our nine soldiers died in J&K, but on October 24 India-Pakistan T20 match will happen: AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi, in HyderabadNorth Korea fires ‘unidentified' projectile: ReportNorth Korea fires 'unidentified projectile', reports AFP citing South Korean military.US special envoy for Afghanistan resignsZalmay Khalilzad, the US' special representative for Afghanistan, steps down. Thomas West to succeed Khalilzad, announces secretary of state Antony Blinken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-live-october-19-2021-101634602383199.html
20-10-2021||India||‘Problematic’ tiger caught alive in 21-day op||A male tiger who attacked and killed at least two people in Tamil Nadu was tranquillised and captured alive on Friday, bringing to a close a challenging 21-day search for the animal.Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) officials said that the tiger was tranquillised a little after 1pm. This is the first time that a tiger has been captured alive in the Nilgiris district, where at least three tigers were shot dead between 2014 and 2016. In 2002, a tiger was captured alive in the Annamalai Tiger Reserve in the state and let back into the forest.The 13-year-old tiger came to be identified as “MDT 23” , or Mudumalai Division Tiger number 23. He roamed in the buffer zone of the reserve, close to its boundary. Over the past three weeks, MDT 23 had remained elusive despite several close shaves with the search party -- 12 tranquillising darts were used before Friday to try and capture him, but he avoided them all.The searchThe tiger was first recorded by a camera trap in the Bandipur Tiger Reserve (BTR) in 2010. “Since then, it established a territory here. But due to his age, and from his wounds, we can say he has been in territorial fights and has moved. Because of the presence of other animals in the MTR reserve, this tiger is not being allowed into their territory which is why it has been moving near the forest boundary,” said field director D Venkatesh.From the beginning of July this year, villagers of the Gudalur area complained that MDT 23 was preying on livestock. Then, on September 24, the tiger killed a 56-year-old tribal man, V Chandran, a worker in the Devarshola area. The forest department confirmed Chandran as his first human victim. A search was launched for the tiger with five cages set up in vital locations in and around Gudalur, with field staff using camera trap images and patrols. A special police team was also deployed in the area, with a team of experts from Kerala’s Wayanad joining in.For the next week though, the tiger evaded all the traps set up for it, before surfacing on October 1 with another kill in Masinagudi about 30km away from the first. This brought locals to protest on the roads, demanding that the tiger be put down. Local residents alleged that the tiger killed more people than just the two, but officials have not confirmed this.On the same day as his second kill, chief wildlife warden Shekhar Kumar Niraj issued an order to “hunt the problematic tiger” under section 11(1) (a) of the Wildlife Protection Act 1972, as the animal had “become very dangerous to human life in the area”. The section that assigns these powers however adds that “no wild animal shall be ordered to be killed unless the Chief Wildlife Warden is satisfied that such animal cannot be captured, tranquillised or translocated”.After the order, efforts were strengthened on the ground, with more than a 100 personnel including highly trained staff of the Forest Department -- with vets, sniffer dogs, two kumki elephants (trained in capture and rescue), and tech such as night vision cameras and drones.Meanwhile, a Chennai-based animal rights group, People for Cattle filed a PIL before the Madras high court seeking directions that the tiger be captured alive, and not killed. Appearing for the principal chief conservator, government lawyer P Muthukumar, informed the court on October 5 that there was no plan to kill the animal or maim it. “Efforts are on in the Mudumalai area to capture the animal alive and study its psychology and behaviour to assess what future course of treatment may be adopted,” he told the court. The bench of chief justice Sanjib Banerjee and justice PD Audikesavalu directed the principal chief conservator of forests to ensure that the least number of people intruded into the forest and posted the matter for after the festive break.Tiger conservation has been a focus in India for close to fifty years with the National Tiger Conservation Authority coming into being in 1972. A year later, “Project Tiger” was launched in April 1973, with the objective “to ensure maintenance of a viable population of Tigers in India for scientific, economic, aesthetic, cultural and ecological values, and to preserve for all times, areas of biological importance as a national heritage for the benefit, education and enjoyment of the people”. The latest Status of Tigers in India report 2018, a four year tiger census, showed an increase in numbers from 2,226 in 2014 to 2,967 in 2018.The final hoursOver the past three weeks, there were several touch-and-go situations on the hunt, with MDT 23 making a fleeting appearance, only to disappear in the forest.It was after officials suspended operations for the day on Thursday that they received a message, at around 8pm, that the tiger was spotted near the Theppakadu elephant camp, which is part of the Mudumalai National Park. A search team was rushed to the spot.MTR’s field director Venkatesh said that, soon, the tiger began moving towards Masinagudi. “In the meantime a small accident was reported in Masinagudi where a private vehicle skid from the road and the tiger mildly charged at the travellers, and our team stationed there brought the situation under control,” said Venkatesh. “We continued following the tiger because there is a temple near the forest boundary where more than 3,000 people had gathered because of the festival.”It was 4am when the tiger went back to the dense forest. “We had no weapons with us. We were very cautious so that the tiger doesn’t enter any human habitation.”On Friday morning, officials informed locals not to allow cattle-grazing in the area where the tiger was spotted.Forest veterinarian Dr Rajesh Kumar said that their team spotted the tiger at 8.30am inside a bush in the Masinagudi area. They were planning to capture him using nets, and once that failed, they cordoned off the area using the two kumki elephants.“The tiger roared and charged at us twice. The first time the kumki, Udhayan, took a step back but the second time, he stood his ground and that’s when I could dart him. The real hero of the operation is Udhayan,” he said.Kumar darted a tranquilliser from the kumki elephant’s back at the tiger at 1.05pm on Friday. “...we used a second dart on him on the ground again at 2.15 pm and secured the tiger at 2.30 pm,” said Kumar.The forest officers had the option of shifting the captured tiger either to the Vandalur zoo in Chennai or the Mysuru Zoo in Karnataka. Since the animal is old and weak, they decided to shift the animal to Mysuru, Karnataka which is closer to MTR.K Kalidasan, president of Coimbatore-based environmental organisation Osai, who has been working in the MTR landscape for two decades, said that the tiger was not a man-eater but had to be eliminated. “This tiger didn’t attack human beings as its prey but it did so while it was preying on livestock. All the four people (who are suspected to have been killed) are herdsmen,” Kalidasan said. However, after it killed a man on October first, the tiger is said to have mauled his arm. “It led to fear and panic among people. So the tiger had to be captured because we need the support of the local people who live in the fringes of the forest for wildlife management. And it’s not an easy task to capture an animal like the tiger alive while its nature is to hide in a closed forest. It was a huge and patient effort by the field staff.”Local herdsmen collect cowdung and sell it as a means to sustain their livelihood. Though cattle grazing is prohibited in tiger reserves, it continues unabated in buffer zones, says Kumaraguru Arumugam, conservation scientist and member of the Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve Foundation. “Due to this interference of cattle grazing, the herbivores of the region, such as deer, blackbuck, bison, have moved, affecting the balance of the prey and predator. So the tiger doesn’t have sufficient prey and it is also moving outside its territory,” says Arumugam. “This is why man-animal conflict is increasing inside tiger reserves in Tamil Nadu as well as in India.”Chief wildlife warden Niraj described the operation as intense. “And there was a constant fear that the tiger shouldn’t come out and kill anyone else,” said Niraj. “We are satisfied that we tried everything from data analysis to DNA analysis and we completed our mission which was to save the life of the tiger without injuring him. This is the first time in a decade that we have been able to capture a tiger alive.” Niraj said that the tiger has been stabilised after being tranquilised and his vitals, temperature, blood pressure are all normal. The vehicle is travelling with four doctors and officials at a low speed to Mysuru since the tiger’s condition is weak. “I’ve received an NOC from the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) for the tiger to be rehabilitated there. He has crossed his prime age of hunting. After he recovers, we have to find him a home based on what doctors say.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/problematic-tiger-caught-alive-in-21-day-op-101634323264598.html
