21-10-2021||India||HT This Day : October 22, 1959 – Nanavati held not guilty by jury||Bombay- Commander K. M. Nanavati was today held not guilty of murdering Prem Ahuja by a majority vote of the jury.But the Sessions Judge, Mr R. B. Mehta, disagreed with the verdict and announced that he was referring the case to the Bombay High Court "in the interests of justice."The nine-member jury gave a verdict of not guilty by eight to one on both the charges of murder and culpable homicide not amounting to murder.The judge termed the verdict “totally perverse."Pending the disposal of the reference by the High Court, Cmdr. Nanavati will continue in Naval custody.There was wild cheering and clapping when the jury emerged after a 135-minute session and declared its verdict.The judge ordered that the court room be cleared of the public immediately. He said their behaviour was "most disgraceful and nauseating."A large crowd had also collected outside the court when it was known that the jury had retired at 4-40 p.m. after a seven-hour summing up by the judge.Steel-helmeted policemen were posted on the approach roads to the sessions court building to control the crowds. A number of policemen in plain clothes were in the court room.Immediately after the jury returned the verdict, the Judge said that he was going to refer the case to the High Court.Mr Karl Khandalavala, defence counsel, wanted to speak on the question of reference, but the Judge remarked that he had already heard the counsel for four 'days and did not want to hear anything further on the question of reference. "It is my view that the verdict is not reasonable." he said.The Chief Public Prosecutor, Mr C. M. Trivedi, said the verdict was "patently perverse and would vitiate the rule of law for ever."Mr Trivedi then requested the court to order that the accused be kept in police custody instead of naval custody.Mr Khandalavala said that the prosecutor's application would mean "persecution" and not "prosecution ". At this stage there was an exchange of words between counsel and the Judge remarked that he was surprised at the way in which things were going on in the trial."We are supposed to be under the rule of law" he said. There-upon counsel apologized.Mr Khandalavala, referring to the scenes in court, said that the accused should not be held responsible for what had happened. How could he be penalized for the actions of the crowd, he asked.Mr Khandalavala said that there was no question of the accused running away or absconding if he was kept in naval custody. Only points of law would be raised in the High Court and there was no question of evidence. The trial was at an end.The Judge said that up to the last day he had not interfered on the question of the accused's custody and he did not think it necessary to interfere now.Mr Trivedi: We feel very strongly that naval custody has been abused in this case. We did not apply for police custody because we wanted to be graceful.The Judge said that if there was an abuse Mr Trivedi could apply to the court for cancellation of naval custody.The Judge then referred to the wild scenes and said: "I feel our whole law and Constitution are on trial if we are going to behave in this way."Addressing Cmdr. Nanavati the Judge said: "The jury have found you not guilty. I am unable to agree with the verdict as in my view it is perverse. I discharge the jury and under Section 307 CrPC, I submit the case to the High Court in the interest of Justice.”-PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-october-22-1959-nanavati-held-not-guilty-by-jury-101634837078358.html
21-10-2021||India||Not in touch with Aryan, Arbaaz: Alleged 'supplier' tells court, asks to not refer him as 'peddler'||Achit Kumar, who was reportedly named by both Aryan Khan and Arbaaz Merchant in the cruise rave party case on Thursday told the court that he has not interacted with either Aryan Khan or Arbaaz Merchant in the last year. Their interactions have only been limited to social media, Achit Kumar said through his lawyer, who told the court that his client is a 22-year-old and studied in a reputed university of London. Calling him 'peddler', 'supplier' is ruining his life, Livelaw reported."They say I am part of a ganja network. Have they got even one person to say that even one paisa was taken or given to me? At least one transaction," Achit Kumar's lawyer said. Kumar was arrested days after Aryan and Arbaaz were arrested from the cruise party on October 3. The Narcotics Control Bureau claimed that both Aryan and Arbaaz took Achit's name as a supplier.Around 2.6 gram of charas was found from his house when the NCB raided. Achit was not present at the party.Achit's lawyer informed the court that he is in India only because of the lockdown. He studies in a reputed university of London and calling him a 'peddler' is ruining his life when he is not even charged for the offence."I was from an IB school. I have a certain study circle, we may have met socially. But do they have anything to show I even interacted with Arbaaz or Aryan in the last year?" Achit Kumar asked. The NCB will reply to the bail plea on Friday. The bail plea o Aryan Khan will be heard by the Bombay high court on October 26. The special NDPS court has extended Aryan Khan's judicial custody till October 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-in-touch-with-aryan-arbaaz-alleged-supplier-tells-court-asks-to-not-refer-him-as-peddler-101634837345005.html
21-10-2021||India||What is the issue between Nawab Malik and Sameer Wankhede? 10 points||Nationalist Congress Party leader Nawab Malik is a minister of the Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra. Sameer Wankhede is the zonal director of the Narcotics Control Bureau. Both of them are presently in news because of their ongoing exchange of barbs over the Aryan Khan case. Aryan Khan was arrested by the NCB on October 3 from a cruise rave party. Since Aryan Khan's arrest, Nawab Malik has brought a series of allegations against NCB and particularly Sameer Wankhede, extortion being the latest.Here is everything you need to know about what is the issue between Nawab Malik and Sameer Wankhede1. On Thursday, Nawab Malik threatened that he will not stop his tirade against Sameer Wankhede until Wankhede is put in jail. The minister on Thursday accused Sameer Wankhede of extortion.2. Nawab Malik said when Bollywood stars were in the Maldives, Sameer Wankhede was in the Maldives, hinting at a behind-the-scene development.'He is minister, I am a govt employee': Sameer Wankhede replies to Nawab Malik's 'threat'3. Wankhede refuted the allegation and said that he was in the Maldives on a vacation with his family. He took permission from the government (from his department) before taking the leaves. He also asserted that he has never been to Dubai contrary to what Nawab Malik claimed.4. Nawab Malik posted purported photos of Sameer Wankhede's sister Yasmeen Wankhede as evidence of his claim. The NCB chief said he has come under personal attack for the last few days as his family members are being dragged into the case.5. As Nawab Malik threatened to put him behind the bars, Sameer Wankhede wished him the best and said he is just a government employee, while Nawab Malik is a minister. On taking legal steps against Nawab Malik, Wankhede said as a government employee, he has to take his department's permission for that.6. Earlier, Nawab Malik had alleged that the day Aryan Khan was arrested, NCB detained many others in connection with the same case. But people with a connection with a BJP leader were released, Nawab Malik claimed. NCB replied that it detained around 14 persons on that day and six were released while the rest eight, including Aryan Khan, were arrested.7. Nawab Malik also exposed NCB's witnesses KP Gosavi and Manish Bhanushali who were present during Aryan Khan's arrest. The minister raised questions over the background of these two independent witnesses, as KP Gosavi himself has a fraud case against him and Manish Bhanushali is a BJP leader. The NCB clarified that the presence of independent witnesses is a must in all its operations and field verification of these witnesses is not possible as the focus remains on the raid.8. Nawab Malik then raised questions about the one Fletcher Patel who was a witness in some of the NCB cases. The minister claimed that Fletcher Patel is a friend of Sameer Wankhede.9. The Narcotics Control Bureau had arrested Nawab Malik's son-in-law Sameer Khan in connection with a drugs case. While the enmity between Nawab Malik and Sameer Wankhede can be traced back to this episode, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, NCP chief Sharad Pawar have also slammed the NCB.10. Nawab Malik's son-in-law finally got bail and the court said that he was not in possession of ganja, but it was some herbs.Who is Sameer Wankhede?Sameer Wankhede is the NCB official who helming the agency's operation against drugs in Mumbai. He sprang to prominence since, in the last year, NCB has interrogated a number of Bollywood actors for their alleged links with drugs. Wankhede is known as a taskmaster as in his previous posting with the customs department of Mumbai Airport, he once caught singer Mika Singh with the foreign currency. In 2011, he made sure that the World Cup was released from the airport after paying duty. Wankhede is married to Marathi actor Kranti Redkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-is-the-issue-between-nawab-malik-and-sameer-wankhede-10-points-101634833078804.html
21-10-2021||India||‘Judge threatens arrest warrant’: Kangana Ranaut plea to transfer case rejected||MUMBAI: Additional chief metropolitan magistrate ST Dande on Thursday rejected a fresh plea filed by actor Kangana Ranaut to seek transfer of the defamation case filed against her by lyricist Javed Akhtar from the 10th court at Andheri to any other metropolitan magistrate. Judge Dande, who reserved his ruling a day earlier after hearing lyricist Javed Akhtar’s lawyer Jay Bhardwaj, delivered his verdict on Thursday. There was no reaction from the actor to the verdict.In her application, Kangana Ranaut told judge Dhande that she didn’t have faith in the 10th court at Andheri which was hearing Akhtar’s complaint against her. Ranaut’s lawyer Rizwan Siddique said the 10th court magistrate was insisting on her personal appearance without any sufficient reason and without an order which could have justified compelling her to appear in the case involving a bailable, non-cognizable and compoundable offence.“This court is threatening the accused on every date of issuing an arrest warrant without giving any sufficient cause,” her application said.Javed Akhtar’s lawyer opposed Kangana Ranaut’s request, arguing that it was only designed to delay proceedings. The grounds mentioned in the present application were raised for the first time after more than 7 months of summoning Kangana with the sole intent to delay the matter, his reply said.Akhtar filed the defamation complaint against Kangana Ranaut last November for allegedly making defamatory and baseless comments against him in a television interview.In a counter-complaint filed recently, the actress has alleged that after her dispute with co-star Hrithik Roshan, Akthar had called her and her sister to his house in Juhu with “mala fide intentions and ulterior motives”. She added that Akhtar called her and sister on the pretext of acting as a mediator but instead threatened her and forced her to tender a written apology to Roshan, thus forcefully seeking to create a document in a favour of her co-star.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/judge-threatens-arrest-warrant-kangana-ranaut-plea-to-transfer-case-rejected-101634833048928.html
21-10-2021||India||100 monuments lit up in tricolour to celebrate administration of billion Covid-19 vaccine doses||The Archaeological Survey of India under the Union ministry of culture illuminated 100 monuments across the country in the Indian tricolour as the country’s Covid-19 vaccination drive completed administering billion doses earlier on Thursday. The illumination of these monuments was done “as a mark of respect and gratitude to corona warriors who have contributed relentlessly in the fight against covid pandemic,” the ministry said in a statement.Also, UNESCO world heritage sites were also included in the list of 100 monuments that were lit up on the occasion. Some monuments, like the Red Fort, Humayun’s Tomb and Qutb Minar in Delhi, Agra Fort and Fatehpur Sikri in Uttar Pradesh, Konark Temple in Odisha, Mamallapuram Rath temples in Tamil Nadu, St Francis of Assisi Church in Goa, Khajuraho, the forts of Chittor and Kumbhalgarh in Rajasthan, the excavated ruins of the ancient Nalanda University in Bihar and Dholavira in Gujarat, were illuminated during the occasion.“To express gratitude towards corona warriors - vaccinators, sanitation staff, paramedical, auxiliary workers, police personnel etc., who have worked beyond their call of duty to help the Country face the pandemic effectively and for their selfless services to the humankind the 100 monuments will remain lit in Tri-Color on the night of 21st October 2021 as India achieved the landmark 100 crore vaccination mark,” the ministry said.Earlier in the day, the country achieved the significant milestone of administering a billion Covid-19 vaccine doses which was lauded by some countries like the US and Israel and global organisations like the World Health Organisation.Meanwhile, President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, several Union ministers and chief ministers also lauded the feat. Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya tweeted “Congratulations India” after reaching the milestone and hailed the leadership of Modi for the achievement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/100-monuments-lit-up-in-tricolour-to-celebrate-administration-of-billion-covid-19-vaccine-doses-101634832180284.html
21-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: NCB's Sameer Wankhede responds to NCP leader Nawab Malik's allegations and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'He is minister, I am a govt employee': Sameer Wankhede replies to Nawab Malik's 'threat'Sameer Wankhede, the zonal director of the Narcotics Control Bureau, on Thursday condemned the allegations of extortion brought against him by Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik and said it is a disgusting term. Read moreLance Klusener: ‘I preferred a position where it was almost hopeless’Towing a heavy bat with an iron grip and a fiberglass protection on two fingers of his glove, Lance Klusener was a once-in-a-generation phenomenon who looked defeat in the eye and pulled off many near-impossible run chases. Read moreInto The Wild with Bear Grylls: Ajay Devgn opens up about father Veeru Devgan's death, calls it ‘tough’Actor Ajay Devgn is all set to appear on Discovery’s adventure show Into The Wild With Bear Grylls. In the show, Ajay opens up about the death of his father Veeru Devgan, who was an action choreographer and was quite renowned for his stunt work. Veeru died in 2019 at the age of 77. Read moreKarwa Chauth: Healthy foods items to include in your sargi thaliKarwa Chauth 2021: The countdown to Karwa Chauth has begun. In less than three days from now, on October 24, married women who celebrate this festival will deck up in their traditional finery, decorate their palms with attractive mehendi designs and fast all day without a drop of water till moonrise, to pray for their husband's long life. Read moreImran Khan embarrasses Pakistan, accused of secretly selling official giftsPakistan's Opposition parties on Wednesday accused Prime Minister Imran Khan of selling gifts he received from other countries' heads, including an expensive watch worth USD 1 million. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-ncb-s-sameer-wankhede-responds-to-ncb-leader-nawab-malik-s-allegations-and-all-the-latest-news-101634829570686.html
21-10-2021||India||'He is minister, I am a govt employee': Sameer Wankhede replies to Nawab Malik's 'threat'||Sameer Wankhede, the zonal director of the Narcotics Control Bureau, on Thursday condemned the allegations of extortion brought against him by Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik and said it is a disgusting term. He said he indeed went to the Maldives with his family after taking the permission of the government. "I went with my children and family after taking govt's permission. If he calls that extortion, then this is not acceptable," Wankhede said.Without mincing any words, Nawab Malik accused Sameer Wankhede of ‘extortion’ and as evidence, he produced the photos of Sameer Wankhede's sister in the Maldives. The minister said when all the Bollywood personalities were in the Maldives during the pandemic, Sameer Wankhede was also in the Maldives. Wankhede must clarify why he was in Maldives and Dubai, NCP leader Nawab Malik said, earlier in the day.  The minister also threatened that he will put Wankhede behind the bars.Nawab Malik questions Sameer Wankhede's 'Maldives' link as NCB summons Ananya Panday, visits SRK's houseHere is Sameer Wankhede's fuill statement"I have never been to Dubai, whatever time he's stating that. There are mechanisms to check where a person is. So, it's completely false. Those are photos from Mumbai. I was in Mumbai. Find out where I was, get data from the airport. Get everything verified through my passport and visa," he said as reported by ANI."My best wishes are with him. I am just a government employee. He is a minister. If we want to put me in jail for serving the country, for working honestly and eliminating the drugs menace, then I welcome it."The word 'extortion' is a disgusting term. I did go to the Maldives after taking the competent authority's permission. I went with my children and family after taking govt's permission. If he calls that extortion, then this is not acceptable," Sameer Wankhede said.Talking about the ongoing attack from Nawab Malik, Wankhede said his morale will not go down by the attacks and will only become stronger. “Personal attacks being made on us in the past 15 days. Attacks are being made on my deceased mother, sister and retired father. I strongly condemn this,” he said. What NCB saidThe Narcotics Control Bureau also released a statement confirming that Sameer Wankhede has never submitted any leave application to visit Dubai. He availed Ex-India leave along with his family to the Maldives, the agency said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disgusting-wankhede-replies-to-minister-says-he-went-to-maldives-with-family-101634826982434.html
21-10-2021||India||‘Won’t stop till I put him in jail’: Nawab Malik stings NCB's Sameer Wankhede||In a fresh attack on Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) zonal chief Sameer Wankhede, Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik on Thursday said he won’t stop until he puts the official in jail. The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader has levelled several allegations against Wankhede, including running an extortion racket in cahoots with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Accusing Wankhede of filing fake cases against celebrities, Malik said that the NCB official will lose his job within a year.“They (BJP) have a puppet - Wankhede. He raises bogus cases against people. I challenge that Wankhede that he'll lose his job within a year. You came to jail us, people of this nation won't be silent without seeing you behind bars. We have evidence of bogus cases,” news agency ANI quoted Nawab Malik as saying.Sameer Wankhede has been at the forefront of recent NCB investigations involving the film industry, including a drug probe linked to Sushant Singh Rajput’s death which led to the arrest of actor Rhea Chakraborty and his brother Showik. The siblings are currently out on bail while the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) continues its probe.Also Read | No NCB raid, team visited 'Mannat' to collect docus related to Aryan Khan: Sameer WankhedeMalik's son-in-law Sameer Khan was also arrested by the agency in a drugs case but was granted bail by Special NDPS court last week.“Tell us who your father is, the one who is putting pressure? Nawab Malik isn't going to be scared of anyone's father whatever pressure you may try to put on me. I won't stop until I put you in jail, I'd like to make this clear today,” the NCP leader said, apparently alleging that the official is working under political patronage.Malik has targeted Wankhede by questioning his and his family's alleged presence in the Maldives when many Bollywood celebrities were also in the island country. Hinting at a deeper link between Sameer Wankhede and Bollywood, the minister said that the NCB official “must clarify what he and his family members were doing there at that time.”“Sameer Wankhede has to explain about his visit to Dubai & Maldives. We are sure that this 'ugahi' happened in Maldives, Dubai,” Malik said.Wankhede has denied the claims of visiting Dubai and said that he went to the Maldives only after taking permission from the competent authority."The word 'extortion' is a disgusting term. I did go to Maldives after taking competent authority's permission. I went with my children and family after taking govt's permission. If he calls that extortion, then this is not acceptable," he said.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/-won-t-stop-till-i-put-him-in-jail-nawab-malik-stings-ncb-s-sameer-wankhede-101634826134950.html
21-10-2021||India||IAF chief says eastern Ladakh situation led to stretching of equipment to limits||The situation that developed in eastern Ladakh last year required acclimatisation of a large number of IAF personnel and stretching of equipment to limits, but the force is "much better prepared" now in case there is a "long haul", Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal V R Chaudhari said on Thursday.In an interaction at a defence conclave here, he also said that in the last one year, due to the challenges faced in the harsh atmosphere of the region, "we have realised, where we fell short" whether it was in terms of adequate clothing, shelters for people to live there. "The situation that developed in eastern Ladakh last year was something that we were not very familiar with, particularly in the kind of environment that we needed to operate. It required acclimatisation of a large number of personnel at short notice, required stretching our equipment to limits, which some of it were not cleared for," he said. The IAF chief said, "we have moved equipment to altitude, well above the altitudes they were tried and tested for, when we acquired those systems." Following the escalation in tension in eastern Ladakh in mid-June last year, the IAF deployed almost all its frontline fighter jets like Sukhoi 30 MKI, Jaguar and Mirage 2000 aircraft as well as its attack helicopters in the key air bases in eastern Ladakh and elsewhere along the Line of Actual Control. At the conclave held at the Constitution Club of India, the IAF chief, in response to a question, also shared other challenges faced by the air force in the region. There was also the challenge of continuously rotating the manpower, to take care of their health, he said. "As a result, over the last one year, we have realised, where we fell short, whether it was in terms of adequate clothing, shelters for people to live there. So, we have overcome all those shortages now, and I think, we are better prepared, in case there is a long haul, we are prepared this winter, much better than what we were last year," he said. During the 89th IAF Day speech at Hindon Airbase on October 8, Chaudhari had asserted that the IAF's prompt actions in response to developments in eastern Ladakh last year were a testament to its combat readiness. The year gone by was "quite challenging yet extremely rewarding", he had said. In response to another question on threats faced by India, he said, "I can assure you that we are fully aware of the threats that we face, and our acquisitions, training, and tactics developed to counter such a threat". The IAF chief also said that the ability to "seamlessly integrate" new weapons, new data, into the network and train its personnel to operate them, and keep them "future-ready" was the way forward. "I can say with some degree of confidence that the way we go about analysing the threat perception, carrying out global scan of the political situation, of the acquisitions and modernisation of the adversaries, and to counter that we plan are our own acquisition for air force, and linked to that is training, and development of new tactics," he said. "Every time you find there is an imbalance in technology and pure numbers, we counter it with better tactics and better training," the IAF chief added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-chief-says-eastern-ladakh-situation-led-to-stretching-of-equipment-to-limits-101634824460535.html
21-10-2021||India||AIADMK files police complaint against Sasikala for plaque that calls her party boss||CHENNAI: The All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) late on Wednesday evening filed a police complaint against expelled party leader VK Sasikala for unveiling a plaque at party founder M G Ramachandran’s memorial on October 17 that referred to her as the AIADMK general secretary. Sasikala’s surprise move on a day the AIADMK was ringing in its golden jubilee year was seen as a renewed attempt by the one-time close aide of Jayalalitha to signal to her supporters that she was still in the game.The AIADMK retaliated three days later with a police complaint filed by the organisational secretary and former minister D Jayakumar at Chennai’s Mambalam police station. The AIADMK sought action against Sasikala for “cheating by impersonation, promoting disharmony, enmity and hatred and circulating statements with intent to cause fear or alarm.”“The said Sasikala knew fully well that the said conduct on her part was dishonest and in effect impersonation of an office to which she has no claim,” the AIADMK’s written complaint to the police said. The complaint went on to explain the circumstances that led to Sasikala’s expulsion in 2017 and the eventual consolidation of the party under the dual leadership of former chief ministers Edappadi Palaniswami and O Panneerselvam.Jayakumar also underlined that the Election Commission of India settled the dispute over the party name and symbol following J Jayalalithaa’s death by recognising the dual leadership as the ‘real AIADMK’.“It’s a settled matter. Even elections are over. She’s doing this out of boredom,” said E Palaniswami on Wednesday while interacting with reporters. “She has no links with the party.”When Jayalalithaa died in office in December 2016, Paneerselvam, who had filled in for Jyalalitha in the past, was named to succeed her as chief minister. Sasikala was elected general secretary, the AIADMK’s highest post that was previously held by MGR and Jayalalithaa. But Paneerselvam did not last long and was forced to make way for Sasikala to be chief minister, leading to his dramatic rebellion.Sasikala eventually handpicked Palaniswami as chief minister before surrendering to serve her sentence in a disproportionate assets case. While Sasikala was in a Bengaluru jail, rivals Pannerselvam and Palaniswami decided to merge their factions in August 2017 and expelled Sasikala. Jayalalithaa was named as the permanent general secretary; neither side wanted to let the other gain an upper hand. Pannerselvam and Palaniswami function as coordinator and co-cordinator of the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiadmk-files-police-complaint-against-sasikala-for-plaque-that-calls-her-party-boss-101634824527789.html
21-10-2021||India||Shah Rukh Khan, Aryan spoke on intercom inside jail, no special treatment given: Reports||Bollywood star Shah Rukh Khan met his son Aryan Khan lodged in the Arthur Road prison on Thursday morning for 15 to 20 minutes according to the protocols of the prison. Prison officials told news agency PTI that no special treatment was given to SRK and his documents were checked before he entered the premises like it is done with the family members of other undertrial prisoners.In the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, the prison authorities were not allowing the physical meeting but it resumed from Thursday morning and Shah Rukh Khan was one of the first to get entry inside the premises. Reports said he reached the prison at around 9am and his Aadhaar card and other documents were checked before allowing him entry. After the verification of his documents, he was given a token by the prison officials for his meeting with his son, which lasted about 15 to 20 minutes.There was a glass fencing between Shah Rukh Khan and his son Aryan Khan and they spoke on the intercom, as four guards were present during the conversation.Soon after SRK's visit, an NCB team visited SRK's mansion Mannat in Mumbai. As the NCB team later clarified that it was not a raid, reports said that the NCB team visited SRK's house to get education documents, medical history, foreign tour expenses, bank account details of Aryan Khan.Aryan Khan has been lodged in Arthur Road prison since October 8 and will have to remain there at least till October 26 when the Bombay high court will hear his bail plea. His latest bail plea has been rejected by a special NDPS court while his judicial custody has been extended to October 30. Courts will remain closed in the first week of November on the occasion of Diwali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/srk-aryan-spoke-on-intercom-inside-jail-no-special-treatment-given-reports-101634820634700.html
21-10-2021||India||These states, UTs have vaccinated its adults with at least one dose. Check list||The Union health ministry on Thursday said nine states and Union Territories administered the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine to the eligible population. It said that at least 31% of the nation's adults have been administered with both doses.The data from the Co-WIN portal highlighted that over 700 million vaccine doses were administered as the first dose and over 290 million vaccine doses were administered as the second dose in the country.Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh were the five states which administered the highest number of doses. The states and Union Territories which have vaccinated all of its eligible population with at least one dose are - Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Chandigarh, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Lakshadweep, Sikkim, Uttarakhand and Dadra and Nagar Haveli.Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya congratulated citizens on achieving the milestone of administering 1 billion Covid-19 vaccine doses. He said that this feat was achievable due to efforts taken by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Mandaviya also called the Prime Minister a ‘visionary’.“After 100 crore doses are administered, we will go in mission mode to ensure that those who have taken their first dose take their second dose too to ensure they are protected against Covid-19,” Mandaviya said. He said that states and Union Territories were provided with more than 1.03 billion Covid-19 vaccine doses.The health ministry also said that 108.5 million unutilised Covid-19 doses are still available with states and Union Territories.India achieved the 1 billion Covid-19 vaccination mark in 279 days. The vaccination drive began with healthcare workers on January 16and was extended to other age groups gradually in the next few months. The vaccination for people above the age of eighteen years began from May 1.The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers getting inoculated in the first phase. The vaccination of frontline workers started from February 2.The next phase of COVID-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for people over 60 years of age and those aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions.The country launched vaccination for all people aged over 45 years from April 1. The government then decided to expand its vaccination drive by allowing all above 18 to be vaccinated from May 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/these-states-uts-have-vaccinated-its-adults-with-at-least-one-dose-check-list-101634823102111.html
21-10-2021||India||'Fillionaire': Rahul Gandhi’s takes a jibe at govt over sky-high petrol prices||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday ‘coined’ a ‘new’ word ‘fillionaire’ in a bid to criticise the PM Modi-led government over the rise in fuel prices. The Wayanad MP shared an image on Twitter where he described a ‘fillionaire’ as a person who is able to afford a full tank of fuel for their vehicles amid the rising costs of petrol and diesel.GOI is playing a cruel joke on our public. केंद्र सरकार हमारी जनता के साथ घिनौना मज़ाक़ कर रही है।#TaxExtortion pic.twitter.com/javaHiu6eE“GOI is playing a cruel joke on our public,” Rahul Gandhi tweeted using the hashtag TaxExtortion.#WordOfTheWeek (not my coinage: congratulations to whoever came up with it) pic.twitter.com/NeEXbShHYLThis word, however, was earlier used by Congress leader Shashi Tharoor in February when fuel prices soared.Rahul Gandhi earlier this week on two occasions criticised the Union government for not addressing the fuel price hikes. He cited news reports and claimed that the PM Modi-led government’s high taxes on petrol and diesel have increased the burden on the common man.Petrol and diesel prices on Thursday rose by 35 paise per litre each, according to a report by PTI. The increase took rates of petrol and diesel to record highs across the country. The price of petrol rose to ₹106.54 in the national capital Delhi while Mumbai saw petrol prices reach a record ₹112.44 per litre. Diesel prices rose to ₹103.26 a litre in Mumbai while Delhi saw diesel prices reach ₹95.27.Petrol prices have already crossed ₹100-litre mark or more in all major cities of the nation. Rajasthan’s Ganganagar recorded the costliest petrol price with ₹118.59 a litre and diesel is being charged at ₹109.41 per litre. Thursday’s rise in petrol prices is the 18th increase in petrol price and 21st time that diesel rates spiked after ending a three-week-long hiatus in rate revision in the last week of September, according to a report by news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fillionaire-rahul-gandhi-s-takes-a-jibe-at-govt-over-sky-high-petrol-prices-101634821057842.html
21-10-2021||India||Autopsy report says Arun Valmiki died of heart attack, not injuries: Agra cop||AGRA: Arun Valmiki, the 31-year-old Dalit sanitation worker who died in police custody after his arrest on charges of theft, died due to a heart attack, a senior Agra police officer said on Thursday.“The post-mortem was conducted by a panel of doctors and the report submitted has assigned myocardial infarction (heart attack) as the reason for death,” said Agra senior superintendent of police (SSP) Muniraj G. He declined to give any further details, stressing that the police are still investigating the case.A person familiar with the matter said the post-mortem report pointed to injury marks on Arun Valmiki’s body but stressed that these were not of such a magnitude that could have led to his death.Arun Valmiki’s death triggered a political firestorm. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who travelled to Agra to meet his family late on Wednesday evening, said the death of the sanitation worker showed that there was no justice for the poor, Dalits and farmers in UP. The Congress leader cited her conversation with Arun Valmiki’s wife who alleged that the police brutally thrashed her husband and subjected him to electric shocks.On Thursday, Bahujan Samaj Party chief Maywati tweeted that she has also sent a team to meet Valmiki’s family. “The custodial death of a sanitation worker in Agra is most saddening. A party delegation led by Gayacharan Dinkar would visit Agra, meet the victim’s kin and also interact with officials to get justice in the case,” Mayawati tweeted. Valmiki was arrested in connection with the theft of ₹25 lakh from the warehouse of Jagdishpura police station in Agra on Sunday.Police earlier said he allegedly confessed to the theft and ₹15 lakh stolen from the police station was seized from his house. Agra SSP Muniraj G earlier said that Arun Valmiki fell ill when the police were making the recovery from his house and was rushed to hospital where he was declared brought dead.Additional director general of police (Agra) Rajiv Krishna said: “Our officers are in contact with his family. They’re cooperating. Action will be taken if there was any negligence. The family has filed a complaint. They suspect he was beaten up by the police following which he died. FIR was registered and the matter will be probed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/autopsy-report-says-arun-valmiki-died-of-heart-attack-not-injuries-agra-cop-101634821887630.html
21-10-2021||India||Ananya Panday quizzed for over an hour in Aryan Khan drugs case, called again tomorrow||Bollywood actor Ananya Panday was questioned by the Narcotics Control Bureau for over an hour on Thursday evening after her name cropped up in the drugs case related to Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan. After questioning her for almost two hours, the NCB has asked her to be present at the office again on Friday at 11 am as her statements regarding this case will be recorded. Ananya is not an accused in the case and was called only for questioning, reports said.  #WATCH | Mumbai: Actor Ananya Panday and her father Chunky Panday leave from NCB office. Ananya was summoned by NCB for questioning. pic.twitter.com/peUP3XSGloAs the NCB summoned Ananya Panday for interrogation on Thursday morning, the actor reached the NCB office at around 4pm accompanied by her father Chunky Panday. Reports said she was interrogated purely in connection with Aryan Khan and not the others arrested in the case. She was asked about her acquaintance with Aryan Khan and whether she had any knowledge about Aryan Khan's drug consumption. She was also reportedly asked whether she also consumes drugs and about the suppliers if any. Her father Chunky Panday waited and the duo left together at around 6pm. The NCB reached Ananya Panday after the agency claimed that her name has come up in one of Aryan Khan's WhatsApp chats. On Thursday, the investigators reportedly raided her Mumbai home and seized her laptop and mobile phone for investigation. The actor is believed to have cancelled her shooting schedule for the next few days. On October 3, Aryan Khan and seven others were arrested from a Goa-bound cruise where they all were the attendees of a rave party. Aryan Khan was not found in possession of drugs but the NCB contested that he was part of the conspiracy that the agency is probing. Aryan Khan's WhatsApp chats are playing a crucial role in the case as this is the evidence that the NCB is citing in front of the court. Based on WhatsApp chats, NCB said that Aryan Khan was not new to drug consumption. He was aware that his friend Arbaaz Merchant was carrying drugs. The agency also said Aryan was in touch with people who might be part of an international drug network.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ananya-panday-quizzed-for-2-hrs-in-aryan-khan-drugs-case-called-again-tomorrow-101634820738767.html
21-10-2021||India||Trade with China touched $90 billion in 9 months, but balance tilted: Shringla||Foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said on Thursday bilateral trade with China touched $90 billion in the first nine months of the year, which was an increase of 49 per cent over last year’s transactions, but the balance is tilted towards the neighbouring country.Speaking at a seminar, titled ‘Leveraging China's Economy", Shringla said, “At this rate, we are likely to attain highest-ever bilateral trade between the countries. However, the trade remains unbalanced in favour of China.”He said the trade deficit concerns were two-fold, the first one being the actual size of the deficit. “Trade deficit for the nine-month period stood at $47 billion. This is the largest trade deficit we have with any country. Second is the fact that the imbalance has continuously been widening,” the foreign secretary was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also read | India-China to talk border again, focus on resolving Hot SpringsLast year, the total trade volume between the two countries was around $88 billion.The two nations have been engaged in a border dispute that has turned sometimes turned fiery for over a year now. Areas of cooperation weren't limited to bilateral but also had regional & global dimensions. It was also recognized that relations b/w India & China were in interest of not only our 2 countries but also in interest of peace, stability&security in region&world at large:HV ShringlaStating that the widening deficit and increase in trade barriers had been highlighted at the highest levels as issues of concern, Shringla said the topic came for discussion most recently at the second informal summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Chinese President Xi Jinping in Chennai in 2019.Also read | Despite Galwan, India’s trade with China has grown. But there is a shiftHe said there were a number of market access impediments, including a whole host of non-tariff barriers, for most of our agricultural products and the sectors in which India was competitive, such as pharmaceuticals, IT/ITES and so on.And, here came the need for Atmanirbhar Bharat, an India with greater capabilities in not just helping itself, but being a force for good in the international area, said Shringla.“Even as we continue to pursue these issues with China, we also need to do work at home. That is why, Atmanirbhar Bharat becomes important,” he added.The senior diplomat said ties between the two nations had generally followed a positive trajectory since 1988 when we re-established contacts at the highest level. “Advancement of ties in this period was clearly predicated on ensuring that peace and tranquillity were not disturbed. Areas of cooperation were not limited to bilateral, but also had regional and global dimensions. It was also recognised that relations between India and China were in the interest of not only the two countries but also in interest of peace, stability and security in the region and world at large.“It was against this backdrop that bilateral trade between India and China has grown exponentially since the turn of the century,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trade-with-china-touched-90-billion-in-9-months-but-balance-tilted-shringla-101634819454748.html
21-10-2021||India||Ad featuring Aamir Khan hurts Hindu sentiments, claims BJP leader||In yet another backlash on religious grounds, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Anantkumar Hegde has raised objection against an advertisement by tyres major Ceat Ltd featuring actor Aamir Khan. Hedge, who applauded the ad for raising awareness against bursting crackers on the streets, sought the company to also address the "problem blocking roads in the name of Namaz and noise emitted from mosques during Azan."In a letter to the company's MD and CEO Anant Vardhan Goenka, the BJP MP requested him to take cognisance of the recent advertisement claiming that it created an “unrest among the Hindus”, and expressed hope that in future the organisation will respect the "Hindu sentiment". "Your company's recent advertisement in which Aamir Khan advising people not to fire crackers on the streets is giving a very good message. Your concern to public issues needs applause. In this regard, I request you to address one more problem faced by people on roads, i.e., blocking roads in the name of Namaz on Fridays and other important festive days by Muslims," Hegde wrote in the letter dated October 14.The MP from Uttara Kannada went on to claim that during the Namaz, when the roads are blocked, vehicles like ambulances and firefighter vehicles are struck in traffic causing "grave losses", and added that the “loud noise… emitted from mikes arranged on the top of mosques in our country” during Azan is “beyond the permissible limits”."On Fridays, it is prolonged for some more time. It is causing great inconvenience to people suffering from different ailments and taking rest, people working in different establishments and teachers teaching in classrooms," he said. "I am sure you can feel the discrimination done to the Hindus since centuries," Hedge wrote, adding that some "anti-Hindu actors" always try to hurt the Hindu sentiments.The objection also comes in the backdrop of the latest backlash received by a Fabindia ad campaign that used the Urdu phrase “Jashn-e-Riwaaz” to describe the festival of Diwali. Fabindia subsequently withdrew its advertisement and clarified that the phrase was meant to celebrate Indian traditions and not exclusively the festival of Diwali.Fabindia further stated that its Diwali collection is now called "Jhilmil si Diwali" which is yet to be launched.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ad-featuring-amir-khan-hurts-hindu-sentiments-claims-bjp-leader-101634815522031.html
21-10-2021||India||NRI woman’s statement in cheating cases against Kerala ‘conman’ recorded||The special investigation team (SIT) probing cheating cases against self-styled antique collector Monson Mavunkal (52) on Thursday took the statement of Italy-based Malayalee woman Anitha Pullayil, who was reportedly close to him once, through video conferencing, said a senior official. She insisted she has no role in his dealings and kept away from him after she learnt about his shoddy deals, said the official. However, the SIT will take a final decision on summoning her after examining her statements in detail, he added. After details of her statement came out, an audio tape carrying Mavunkal’s purported telephonic conversation with another unidentified person also surfaced. HT could not verify the authenticity of the tape in which Mavunkal claimed to have spent ₹14 lakh on Pullayil’s sister’s marriage which she purportedly refused to return. Pullayil is yet to respond to the allegation. After cheating cases against Mavunkal surfaced, Pullayil had appeared in a couple of Malayalam news channels claiming she was advising people, allegedly conned by him, to approach the police. Pullayil also said she was not aware of his tricky deals earlier and cut off her ties to him after becoming aware. While she stuck to her earlier position in the statement given to the SIT, she admitted to have introduced many police officials to him. She claimed that Mavunkal misused her high contacts owing to her association with several Non Resident Indian (NRI) welfare bodies and Non Governmental Organisations (NGO), the official quoted above said.Also Read: Monson Mavunkal, the conman who sold Moses’s staff, Krishna’s dahi handiShe said she had once even asked state police chief Loknath Behra to visit Mavunkal’s museum in Kochi, the SIT official said. Photos of Behra sitting on the alleged ‘throne of Tippu Sultan,’ as claimed by Mavunkal, had embarrassed the police. Mavunkal, who was arrested last month for selling fake artefacts and cheating, was also booked under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act on Tuesday for allegedly raping the daughter of one of his employees two years ago. Police said he promised to fund the victim’s education and sexually assaulted her several times. In her complaint, the teenager’s mother said her daughter was 17 year old when sexually assaulted by Mavunkal and that her family was scared to approach the police. The police booked Mavunkal under the Pocso Act and then transferred the case to the SIT. The SIT also took the statement of Ernakulam Press Club secretary P Sashikanth on Wednesday in connection with a family event of club members purportedly sponsored by Mavunkal last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sit-records-nri-woman-s-statement-in-cheating-cases-against-kerala-antique-collector-101634817507044.html
21-10-2021||India||Drugs case: Spl NDPS court extends custody of Aryan Khan & others till Oct 30||A special court under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act on Thursday extended the judicial custody of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan and others till October 30.Aryan (23), who was arrested with a few others on October 3 after the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) raided a Goa-bound cruise ship off the Mumbai coast and claimed to have seized drugs, including charas, has been lodged in Mumbai’s Arthur Road Jail.Aryan was earlier sent to 14-day judicial custody on October 7 which ended on Thursday.Also read | Nawab Malik questions Sameer Wankhede's 'Maldives' link as NCB summons AnanyaOn Wednesday, the court denied bail to the superstar’s son, observing that 'on the face of it', he was indulging in "illicit drug activities on a regular basis". His WhatsApp chats also showed, prima facie, that he was in touch with drug peddlers, the court said.His lawyers subsequently moved the Bombay High Court to challenge the lower court's order. The HC on Thursday said it would hear his bail plea on October 26.Also read | Pooja Bhatt, Swara Bhasker Sonu Sood react to video of Shah Rukh Khan getting mobbed outside Mumbai jail, call it tragicEarlier in the day, the Bollywood star visited his son at the jail for the first time in person since his arrest. The actor reached the prison located in Mumbai Central around 9 am and left at 9.35 am, the official said. Hours later, a team of NCB officials visited the star’s Bandra residence, Mannat. The agency said it was related to collection of documents in the case and not a raid.Meanwhile, actor Ananya Panday appeared before officials of NCB on Thursday after the central agency allegedly came across WhatsApp chats during its investigation against Aryan Khan. Ananya's father Chunky Panday accompanied her to the NCB office located at Ballard Estate in south Mumbai, where they reached around 4pm. At the time of filing the story, the questioning is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drugs-case-spl-ndps-court-extends-custody-of-aryan-khan-others-till-oct-30-101634817090976.html
21-10-2021||India||IMA hails ‘altruistic' leadership, health care workers for 1 billion vaccination milestone||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Thursday hailed “altruistic leadership” and modern medical manpower for keeping the mortality rate due to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) under 1.4% throughout the pandemic when many Western countries reported a staggering 2.5% mortality rate. As India reached the milestone of administering 1 billion Covid-19 vaccine doses, the association said it worked extra hard to mitigate the vaccination hesitancy and was delighted to see the country cross the landmark.“IMA salute the modern medical manpower, who had taken this nationalistic task on their shoulders as a priority task, reaching out to the unreached and making the vaccination reach 1 billion needy people with the government of India of giving it free of cost to the people,” the IMA said in a statement.The IMA stressed that the vaccination milestone also gives the hope to "confidently and assuredly" mitigate the impacts of the third Covid wave, saying it is evident that vaccination protects people from severe Covid-19.While the medical association lauded PM Modi’s “proactive leadership” in “effectively” managing the pandemic, it didn’t fail to highlight the challenges of bed availability, oxygen shortages, drugs, and misinformation campaigns during the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic. It said that the association leaders voluntarily took the vaccination on the first day to send a positive message when many had raised concerns about the vaccination safety and efficacy.The IMA was highly critical of pseudoscience peddled by some politicians amidst a ravaging pandemic and took Baba Ramdev head-on as the yoga guru was initially not in favour of vaccination. In many of his interactions with followers as well as media persons, Ramdev had questioned the efficacy of modern medicine in combating the pandemic. The yoga exponent did a somersault only after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced free Covid vaccines for all.“Get both doses of the vaccine and the double protection of yoga and Ayurveda. They will combine to give you such a robust shield of protection that not a single person will die from Covid,” he told reporters in Haridwar,” PTI quoted Ramdev as saying in June.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ima-hails-altruistic-leadership-health-care-workers-for-1-billion-vaccination-milestone-101634813046169.html
21-10-2021||India||At least 13 people, including 10 trekkers, dead due to snowfall in Uttarakhand||At least 13 people, including 10 trekkers, have died at separate places in Uttarakhand after getting trapped due to snowfall in the mountainous region, officials said on Thursday. The dead include three porters working for the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), posted along the India-China border in Uttarkashi district. Five people have been rescued while six remain missing.One of the trekkers’ groups went missing en route to Lamkhaga Pass near Harsil in Uttarkashi district, 230 km from Dehradun, on October 14. Of the nine porters accompanying them, six managed to return safely. They informed the authorities about the three missing porters and eight trekkers.District disaster management officer (Uttarkashi) Devendra Patwal said the rescuers compromising State Disaster Response Force and air force personnel spotted five of the bodies near Lamkhaga Pass on Thursday morning. “The bodies will soon be airlifted from the spot,” he said. “The rescue workers managed to rescue one of the trekkers who was found alive there. He has been shifted to the army hospital in the district.” Seven of these eight missing trekkers were from West Bengal while one was from Delhi.Bodies of the three porters accompanying the ITBP personnel to their posts near the border, who went missing on October 17, were recovered on Thursday. They were brought to the ITBP base on an air force chopper. “They were identified as Sanjay Singh, 24, Rajendra Singh, 25 and Dinesh Chauhan, 23. All were residents of Uttarakashi,” said Patwal.The porters left for the border with ITBP men on October 15. On October 17, they got separated due to heavy snowfall and went missing. The ITBP informed the district administration on Tuesday evening after which the chopper was sent to rescue them.Also Read: Amit Shah conducts aerial survey of rain-battered UttarakhandIn the Bageshwar district, five trekkers died while four were rescued near the Sunderdhunga glacier. “Over 65 tourists are trapped in higher reaches of Bageshwar, including 20 at Kafni and 34 at Dwali glacier besides the 10 at Sunderdhunga. We have sent three rescue teams from the district along with one helicopter and one NDRF (National Disaster Response Force) team from Dehradun to rescue the tourists, who are mostly from Kolkata,” said Shikha Suyal, district disaster management officer (Bageshwar).“One of the rescue teams has reached Dwali glacier and rescued 22 tourists trapped there, who have now been taken to a safe place. The efforts to rescue other trapped tourists at Dwali glacier are on.”Over 50 people have separately died in Uttarakhand due to rain-related incidents this week. Unseasonal rain led to flash flood in the state’s Ramgarh, and several other regions were hit by landslides. In multiple places, bridges were washed away, and some roads blocked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-least-13-people-trapped-due-to-snowfall-found-dead-in-uttarakhand-101634816246367.html
21-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: Amit Shah 3-day Kashmir visit to start Saturday and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Amit Shah to arrive in Kashmir for 3-day visit on Saturday amid spike in violenceUnion home minister Amit Shah will arrive in Srinagar on Saturday for a three-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) and chair security review meetings, address panchayat members as well as political workers amid a wave of targeted attacks that have left 11 civilians dead in the region this month. [Read more…]Aryan Khan drugs case: Ananya Pandey reaches NCB office with fatherAnanya Pandey on Thursday afternoon reached the NCB office as the actor was summoned by the Narcotics Control Bureau in connection with the Aryan Khan case. His father actor Chunky Pandey accompanied him. [Read more…]Nawab Malik questions Sameer Wankhede's 'Maldives' link as NCB summons Ananya Pandey, visits SRK's houseMaharashtra minister Nawab Malik on Thursday accused Narcotics Control Bureau zonal chief Sameer Wankhede of 'extortion' and released some purported photos of Yasmeen Wankhede, sister of Sameer Wankhede. The allegation comes as the agency on Thursday summoned Bollywood actor Ananya Pandey in connection with the drugs case in which Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan has been arrested. [Read more…]India lights up to celebrate 100 crore Covid jabs, Mandaviya distributes sweetsCelebrations began as India crossed the 100-crore (1 billion) Covid-19 vaccination mark on Thursday. The milestone was achieved nine months after the nationwide inoculation programme started. The union government has planned a series of events to mark the occasion. Events included the launching of a song & displaying of the country's largest tricolour at Red Fort. Watch HereFree Android 12 update is here! When will you get it? Check list of phonesFree Android 12 update is finally here, and phone users around the world are finally being able to download the latest version of Google’s operating system. The open-source operating system comes with several new features, performance improvements and security enhancements which are designed to create a better user experience for those upgrading from Android 11. [Read more…]'If Pakistan lose to India, they wont go through': Brad Hogg names the semi-finalists of T20 World Cup 2021The Super 12 stage of the ICC men's T20 World Cup will begin from Saturday (October 23) but majority of the cricket fans across the globe are holding their breath for the big-ticket encounter between India and Pakistan on Sunday. Former Australia cricketer Brad Hogg said Pakistan can find it really tough advancing to the semi-finals if they lose their World Cup opener to India in Dubai. [Read more…]Pooja Bhatt, Swara Bhasker Sonu Sood react to video of Shah Rukh Khan getting mobbed outside Mumbai jail, call it tragicShah Rukh Khan was spotted outside Mumbai’s Arthur Road jail Thursday afternoon and a video showed many camera persons following him closely, hounding him for footage. Bollywood actors Sonu Sood, Swara Bhasker and Pooja Bhatt have now criticised it. [Read more…]Aditi Rao Hydari cuts a perfect blend of ethnic and elegance in yellowAditi Rao Hydari’s fashion diaries are a treat for sore eyes. The actor, who recently saw the release of her film Maha Samudram, has been sharing a slew of pictures from the film’s promotions on her Instagram profile. With each picture, the actor manages to make her admire more. [Read more…]Made in India BMW 530i M Sport ‘Carbon Edition’ launched at ₹66.30 lakhBMW on Thursday announced the launch of the new 5 Series M Sport ‘Carbon Edition’ in India at ₹66,30,000 (ex-showroom). The new car is locally produced in India at the company's Chennai plant. It is available for booking at the company's official website, starting from today (Oct 21st). [Read more…]||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-updates-from-ht-amit-shah-3-day-kashmir-visit-to-start-saturday-and-all-the-latest-news-101634813172889.html
21-10-2021||India||Man files complaint against in-laws for ‘trying to convert him to Christianity’||A Hindu man’s father-in-law and two other relatives have been booked under Madhya Pradesh’s anti-conversion law for allegedly trying to convert him to Christianity in the state’s Sagar district, a police officer said.Additional police superintendent Vikram Singh Kushwaha said Abhishek Ahirwar filed the complaint in the case after his wife Sapna did not return home after going to her parent’s place a month after the two got married in July as his in-laws allegedly asked him to convert. “When Ahirwar called her, she refused to come and asked him to talk to her uncle Ramesh Masih.” He added Masih allegedly asked him to change his faith and that he will get ₹20,000 monthly for it. “Ahirwar refused to do so. Masih started threatening him and said Sapna will not return.”Ahirwar, who filed the complaint on Wednesday, said Masih converted to Christianity in 2001 and he was unaware of it. “My wife told me after marriage that she believed in Jesus Christ but had not changed her religion. Now Ramesh has misguided my wife and she is forcing me to change my religion.”Also Read: IAS officer accused of promoting religious conversions fails to get clean chitRamesh Masih has been booked along with his wife, Sakhi Masih, and her brother Nathu Masih. No arrest has been made so far. This is the first such case in Madhya Pradesh wherein a man has filed a complaint against in-laws for conversion.At least 35 cases have been registered under the anti-conversation law since it came into effect in January. Minority communities have been accusing the state government of misusing the law to harass them. Three petitions have been filed against the law in Madhya Pradesh high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-files-complaint-against-in-laws-for-trying-to-convert-him-to-christianity-101634814326007.html
21-10-2021||India||90% eligible population in Gujarat vaccinated with first dose: Health minister||Gujarat health minister Rushikesh Patel on Thursday said that the state has vaccinated 90 per cent of its eligible population with the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine, adding 47 per cent beneficiaries are fully vaccinated against the viral disease, reported news agency PTI. Patel also congratulated India for achieving the milestone of administering 1 billion (100 crore) vaccine doses so far "under the visionary leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi".According to official figures cited by the news agency, 4.93 crore people in Gujarat are above the age of 18 and eligible for taking Covid-19 vaccine."At least 90 per cent of the eligible population has been given the first dose till today, while nearly 47 per cent, that is 2.32 crore, have been given the second dose. I urge people to come forward, so that we are able to vaccinate 100 per cent of the population with the first dose," PTI quoted Patel as saying.The Surat, Junagadh and Gandhinagar municipal corporations along with Ahmedabad, Junagadh, Mahisagar and Tapi districts have achieved 100 per cent coverage of the first dose, Patel added. Besides, around 15,500 villages in Gujarat have managed to vaccinate 100 per cent of its eligible population with the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine, he added.The state health minister said they are planning to achieve 100 per cent first dose coverage in the next 15 days in Gujarat. "For that, we will ask government hospitals and health centres to check if incoming patients are vaccinated or not. We have also asked heads of government offices to check and ensure that all their entire staff is vaccinated," Patel further stated.To ramp up the second dose coverage, Patel said his department will launch a drive using the available data, to ensure that people take their next dose in time. People need not worry about the availability of vaccines, as the Gujarat government has nearly 40 lakh doses of the vaccine, Patel added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/90-eligible-population-in-gujarat-vaccinated-with-first-dose-health-minister-101634809834545.html
21-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan drugs case: Ananya Panday reaches NCB office with father||Ananya Panday on Thursday afternoon reached the NCB office as the actor was summoned by the Narcotics Control Bureau in connection with the Aryan Khan case. Her father actor Chunky Panday accompanied him. Though the actor was summoned to the NCB office at 2pm, Ananya Panday started around an hour late from her residence and reached the agency office at around 4pm. Reports said her laptop, mobile were seized by the agency. Ananya has not been named as a suspect and the agency has called her to only record her statement.Reports said Ananya Panday will be asked whether she knows Aryan Khan, whether she has seen Aryan Khan consuming drugs etc.The special NDPS court denied bail to Aryan Khan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha, terming them parts or links of a bigger drug network. The NCB on Wednesday submitted Aryan Khan's WhatsApp chats and said that the agency has found the mention of a ‘debut actress’. Though the name of the actor was not disclosed, NCB's summon to Ananya Panday indicates that Ananya's name might have featured in Aryan Khan's chats that the NCB referred to. Ananya has already had her debut in 2019 and starred in several movies.No NCB raid, team visited 'Mannat' to collect docus related to Aryan Khan: Sameer Wankhede#WATCH | Mumbai: Actor Ananya Panday leaves from her residence for the NCB office as she has been summoned for questioning today pic.twitter.com/t0m2JcViY4#WATCH | Mumbai: Actor Ananya Panday, her father Chunky Panday reach NCB office. Ananya has been summoned by NCB for questioning. pic.twitter.com/SKiPf2S3P7 The NCB team on Thursday also visited Shah Rukh Khan's mansion in Mumbai, Mannat, seeking certain material related to the investigation of the case from Shah Rukh Khan, the agency said. There was no raid on Sha Rukh Khan's house, the agency later clarified.Ananya Panday is the latest Bollywood personality to come on NCB radar as the agency summoned dozens of Bollywood actors for interrogation linked to its ongoing probe into the drugs case that came to the fore after the arrest of actor Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik Chakraborty on charges of procuring drugs for Sushant Singh Rajput. Ananya's name has cropped up in the latest Aryan Khan case, where WhatsApp chats have served as major evidence against Aryan Khan as Khan was not found with drugs. The NCB said it is immaterial whether he was found with drugs or not as he is not new to drug consumption and was aware that his friend Arbaaz Merchant was carrying charas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ananya-pandey-heads-to-ncb-office-responding-to-summon-over-aryan-khan-case-101634810980490.html
21-10-2021||India||House collapses in south Delhi, no casualty reported||A house in south Delhi’s Sangam Vihar partially collapsed on Thursday afternoon but no casualty has been reported from the incident spot so far, the authorities claimed. Delhi Fire Services (DFS) chief Atul Garg said the fire control room received a call at 1.05 pm regarding a house collapse near a gurdwara in Sangam Vihar in south Delhi. “Three fire tenders were immediately sent there to carry out a rescue operation. It was found that a portion of a house had collapsed. So far, no casualty has been reported,” Garg said.Also Read | #DelhiWinter: Excessive rains make denizens feel cold spell!Deputy commissioner of police (south) Benita Mary Jaiker also said that no injuries to any person had been reported from the incident spot.“We will be taking required legal action,” said DCP Jaiker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/house-collapses-in-south-delhi-no-casualty-reported-101634811026416.html
21-10-2021||India||1 billion Covid-19 vaccine doses: Tharoor says govt partly redeemed itself, Khera replies ‘insult to millions’||On the day India’s Covid-19 vaccination drive administered the billionth dose, Congress leaders Shashi Tharoor and Pawan Khera sparred over the feat on Twitter, with the former saying that the Union government redeemed itself with the latter commenting that credit given to the government was an insult to the millions who suffered because of the pandemic.Thiruvananthapuram MP Shashi Tharoor maintained that the Centre should remain accountable for “its earlier failure” but called the achievement a matter of pride for the countrymen. He also said that there was a “severe mismanagement” of the second wave of infections in the country.“This is a matter of pride for all Indians. Let’s give the Government credit. After severe mismanagement of the second #Covid wave & botching the vaccination orders that might have prevented it, Govt has now partly redeemed itself. It remains accountable for its earlier failures,” Tharoor tweeted, citing a news report about the feat.This is a matter of pride for all Indians. Let’s give the Government credit. After severe mismanagement of the second #Covid wave & botching the vaccination orders that might have prevented it, Govt has now partly redeemed itself. It remains accountable for its earlier failures. https://t.co/34UHRWKfDaHowever, the party’s national spokesperson Pawan Khera seemed displeased with Tharoor’s tweet and replied that the credit belonged to the scientists and the medical fraternity of the nation. He also commented that crediting the government was an insult to the “millions of families” who suffered due to “widespread Covid mismanagement.” Further, the leader also went on to say that Prime Minister Narendra Modi should apologise to the families before seeking credit for the vaccination program.Also read | 'Huge congratulations': WHO hails India on 1 billion Covid vaccination mark“Giving credit to govt is an insult to millions of families who suffered and are still suffering from the after effects & side effects of widespread Covid mismanagement. Before seeking credit, PM must apologise to those families. Credit belongs to scientists & medical fraternity,” Khera said in a tweet, quoting Tharoor’s tweet.Giving credit to govt is an insult to millions of families who suffered and are still suffering from the after effects & side effects of widespread Covid mismanagement. Before seeking credit, PM must apologise to those families. Credit belongs to scientists & medical fraternity https://t.co/TVqaWxRRMUHowever, the party’s national spokesperson Pawan Khera seemed displeased with Tharoor’s tweet and replied that the credit belonged to the scientists and the medical fraternity of the nation. He also commented that crediting the government was an insult to the “millions of families” who suffered due to “widespread Covid mismanagement.” Further, the leader also went on to say that Prime Minister Narendra Modi should apologise to the families before seeking credit for the vaccination program.“Giving credit to govt is an insult to millions of families who suffered and are still suffering from the after effects & side effects of widespread Covid mismanagement. Before seeking credit, PM must apologise to those families. Credit belongs to scientists & medical fraternity,” Khera said in a tweet, quoting Tharoor’s tweet.|#+|The open exchange between the two leaders on the social media came even as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) claimed, earlier in the day, that opposition leaders have not congratulated the scientists of the country in their bid to not acknowledge Modi’s efforts.“On a momentous day like this, when India achieves the 100 crore vaccine milestone, India’s opposition’s petulance is on stark display. Not one opposition leader has congratulated our scientists and health workers just because they don’t want to acknowledge PM Modi’s super effort,” BJP leader and party’s IT department in-charge Amit Malviya tweeted.Several BJP leaders, including PM Modi, home minister Amit Shah, union ministers and chief ministers have all conveyed their wishes on the milestone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-billion-covid-19-vaccine-doses-tharoor-says-govt-partly-redeemed-itself-khera-replies-insult-to-millions-101634810185467.html
21-10-2021||India||'Orange' alert in 8 districts of rain-battered Kerala till Oct 25: IMD||Heavy rain lashed parts of Kerala on Thursday as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued an “orange” alert in several parts of the southern belt, forecasting fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated downpour, thunderstorm and lightning in the region till October 25.“Fairly widespread to wide spread rainfall with isolated heavy falls with thunderstorm and lightning very likely over Kerala and Mahe and Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal during 21st-25th and over Coastal and South Interior Karnataka on 21st October,” the weather department said.The IMD has forecasted very heavy rain in eight districts of Kerala – Pathanamthitta, Kottayam, Idukki, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad and Kannur. Meanwhile, a "yellow" alert, predicting isolated heavy rainfall, has been issued for Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Alappuzha, Ernakulam, Thrissur and Kasaragod districts till the end of the day."Southwest monsoon has been active over Kerala. Rain occurred at most places in the state and at a few places in Lakshadweep," an IMD statement read.At least 27 people died and several others went missing in Kerala that was ravaged by torrential rain and subsequent landslides in the south-central districts last week on October 15 and 16, according to the state department figures. Of these, 14 deaths were reported in Kottayam district, 10 in Idukki district, and one each in Thiruvananthapuram, Thrissur and Kozhikode districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/orange-alert-in-8-districts-of-rain-battered-kerala-till-oct-25-imd-101634808497869.html
21-10-2021||India||Activists declare solidarity with Myanmar people||A group of 50 activists, journalists, politicians and intellectuals from India and elsewhere have issued a joint statement of solidarity with the people of Myanmar in their struggle for peace, democracy, political freedom, human rights and just economic development as they continue to resist the February 2021 military coup in their country .The declaration titled, Myanmar We Care- We Are With You ,has been signed chiefly by noted personalities from Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram, and Arunachal Pradesh, bordering Myanmar, and from other northeaster states apart from Nepal, the UK, Australia, Canada, Fiji and Cambodia.“They [the people of Myanmar] have decided that they will not accept the military rule and dictatorship under which they have suffered for so long. They are right to do so. For decades, Myanmar, a country of immense natural wealth, has been impoverished by bad governance,” the statement says.It also suggests a way forward to establish a “workable democracy” in the country which may result in the Tatmadaw return to its honourable role of a national army. The Tatmadaw is the official name of the armed forces of Myanmar. “Authoritarian rule... is destroying even the meagre democratic gains of the past two decades. If these gains are to be restored, this will come through people who build trust across the country’s divisions and unite Myanmar’s people, giving the ethnic minorities their rightful role in national affairs,” the statement said.Also Read: Myanmar junta to release over 5,600 prisoners jailed for anti-coup stirThe signatories affirmed that people across different nations can help and support the people of Myanmar by working through governments, institutions and the media to keep the spotlight on Myanmar and persuade the Tatmadaw to heed the people.“The crises we face will only be overcome if both leaders and citizens accept the new level of responsibility that our imperilled planet demands. As we work to help Myanmar in its hour of need, we are helping create a world fit for our children and grandchildren to grow up in,” it added.Signatories of the declaration of support included Dr. Wati Aier, convenor of Forum for Naga Reconciliation (FNR); Niketu Iralu, peace activist, social worker for fresh thinking, regional stability and development, Nagaland; L Wanglat, former home and finance minister, Arunachal Pradesh; Sanjoy Hazarika, commentator and author, Assam; Radhabinod Koijam, former chief minister of Manipur; Professor Amar Yumnam, former vice-chancellor, Manipur University among several others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/activists-declare-solidarity-with-myanmar-people-101634808925912.html
21-10-2021||India||Dalit custodial death: Maya sends delegation to Agra after Priyanka’s visit||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati rushed a party delegation to Agra where a Dalit sanitation worker died in police custody on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday. The move by Mayawati, who slammed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government over the custodial death, came a day after Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra visited the Dalit victim’s family amid high drama that also included her brief detention at the police lines. “The custodial death of a sanitation worker in Agra is most saddening. A party delegation led by Gayacharan Dinkar would visit Agra, meet the victim’s kin and also interact with officials to get justice in the case,” Mayawati tweeted. Mayawati also referred to the recent killing of a Kanpur trader in Gorakhpur and said that both Gorakhpur and now Agra incidents have put the BJP government in the dock. “The BJP government is in the dock and the BSP demands that necessary changes in the policing system are made,” she tweeted. Earlier on Wednesday, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi managed to meet the Dalit victim’s family after a nearly three-hour long standoff with the police. Also Read: PM Modi inaugurates Kushinagar airport in UPAccording to senior superintendent of police (SSP) Agra Muniraj G, the accused Dalit sanitation worker had admitted to his involvement in the theft of ₹25 lakh from police ‘maalkhana’ (store) and his health deteriorated during the recovery of a sum of ₹15 lakh from his house in Agra. The victim’s family has contradicted the police claim. Taking note of the political controversy generated by the case, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had said that no one will be allowed to take law and order into their hands. The BJP is projecting Baby Rani Maurya, a Jatav Dalit like Mayawati, as its own Jatav face ahead of the 2022 UP polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dalit-custodial-death-maya-sends-delegation-to-agra-after-priyanka-s-visit-101634807185940.html
21-10-2021||India||No NCB raid, team visited 'Mannat' to collect docus related to Aryan Khan: Sameer Wankhede||A team of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) went to Shah Rukh Khan's residence to collect some documents regarding his son Aryan Khan and no raids were conducted during the visit. The statement was made by the NCB’s zonal director Sameer Wankhede.Led by senior officials, the NCB team's visit to the Bollywood superstar’s residence, Mannat, in suburban Bandra came hours after Khan visited his son at Arthur Road Jail in Central Mumbai for the first time since his arrest earlier this month in a drugs-related case.“NCB team visited Shah Rukh Khan's residence to collect some documents related to Aryan Khan. No raids were conducted at ‘Mannat’,” Wankhede was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also read | Nawab Malik questions Sameer Wankhede's 'Maldives' link as NCB summons Ananya Pandey, visits SRK's houseLater, Wankhede issued a statement saying the officials visited the superstar's residence “for seeking certain material related to the investigation of the case” from Khan by “following due procedure of notice”. “It wasn’t a raid as erroneously reported in certain sections/channels of media,” it further read. NCB deputy director general Ashok Mutha Jain also said no search operation was conducted at the actor's house. “We had gone there as part of procedural requirement,” he was quoted as saying.Aryan was arrested with a few others on October 3 after the NCB raided a Goa-bound cruise ship off the Mumbai coast and claimed to have seized drugs, including charas.Another team of the NCB also visited actor Ananya Pandey's residence in Bandra and reportedly asked her to appear before agency officers later in the day to record her statement.On Wednesday, a special court denied bail to Aryan, stating that 'on the face of it', he was indulging in "illicit drug activities on a regular basis". His WhatsApp chats also showed, prima facie, that he was in touch with drug peddlers, the court noted. Aryan Khan subsequently moved the Bombay High Court to challenge the lower court's order. The high court on Thursday said it would hear his bail plea on October 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-raid-ncb-visited-mannat-to-collect-docus-related-to-aryan-khan-wankhede-101634806648450.html
21-10-2021||India||Nawab Malik questions Sameer Wankhede's 'Maldives' link as NCB summons Ananya Panday, visits SRK's house||Nationalist Congress Party leader and Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik on Thursday accused Narcotics Control Bureau zonal chief Sameer Wankhede of 'extortion' and released some purported photos of Yasmeen Wankhede, sister of Sameer Wankhede. The allegation comes as the agency on Thursday reportedly summoned Bollywood actor Ananya Panday in connection with the drugs case in which Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan has been arrested. Reports said Ananya's name featured in some of the WhatApp chats the NCB has accessed. उगाही का धंधा मालदीव में! pic.twitter.com/ECzlOI70vGHere are the proofs! pic.twitter.com/ouq3nUXcs7 "A special officer (Sameer Wankhede) was brought in to the NCB after Sushant Singh Rajput's suicide. CBI is investigating the case but the mystery over his suicide or murder remains unresolved. But the NCB is now after the film industry. Dozens of actors were paraded before the NCB. Rhea Chakraborty was implicated," Nawab Malik said.Hinting at a deeper link between Sameer Wankhede and Bollywood, Malik said, "During the pandemic, the entire film industry was in the Maldives. Sameer Wankhede must clarify what he and his family members were doing there at that time. He should clarify whether he was in Dubai," Malik said."We are very clear. All this extortion took place in Maldives and Dubai and I will release those photos," the Maharashtra minister said.This is the latest allegation brought against the NCB by Nawab Malik whose son-in-law was also arrested by the agency in another drugs case. Recently, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and NCP chief Sharad Pawar criticised the ongoing NCB operation targetting Bollywood.  Thackeray recently said the NCB is only interested in catching celebrities, getting photos and making noise, while Maharashtra Police have recovered drugs worth crores. Sharad Pawar said Nawab Malik's son-in-law was arrested by the NCB in a drugs case while the court granted him bail saying that it was not ganja, but some herbs.After Shah Rukh Khan visited Arthur Road prison on Thursday, the NCB team visited SRK's mansion for some paper works. Reports said the agency has also summoned Ananya Panday in connection with the Aryan Khan case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nawab-malik-questions-sameer-wankhede-s-maldives-link-as-ncb-summons-ananya-pandey-visits-srk-s-house-101634806329275.html
21-10-2021||India||India now among top 25 defence product exporting nations: Rajnath Singh||Defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Thursday India now featured in the top 25 nations’ list of exporting defence products, according to the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute 2020 report.“I am happy to inform you that as per Stockholm International Peace Research Institute 2020 report, for the first time India is among the top 25 defence products exporting countries list,” Singh was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.He said defence exports meant an increase in our capability, calibre and standard. “To promote export of defence items and to make India part of global defence supply chain, we have set a target of ₹35,000 crore export in aerospace and defence good-services by 2024-25,” he further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-now-among-top-25-defence-product-exporting-nations-rajnath-singh-101634805049948.html
21-10-2021||India||Amit Shah conducts aerial survey of rain-battered Uttarakhand||Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday conducted an aerial survey of rain-battered Uttarakhand, along with chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami. Shah arrived in Uttarakhand on Wednesday night to hold review meetings and take stock of the rain-affected areas in the state. Uttarakhand received heavy rains over the past three days, leading to scenes of chaos and disaster across the state.Shah undertook an aerial survey of the affected areas in a helicopter from the GTC helipad in Dehradun. Apart from Dhami, Uttarakhand governor Lt Gen (retd) Gurmit Singh and Union minister of state for defence Ajay Bhatt also accompanied Shah during the aerial survey.After the survery, the home minister held a high-level review meeting with officials of the State and the Centre. "Due to timely rainfall alert, the extent of damage could be controlled," news agency ANI quoted Shah as saying after the meeting.Union Home Minister Amit Shah along with Uttarakhand CM Pushkar Singh Dhami, Governor Lt Gen Gurmit Singh (retd) conducted an aerial survey of the rain-affected areas of Uttarakhand pic.twitter.com/VkyQgvk3FS"There has been no tourist casualty so far due to heavy rains in Uttarakhand. More than 3500 people were rescued & more than 16,000 precautionary evacuations were done. 17 NDRF teams, 7 SDRF teams, 15 companies of PAC, more than 5000 police personnel deployed," Shah further added.Three days of incessant rains in the state have caused damages worth ₹7,000 crore, PTI quoted Dhami as telling reporters at the Pantnagar Airport. Restoring the network of damaged roads and bridges at the earliest and evacuating people to safety is the priority at the moment, he added.At least 54 people died in rain-related incidents in Uttarakhand, according to the state Emergency Operation Centre's latest report. Maximum casualties are from Nainital at 28.Meanwhile, in view of the improving weather conditions, the state government has allowed the stranded pilgrims to proceed towards the Char Dham destinations of Kedarnath, Yamunotri, Gangotri and Badrinath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-conducts-aerial-survey-of-rain-battered-uttarakhand-101634804735911.html
21-10-2021||India||Modi pays homage to police personnel killed in line of duty||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday paid homage to police personnel killed in the line of duty on the occasion of the 62nd Police Commemoration Day. “On Police Commemoration Day, I would like to acknowledge the outstanding efforts by our police forces in preserving law and order and assisting others in times of need. I pay homage to all those police personnel who lost their lives in the line of duty,” he tweeted.The Police Commemoration Day commemorates 10 Central Reserve Police Force personnel, who lost their lives on October 21, 1959, in Ladakh while fighting the Chinese troops.Union minister of state Ajay Mishra Teni , whose son Ashish Mishra is named as an accused in the Lakhimpur incident, was invited as the chief guest at the commemoration. Eight people, including four farmers, were killed in the violence at Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3. The Uttar Pradesh Police have arrested Mishra. Farmers allege that Mishra was in the lead car that ran over protesters who were returning from a demonstration in Tikunia village. The junior home minister and his son deny the allegation.Union minister of state Nityanand Rai was also invited as the chief guest. Also Read | Police Commemoration Day: Tributes pour in for braveheart copsIn a tweet, Union home minister Amit Shah said: “The police force is a quintessential example of the culmination of courage, restraint and diligence. On ‘Police Memorial Day,’ on behalf of the nation, I bow to all the brave personnel who made their supreme sacrifice to protect the nation’s sovereignty. The sacrifice and dedication of every policeman inspires us to serve the nation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-pays-homage-to-police-personnel-killed-in-line-of-duty-101634805086058.html
21-10-2021||India||A look at women-centric initiatives of political parties||As Congress has announced 40% of tickets for women ahead of the Uttar Pradesh polls due early next year, here is a look at some women-centric initiatives of political parties:-- West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress (TMC) gave women 40% of Lok Sabha tickets in 2019 and promised them 50% reservation in government jobs. TMC is among the parties with the largest representation of women in Parliament. Nine out of its 22 Lok Sabha members elected in 2019 were women.-- Late former Odisha chief minister Biju Patnaik was the first to introduce 33% reservation for women in Panchayati Raj institutions. This percentage has been increased to 50% now. Biju Patnaik’s son and current chief minister Naveen Patnaik increased the tickets for women in 2019 when seven out of its 21 lawmakers elected to parliament were women.-- J Jayalalithaa provided free kitchen appliances, uniforms, and books as part of her welfare schemes and women-friendly measures. In 2016, she retained power thanks to women voters.Also Watch: How Priyanka Gandhi gave first aid to a Lucknow woman on her way to Agra-- Chief minister Nitish Kumar of Bihar launched a cycle scheme for girls in 2006 and announced a liquor ban in 2016 and increased his women support base. He announced a 35% reservation for women in the Bihar police in 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/womencentric-initiatives-of-political-parties-101634804605803.html
21-10-2021||India||Bombay HC to hear Aryan Khan’s bail plea on Oct 26||The Bombay high court will hear the bail application of Bollywood star Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan next Tuesday on October 26. The application challenges the special NDPS (Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances) court’s refusal of bail to Aryan in the cruise drug bust case. The court set the date after advocate Satish Maneshinde requested the single judge bench of justice Nitin Sambre for an early hearing. The court also directed the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) to file its reply by Monday, October 25.The bench declined the request to hear the plea through video conferencing and said it will be through physical mode. The bail plea of model Munmun Dhamecha, another accused in the case, will also be heard on Tuesday.The special NDPS court had rejected Aryan’s bail applications on Wednesday, observing that a prima facie case of conspiracy and illicit drug trade by the accused was made out. The special court had reached the conclusion based on WhatsApp chats recovered from the mobile phone of Aryan Khan and his friend Arbaaz Merchant, which, the NCB had argued, showed that the accused were involved in dealing with the narcotic substances on a regular basis.The NCB also submitted before the special court that Aryan Khan was aware that his co-accused Arbaaz Merchant was in possession of the contraband before they were to board the cruise ship.Also Read | Aryan Khan denied bail: Raees director Rahul Dholakia, Swara Bhasker reactAryan Khan’s lawyers have so far argued that since no drugs were found on Khan he was eligible for bail and that there was no basis to the NCB’s suggestion that Aryan could be part of an illegal drugs trading syndicate. Earlier in the day, Shahrukh Khan visited Aryan, who is lodged in Arthur Road Jail. Aryan was arrested along with several others on October 3 in connection with a drug seizure on a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast following a raid by the NCB. A total of 20 people have been arrested so far in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-hc-to-hear-aryan-khan-s-bail-plea-on-oct-26-101634803885495.html
21-10-2021||India||'Huge congratulations': WHO hails India on 1 billion Covid vaccination mark||World Health Organization (WHO) chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus on Thursday congratulated the central government after India achieved the landmark milestone of administering one billion doses of the vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19)."Congratulations, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the scientists, health workers and people of India, on your efforts to protect the vulnerable populations from Covid-19 and achieve #VaccinEquity targets," Ghebreyesus wrote on the microblogging site.Congratulations, Prime Minister @narendramodi, the scientists, #healthworkers and people of #India, on your efforts to protect the vulnerable populations from #COVID19 and achieve #VaccinEquity targets.https://t.co/ngVFOszcmEAnother top WHO official joined in. In a statement shared on Twitter, the global health body's South-East Asia regional director Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh said, "Huge congratulations to India for marking yet another milestone, a billion Covid-19 vaccine doses administered."She added that this extraordinary feat in a short period was not possible without strong political leadership, inter-sectoral convergence, and dedicated efforts of the entire health and frontline workforce."India's progress must be viewed in the context of the country's commendable commitment and efforts to ensure these life savings vaccines are accessible globally," Dr Singh further said.She previously congratulated India on September 13, when the cumulative vaccination had crossed 750 million.It took nine months for India to administer over a billion vaccine doses to eligible beneficiaries since the beginning of the inoculation drive in January. The Union health ministry said that around 30% of the country's adult population is fully vaccinated against Covid-19 while 75% of the adult population has received at least one vaccine dose.India is the second country after China to exceed one billion vaccinations. As the vaccination drive is speeding up, the Union government is trying to inoculate the entire population by the end of this year.On Thursday, the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) will light up 100 of its heritage monuments in the colours of the national flag to mark this incredible feat.Meanwhile, the country's caseload due to Covid-19 climbed to 34,127,450 after 18,454 cases were recorded in the last 24 hours, the highest single-day rise since October 14. The total cases include 452,811 deaths, 33,495,808 recoveries and 178,831 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/huge-congratulations-who-hails-india-on-1-billion-covid-vaccination-mark-101634803217346.html
21-10-2021||India||100 monuments lit in tricolour to celebrate India's 1 billion vaccine feat||To celebrate India crossing the one billion (100 crore) Covid vaccination mark, the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) on Thursday lit up 100 of its heritage monuments in colours of the national flag. This was a tribute to health professionals, frontline workers, scientists, vaccine manufacturers and the citizens of the country who bravely fought the pandemic, officials said. India today achieved the milestone of administering a billion vaccine doses as part of the national inoculation drive which started in January.Among the 100 monuments were seventeen UNESCO World Heritage Sites including the Red Fort, Qutub Minar, Humayun Tomb, Tughlaqabad Fort, Purana Qila, Fatehpur Sikri Agra, Ramappa Temple, Hampi, Dholavira (Gujarat), ancient Leh Palace; Currency Building and Metcalf Hall in Kolkata; Khajuraho temples (MP), and Golconda Fort in Hyderabad.India's Covid-19 vaccination drive was launched on January 16, 2021. Initially, the vaccination was opened for Health Care Workers (HCWs) only. Later, it was expanded to cover persons above 60 years of age and those above 45 years with associated specified 20 comorbidities. It was further expanded to all people above 45 years of age from April 1. From May 1, all adults above 18 years of age became eligible for Covid-19 vaccination.Commemorating the “historic” day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the nation now has strong armour of 100 crore Covid vaccine doses to combat the biggest pandemic in 100 years. "Today, this day of October 21, 2021, has been recorded in history. The nation now has strong armour of 100 crore Covid vaccine doses to combat this biggest pandemic in 100 years," PM Modi said at an event on Thursday. In a tweet, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya congratulated the country on achieving the feat, saying it was the result of the able leadership of PM Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/100-monuments-to-be-lit-in-tricolour-to-celebrate-india-s-1-billion-vaccine-feat-101634798542676.html
21-10-2021||India||One billion done, but daily dose administration sees near-consistent decline||The billionth Covid-19 vaccine shot was administered in India on Thursday morning--exactly nine months and five days after the country’s vaccination programme kicked off on January 16. The milestone comes as new infections and active cases in the country are at the lowest levels since early March, or in over seven months.As of 11.30am on Thursday, 1,000,220,711 shots of the Covid-19 vaccine were administered across the country to 708.4 million people, according to data available on the Union health ministry’s CoWIN dashboard. Of these, around 880 million doses have been of Covishield (the brand name under which Pune-based Serum Institute of India has been manufacturing the vaccine developed by Oxford-AstraZeneca). Over 114 million doses have been of Covaxin (the shot developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the country’s apex biomedical research regulator, the Indian Council of Medical Research).In absolute numbers, the milestone places India as the second country in the world (next to China with 2.2 billion shots administered) in terms of total Covid-19 vaccine doses administered.Of the 708.4 million people, who have been administered these shots, 416.6 million have been partially vaccinated, while 291.8 million people have received both doses. When seen alongside India’s estimated population of 940 million adults, 44.3% of the country’s adults have been partially vaccinated and another 31% fully. This means in total, three out of every four adults (75.4%) in the country have received at least one shot.Also Read | Consistency key, efforts must go on: Dr VK Paul on 1-billion Covid vaccine featA cause of concern for the drive, however, is that daily dose administration has now seen a near-consistent decline from the peak levels during the second half of September – a factor that Union health ministry officials and experts have attributed to low turnout during the ongoing festive season and the vaccine hesitancy threshold finally being visible.The seven-day average of daily dose administration, a statistic that evens out the dip generally seen over weekends, touched a peak of 9.7 million for the week ending September 23 when several states increased daily numbers to mark Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday on September 17. In the month since, however, it has dropped nearly 60% to around 4 million shots a day on average in the past week.An easy way to grasp the impact of this drop in vaccination pace is to see it as the required run rate in the final overs of a cricket match. In the race for vaccination, as is the case in a run chase, a slower run rate in the middle of an innings requires heavy slogging in the final few overs. In the case of vaccination, if the country had sustained its administration rate of around 10 million doses a day around the third week of September, then it would have been on course to meet its December 31 target of fully vaccinating all adults. But since this rate has dropped in the 25 days since, the required rate has shot up – now India needs to administer more than 12 million doses every day till the end of the year to meet this target. At the rate of administration in the past week (4 million a day, as stated above), however, this target will be delayed by more than five months, data shows.Such a calculation, of course, assumes that the entire adult population of the country will want vaccines, an unlikely proposition. Most experts fear the vaccine drive will hit a ceiling around the 75-80% level.Vaccine hesitancy, which was not visible in the initial months of the inoculation drive due to limited supply of doses and high rush for shots in a population of the size of India, is becoming more visible now as coverage has reached high numbers in recent weeks.Experts across the world have warned that any supposed vaccine hesitancy would start showing signs after countries hit a high coverage threshold. This is because those who were going to get their shots have now done so, and those who still remain away from vaccination centres are the ones who are hesitant.This has been the reason why even countries such as the United States, which have far better vaccine coverage than countries like India, have been unable to hit 100% coverage.Government officials have said the Union government plans to start a dedicated campaign to create awareness among the masses to overcome vaccine hesitancy once the billion-dose target is achieved. “After 100 crore (1 billion) Covid-19 vaccine doses are administered in the country, we will work on running a massive campaign for generating awareness about taking the second dose, and also addressing overall vaccine hesitancy,” said a government functionary who asked not to be named.“There is still a section that needs convincing to take the shot. It is also important for everyone who has already taken one dose to take their second shot ... taking both are important for maximum protection,” a second government official aware of the matter said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-out-of-every-4-adults-in-india-have-received-at-least-one-covid-19-vaccine-shot-101634801846092.html
21-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: Bombay HC to hear Aryan Khan's bail plea on October 26 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Cruise ship drugs case: Bombay HC to hear Aryan Khan's bail plea on October 26The Bombay high court will on October 26 hear the bail application of Aryan Khan, who was arrested after seizure of drugs on a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast following a raid by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on October 2. Read moreMaharashtra health minister hints at further relaxations for train travelAs Covid-19 cases continue to show a decline, state health minister Rajesh Tope hinted that further relaxations for train travel could be provided post-Diwali if cases continue to remain low. Read moreBangladesh Police identify man behind Quran incident which triggered violenceThe Bangladesh Police have identified the man responsible for inciting the violence, which led to attacks on Durga puja pandals in Comilla and other places. Read moreBigg Boss 15: Fans shocked after Karan Kundrra ‘choke slams’ Pratik Sehajpal, say show has different rules for 'damaad'Bigg Boss has been drawing criticism online for its more-violent-than-usual new season. In a new video from the house, contestants Karan Kundrra and Pratik Sehajpal are seen getting aggressive with each other during a task. Read moreT20 World Cup, India vs Australia warm-up game Report card: Rohit Sharma returns to form, R Ashwin impressesIndia have started the T20 World Cup on a high, picking big wins in the warm-up games over England and Australia, consecutively. Read moreGone in less 20 minutes! All 5,000 MG Astor SUV units sold out for 2021MG Astor has been sold out for the rest of this year. And it took less than half an hour before the official MG Motor website flashed ‘MG Astor bookings sold out for 2021’. Read moreBreast Cancer: Why things can get complicated for overweight womenBeing obese or overweight can not only increase your chances of getting breast cancer, but also create complications in its diagnosis and treatment. October is breast cancer awareness month and its motive is to spread awareness about the most common cancer in women. Read moreSRK visits son Aryan Khan in jail; Watch how he greeted people with folded handsShah Rukh Khan was spotted first time since his son Aryan Khan's arrest. The Bollywood actor visited his son at Mumbai's Arthur Road Jail on Thursday. Shah Rukh had been keeping away from cameras since his son's arrest. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-bombay-hc-to-hear-aryan-khan-s-bail-plea-on-october-26-and-all-the-latest-news-101634799501402.html
21-10-2021||India||NCB reaches Ananya Panday's residence, summons her for questioning||Anti-drugs agency Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has summoned actor Ananya Panday for questioning today. The NCB summons were served by a team of the agency which reached her Mumbai residence earlier in the day.She is expected to appear for questioning at 2pm, news agency ANI reported.A separate team of the agency has reached Mannat, the house of Shah Rukh Khan, whose son Aryan has been arrested after the NCB busted a drug party onboard a cruise ship off the coast of Mumbai on October 2.Aryan has applied for bail multiple times but the courts have rejected his petitions. He has now moved Bombay high court, which is set to hear the 23-year-old's bail application on October 26.Ananya is the daughter of actor Chunky Panday, who has worked in many Hindi films. Ananya made her debut as an actor with 2019 film ‘Student of the Year 2’.The NCB had said after arresting Aryan Khan that it is probing a larger nexus involving drugs trade in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncb-reaches-ananya-pandey-s-residence-summons-her-for-questioning-101634801049953.html
21-10-2021||India||IAF’s Mirage 2000 aircraft crashes in MP’s Bhind, probe ordered||An Indian Air Force Mirage 2000 crashed in a village in Madhya Pradesh’s Bhind on Thursday while on a training sortie and the pilot, who managed to eject safely before the crash, was being treated for minor injuries, a police officer said.Bhind police superintendent Manoj Kumar Singh said that Flight Lieutenant Abhilash took off from Gwalior Air Base in a Mirage 2000 aircraft at around 10 am before it crashed at ​​Babedi village panchayat after covering a distance of 70 km . He added that the pilot soon landed safely using parachute in nearby Parasram Ka Pura village. “When the plane crashed, it seemed as if a bomb had exploded. After the crash, we saw a parachute in the sky, which the pilot used to land. He lied down for a while and was later airlifted in a helicopter,” Ranveer Singh, an eyewitness said. Also Watch: Daring stunts by IAF’s Suryakiran team: 1971 Indo-Pak war 50th anniversary eventPolice said Indian Air Force officers soon reached the crash site in a helicopter after they were informed. All parts of the crashed aircraft have being kept safely and some parts were recovered by authorities for purpose of investigation..An IAF Mirage 2000 aircraft experienced a technical malfunction during a training sortie in the central sector this morning. The pilot ejected safely. An Inquiry has been ordered to ascertain the cause of the accident,” an Indian Air Force (IAF) tweet said. Police force has been deployed at the crash site to keep a crowd of curious onlookers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iafs-mirage-2000-aircraft-crashes-in-mp-s-bhind-probe-ordered-101634801306693.html
21-10-2021||India||NCB team, probing drugs case, visits Shah Rukh Khan's house in Mumbai||A team of Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Thursday visited Mannat, the residence of Shah Rukh Khan in Mumbai, hours after the renowned actor visited the city's Arthur Road Jail to meet his son Aryan, who has been behind bars since October 3 in connection with the cruise drugs case. According to reports, the NCB officers went to Shah Rukh Khan's house to collect some documents and not to conduct a raid; however, additional confirmation from the federal agency is still awaited in this regard.Also Read | Cruise ship drugs case: Bombay HC to hear Aryan Khan's bail plea on Oct 26A team of NCB also visited the house of actor Ananya Panday, who has been summoned today by the federal agency for questioning and is likely to appear before the investigators at 2pm today.Visuals posted by the ANI news agency on Twitter showed the NCB officials arriving at the residences of both the Bollywood actors. In a subsequent series of tweets, the agency showed the NCB team waiting before the gates of Shah Rukh Khan's residence, departing the site several moments later.Mumbai | A team of Narcotics Control Bureau arrives at actor Shah Rukh Khan's residence 'Mannat' pic.twitter.com/W3h24x8fzsMumbai | A team of Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) is currently present at actor Shah Rukh Khan's residence 'Mannat'Earlier today, Shah Rukh Khan met son Aryan at Arthur Road JailBombay High Court to hear Aryan Khan's bail application on 26th October pic.twitter.com/SyzoWVi9ULMumbai | Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) team leaves from 'Mannat', the residence of actor Shah Rukh Khan pic.twitter.com/hHVWuunOgsEarlier this day, visuals surfaced of Shah Rukh Khan visiting the Arthur Road prison to meet his son Aryan. The meeting lasted for 20 minutes.Aryan Khan was arrested on October 3 in connection with a drug seizure on a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast. The NCB team had at mid-sea busted the alleged drugs party aboard a Cordelia Cruise ship that was on its way to Goa. Aryan Khan, and his fellow cruise members Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha, were detained by the officials following the drugs raid in connection with the case.After a series of bail hearings, a special NDPS court in Mumbai rejected the bail applications of all three accused on Wednesday, after observing that Khan, Merchant, and Dhamecha acted in conspiracy with each other and that all of them are connected in the same thread. The judge accepted the Narcotics Control Bureau's (NCB) argument that all the accused were part of a large drug network.Among other observations, the court noted that Aryan Khan is in touch with other drug dealers. “In the case at hand, material placed on record reveals that there is incriminating material in the form of WhatsApp chats, etc which shows the nexus of the applicant / accused no. 1 with suppliers and peddlers,” the judge said in his 21-page order.Also Read | The story of NCB’s raid and Aryan Khan’s arrestIn Khan's WhatsApp chats, there is a reference to “bulk quantity” and “hard drugs” and “there is prima facie material showing that accused No 1 was in contact with persons dealing in prohibited narcotic substances”, the order added.Now, the Bombay high court will be hearing Aryan's bail application on October 26. His lawyers immediately moved the high court after the special Mumbai court rejected his plea for bail. Merchant and Dhamecha's lawyers, too, are expected to follow a similar track.A total of 20 people, including two Nigerian nationals, Delhi-based event management professionals, and Mumbai-based drug peddlers, have so far been arrested in the case related to the seizure of drugs from the ship.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncb-team-reaches-shah-rukh-khan-s-house-summons-ananya-panday-for-questioning-101634799202249.html
21-10-2021||India||Farmers have right to protest, but roads can't be blocked indefinitely: SC||The Supreme Court on Thursday said farmers had the right to protest, but roads cannot be blocked indefinitely.A bench, headed by Justice SK Kaul, granted three weeks' time to farmer unions, leading the nearly year-long agitation along the borders of Delhi and elsewhere against the three central farm laws, to file their response on a petition seeking removal of the protesters from the roads. The court posted the matter for further hearing on December 7.The court was hearing a petition filed by a resident of Noida, Monicca Agarwal, urging that the protesters be removed from the roads of the national capital region (NCR) as the agitation has led to delays in daily commute.“Ultimately some solution has to be found. We are not averse to their right to protest even when a legal challenge is pending, but roads cannot be blocked,” the court said.Also read | Strangulated city, now want to come inside: SC to farmers' body over nod to Jantar Mantar stir"You may have a right to agitate in any manner but roads should not be blocked like this. People have right to go on roads but it cannot be blocked,” said the bench also comprising Justice MM Sundresh.The apex court had earlier called for redressal through judicial forum, agitation or parliamentary debates while referring to the blockade of highways by farmers."The redressal of problems can be through judicial forum, agitation or through Parliamentary debates. But how can the highways be blocked and this is happening perpetually. Where does this end?” the court had said.The farmers have been camping along the borders of Delhi for about a year demanding that the three centrally passed agri laws be rolled back.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-have-right-to-protest-but-roads-can-t-be-blocked-indefinitely-sc-101634799778048.html
21-10-2021||India||62.2% inmates awaiting death penalty have at least one mental illness: Study||A National Law University study based on interviews of 88 inmates awaiting the death penalty has found 62.2% of them had been diagnosed with at least one mental illness and over 75% with deficits in their intellectual functioning. The study found correlations between death row incarcerations and mental illness. “The proportion of persons with mental illness and intellectual disability on death row is overwhelmingly higher than the proportions in the community population,” said the study.The findings of the study titled “Deathworthy: A Mental Health Perspective of the Death Penalty” were released after five years of research.“The big problem is that the death penalty sentencing process has been whittled down to such a formality that there is no time to conduct the kind of tests and assessments required to identify the disability,” said Maitreyi Misra, the lead author of the study.The report noted a UN General Assembly resolution in December 2020 urged countries not to impose the death penalty on individuals suffering from mental or intellectual disabilities. “In the case of nine prisoners, their disability was not even brought to the attention of the courts. Three of these nine prisoners had their mercy petition rejected by the President,” said Misra. She added judges have the power to call for psychological evaluations.Also Read: Why India’s civil services need corporate management structures and cultureAs many as 60% of the prisoners were no longer on death row. But it was not due to the discovery of mental illnesses or intellectual disabilities, but due to sociological factors. “In none of the cases, mental illnesses were the reason for acquittal or sentence reduction. The grounds taken in commuting death penalty sentences were reformation, social-economic circumstances, or young age when convicted. But mental illnesses and intellectual disability were not factors,” said Misra.B L Vohra, a retired Indian Police Service officer, said whether it is a physical ailment or mental ailment, prisoners are given the required care. “...only when a person is deemed fit, they are given the death penalty.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mental-illnesses-deficits-in-intellectual-functioning-common-among-death-row-prisoners-study-101634799925538.html
21-10-2021||India||The story of NCB’s raid and Aryan Khan’s arrest||Mumbai: On October 2, Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) officials stepped aboard a cruise ship anchored at the International Cruise Terminal at Green Gate. Cordellia was set to make its way to Goa before 22 officials led by the agency’s Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede began to search passengers and rooms based on a tip-off.
21-10-2021||India||Maharashtra told to review fish stock along Konkan coast for fresh view on PSN fishing||The Bombay high court on Wednesday directed Maharashtra fisheries department to review in three months the status of fish stock along Konkan coast and decide whether to continue the restrictions imposed on purse seine net (PSN) fishing along the coastline. PSN is essentially a technique of fishing that utilises a purse seine to capture large schools of fish.The division bench of justice Ujjal Bhuyan and justice Madhav Jamdar issued the directive on a petition filed by five fishermen, one from Mumbai and four from Ratnagiri district, engaged in PSN fishing. They had challenged the validity of February 5, 2016 order issued by the fisheries department, reserving certain areas along the shore for traditional fishing and restricting PSN fishing beyond certain limits of the territorial waters. The order also laid down strict norms for purse seine nets. They contended that the order was violative of their fundamental right to profess an occupation and that there was no effective consultation, as contemplated under the Maharashtra Marine Fishing Regulation Act, 1981 and views of the PSN fishermen were not taken into account before issuing the order. Fisheries department, on the other hand, maintained that PSN fishing was allowed in about 60% of the coastline between September and December and the order balanced the rights of traditional fishermen and the PSN fishermen, who use mechanised boats. Also Read: Shiv Sena leader alleges ₹500 crore scam in BJP-led municipal corporationHigh court, in its order, noted that the February 2016 order was based on recommendations made by a committee set up by the state government in September 2011 which had recommended that the fish stock situation be reviewed every five year and fresh decision be taken as regards PSN fishing for the next five years. HC noted that despite the lapse of considerable period, the fisheries department had not reviewed the fish stock along the coastline and directed that it be done. The court also said that following the survey, a fresh decision in regard to PSN fishing is taken after due consultation with the District Advisory Committees and after hearing the representatives of the PSN fishermen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-told-to-review-fish-stock-along-konkan-coast-for-fresh-view-on-psn-fishing-101634799325616.html
21-10-2021||India||Watch: Indian army demonstrates battle drill to destroy 'enemy tank' in Arunachal||Amid the ongoing tussle along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) on the India-China border, the Indian army soldiers were on Thursday seen undergoing aggressive training and taking vigorous exercises in rough climate conditions of the Eastern Sector in Arunachal Pradesh, as seen in videos tweeted by news agency ANI.In one of the videos, the Indian army's anti-tank squad is seen demonstrating a battle drill to destroy enemy tanks in the Tawang sector near the LAC, where a brief standoff was reported with the Chinese PLA earlier this month. The anti-tank squad is seen doing a missile-firing demo, showing how they would destroy their armoured targets.#WATCH Indian Army soldiers demonstrate battle drill to destroy enemy tanks in the Tawang sector near the Line of Actual Control (LAC) #ArunachalPradesh pic.twitter.com/3XYvYjB1hYIn another video posted by ANI, Indian army soldiers can be seen coming out from an underground bunker, as part of the intense training in the rough terrains of Arunachal Pradesh.#WATCH Indian Army soldiers undergo aggressive training, vigorous exercise, and meditation for the troops in rough climate conditions and terrains of the Eastern Sector in Arunachal Pradesh pic.twitter.com/NUy8xhvBJH#WATCH | Arunachal Pradesh | Indian Army soldiers demonstrate a drill in Tawang sector near the Line of Actual Control (LAC) to tackle any threat from the Chinese side pic.twitter.com/jb1sMzJfGDOn Tuesday, Eastern Army Commander Lieutenant General Manoj Pande informed that the Chinese Army's activities have increased marginally across the LAC which is under tight surveillance of the Indian Army."The annual training exercise that the People's Liberation Army (PLA) carries out, there has been some increase in the level of activities but that is in the depth areas. Some of the reserve formations of the PLA which were mobilised have continued to remain in their training areas but that again is in operational depth. We have enhanced our surveillance both in LAC and depth areas," ANI quoted Lieutenant General Pande as saying.Meanwhile, India has deployed upgraded L70 anti-aircraft guns in the high mountains along the LAC in Arunachal Pradesh sector in addition to its existing M-777 howitzers and the Swedish Bofors guns, ANI reported officials as saying on Wednesday. The deployment is aimed at boosting the Indian Army's overall fire power in the face of China's aggressive posturing following the eastern Ladakh standoff, they further told the news agency.The tensions between the Indian and Chinese militaries in the eastern Ladakh border escalated last year following a deadly clash in Galwan Valley. Since then, both sides have been holding a series of military and diplomatic talks to end the disengagement. The last round of military talks on October 10 ended in a stalemate following which both sides blamed each other for the impasse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-indian-army-demonstrates-battle-drill-to-destroy-enemy-tank-in-arunachal-101634793113135.html
21-10-2021||India||IAF trainer aircraft crashes in Madhya Pradesh, pilot injured||An Indian Air Force trainer aircraft on Thursday crashed in Bhind district of Madhya Pradesh. The pilot has been injured in the accident but is safe, Bhind superintendent Manoj Kumar Singh was quoted as saying by news agency ANI."An IAF Mirage 2000 aircraft experienced a technical malfunction during a training sortie in the central sector this morning. The pilot ejected safely. An inquiry has been ordered to ascertain the cause of the accident," the Indian Air Force said in a statement.#BREAKING | IAF's trainer aircraft crashes in Madhya Pradesh's Bhind, pilot injured Details awaited. pic.twitter.com/1gJU9dXtiiA video of the site of the accident showed the wreckage of the aircraft in Bhind's Mankabad village. Smoke can be seen billowing from the debris of the trainer jet half buried in the field. Another video taken on a mobile phone showed chief pilot Abhilash gliding down as he safely ejected from the aircraft with the help of a parachute.Locals gathered around the crash site at the sound of the explosion. Bhind police and Air Force officials rushed to the spot as soon as they received the information. The area has been cordoned off to disperse the crowd. Further details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-trainer-aircraft-crashes-in-madhya-pradesh-pilot-injured-101634794565238.html
21-10-2021||India||Anatomy of planned desecration and riots in Bangladesh||The Bangladesh Police said they have identified the man who placed the Quran in one of the Durga Puja pandals in Comilla on October 13, an act which triggered violence and led to the killing of three people. He has been identified as 35-year-old Iqbal Hossain from Sujanagar area of the city.According to local media, 41 suspects have been arrested for the Comilla incident and four of them are Hossain's associates. Two of the associates have been identified as Fayez and Ekram Hossain.According to Dhaka watchers, the Sheikh Hasina government is trying to unearth the conspiracy behind the planned desecration and then fan up communal flames against the minority Hindu community in the south of the country. While evidence is being pieced together, there is a strong possibility that rabid Islamists belonging to Jamaat-e-Islami Bangladesh, who are supporters of the Taliban, would be behind this orchestration of communal violence. The objective was not only to embarrass the Sheikh Hasina government but also put a strain on excellent bilateral relations between two neighbours.The media in Bangladesh quoted police officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity, to report that the dark green-coloured Quran, which was found placed below the feet of Lord Ganesha in the Puja pandal in Comilla, was not printed in Bangladesh but brought from Saudi Arabia by Fayez.The officials said that Fayez returned to Bangladesh from Saudi Arabia a year ago and set up a mobile service shop in Comilla. On the day of the incident, he brought the people of the area to the pandal and Ekram called up the emergency services numbers 999 to inform the police that a Quran was found in the Puja area.They said the Quran is believed to be Fayez's personal copy of the scripture."We didn't see the scripture. Suddenly, two young men got excited and started shouting, 'Quran found in puja mandapa, Quran found in puja mandapa'," media quoted Subodh Roy, president of the puja celebration committee as saying.Fayez later hosted a Facebook Live video, in which he said provocative things, media reports in Bangladesh said. Both Fayez and Ekram are currently in police custody.Iqbal Hossain was identified by the police after analysing video footages of the CCTV cameras installed at the Durga Puja venues. He has not yet been arrested.In the footage, Hossain is seen taking the Quran from a local mosque and walking into a Durga Puja venue. He was later seen walking away with the club of Lord Hanuman, a report in Dhaka Tribune said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anatomy-of-planned-desecration-and-riots-in-bangladesh-101634792814812.html
21-10-2021||India||‘India scripts history’: PM Modi, Amit Shah hail 1 billion Covid-19 vaccine milestone||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah, and other dignitaries hailed the collective spirit of 130-crore Indians on Thursday as the country scripted history by administering the billionth coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine shot, crossing the 100-crore vaccine milestone. Taking to his official handle on Twitter, Prime Minister Modi pointed out that this is history in the making and expressed his gratitude to all the medical health professionals and citizens who made this achievement possible. The home minister said that the incredible feat was achieved under Prime Minister Modi's leadership, which has “re-acquainted the world with the immense potential of New India”.“India scripts history,” Prime Minister Modi wrote in a tweet issued from his official handle on the microblogging website. “We are witnessing the triumph of Indian science, enterprise, and collective spirit of 130 crore Indians. Congrats India on crossing 100 crore vaccinations. Gratitude to our doctors, nurses, and all those who worked to achieve this feat.”India scripts history. We are witnessing the triumph of Indian science, enterprise and collective spirit of 130 crore Indians. Congrats India on crossing 100 crore vaccinations. Gratitude to our doctors, nurses and all those who worked to achieve this feat. #VaccineCenturyHome minister Amit Shah wrote in a tweet, “Historic and proud moment! Today India has achieved the target of administering more than 100 crore vaccines. Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visionary leadership and constant encouragement have created a record re-acquainting the whole world with the immense potential of New India.”In another tweet, thanking the health workers who made the achievement possible, Shah wrote, “I thank all the scientists, researchers and health workers who have contributed in this ‘maha yagya’ by overcoming many challenges, and I congratulate the Prime Minister, who is determined to ensure the safety and health of every citizen.”इस ऐतिहासिक उपलब्धि पर पूरे देश को बधाई देता हूँ।अनेकों चुनौतियों को पार कर इस महायज्ञ में अपना योगदान देने वाले सभी वैज्ञानिकों, शोधकर्ताओं व स्वास्थ्यकर्मियों का आभार व हर व्यक्ति की सुरक्षा व स्वास्थ्य हेतु संकल्पित मोदी जी का अभिनन्दन करता हूँ। जय हिन्द! #VaccineCentury pic.twitter.com/YDB0fxlTJNIndia crossed the major milestone on Thursday when the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine doses administered in the country crossed the 100 crore (1 billion) mark. The milestone was achieved half an hour after 10am. The number is twice the number of vaccines administered in the United States, five times that of Japan, nine times that of Germany, and 10 times the number of vaccine doses administered in France, the government said in a presentation hailing the ‘vaccine century’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-scripts-history-pm-modi-amit-shah-hail-1-billion-covid-19-vaccine-milestone-101634792785854.html
21-10-2021||India||India's daily Covid tally goes up by 18,454; recovery rate above 98%||India saw an increase in its daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Thursday after 18,454 new cases were recorded in the last 24 hours, which pushed the caseload to 34,127,450, according to the Union health ministry's data. Thursday's infection count has been the highest since October 14, when 18,987 people were detected as Covid-19 positive .Over 17,500 patients recovered and 160 succumbed to the viral disease in the last 24 hours, the health ministry's data further showed. With this, the total number of recoveries and deaths has climbed to 33,495,808 and 452,811 respectively. The active cases, which have been the lowest since March last year, stand at 178,831 and constitute 0.52% of the caseload. The recovery rate has climbed to 98.15% and is the highest since March last year while the daily Covid-19 positivity rate is at 1.48% and has been below the 3%-mark for the 52nd consecutive day.Thursday's infection count is 533 more than that of Wednesday's when 14,623 cases were registered. However, the deaths on Thursday are 37 less than that of Wednesday's when 197 patients died due to Covid-19.According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), as many as 1,247,506 samples were tested for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, which has taken the cumulative number of samples tested to 595,742,218.On Thursday morning, India achieved a landmark milestone in its vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease as more than one billion vaccine doses have been administered to eligible beneficiaries till now. The vaccination drive in the country was started in January and it took nine months to reach this landmark."We are witnessing the triumph of Indian science, enterprise and collective spirit of 130 crore Indians. Congrats India on crossing 100 crore vaccinations. Gratitude to our doctors, nurses and all those who worked to achieve this feat," Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted on the achievement on Thursday.In the run-up to the vaccination drive on January 16, only two vaccines- Serum Institute's Covishield and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin were given emergency approval by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI). As the inoculation drive progressed with doses being administered to different age groups, the Centre started granting emergency approval to other vaccines as well.To date, the Centre has granted emergency approval to a total of six vaccines. Apart from Covishield and Covaxin, the remaining four vaccines are - Russia's Sputnik V, Moderna, Johnson and Johnson and Zydus Cadila.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-daily-covid-tally-goes-up-by-18-454-recovery-rate-above-98-101634791431029.html
21-10-2021||India||Soldier from Madhya Pradesh killed in Kashmir on his birthday||Karanveer Singh’s family in Madhya Pradesh’s Satna was waiting eagerly to wish him on his 23rd birthday when his father Ravi Singh on Wednesday received a call from Kashmir, where his soldier son was posted around 1,500 km away. Ravi Singh picked up the phone hoping to speak to his son. But it was instead a call from Karanveer Singh’s superior to inform Ravi Singh about his son’s killing in an exchange of fire with terrorists in Kashmir’s Shopian.“Being an ex-army man, I showed courage, but my wife fainted,” said Ravi Singh. He added Karanveer Singh joined the army’s Rajput Regiment five years back in 2017. “My son was a brave man. He joined the army to serve the nation. Today, I am feeling proud of my son for playing an important role in eliminating terrorists, who were trying to create terror among people and were killing innocent people.”Karanveer Singh and two terrorists were killed in the exchange of fire in Shopian’s Dragad. Two other terrorists were shot dead in a gunfight in the neighbouring Kulgam district. Police said the four were involved in the killing of migrant workers amid a wave of attacks on civilians in the region.Ravi Singh said his wife has been unable to come to terms with the tragedy. “...it was hard to believe that he will leave us on his birthday. I got a call at noon when the family members were waiting to wish him his 23rd birthday. I gathered the courage to face this situation, but my wife fainted and now she is in a semi-conscious state. She cannot believe that she lost her son on the day he was born.”Also Watch: Indian forces kill Lashkar commander, part of murders of non-KashmirisKaranveer Singh’s friend, Atul Pandey, remembered how excited he was when he was posted to Kashmir. “It was like a dream come true for him. Today, villagers were planning to go to his home to celebrate his 23rd birthday but we came to know about this sad news.”Karanveer Singh’s body was expected to arrive in his village, over 400 km from the state capital Bhopal, on Friday for last rites.Satna’s additional district magistrate Rajesh Shahi said, “We are in constant touch with family members. The cremation will be done with state honours.”Chief minister Shivraj Singh was among those who paid rich tributes to Karanveer Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/soldier-from-madhya-pradesh-killed-in-kashmir-on-his-birthday-101634793205059.html
21-10-2021||India||Uttarakhand floods: Death toll reaches 54, Amit Shah to conduct aerial survey||At least 54 people have died so far in various incidents triggered over the past four days by heavy rains and subsequent flash floods in Uttarakhand with rescue workers retrieving two more bodies on Wednesday night, as per the state government’s account on Thursday morning.19 others are reported to be injured and five are still missing after heavy rains lashed the hilly state between October 17 and 19.“Among the 54 deaths, maximum 28 were from Nainital district which is the worst affected in the state. Champawat was next with 8 reported deaths followed by Almora were 6 lives were lost,” stated the latest government report.The report states that in the floods caused by heavy rains in the state’s Kumaon region, one person lost his life on October 17, eight on October 18 and 35 on October 19. According to an official statement, majority of the deaths were due to house collapses. Forty-six of such houses suffered damages.Earlier on Wednesday night, Union minister of home Amit Shah reached Dehradun to assess the situation. He will be conducting aerial survey of the affected areas on Thursday morning along with chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami, who had conducted both aerial and ground surveys of the affected areas on Tuesday.Also Read: Eleven people on trek to Himachal’s Chitkul go missingMeanwhile, the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) said on Wednesday that it has rescued over 1,300 people from the affected areas. Seventeen teams of the NDRF have been deployed across Uttarakhand.As the weather conditions improved on Wednesday, state government authorities allowed the stranded pilgrims to proceed towards the Chardham destinations of Kedarnath, Yamunotri and Gangotri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-floods-death-toll-reaches-54-amit-shah-to-conduct-aerial-survey-today-101634792604885.html
21-10-2021||India||Consistency key, efforts must go on: Dr VK Paul on 1-billion Covid vaccine feat||Niti aayog member (health) Dr VK Paul on Thursday stressed the importance of consistency while congratulating the nation on achieving the historic milestone of administering 100 crore or one billion doses of vaccines against the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease.Dr Paul, one of the key faces of the government in its fight against the pandemic, said it was remarkable to accomplish the feat in just nine months as the vaccination drive to contain the virus had begun in January earlier this year.At the time of publishing the story, as many as 1,00,04,12,900 doses were administered so far of which 18,82,572 were given on Thursday so far. The government has set a target of vaccinating a record 2.5 crore beneficiaries during the day.Just over 30% of Indians vaccinated with both doses, about 10 crore individuals are now overdue, they should have received the 2nd dose, but they have not. It's now unfinished work that we must accomplish, & send reminders to those individuals to take their 2nd dose: Dr VK Paul pic.twitter.com/pXnds9TU0MWhile stating that over 75 per cent adults have received their first dose of the vaccine, Dr Paul said another 25 per cent eligible beneficiaries were yet to be vaccinated for free.Also, just a little over 30 per cent of India’s population has been inoculated with both doses of vaccines, while another 10 crore are yet to take their second jab. Calling it unfinished work that must be accomplished, Dr Paul said efforts must go on.“Congratulations to the people and healthcare workers of India. It's remarkable to reach the 1-billion dose mark for any nation,an achievement in just over 9 months since the vaccination program started in India,” Dr Paul was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Meanwhile, the Union government said more than 103.5 crore vaccine doses have been provided to states and Union territories till now. Over 10.85 crore balance and unutilised vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/consistency-key-efforts-must-go-on-dr-vk-paul-on-1-billion-covid-vaccine-feat-101634791926466.html
21-10-2021||India||Authorities try crop diversification to check human-animal conflict around UP||Authorities in Uttar Pradesh’s Pilibhit have launched a campaign to check human-animal conflict around the tiger reserve there through crop diversification. “Since tigers can easily hide in sugarcane fields, they provide big cats a semblance of natural habitat. The tigers attack and kill farmers when they come across each other. We launched the campaign to persuade cane farmers to shift to equally remunerative alternative crops...,” said district magistrate Pulkit Khare. “After several rounds of discussions with progressive farmers and experts, crops such as haldi, laahi, sarson, matar, chana, soyabean, mentha, lemon, kheera, parval, lemongrass, khus and rose were identified as alternatives.”Khare said farmers would spend nights in their cane fields guarding their crops or moving in a group with torches while harvesting them. “They were then told about equally or even more remunerative crops as alternatives to the sugarcane plantation. ...medicinal and aromatic crops even drove the herbivores away due to their pungent odour, further reducing the chances of a tiger chasing prey and entering these fields.”The campaign has started yielding results. Khare cited a 2020-21 survey and said cane was gown on 1,04,213 hectares of land. “...(This has) reduced to 1,02,114 hectares...in 2021-22.” He added the reduction of around 2,099 hectares (3.5%) of cane area was a result of the campaign to motivate and train farmers for alternative safer crops which would reduce human-animal conflict too.Amandeep Singh, a farmer who has started growing vegetables instead of sugarcane near a jungle, said tigers would often come to his field.Gurumangat Singh Cheema, another farmer, said he has begun growing mentha and potato in his four-acre field.”(I) get equally good returns without any fear of tigers, who would easily hide in cane fields.”Pilibhit Tiger Reserve is home to Indian leopard, swamp deer, hispid hare, floricans as well as an estimated 65 tigers. Tigers would often stray into nearby villages. “In the last five years, 15 humans have been injured and 21 lives lost in such conflicts. Fencing the entire perimeter of the reserve is a mammoth project which moves slowly each year as per the availability of budget,” said Khare.Also Read: ‘Problematic’ tiger caught alive in 21-day operationThe lighting of the fire, the beating of drums to scare away the animals, moving in groups for irrigation or manuring were tried but did not help much in reducing the conflict and forced the administration to rethink their strategy.“Analysis showed a high percentage of such conflict in the sugarcane fields adjoining the jungle; 12 out of 21 deaths in the last five years were reported in sugarcane fields,” said Khare.“Sugarcane tigers” stray out of the reserve and adopt sugarcane fields as their habitat. These include sub-adults pushed out of the forest by dominant tigers. “Cane fields also provide a semblance of the forest ecosystem with long canes often providing hiding places...,” said Khare. He added farmers were reluctant but were convinced to shift to plantations of pulses, medicinal plants. Training sessions were also conducted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/authorities-try-crop-diversification-to-check-human-animal-conflict-around-uttar-pradesh-tiger-reserve-101634791105351.html
21-10-2021||India||Sangh’s affiliates discuss issues related to National Education Policy||A two-day meeting of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS)’s affiliates that work in the field of education concluded in the Capital on Wednesday with a discussion on the implementation of the National Education Policy and issues related to the curriculum, said functionaries aware of the matter.The annual meeting takes stock of the issues the affiliates flag and discusses suggestions made by them. It was attended by union education and skill development and entrepreneurship minister Dharmendra Pradhan.Referring to the discussion that took place during the two-day event, RSS’s All India Prachar Pramukh Sunil Ambekar said, “It was an internal meeting of the Sangh’s Shiksha Samooh. There was a detailed discussion on the implementation and progress of the National Education Policy.”RSS joint general secretaries Krishna Gopal and Arun Kumar were present at the meeting which also had in attendance organisational general secretaries and senior functionaries of affiliates such as the Bharatiya Shikshan Mandal and Vidya Bharti.Union ministers Jitendra Singh and Rajeev Chandrasekhar were also present at the meeting, said a functionary.According to a second functionary, the issue of addressing concerns about the curriculum was discussed. There is a demand for re-looking at the National Council of Educational Research and Training textbooks, particularly how history has been taught in schools.Also Read: BJP looks to win over ‘voters of tomorrow’ for 2029 pollsThe issue of examinations in the wake of the pandemic and the marking systems followed by various boards were also discussed. In May, RSS’s students’ wing Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (AVBP) demanded that in view of the pandemic, the government at the Centre and in states must consider newer methods of conducting the exams such as open book examinations. It also urged the government to carry out the evaluation of final year colleges and university students on the basis of reduced syllabi. AVBP called for increasing the number of centres for holding one-day entrance examinations for admission to reputed colleges and universities.“Apart from increasing the intake in colleges, there needs to be a review of how marks are being doled out by certain state boards. This liberal marking system puts students of other states in a disadvantageous position,” said an ABVP functionary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sanghs-affiliates-discuss-issues-related-to-education-101634790504878.html
21-10-2021||India||India crosses 1 billion Covid vaccination mark, govt hails 'vaccine century'||India crossed a major milestone on Thursday when the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine doses administered in the country crossed the 100 crore (1 billion) mark. The milestone was achieved half an hour after 10am. Also Read | List of 10 states with highest vaccination coverageThe number is twice the number of vaccines administered in the United States, five times that of Japan, nine times that of Germany and 10 times the number of vaccine doses administered in France, the government said in a presentation hailing the 'vaccine century'.It said that 75 per cent of eligible population has taken the first dose and eight states and union territories (UTs) - Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Uttarakhand, Sikkim, Himachal Pradesh, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman & Diu, Goa and Lakhshadweep - have achieved 100 per cent first dose coverage. It also said that four states and UTs have more than 90 per cent coverage of the first dose.It took just nine months for the country to cross the historic figure. The government has planned a number of events to mark the occasion, including launching of a song and display of the country's largest tricolour at the Red Fort in Delhi.Also Read | 3 in 4 Indians get at least 1 Covid vaccine jabAfter the billionth dose was administered, the Centre recounted the journey to 100 crore vaccine doses in the presentation, which listed the milestones crossed by the nationwide vaccination programme since its launch on January 16, 2021. It said that CoWIN - the digital platform being used for keeping records of vaccination - has so far registered 76 crore beneficiaries. It also said that India used drones for the first time to deliver vaccines to remote corners of the country.The government said that the first 10 crore (100 million) doses were administered in just 85 days of the launch of the vaccination drive.Also Read | Focus on second dose coverage, says CentreThe inoculation programme has been speeding up since its launch, recording 25 million vaccinations in a day on September 17 (Prime Minister Narendra Modi's birthday), which translated to 15.62 lakh doses per hour, or 26,000 doses per minute or 434 doses every second.It also said that this is the fastest vaccination drive ever, comparing the 1 billion milestone with polio and tuberculosis (TB) drives. While one billion doses of Covid vaccine were administered in just nine months, it took 20 years for the polio drive (1994-2014) and 32 years for TB vaccination (1989 and still ongoing) to cross the milestone.The government release further said that the Covid vaccine is the fastest to be introduced for inoculation - it was developed in 2020 and implemented in the starting of 2021. Others like BCG, Hepatitis-B and measles vaccines took decades before they were introduced.Other achievements include introduction of two made in India vaccines - Covishield and Covaxin - within 11 months of the discovery of the first case in the country and fastest ever approvals granted for the vaccines.Only China has administered a billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines till now (and also has a population of more than one billion). It crossed the milestone in June.Despite the high number of Covid-19 vaccination, the opposition parties have questioned the government about how it can fulfill its promise of administering both doses of the vaccine to all the eligible adults in the country by December 31. The Congress said the number of eligible adults is 95 crore and there's still a long way to go before all of them receive both the doses of the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-billion-covid-vaccine-doses-in-9-months-govt-hails-historic-milestone-101634789471695.html
21-10-2021||India||Shiv Sena leader alleges ₹500 crore scam in BJP-led municipal corporation||Maharashtra’s ruling Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut has alleged a ₹500 crore scam in the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation. He has written a letter to BJP leader Kirit Somaiya citing his “influence” over the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and to ensure a probe into the matter. Raut called Somaiya a “scam crusader” and said he has given him proof, and documents related to the alleged scam in the smart city project.Somaiya has been in the news for “exposing” alleged financial wrongdoings, land scams, unauthorised constructions. He has attacked Maharashtra’s ruling alliance leaders including chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, ministers Hasan Mushrif, Anil Parab, and Raut.Raut wrote the letter days after asking the ministers to launch a counter attack and respond to allegations that political opponents were levelling against them.In a tweet, Raut said, “Sent following letter to ‘Scam crusader’ @kiritsomaiya. It gives details of misappropriation of funds to the tune of 500 cr ₹in the smart city project run by Pimpri Chinchwad corporation ruled by BJP. Hope he will use his influence on ED to start the investigation.”Also Read: Revenue higher than last year despite fewer property registrations in MaharashtraIn the two-page letter dated October 11, Raut alleged tenders were floated and the conditions for them were tailored for certain companies in 2018-2019. He added even 50% of the work on the project was not completed even as the deadline has ended. “This is a clear case of misappropriation of government funds and public money to the tune of a whopping ₹500 crores only for the benefit of these two companies. It is also quite clear that the tenders were awarded to these companies by corrupt practices, misuse of power and under tremendous political pressure.” Raut wrote there is a general perception that agencies like ED conduct thorough investigations in all matters that Somaiya brings to their notice. “Hence, instead of sending this sensitive file to ED or any other investigative agencies, I am sending it directly to you, with the hope that you will investigate this matter thoroughly, and after you find the kind of corruption that has taken place, you will send the file to ED for further investigation and necessary action.”Somaiya declined to comment, saying he has not received any letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-leader-alleges-rs-500-crore-scam-in-bjp-led-municipal-corporation-101634789904821.html
21-10-2021||India||Shah Rukh Khan visits Mumbai's Arthur Road Jail to meet son Aryan||Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan reached Arthur Road Jail in Mumbai on Thursday to meet his son Aryan who has been behind bars since October 3 in connection with a drugs case.Aryan, 23, was arrested with seven others when the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) busted a drugs party on board a Goa-bound cruise ship off Mumbai.#WATCH Actor Shah Rukh Khan reaches Mumbai's Arthur Road Jail to meet son Aryan who is lodged at the jail, in connection with drugs on cruise ship case#Mumbai pic.twitter.com/j1ozyiVYBMA special court in Mumbai on Wednesday refused to grant bail to Aryan and two others in connection with the seizure of banned drugs.An appeal has been filed in the high court challenging the lower court’s order and Aryan's lawyers are expected to seek an urgent hearing in the case.While a large section of the glamour world has strongly expressed their support towards the Bollywood star's family and has questioned the arrest and consequent legalities, Khan had so far remained mostly absent from the public glare and this is his first visit to the jail.Also read | Only Aryan Khan has the details of...: 5 things court said while denying bail to SRK's sonHis wife Gauri had once waited outside the court when Aryan's hearing was underway but was seen teary eyed when the court had sent her son back to the jail. The couple had once spoken to their elder child once over a videocall when Aryan reportedly broke down.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shah-rukh-khan-visits-mumbai-s-arthur-road-jail-to-meet-son-aryan-101634788582609.html
21-10-2021||India||Police Commemoration Day: Tributes pour in for braveheart cops||Every year, October 21 is celebrated as the Police Commemoration Day, to pay tributes to all police personnel who died in the line of duty. Last year, tributes were also paid to the cops who lost their lives due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.“On the occasion of Police Commemoration Day, we pay homage to the brave hearts who lost their lives for the country in the line of duty. The nation will never forget their sacrifices,” the Indian Police Service (Central) Association tweeted on Thursday.HistoryThe Police Commemoration Day remembers the ultimate sacrifice of 10 police personnel who lost their lives on October 21, 1959 in Ladakh while fighting the Chinese army.The Chinese army opened fire and threw grenades at the Indian police party which comprised 20 personnel. Apart from the 10 personnel who were martyred, seven were taken as prisoners and the remaining three managed to escape.National Police Memorial Unveiled in 2018In October 2018, Prime Minister Narendra Modi National Police Memorial in New Delhi. Addressing the occasion, Modi remembered the personnel who were serving in Maoist-affected areas and in Jammu and Kashmir. The proposal to have a police memorial in India was first by the Atal Bihari Vajpayee-led government in 2002.Last year, Union home minister Amit Shah, while paying tributes at the memorial on October 21, told the family members of the slain police personnel that this memorial was not made up only of bricks, stones and cement, it also reminded the country that every single drop of the martyrs’ blood has taken India forward on the path of development.Tributes pour inOn Thursday morning, the country's political fraternity paid tributes to the valiant police personnel.“On Police Commemoration Day, I would like to acknowledge the outstanding efforts by our police forces in preserving law and order, and assisting others in times of need. I pay homage to all those police personnel who lost their lives in the line of duty,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted. “I salute the courage and dedication of our police forces and pay homage to the selfless sacrifices of the martyrs in the line of duty on the occasion of Police Commemoration Day,” Union home minister Hardeep Singh Puri tweeted.
21-10-2021||India||Monsoon set to depart, but more rain forecast from Tamil Nadu to Leh. Here's why||Multiple parts of the country, from Bihar to Uttarakhand, have been witnessing heavy rainfalls over the past several weeks, which led to severe waterlogging and disruption of normal lifestyle just ahead of the onset of winter. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted fresh rains and snowfall in the Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh region from Friday, even amid predictions that the southwest monsoon will depart by October 26. According to the MeT department, this will pave the way for the commence of the northeast monsoon, bringing rains over Tamil Nadu, parts of Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Puducherry, and Andhra Pradesh.As per IMD's predictions, the southwest monsoon will withdraw completely from the entire country around October 26. After its late withdrawal from northwest India, the southwest monsoon remains active over some parts of the country, the withdrawal line currently passing through Kohima, Silchar, Krishnanagar, Baripada, Malkangiri, Nalgonda, Bagalkote, and Vengurla.Also Read | Monsoon is over. But why is it raining so much in October? Here's the answerThe IMD said that the conditions will become favourable for the further retreat of southwest monsoon from around October 23 in the remaining parts of northeast India, the entire north Bay of Bengal region, the remaining parts of West Bengal and Odisha, certain parts of central Bay of Bengal, parts of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, entire Goa, some more parts of Karnataka and the central Arabian Sea.The MeT department said that with northeasterly winds likely to hit the lower tropospheric (lowest level of the Earth's atmosphere) levels over the Bay of Bengal and extreme south Peninsular India, the southwest monsoon is likely to leave the entire country around next Tuesday. It is from this date that northeast monsoons are also set to commence over southeast Peninsular India.The withdrawal of the southwest monsoon from northwest India commenced on October 6, this time being the second-most delayed withdrawal of the southwest monsoon since 1975.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-set-to-depart-but-more-rain-forecast-from-tamil-nadu-to-leh-here-s-why-101634784115716.html
21-10-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Petrol pumps in Guwahati to stay shut for 48-hrs from Oct 22 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.A prominent petroleum dealers association has called for a 48-hour closure of petrol pumps in the Greater Guwahati area (Assam) from 6am Friday till Sunday. The North East India Petroleum Dealers Association, in a press release, said that the decision to call for the closure was taken to press for its 10-point charter of demands relating to various issues concerning the petroleum dealership business. Read moreFormer Pakistan captain Inzamam-ul-Haq said the Virat Kohli-led Indian side are the favourites to win the ICC men's T20 World Cup 2021. Inzamam said India have a 'greater chance' of lifting the trophy because of the conditions in UAE and Oman. Read moreTesla Inc has urged Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi's office to slash import taxes on electric vehicles before it enters the market, four sources told Reuters, ratcheting up demands that faced objections from some Indian automakers. Read moreSamantha Ruth Prabhu is vacationing in Rishikesh with her friend and has been sharing pictures from there. The Family Man 2 star, who has been in the news lately for her separation from Naga Chaitanya, has revealed she's staying at The Roseate Ganges, a luxury hotel on the banks of the river Ganges. Read moreSamsung hosted its Galaxy Unpacked event (Part 2) tonight after holding the earlier one in August when the company launched the third-gen foldable display smartphones, which included the Galaxy Z Fold 3 and the Galaxy Z Flip 3 along with the Galaxy Watch 4 series smartwatches. Today, at the Galaxy Unpacked event of the year, the Korean tech giant rolled out its ‘Bespoke Edition’ Galaxy Z Flip 3 smartphone. In short, there was no new product launched, just special versions of the same. Read moreSwinging the Indian clubs or the mudgar seems like a recent favourite exercise of fitness enthusiast and former supermodel, Milind Soman, whose latest workout video is all the mid-week health motivation we need. If you are looking for an exercise to open up your back and restore your shoulders to full health, mobility and posture, take fitness inspiration from Milind who was seen “having so much fun” during his daily 3-4 minutes of mudgar workout. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-petrol-pumps-in-guwahati-to-stay-shut-for-48-hrs-from-oct-22-and-all-the-latest-news-101634784953140.html
21-10-2021||India||Maharashtra records under 2,000 new Covid cases for 5th consecutive day||Maharashtra added 1,825 fresh Covid infections on Wednesday, the fifth consecutive day when under 2,000 cases were recorded. The government has indicated that further relaxations for train travel could be provided post-Diwali if cases continue to remain low. Currently, only fully vaccinated people are allowed to use the Mumbai suburban train services. The state government has been easing Covid containment restrictions gradually since mid-August and will now allow theatres and drama auditoriums to operate with 50% occupancy from October 22. On Tuesday, it extended operational hours for shops and restaurants in the state.“Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is monitoring the Covid situation minutely and has been speaking to the state Covid task force and senior officials. I think, post-Diwali, if there are not many cases or a high positivity rate, the chief minister can think about this [allowing all commuters on trains] positively,” health minister Rajesh Tope said to a TV news channel. Also Read: Colleges resume physical classes in MaharashtraThe government considered allowing commuters who had taken at least one shot of a Covid vaccine to use the suburban trains network. However, the move was deferred till cases drop further, state officials said. There was also a fear that crowding could increase in trains during Diwali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-records-under-2000-new-covid-cases-for-5th-consecutive-day-101634786244781.html
21-10-2021||India||India-China to talk border again, focus on resolving Hot Springs||India and China have agreed to hold another meeting of Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs this month to resolve the deadlock arising out of 13th round of senior commanders meeting on October 10. Both sides have agreed to hold the meeting, but the dates are still to be finalised.According to officials based in New Delhi and Beijing, the WMCC, headed by additional secretary level officials on both sides, will have tough time resolving disengagement and restoring patrolling rights to Indian Army in Depsang Bulge and Charding Nullah Junction (CNJ), Demchok, due to recalcitrant attitude of the Peoples’ Liberation Army (PLA).It is understood that during the 13th round of military commanders meeting, the PLA resorted to half-measures to resolve the disengagement in Hot Springs area by refusing to move back to permanent bases or restoring status quo ante as existed in April 2020. In May 2020, the PLA using huge volume of troops unilaterally changed the ground positions on north banks of Pangong Tso, Galwan, Gogra and Hot Springs in East Ladakh in a bid to impose rejected 1959 line along the 1597 kilometer Line of Actual Control in Ladakh.While the PLA decided to move back from the present position in Hot Springs area in a half-hearted effort to resolve the friction point, they did not agree to move back to permanent base as has been stipulated in the past meetings of India-China leadership. The Indian Army representative, on its part, rejected this proposal and insisted that both sides go back to their permanent bases to resolve the Hot Springs issue.China watchers believe that the PLA will continue to drag its feet over disengagement in Hot Springs and will require a whole lot of persuasion from the Indian side to restoring patrolling rights in Depsang Bulge and CNJ area south of Demchok.The Indian side, on its part, is also in no hurry with its formations matching the PLA build-up across the LAC. Rather than seeking compromise solutions as in the past, the Modi government will not back down from enforcing its just legal claims on the LAC. Even though the focus is on disengagement and de-escalation from Ladakh LAC, the Indian Army is closely watching the Central and Eastern sector to counter any transgression from the PLA along the full 3488-km LAC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indiachina-to-talk-border-again-focus-on-resolving-hot-springs-101634785242541.html
21-10-2021||India||Delayed by sudden rains, monsoon likely to withdraw completely around Oct 26||Monsoon is likely to withdraw completely from the country around October 26 and simultaneously northeast monsoon is likely to commence over peninsular India, India Meteorological Department has said. Monsoon normally withdraws from the country around October 15.After monsoon had withdrawn from most parts of the country around October 15 except a small part of east India, formation of two low pressure areas over Bay of Bengal and Arabian Sea led to widespread rain over east Odisha, West Bengal, Kerala and parts of northwest India, delaying monsoon withdrawal. Conditions are becoming favourable for further withdrawal of southwest monsoon from remaining parts of Northeast India, West Bengal, Odisha; some parts of Central Bay of Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka and Central Arabian Sea; entire Goa and north Bay of Bengal around October 23. With likely setting in of northeasterly winds in the lower tropospheric levels over Bay of Bengal and extreme south Peninsular India, monsoon is likely to withdraw from entire country around October 26. Simultaneously, the northeast monsoon rains are also likely to commence over southeast peninsular around October 26.A fresh western disturbance is likely to affect Western Himalayan Region especially Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan & Muzaffarabad and Himachal Pradesh between Friday to Sunday and adjoining plains of Northwest India on Saturday and Sunday. Isolated heavy rainfall with thunderstorm & lightning is likely over Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan & Muzaffarabad and Punjab on Saturday; over Himachal Pradesh on Sunday. Also Read| October is the new June: India’s chaotic rain calendarA cyclonic circulation is lying over Bihar & neighbourhood. Under its influence, fairly widespread, light to moderate rainfall with isolated heavy fall and thunderstorms & lightning is very likely over Arunachal Pradesh, Assam & Meghalaya, Tripura, Sub Himalayan West Bengal & Sikkim on Thursday.A cyclonic circulation is lying over south Tamil Nadu coast and neighbourhood and it is likely to persist during next 2-3 days. Under its influence, fairly widespread, heavy rain with thunderstorm and lightning is very likely over Kerala, Mahe, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Karaikal, coastal and south interior Karnataka till Sunday. Isolated very heavy rain is also likely over Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delayed-by-sudden-rains-monsoon-likely-to-withdraw-completely-around-october-26-101634784684904.html
21-10-2021||India||Assam dealers call for 48-hr petrol pumps closure in Guwahati. Check details||A prominent petroleum dealers association has called for a 48-hour closure of petrol pumps in the Greater Guwahati area (Assam) from 6am Friday till Sunday. The North East India Petroleum Dealers Association, in a press release, said that the decision to call for the closure was taken to press for its 10-point charter of demands relating to various issues concerning the petroleum dealership business.Some of these demands include rectification of the issues like forceful selling of Lubricants by HPCL, unauthorised and faulty automation, bending of ethanol and unequal credit facility. Other issues highlighted by the NEIPDA are frequent refusal of contractors to load tankers and illegal deduction from SAP accounts.The release further said the demands had been placed before the oil manufacturing companies, however, that are yet to respond. "As our demands had been placed before the OMCs but they have not headed to them nor have responded to our requests made earlier which had culminated in several meetings," the note reads.Meanwhile, prices of petrol and diesel in the country have been burning a hole in common man's pocket. The fuel prices were hiked in Delhi and Mumbai on Thursday too. The petrol and diesel prices were raised by ₹0.35 and will be sold at ₹106.54 per litre and ₹95.27 per litre respectively in Delhi today. In Mumbai, the petrol price stands at ₹112.44 per litre and diesel would be sold at ₹103.26 per litre, today.The rising fuel prices in the country are not going to come down immediately, reported news agency ANI. The central government is in talks with several oil-exporting countries on the issue of supply and demand of oils but there is no possibility of immediate relief in prices, it further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-guwahati-latest-news-petrol-pumps-to-stay-shut-for-48-hours-check-date-timing-other-details-101634781199981.html
21-10-2021||India||'Assam govt failed to keep its promises': Cong to stage statewide protests today||The Assam Pradesh Congress Committee (APCC) will on Thursday stage protests across the state against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led state government for failing to keep its promises made to the public before the assembly elections this year.The protests on Thursday will be held across every district of Assam except the constituencies of Tamulpur, Mariani, Thowra, Gossaigaon and Bhabanipur, which will go into by-polls on October 30.Rana Goswami, the working president of the APCC, said last Sunday (October 17) that the BJP made five important promises to the state's public as a part of its assembly elections campaign - the safety of women, increasing daily wages of tea gardeners up to ₹350, checking prices of fuel and essential commodities“Accordingly, the people of Assam gave their mandate in favour of the BJP. But after they came into power, they failed to keep their promises,” Goswami was quoted as saying by the local media. The APCC working president also said that in the upcoming by-polls on October 30, the Congress will win in three constituencies - Thowra, Gossaigaon and Mariani - adding the party will give a tough contest in the remaining two seats.The Assam Congress had earlier observed a 'maun vrat' (vow of silence) on October 11 against the violence which erupted in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur and demanded the removal of Union minister Ajay Mishra from the top post. "The law cannot be different for VVIPs and common citizens. No effort was made to arrest the minister's son till he surrendered," APCC president Bhupen Kumar Borah had said after the protest.In this year’s assembly elections in Assam, the Congress was a part of the Mahajot alliance and won 26 seats. The BJP, meanwhile, won 60 of the total 126 seats and returned to power for a second consecutive time with the support of Asom Gana Parishad which got nine seats and United Peoples Party Liberal which got six seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-govt-failed-to-keep-its-promises-congress-to-stage-statewide-protests-101634778878842.html
21-10-2021||India||How India crossed 1 bn vaccine milestone: States with highest coverage||India crossed the 1 billion Covid-19 vaccine dose milestone on Thursday. This comes just over nine months after the nationwide inoculation drive started on January 16, 2021. Hailing the collective spirit of 130-crore Indians who managed to pull off the incredible feat, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah expressed their gratitude to all the medical health professionals and citizens who made this achievement possible.India scripts history. We are witnessing the triumph of Indian science, enterprise and collective spirit of 130 crore Indians. Congrats India on crossing 100 crore vaccinations. Gratitude to our doctors, nurses and all those who worked to achieve this feat. #VaccineCenturyइस ऐतिहासिक उपलब्धि पर पूरे देश को बधाई देता हूँ।अनेकों चुनौतियों को पार कर इस महायज्ञ में अपना योगदान देने वाले सभी वैज्ञानिकों, शोधकर्ताओं व स्वास्थ्यकर्मियों का आभार व हर व्यक्ति की सुरक्षा व स्वास्थ्य हेतु संकल्पित मोदी जी का अभिनन्दन करता हूँ। जय हिन्द! #VaccineCentury pic.twitter.com/YDB0fxlTJNAccording to government data, around 75 per cent of all adults have received the first dose of the vaccine and 31 per cent have been administered both doses. Among the states, Uttar Pradesh has administered the most vaccine doses (above 12 crore), followed by Maharashtra and Gujarat.The numbers for state-wise vaccination coverage have been listed on the MyGov website. Here is the list of states with respective coverage of vaccination:The Centre has planned a series of events to mark the 1 billion doses of the Covid-19 vaccine. While Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya will release a song on the occasion, the country's largest Khadi flag will be displayed at the historic Red Fort.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) National President Jagat Prakash Nadda will visit Uttar Pradesh's Ghaziabad on Thursday to express his gratitude on the occasion. Nadda will reach Kailash Mansarovar Bhawan at 10.30 am on October 21, where he will review the functioning of the vaccination centre, reported news agency ANI.Despite the vaccination drive picking up pace, opposition parties had questioned the government over its promise to administer both the doses of the vaccine to the country's entire adult population by December.Congress spokesperson Gourav Vallabh said on Wednesday that India has 95 crore adults, according to the last census and it remains to be seen how the government covers all of them in the 70 days left in this year.The Left parties too questioned if the country will achieve the year-end target of vaccinating all adult population against Covid-19 when only 31 per cent of the people have received both doses till now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-billion-covid-vaccination-mark-list-of-10-states-with-highest-coverage-101634779901634.html
21-10-2021||India||PM Modi will inaugurate 806-bedded Infosys made ‘Vishram Sadan’ today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate today the Infosys Foundation made 806-bedded Vishram Sadan at National Cancer Institute (NCI) in Jhajjar Campus of AIIMS New Delhi at 10:30 AM via video conferencingAs per the press note released by the Prime Minister's Office, PM Modi is scheduled to address the occasion after the inauguration.The 806 bedded Vishram Sadan is a part of Infosys' Corporate Social Responsibility to provide air-conditioned accommodation facilities to the accompanying attendants of the Cancer Patients, who often have to stay in Hospitals for a longer duration, said the press release."It has been constructed by the Foundation at a cost of about ₹93 crore. It is located in close proximity to the hospital & OPD Blocks of NCI," the release added.Union Health & Family Welfare Minister, Mansukh Mandaviya, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, and Chairperson of Infosys Foundation, Sudha Murthy, will also be present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-will-inaugurate-806-bedded-infosys-made-vishram-sadan-today-101634778584987.html
21-10-2021||India||Drugs case: Aryan Khan's lawyers to plead Bombay HC to hear bail plea on urgent basis||Aryan Khan's lawyers are expected to plead the Bombay high court on Thursday to hear his bail plea in the cruise drugs case on an urgent basis, a day after a special Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) court in Mumbai rejected the 23-year-old's application observing that he was indulging in “illicit drug activities” on a regular basis, and could commit a similar offence if released.Also Read | Only Aryan Khan has the details of...: 5 things court said while denying bail to SRK's sonAlong with Aryan Khan, his fellow cruise members Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha also had their bail pleas rejected on Wednesday by the NDPS court. Soon after the decision was taken, Khan moved an application in the Bombay high court against the special NDPS court order. Arbaaz Merchant's lawyer also said that his client will move the high court today to challenge the NDPS court order. Dhamecha, too, is likely to follow.“We are trying to move the bail application of Arbaaz Merchant in Bombay high court,” Arbaaz Merchant's lawyer Ali Kasif told the news agency ANI on Wednesday.The special NDPS court in Mumbai heard the bail petitions of all three accused in the cruise drugs case at 2:45pm on Wednesday and rejected those after observing that Khan, Merchant, and Dhamecha acted in conspiracy with each other and that all of them are connected in the same thread. The judge accepted the Narcotics Control Bureau's (NCB) argument that all the accused were part of a large drug network.Also Read | Aryan Khan's drug-related chat with debut actress: Why didn't court grant bail? What's next?Among other observations, the court noted that Aryan Khan is in touch with other drug dealers. “In the case at hand, material placed on record reveals that there is incriminating material in the form of WhatsApp chats, etc which shows the nexus of the applicant / accused no. 1 with suppliers and peddlers,” the judge said in his 21-page order.In Khan's WhatsApp chats, there is a reference to “bulk quantity” and “hard drugs” and “there is prima facie material showing that accused No 1 was in contact with persons dealing in prohibited narcotic substances”, the order added.Notably, the NCB team had at mid-sea busted the alleged drugs party on October 2 aboard a Cordelia Cruise ship that was on its way to Goa. A total of 20 people, including two Nigerian nationals, Delhi-based event management professionals, and Mumbai-based drug peddlers, have so far been arrested in the case related to the seizure of drugs from the ship.Aryan Khan and Arbaaz Merchant are lodged at Arthur Road jail, while Munmun Dhamecha is lodged at the women's prison in Byculla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drugs-case-aryan-khan-s-lawyers-to-plead-bombay-hc-to-hear-bail-plea-on-urgent-basis-101634775270993.html
21-10-2021||India||India likely to cross 1 billion Covid jab milestone today, celebrations planned||India is set to cross the 100 crore or 1 billion Covid-19 vaccination mark on Thursday, nine months after the nationwide inoculation programme started to protect the citizens against the coronavirus disease. And the central government has planned a series of events to mark the occasion.Also Read | 3 in 4 Indians get at least 1 jab as total doses near the billion markUnion health minister Mansukh Mandaviya will launch a song composed by singer Kailash Kher and an audio-visual film at the Red Fort today."The country is close to making a vaccine century. To be a part of this golden opportunity, I appeal to the citizens who are yet to be vaccinated to contribute to this historic golden vaccination journey of India by getting vaccinated immediately," he said in a tweet in Hindi.The government also plans to make public announcements on airplanes, ships, metros and at railway stations when the billionth shot is given.Along with this, the largest khadi tricolour in the country, weighing around 1,400 kg, will be displayed at the Red Fort today, according to officials quoted by news agency PTI.The same tricolour with dimensions 225 feet by 150 feet was unfurled on October 2 - Gandhi Jayanti - in Leh. The flag is the largest handwoven and handspun cotton khadi flag ever manufactured in India."After 100 crore doses are administered, we will go in mission mode to ensure that those who have taken their first dose take their second dose too to ensure they are protected against Covid-19," Mandaviya had earlier said.Also Read | Jharkhand looks for over 12 lakh people overdue for second doseThe total vaccine doses administered in the country crossed 99.7 crore (997 million) on Wednesday, according to the data available at the government's CoWIN portal shortly before 11pm. Around 75 per cent of all adults have received the first dose of the vaccine and 31 per cent have been administered both the doses.Only China, which is facing the heat from many countries over the origin of Covid-19, has administered one billion doses. It crossed the milestone in June.Since the launch of the nationwide vaccination programme, India has seen its vaccine coverage going up steadily, with single-day figures first reaching 10 million in the month of August (and four times after that) and crossing a high of 25 million on the occasion of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's birthday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-likely-to-cross-1-billion-covid-jab-milestone-today-celebrations-planned-101634775473232.html
21-10-2021||India||IRCTC to launch ‘Jyotirlinga Darshan’ train today; check pricing, other details||The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) will be launching the “Jyotirlinga Darshan Yatra train” on Thursday, with an aim to boost pilgrimage to the four prominent ‘Jyotirlinga’ sites of the country. The train is expected to start its operation from the Prayagraj Sangam station in Uttar Pradesh today, and through the course of a 10-day tour, take devotees on this journey through the popular pilgrimage sites.The Jyotirlinga shrines are devotional sites dedicated to Lord Shiva across the country; while there are many such sites considered sacred in India and Nepal, there are 12 prominent such shrines that devotees aim to visit. Out of these, the Jyotirlinga Darshan train will facilitate travel to four – Mahakaleshwar, Omkareshwar, Somnath, and Nageshwar Jyotirlinga.Cost of Jyotirlinga Darshan tourismThe Jyotirlinga Darshan Yatra train will take devotees through the four aforementioned Jyotirlingam sites in the country, and also facilitate a visit to the Statue of Unity and Udaipur along with it. The package of 10 nights and 11 days has been priced at ₹10,395 per head.According to IRCTC officials familiar with the matter, bookings for the Jyotirlinga Darshan tourism package had already started earlier this month.Jyotirlinga Darshan yatraAlthough the special pilgrimage train would begin its journey from Prayagraj, passengers can board the train at several stations throughout the route – including Prayag, Pratapgarh, Amethi, Rae Bareli, Lucknow, Kanpur, Etawah, Bhind, Gwalior, and Jhansi.Also Read | IRCTC starts special Deluxe AC tourist train for Char Dham YatraApart from the four Jyotirlingas, the pilgrims would also be taken to visit Dwarkadhish Mandir in Dwarka, the Bhent Dwarka Mandir, the Sabarmati Ashram in Ahmedabad, and the Statue of Unity in Baroda. Along with these tourist destinations, the train would also have its stoppage at the city of Udaipur wherein the passengers would be taken to visit the City Palace, Saheliyon Ki Bari, and the Maharana Pratap Memorial.Passengers would be provided pure vegetarian breakfast, lunch, and dinner throughout all the days of the journey; besides, the facility of a local bus for site seeing and accommodation in dharamshalas, etc would also be provided by IRCTC and the cost of the ticket includes all these expenses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/irctc-to-launch-jyotirlinga-darshan-train-today-check-pricing-other-details-101634773025379.html
21-10-2021||India||Growing up Karanth: A biography worth reading||“Growing up Karanth,” which came out this month-- October-- is a biography of Kota Shivarama Karanth, the polymath who has been a towering figure in fiction, drama, Yakshagana ballets, science encyclopaedias, children’s books and much more. Written by Karanth’s three children, Ullas, Malavika and Kshama, Growing up Karanth is a wonderful read. (Disclosure: Ullas and his daughter, Krithi are friends of mine).Why do we read a biography? Often, because we want to get to know greatness. We are drawn to charismatic compelling figures and we want to know the ‘real person’ behind the public persona. By this measure, Growing up Karanth delivers in full measure. It takes us inside the life and mind of the Karanth family. It shows us how they lived, the kinds of food they ate, the animals they kept, and the connections they fostered. There are lovely snippets of Shivarama Karanth, the father, whom the children call “Tata”. Each of them recounts unique episodes. The eldest, Malavika talks about going with Karanth to meet his friends in the evenings and chatting him up on these long walks. All three children talk about such perambulations with their father, the road-trips they took, and how he taught them about art, architecture, music and life. The setting for all this action is Balavana, their family homestead where people would drop in to chat and connect. Here, Karanth held court, wrote his many works of literature, took in students, friends and strays, taught them things, and reframed Yakshagana into a modern form while retaining its essence. It is clear that Shivarama Karanth was someone who followed his bliss, whether it was taking on projects that threw the family more into debt, or going on a voyage to Europe to see its museums.It is also clear that his wife, Leela Alva Karanth was the anchor to his sails. She is portrayed as a vibrant, compassionate and impactful woman, at least in the early years. There are many episodes that portray Leela as someone who goes out of her way to make people comfortable-- perhaps to her detriment, as her later years show. She makes conversation with all the important people who visit their home, ensures that everyone is fed and well, and balances out her husband’s vast appetites for creation and reform. She does this with empathy and panache.There is a scene early on in the book about how Leela decided that Shivarama Karanth was the man she wanted to marry based on his beautiful hands. She proposes to him and he accedes in his own way. We all think rural Indian women are constrained by tradition and boundaries. Not so as this memoir points out. Each of us contains “multitudes,” to use Walt Whitman’s term.The best memoirs and biographies are both specific and universal. They offer a prism into their subjects but also into an ethos, a milieu. When I read the episode of Leela proposing, I remembered many other instances where rural women surprised the world by “being forward” in their approach. Most of us deal with stereotypes. Occasionally a good book goes above them.The book also portrays both parents in all their complexities. The authors write about the tragedies that befell the family. They lost an elder brother, Harsha, very young. Leela was later diagnosed as bi-polar with alternating manic and depressive episodes. Karanth himself became enamoured with a much younger woman whom they call M in the book.Good biographies are cathartic both for the readers and the creators. They offer a glimpse into the inner and outer worlds of the subject. The best ones have a feeling-tone that allows the inner life of the subjects to fall off the page. At the end of the book, I was fascinated by-- and learned a lot about-- the world that Leela and Karanth inhabited, about the many hues of their relationships, about their magnificent largesse of mind and spirit and the myriad small things that make up the landscape of Karnataka. There are many types of biographies. The ones I love the most are exactly like Growing up Karanth-- written not as a worshipful hagiography but as gritty reality. The book portrays both Shivarama Karanth and his talented wife, Leela Alva Karanth as fascinating, complicated human beings-- each of them large-hearted and enormously talented in their own way, each with their own specific human frailties. Most important of all, I saw in their lives, shades of mine. I saw in their relationships, people who I had known. The feelings expressed in the book held a mirror to my own feelings. Isn’t that what you want from a good book? To lose yourself. Growing up Karanth will no doubt make many readers lose themselves in the book.(Shoba Narayan is Bangalore-based award-winning author. She is also a freelance contributor who writes about art, food, fashion and travel for a number of publications).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/growing-up-karanth-a-biography-worth-reading-101634756123976.html
21-10-2021||India||BJP looks to win over ‘voters of tomorrow’ for 2029 polls||The Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) has set its sights on preteens and adolescents who will be eligible voters in the 2029 general elections and is planning an outreach aimed at this demographic group to ensure they are not “influenced by the communist and anti-national narrative” said party functionaries aware of the details. The decision to woo the “voters of tomorrow” is an outcome of a series of meetings held over the past few months including the recent national office bearers meet in the capital on Monday, the functionaries added. The party’s ideological fount, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh has also stressed on reaching out the youth. “We are not only looking at 2024 but at 2029 (general elections). There is a concern (in the party) that while the communist parties have lost political ground they have still managed to retain the mind space (of the young). As a result we see the younger lot on social media platforms gravitating towards the communists and have cultivated negative perceptions about the BJP,” a senior party functionary said on condition of anonymity. Commenting on the social media discourse that is helping cement perceptions against the BJP, the functionary added, “Negative comments and sentiments that evoke the feeling of being wronged get a lot of traction. Sometimes our own kids question us based on the social media narrative.” The party plans to launch campaigns that will focus on different age groups. Interestingly , the BJP is already popular among the young: according to a Lokniti-CSDS post-poll survey conducted after the 2019 general elections, the BJP topped the list of parties with 41% votes from voters in the age group of 18-22 years, which was nearly the double of what the other parties including the Congress ended up with. The party was also popular among those between 23-27 years of age. It is clear the party doesn’t want to lose that base. “The party’s own post-poll analysis also show that BJP was the most preferred party for the first time voters and the younger lot was attracted to the party because of Prime Minister (Narendra) Modi’s development agenda. The percentage of youth voting for the party rose in 2019 by about four to five percentage points,” a second party functionary said on condition of anonymity. In 2014, when the BJP came to power at the Centre with a majority, it’s big win was partly credited to the support it got from the first time voters. There were 23.1 million first time voters in 2014 and post poll surveys showed that the party won 39% of the vote from this category. In 2019 there were 84 million crore first time voters. “Since 2013 the BJP has planned campaigns pivoted around the young and issues that concern them such as jobs, development and economy. The policies of the government that created avenues for earning through schemes such as Startup India and Mudra loans is a key reason why the party continues to get support fromthem,” the second functionary added. To retain its hold over the young demographic, the party has decided to groom its leaders, particularly young leaders, in subjects such as human rights, cyber laws, and laws pertaining to atrocities against women and scheduled castes and tribes.It also plans to get articulate young leaders put forth its views. “We are often attacked by our opponents on these issues, so it is imperative that the party leaders should be ready with facts and figures to counter allegations. Language proficiency is another issue that we will focus on,” the first functionary said. The overall idea is to create a “positive narrative” about issues that the BJP raises such as “nationalism” and “social harmony”, this person added. Sanjay Kumar of the Centre for Studies on Developing Societies who has written extensively on the BJP‘s gains from the younger demographic group said: ”It is easier for the party to sway the young, who have not seen any other government and are therefore are unable to make comparisons. The BJP has been the biggest beneficiary of first-time voters and these fresh minds are easier to mobilise.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-looks-to-win-over-voters-of-tomorrow-for-2029-polls-101634756062775.html
21-10-2021||India||Experts fear last-minute spike in farm fires this year||The late withdrawal of monsoon and the off-season showers over north-west India might have temporarily helped Delhi’s air to shake off the adverse impact of stubble fires, but with the next crop season fast approaching, environmentalists and weather experts have warned that the stubble fire count could rise fast in the coming days, and Delhi might be in for some intense pollution spells soon.After heavy, widespread rain over parts of Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi over the past two days, satellite images from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Nasa) showed an increase in “red dots”—representing stubble fires—over the region.The impact of this high number of fires was also seen in Delhi’s air on Wednesday, as the air quality index climbing to 221, into the “poor” zone once again, after a welcome spell of good air days. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) analysis showed that high stubble fires were the primary reason behind the fall in air quality.According to Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), 746 fires were reported on Wednesday from Punjab and Haryana, which contributed 12% of Delhi’s PM 2.5 (particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) levels.Pawan Gupta, a research scientist at the Goddard Earth Sciences Technology and Research (GESTAR), Universities Space Research Association, said fire counts could be low because farmers cannot set wet fields on fire, and while the stubble season is delayed this year, the number of fires is catching up with that of previous years.“From Tuesday, we are seeing from satellite images that after the clouds cleared up, smoke is visible over north-west India. Get ready for more intense burning and smoky skies in the coming weeks,” said Gupta.IMD scientist Ashim Mitra also tweeted satellite images of stubble fire smoke enveloping north-west India on Wednesday. He said these fires may have not been detected because of the cloud cover and rain, but after the rainfall stopped from Tuesday, the smoke started reappearing on satellite images.“A fall in temperature and winds may bring pollutants from these fires into neighbouring states,” Mitra said.Other scientists that HT spoke to also said these post-monsoon showers were only delaying the stubble fires in agrarian states and were not necessarily an indication of the season seeing a cumulative drop in stubble count.They also said with the IMD forecasting more rain in parts of Punjab and Haryana on October 23-24, the window before the next crop sowing will only shorten, leading to more stubble fires and intense pollution in the Capital in the coming weeks.“There is a western disturbance passing over the region on October 23-24 and under its impact, parts of Punjab and Haryana is likely to receive heavy rainfall. Delhi-NCR is only likely to see cloudy skies and isolated, light showers,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change), Skymet.An analysis by Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW) shows that between September 1 and October 19, over 4,345 farm fires were recorded in Punjab, and 2,034 farm fires in Haryana. Experts said while the number of farm fires is lower this year compared to 2020, it is higher compared to the corresponding periods in 2018 and 2019.“This year’s farm fires have been low so far, compared to the kharif season last year because of the delayed harvest on account of the extended monsoon. However, it is important to note that the year 2020 is an anomaly due to multiple reasons, such as significant adoption of the direct seeding technique for paddy sowing due to labour scarcity on account of Covid-19 pandemic. This resulted in an early harvest and an early and extended stubble burning season last year. Farm fires reported in Punjab so far are higher compared to the corresponding periods in 2018 and 2019,” said LS Kurinji, programme associate, CEEW.She added, “That said, the delay due to extended monsoon will only add to the time crunch faced by farmers in managing stubble and preparing the fields for the next crops.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/experts-fear-last-minute-spike-in-farm-fires-this-year-101634755950967.html
21-10-2021||India||Weapons, heroin recovered by BSF near border in Punjab||The Punjab Police and the BSF have recovered a huge cache of weapons near the India-Pakistan border in the Khemkaran area of Tarn Taran district, an official said on Wednesday.In a joint operation, the Counter Intelligence wing of the Punjab Police and the Border Security Force (BSF) recovered 22 pistols, 44 magazines and 100 rounds of ammunition, the police official said.One kg of heroin was also recovered, he added They were packed in a black kit bag concealed in a paddy field, the official said.Officiating Director General of Police (DGP) Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota said police received secret information that a huge consignment of arms and heroin had been concealed, following which the Counter Intelligence wing in Amritsar was sent to the spot and a search operation was planned with the BSF authorities.During the preliminary investigations, it has come to light that as “conceal and clear” has been the most practised modus operandi of Pakistani smugglers, this consignment was placed by them in Indian territory across the fence and it was supposed to be retrieved by their Indian associates, according to an official statement.The DGP said a case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, the Arms Act and the Finance Act has been registered in Amritsar.This is not the first time when anti-national elements have tried to push such consignments through various channels across the border.In the past too, the Counter Intelligence wing had recovered from different accused a huge cache of illegal weapons meant to disturb the peace and harmony of the state.In June this year, a consignment of foreign-made 48 pistols was recovered in Batala.In another operation, the Counter Intelligence wing had recovered 39 pistols from Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/weapons-heroin-recovered-by-bsf-near-border-in-punjab-101634755944101.html
21-10-2021||India||Congress suffers jolt as prominent Jat leaders quit ahead of UP polls||In a major setback to the Congress in Uttar Pradesh ahead of elections next year, former Rajya Sabha MP and four-time MLA Harendra Malik and his son, Pankaj Malik, quit the party on Tuesday.While the father-son duo have not said anything about their future plans, speculations are rife that they may join the Akhilesh Yadav-led Samajwadi Party soon.Harendra, a four-time MLA, was a member of Congress national general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s advisory committee. He is also a prominent Jat face in western Uttar Pradesh.“I have resigned for some unavoidable reasons. I served the party for 18 years and am not a man of levelling charges while quitting,” Harendra told HT on Tuesday.Harendra was a member of Rajya Sabha from Indian National Lokdal in 2004. He served as the party’s state chief and widened its support base before joining the Congress 18 years ago. Harendra’s son, Pankaj, is a former MLA and was serving as the vice-president of the state Congress unit. He was also made in charge of western Uttar Pradesh. According to people familiar with the developments, the father-son duo resigned as they felt they were being ignored by the leadership.“More and more leaders, from all parties, have been coming to SP or looking to join SP because SP is the party that will defeat BJP and form the next government. Our party president had repeatedly said that all are welcome,” SP state spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary said. Political analyst and Lucknow University professor SK Dwivedi said: “Leaders from Congress or BSP are joining the SP. Congress is creating a buzz but lacks organisation at the grassroots level while BSP has eroded in the state. It looks like the elections will be BJP vs SP by and large.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-suffers-jolt-as-prominent-jat-leaders-quit-ahead-of-up-polls-101634755825032.html
21-10-2021||India||Conference on PM Narendra Modi’s ‘model of governance’||After grand celebrations by the Centre and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to mark Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s 20 years in office, a three-day long conference has been organised by an RSS-linked organisation to discuss his governance model. Union minister Amit Shah is expected to inaugurate the conference on October 27.The conference titled ‘National conference in delivery democracy: reviewing two decades of Narendra Modi as head of government’, has been organised by Rambhau Mhalgi Pradodhni (RMP), a Mumbai-based charitable trust that works in field training people for leadership roles. The organisation, which started in 1982, is headed by former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. Issues related to economic and foreign policies, citizen-centric approach and the “art of implementation” that made him “a popular leader” are likely to be the focus of the conference. A discussion is also likely on the three contentious agricultural laws, against which large scale protests by farmers are being held since November last year.Providing details of the event, Rajya Sabha MP Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, who is the vice-chairman of RMP, said: “There will be sessions on Modi ji’s economic and foreign policies, new education policy, his philosophy of garib kalyan and how poor have benefited from the various schemes started by the government. Union home minister Amit Shah will inaugurate the event and BJP national president JP Nadda will attend the event on the last day.”Modi’s tenure as Gujarat chief minister and now Prime Minister are important milestones in the democratic process, Sahasrabuddhe said. He added that the decisions taken by Modi have focused on the welfare of people, especially the poor.“People have benefited from the schemes started by his government. This has been possible due to effective implementation. There will be experts and people at the event, who have worked with Modiji during his tenure in Gujarat and now at the Centre, to share their experience during the art of implementation session,” Sahasrabuddhe said.On the farm laws, Sahasrabuddhe said, “There will be experts on farm sectors who will discuss the government’s approach and the need for reforms.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/conference-on-pm-narendra-modi-s-model-of-governance-101634755644286.html
21-10-2021||India||K’taka CM Bommai assures flood-ravaged Kerala of relief||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday promised his Kerala counterpart Pinarayi Vijayan all support in relief and rehabilitation following loss of lives due to heavy rains and landslides.“Spoke to Kerala CM @vijayanpinarayi & expressed deep grief over the loss of lives due to heavy rains & landslides,” Bommai tweeted.He added that he has asked Karnataka Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar to be in touch with the Kerala chief secretary for all support in relief and rehabilitation.Bommai said “our prayers are with Kerala in this hour of crisis.” A total of 39 people had lost their lives and 217 houses had been destroyed in the devastating landslides and flash floods that had occurred in the south-central districts of the state recently, Vijayan said in the Kerala Assembly.He also said that at least six people were missing and 304 rehabilitation camps were opened after the rains battered several areas of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ktaka-cm-bommai-promises-flood-ravaged-kerala-of-relief-101634755585155.html
21-10-2021||India||Karnataka logs 462 fresh Covid-19 cases, 9 deaths||Karnataka on Wednesday added 462 fresh Covid-19 cases and nine deaths, taking the caseload and death toll to 2,984,484 and 37,976, respectively, the health department said.The day also saw 479 people being discharged, taking the total number of recoveries to 2,937,405. Active cases stood at 9,074, a department bulletin said.Bengaluru Urban accounted for the maximum number of 253 cases and six deaths, it said.Other districts too reported fresh cases, including 43 in Mysuru, 32 in Tumakuru, 29 in Dakshina Kannada, 19 in Hassan, 15 in Udupi, 12 in Kodagu and 10 in Mandya.One death each was reported in Bidar, Dharwad and Mysuru.Bagalkote, Gadag, Haveri and Raichur reported zero infections and zero Covid-19 related deaths.Twenty-seven districts recorded zero fatalities, the bulletin said.The positivity rate for the day was 0.39 per cent and the case fatality rate was 1.94 per cent.A total of 116,121 samples were tested today, taking the cumulative number of specimens examined to 49.7 million.The number of vaccinations done so far in the state rose to 61.5 million, with 162,668 people being inoculated on Wednesday, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-logs-462-fresh-covid-19-cases-9-deaths-101634755583897.html
21-10-2021||India||20 cases of betting filed during IPL: CCB||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) in Bengaluru on Wednesday said it has so far registered 20 cases of betting during the Indian Premier League (IPL), one of the biggest sporting events globally. “In the recently concluded IPL, CCB booked (a) total of 20 cases of betting, seized ₹78 lakh and arrested 27,” Sandeep Patil, Joint Commissioner of Police (CCB), said in a statement on Wednesday.The statement came even as online gaming companies have approached the Karnataka high court seeking a stay on the legislation banning all gambling apps in the state.Patil told HT the cases were registered over the last two to three weeks or during the IPL season. “All this (cases) happened before the ban,” Patil said. He added gambling in itself is an offence under the Karnataka Police Act.The Karnataka Police (Amendment) Bill was passed last month and banned “any act or risking money, or otherwise on the unknown result of an event including on a game of skill.”The online gaming industry, which gained significant traction during the Covid-19 pandemic-induced lockdown, was slated to grow from 360 million gamers to 510 million by 2022, according to a 2021 report by All India Gaming Federation and EY. The report estimated that online real money game players were expected to grow from 80 million in 2020 to 150 million by 2023. Estimates indicate that Karnataka, known for its prowess in technology, accounts for around 15% of the country’s market.According to the Internet and Mobile Association of India, 92 gaming companies registered in Bengaluru employed over 4,000 people and, in the last three years alone, attracted ₹3,000 crore in investments.Patil said the amendment to the law empowers police to crack down on such service providers.To be sure, most online gaming and gambling apps have disabled their services in Karnataka after the notification of the law on October 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/20-cases-of-betting-filed-during-ipl-ccb-101634755582668.html
21-10-2021||India||Karnataka AAP stages protest against civic ‘apathy’, corruption||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in Karnataka on Wednesday held a protest against the poor quality of infrastructure in Bengaluru, decorating potholes with flowers and offerings, terming the event “Pothole Habba” or festival of potholes.“We are not standing in front of a pothole but a monument of the state’s corruption,” Prithvi Reddy, the party’s state convenor said on Wednesday.“The state government has spent ₹20,000 crore in the last five years on repairing roads in Bangalore. But the roads here are in a pathetic condition, accidents and deaths are common tragedy due to potholes,” he added.The protest comes even as lives are lost due to the poor condition or civic infrastructure in Bengaluru which is among the lowest quality in the country, political parties have alleged.The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has now started to fill potholes after at least three people died over the last couple of months.According to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), there have been 18 deaths in Bengaluru due to civic apathy, which is several times more than all other major urban centres of the country put together.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has been in control of the BBMP since 2010. However, there has been no elected councillors in the BBMP for over a year now. The recent heavy rains in Bengaluru continues to expose the shortcomings of the infrastructure in the city with flooding, potholes, overflowing lakes and building collapses which the civic authorities have conveniently blamed on the downpour and shirked responsibility.Karnataka chief minister Basvaraj Bommai, in the recently concluded monsoon session of the state legislature had said that over ₹20,000 crore was spent on roads in the last five years, sparking off a debate around where the money was actually used or if it was all gobbled up by corrupt politicians.Reddy demanded that a ‘White paper’ be furnished to account for the ₹20,000 crore spent in the city and the officials who were incharge of these projects.“These poor quality of works could have not happened without the active support or blessings of local MLA or corporator. The role of all such persons must be investigated,” Reddy added.The BBMP elections are likely to be held early next year and the AAP is preparing ground to contest the polls.Reddy said that if the demands of the AAP are not met within 15 days, the party will approach the courts.“The central and state governments are playing with the life of (the) common man by increasing fuel and gas prices,” Mohan Dasari, the Bengaluru city president of the political outfit said on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-aap-stages-protest-against-civic-apathy-corruption-101634755525478.html
21-10-2021||India||Karnataka minister hits back at Cong, JD(S) for criticising RSS||Araga Jnanendra, Karnataka’s minister for home affairs, on Wednesday hitback at critics of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), terming the latter as nation builders founded by patriotic nationalists.“RSS is an organisation, founded by staunch patriotic nationalists, and is in the service of building a strong nation,” he said in a statement on Wednesday.He added that the Congress and the Janata Dal (Secular) were making defamatory remarks against the RSS, the ideological parent of the Bharatiya Janata Party(BJP), to get votes of minority communities.“Both the JD(S) and the Congress leaders are competing (with) each other with an eye on minorities votes,” he added.The statements come even as the Congress and JD(S) have intensified their attacks on the RSS and their attempts to saffronise the country and targeting of minorities.The BJP leadership has invited former chief minister and JD(S) leader, HD Kumaraswamy, to come and visit an RSS Shakha to see for himself the ‘good work’ done by the organisation.Kumaraswamy on Wednesday said that he wanted nothing to do with the RSS or their Shakha. “Haven’t we seen what they teach inside an RSS Shakha? When the assembly proceedings are on, watch blue films. This is what has been taught in their Shakha’s. Should I also go there and learn such things,” Kumaraswamy said.Kumaraswamy has made scathing remarks against the BJP and the Congress to put some distance between the JD(S) and the other two major political parties in the state in the run up to the October 30 bypolls in Sindgi and Hanagal.The JD(S) has been accused of fielding two Muslim candidates in both constituencies which the Congress alleged was to split the minority votes that would otherwise go to the Sonia Gandhi-led party.The Congress had accused the JD(S) of trying to cozy up to the BJP to ensure its own survival and attack the former, who both consider a common enemy. The JD(S) is the only party that has allied with both the BJP and the Congress at the state level and other local bodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-minister-hits-back-at-cong-jd-s-for-criticising-rss-101634755523950.html
21-10-2021||India||BSY slams Karnataka BJP chief for comments on Rahul||Former Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Wednesday chided state BJP president for making “disrespectful” remarks against Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday. “No one should speak of another in this manner. I will speak to him (Kateel). Dont know in what context it was said but if he has spoken like this, there is no need,” Yediyurappa said in Sindgi, one of the two bypoll-bound constituencies in Karnataka. “Whether it is Rahul Gandhi or anyone, they have certain respect and we should not speak in a manner that disrespects them,” Yediyurappa further said. Nalin Kumar Kateel, the state BJP president on Tuesday had called Rahul Gandhi a “drug addict and peddler” to target the Congress in Hubballi, about 450 kms from Bengaluru. “Your G-23 says that she is not yet the national president. Sonia Gandhi says that she is the president. One side says Rahul Gandhi should be made president. What is Rahul Gandhi? I am not saying this, but he is a drug addict, a drug peddler,” Kateel had said. The Congress had taken serious objections to the statements made by Kateel and demanded an apology from the latter. Randeep Singh Surjewala, the Congress general secretary incharge of Karnataka on Wednesday said that when someone does not get any attention from within his own party, they resort to such antics. “When someone goes mad, he tears off his clothes, throws stones at passersby, throws tomatoes to get attention,” Surjewala said in Bengaluru on Wednesday. “It is an uncultured statement made by the BJP leader in Karnataka which cannot be acceptable. Nalini Kumar Kateel being president of the party in Karnataka must apologize for his statement,” he further said. Condemning Kateel’s statement, former chief minister and Congress legislative party leader Siddaramaiah said, “He (Kateel) is an immature and uncultured politician who must take treatment in NIMHANS (centre for mental health).” There have been personal attacks made by all three parties in the run up to the October 30 bypolls which has become a big test for chief minister Basvaraj Bommai, who has been trying to emerge from the shadows of his mentor and predecessor, Yediyurappa. The BJP on Wednesday also took a dig at JD(S) leader HD Kumaraswamy and commented on his personal life. Taking objection to the BJP’s remark, Kumaraswamy said, “Other than looking at the problems of the people, they are trying to stir up personal issues. Who does this benefit? Does it benefit the people who are in problem. If you discuss my personal issues, I have no apprehensions on the same.” He said that there was no point in “mudslinging” as he had dirt on all of them making such personal remarks. “I am an open book. Nothing has happened in secret. There are things that have happened directly and the few times I have committed a mistake, I have rectified them and this has been recorded in the legislative assembly proceedings,” Kumaraswamy added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsy-slams-karnataka-bjp-chief-for-comments-on-rahul-101634755522720.html
21-10-2021||India||10 years on, Bengaluru Metro project still on slow track||Exactly 10 years ago, the first 7 kms stretch of the Bengaluru metro between Byapanahalli and MG Road was flagged off, raising the hope of a city that was plunging deeper into chaos over the rise of private vehicles. However, till date, only 64 kms are operational so far. The delay in completion of the Metro project has forced over 12 million residents of Bengaluru to depend on private transport for commuting in the city. There are at least 9.4 million vehicles that ply the roads of Bengaluru, according to the Department of Urban Land Transport (DULT). Managing director of Bengaluru Metro Rail Corporation (BMRCL) while lauding the people of Bengaluru and the staff for their cooperation agreed that there is still a lot of work to be done. “Today Bengaluru Metro, BMRCL (Bengaluru Metro Rail Corporation Limited) has completed 10 years. On 20 October, 2011, the first line started. Today 10 years have been completed and this has been done with the cooperation of the people of Bengaluru, those who have lost their lands (for the project) and our employees and we have been very successful in giving this service,” Parvez said on Wednesday. He added that there was still a lot of work to be done as only 64 kms are operational so far. Till now, only the green line between Yelachenahalli and Nagasandra as well as the purple line between Byappanahalli and Kengeri are operational . The ridership of the Metro is in the range of 500,000 per day as against the BMTC, which during pre-Covid-19 accounted for over 4 million passengers or over 40% of the city’s commuters. Work for the Metro began in 2007 and the slow pace of work so far have resulted in just under 5 kms of operational lines being constructed per year. Parvez said that works are in progress and subsequent phases would take the total length to 175 kms across a city that expands to over 800 square kms by December 2024. This would mean that the agency would have to construct and operationalise 55 kms per year for the next two years or 10 times more than what it has achieved over the last 13 years (10 years since the first line became operational and 13 years since the metro works started)In a recent interview to Hindustan Times, Parvez said that the first phase was a learning experience and that the subsequent phases will progress faster. Each year of delay adds a minimum of 5% to the overall cost of the project, according to senior metro officials. The remaining phases include extension of lines towards the Bengaluru International Airport from Silk Board, one of the most congested junctions in the city, if not in the country. The ₹15,767 crore suburban rail project, another proposed solution to decongest Bengaluru, is scheduled to be completed only by 2026. Metro officials said that over 1.41 lakh vehicles have been taken off the road, leading to savings of over 13.25 lakh vehicle kms since the metro has been operationalised. The dependence on private vehicles have increased over the course of the last year and a half as people have stayed away from the public transport due to Covid-19. The poor quality of roads, inadequate public transport, increase of private vehicles has also added to the city’s crumbling infrastructure with promises on mass mobility solutions remain a distant and delayed dream which has caused more hardships due to addition of bottlenecks to the already nasty traffic snarls. With most of the roads dug up currently in Bengaluru in the name of “smart city” and other developmental projects, the dust and vehicular emissions have taken a toll on the general quality of life due to air and water pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-years-on-bengaluru-metro-project-still-on-slow-track-101634755464479.html
21-10-2021||India||NIA arrests 4 more terror associates in Kashmir||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday arrested four more terror associates during raids, at 11 locations across Kashmir, in connection with a case to unearth a conspiracy hatched by various terrorist groups to carry out attacks in and outside the Union territory. The case was registered on October 10 and nine people were arrested by the central anti-terror probe agency on October 12 and 13.While three persons — Kamran Ashraf Reshi, Rayid Bashir and Hanan Gulzar Dar — arrested on Wednesday are residents of Srinagar, the fourth, Suhail Ahmad Thokar, is from south Kashmir’s Kulgam district.The NIA, in a statement, said the latest arrests were made following raids across multiple locations in four districts of Kashmir. “Today, NIA conducted searches at 11 locations in Srinagar, Pulwama, Kulgam and Baramulla districts of Jammu and Kashmir and arrested 4 more accused persons,” the statement said. “The searches conducted today have led to recovery and seizure of electronic devices and incriminating documents and posters, etc,” it added. Preliminary investigation revealed that the four persons were terror associates or OGWs (over the ground workers) of various proscribed terrorist organisations, the agency said.“They have been providing logistical and material support to terrorists,” it added.According to the NIA, the case pertains to information received regarding hatching of conspiracy both physically and in cyberspace for undertaking violent terrorist acts in Jammu and Kashmir and other major cities, including New Delhi, by cadres of proscribed terrorist organisations Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM), Hizb-ul-Mujahideen (HM), Al Badr and similar other outfits and their affiliates such as The Resistance Front (TRF) and People Against Fascist Forces (PAFF).The case was registered after seven civilians were killed in targeted attacks between October 2 and 7. Four non-local residents were also killed by terrorists after the case was filed. The agency is likely to take over the probe into the killings of six civilians, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-arrests-4-more-terror-associates-in-kashmir-101634755462767.html
21-10-2021||India||Several liquor outlets shifted, upgraded: Excise dept to Kerala HC||The state government’s Excise department on Wednesday told the Kerala high court that several of the liquor outlets, which were under scrutiny to ascertain whether they were customer friendly, have been shifted to new buildings and facilities in many others have been upgraded.Besides that online booking has also been introduced in 29 foreign liquor outlets to reduce crowding, the department has said in a memo filed in the high court which on September 16 had said the Excise authority was responsible for ensuring those coming to buy alcohol at such shops, are not treated as “cattle” and those watching this are not subjected to “ridicule and embarrassment”.According to the memo, filed through senior government pleader S Kannan, 10 shops have been shifted to new buildings and in 33 other outlets, infrastructure facilities -- like more counters and parking space -- have been upgraded or improved.Besides that, to review steps taken by the Kerala State Beverages Corporation (BEVCO), a meeting with its Managing Director and its other officials was held on October 13 and the company has agreed to expedite its actions to upgrade the facilities for various shops, the Excise department has said.Pursuant to several high court orders to ensure liquor outlets were customer friendly and prevent serpentine queues outside them, 96 such shops were being scrutinised by the Excise department.The orders of the high court had come on a contempt plea which was filed claiming non-compliance of its 2017 judgment directing the state government and BEVCO to ensure that no nuisance is caused to businesses and residents of an area in Thrissur due to a BEVCO outlet there.The high court on September 2 had said that had it not intervened to reduce queues outside BEVCO liquor outlets, “we would have been sitting on a catastrophic time bomb”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/several-liquor-outlets-shifted-upgraded-excise-dept-to-kerala-hc-101634755347082.html
21-10-2021||India||No holding up of traffic for CM convoy: Tamil Nadu govt tells HC||The Tamil Nadu government has decided not to hold up traffic for movement of VIPs, including the chief minister, the Madras high court was informed on Wednesday.State Public Prosecutor Hassan Mohammed Jinnah said this to Justice N Anand, who recorded his appreciation. He hailed the state Home Secretary for taking immediate steps to ease the traffic movement during the visits of VIPs to public places.Earlier, irked over the action of the police in erecting barricades on the roads and stopping all the vehicles, including that of his, which resulted in his starting the court work belatedly on October 1, the judge had slammed the police for not making any arrangement to let the judges go without any hindrance.The police had made the special arrangement, restricting the movement of vehicles in view of the 93rd birth anniversary of late film veteran Sivaji Ganesan at his memorial near Adyar bridge in RA Puram, in which chief minister M K Stalin and other ministers participated.The vehicle of the judge was also stopped for about 30 minutes. The judge had said this happened despite his assistant informing the police authorities concerned, in advance.Following summons, home secretary SK Prabakar had appeared through video-conferencing and expressed regret for the unpleasant incident. He also told the judge steps would be taken to avoid recurrence of any such incident in the future.Accordingly the decision not to hold up the traffic was taken and the same was conveyed to the judge today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-holding-up-of-traffic-for-cm-convoy-tamil-nadu-govt-tells-hc-101634755345950.html
21-10-2021||India||Centre to celebrate 1 billion doses milestone at Red Fort||Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya will launch a song and an audio-visual film at the Red Fort on Thursday to celebrate the milestone of administering one billion Covid-19 vaccine doses, according to people familiar with the matter.The target is likely to be achieved on Thursday itself, so the event to commemorate it will begin at 12.30pm.While various government functionaries and other stakeholders will participate, the central government will also mark the occasion through public announcements at airports, railway stations, ports, bus stations and metro rail stations at the precise moment when India achieves the one-billion target.“People are excited about this milestone not just in India but globally also as many countries have shown interest in knowing how India has made it possible to jab so many people. The number of doses that we have already administered is even greater than the population of many countries,” said the health minister last week while elaborating on the plan.Under the national Covid-19 immunisation drive, at least 991 million vaccine doses have been administered since the countrywide drive was launched on January 16, according to government data.The states and Union territories have so far received at least one billion Covid-19 vaccine doses from the Centre and through direct procurement. States also have 107.8 million balance and unutilised doses.Many other organisations are also celebrating the event individually.The Union health minister, last week, also launched videos documenting efforts of Covid-19 warriors.From eight states, 13 Covid warriors, including doctors, ambulance drivers, volunteers and other healthcare workers have been identified as ‘Sentinels of the Soil’ and their experiences published in a book and videos.The Centre on Saturday also released a Covid-19 vaccination anthem produced by singer and musician Kailash Kher to bust myths and slay vaccine hesitancy.Close to 75% of the country’s eligible population has already received at least the first dose of the Covid vaccine with India’s Covid immunisation drive picking up pace owing to improved vaccine supplies.Also, at least 30% of eligible adults have been fully vaccinated in the country so far, according to government data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-celebrate-1-billion-doses-milestone-at-red-fort-101634755261067.html
21-10-2021||India||AIADMK seeks governor action against DMK over irregularities in civic body polls||The opposition AIADMK on Wednesday petitioned the Tamil Nadu Governor R N Ravi seeking action on the ruling DMK for its alleged irregularities in the recently held civic body elections in nine districts of the State.AIADMK co-coordinator and former chief minister K Palaniswami, who led a delegation to petition the Governor at the Raj Bhavan here, said legal action would be initiated on former chief minister late J Jayalalithaa’s confidante V K Sasikala for claiming to be AIADMK’s general secretary. Speaking to reporters after submitting the petition, Palaniswami, who is the Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, accused the ruling DMK of indulging in irregularities during the conduct of the local body elections, and said his party’s plea for a free and fair poll went unheeded.“We gave a detailed representation to the Governor explaining how the DMK had murdered democracy and reduced the Tamil Nadu State Election Commission (SEC) to the stature of a puppet in the party’s hands. We demanded action on the party,” Palaniswami said. He alleged his party candidates who won by a whisker were announced as losers while their contenders, the DMK candidates, were declared elected. “The AIADMK, initially, approached the SEC requesting for a free and fair poll but was constrained to knock at the door of the court when the plea went unheeded,” the former Chief Minister said and added that during his tenure his government conducted the polls in a democratic manner.He slammed the media for maintaining what he said was silence over an incident of an MLA entering a counting centre and allegedly walking away with a ballot box. “Why was no action taken on the poll official?,” he asked. Referring to an alleged incident of a Minister’s assistant slapping a traffic police constable in the southern Thoothukudi district, Palaniswami said the policeman was made to withdraw his complaint. “This is the situation in Tamil Nadu. Police lack security. If this is the plight of the police, then imagine what will the condition of the common man be,” he wondered.On the series of DVAC raids on former AIADMK ministers, he replied, “It’s political vendetta. We have nothing to hide, and, therefore, nothing to fear,” Palaniswami said and claimed the DMK won the local body polls by bribing the voters.Asked about Sasikala contending to be AIADMK’s general secretary, the former Chief Minister shot back: “You (media) are giving undue importance (to her). She has no connection with the AIADMK since she was expelled in 2017. Legal action will be taken against Sasikala for claiming to be the general secretary of the party.” The party had paved the way for dual leadership (under him and coordinator O Panneerselvam) democratically, and this set-up would continue, he said and ruled out any scope for rapprochement with her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiadmkseeks-governor-action-against-dmk-over-irregularities-in-civic-body-polls-101634755285669.html
21-10-2021||India||Sharmila begins padayatra, aims to end TRS rule||YSR Telangana party president Y S Sharmila on Wednesday kick-started her marathon padayatra (foot march), which, she said, is aimed at ending the autocratic rule of Telangana Rashtra Samithi president K Chandrasekhar Rao and bringing back “Rajanna Rajyam,” the welfare state envisioned by her father late YS Rajasekhar Reddy.Sharmila’s mother Y S Vijayalakshmi flagged off the padayatra, after a massive public rally at Chevella town in Ranga Reddy district, a place which had been sentimentally attached to her father. It was from this town that YSR took up his “Praja Prasthanam” padayatra for over 1500 km across the combined Andhra Pradesh in 2003 and brought the Congress party to power in the 2004 assembly elections.Vijayalakshmi said only Sharmila could make the Bangaru Telangana (golden Telangana) a reality. “My daughter has the courage and commitment to fulfil the aspirations of the people and dreams of late YSR,” she said and appealed to the people to bless her daughter.Addressing the rally, Sharmila, sister of YSR Congress party president and Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, said she had embarked on a marathon padayatra only to end the arrogant and dictatorial rule of KCR, as the chief minister of Telangana is known.“Today, I am taking the first step towards heralding a welfare state in Telangana and dethroning the dynastic rule of the TRS. I shall touch every village and meet every villager during my journey,” she said.Taking a vow to expose the alleged corruption at all levels of the TRS government, Sharmila said KCR is the worst chief minister of any state in the country. “He has pushed the revenue surplus state into a debt-ridden state with indiscriminate borrowings,” she said.“Hundreds of the educated unemployed youth have died by suicide due to lack of employment opportunities, and many others turned into daily wage workers. Though official records say there are 190,000 vacancies in the state, the TRS government has not issued a single job notification so far,” she further said.Sharmila also accused the TRS government of neglecting the weaker sections. “KCR announced that he would make a Dalit as the first chief minister of Telangana after TRS came to power in 2014. He also promised three acres of land to each Dalit family. But he did not fulfil even a single promise. On the contrary, atrocities on Dalits have gone up during the TRS regime. He also has not done anything for OBCs,” she said.She also took the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party to task for failing to take on the corrupt TRS government. “Present Telangana Congress president A Revanth Reddy has no guts to fight against the government, as he was involved in the cash-for-vote scandal. The BJP is hand in glove with the TRS and has not been able to prove the cases against KCR,” she said.Sharmila hopes to break all the records as part of her walkathon. YSRTP official spokesman Tudi Devender Reddy said as per the route map, she would undertake padayatra for nearly 4,000 kilometres across the length and breadth of Telangana in 14 months, covering 90 assembly constituencies. “On average, she will walk for about 12-15 km a day,” Reddy said.The previous record in padayatras is held by her brother Jagan Mohan Reddy. He walked for a distance of 3,648 km over 341 days starting from November 6, 2017, to January 9, 2019, in the name of “Praja Sankalpa Yatra,” and came to power in April 2019 assembly elections in Andhra Pradesh.On the first day, Sharmila would walk for a distance of 10 km from Chevella and take the night halt at Nakkalapalli village. “Every day, she will start the padayatra at 8.30 am and take a break at 12.30 pm. She will resume the walk at 3 pm and conclude at 6 pm,” the party spokesman said.After the padayatra, she will conduct a “Mata Muchata” (chit-chat) programme at one place, where she would sit with villagers for some time and interact with them to know their problems.The programme schedule and route map for her padayatra are being handled by a team of the Indian Political Action Committee (IPAC) of political strategist Prashant Kishor. “She is expected to touch at least three blocks in each assembly constituency. In all, she would address nine big public meetings,” the party spokesman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sharmila-begins-padayatra-aims-to-end-trs-rule-101634755284049.html
21-10-2021||India||Minor girl gang-raped in Kerala, four arrested||A minor girl, belonging to the Scheduled Caste, has been allegedly raped by four people, including her friend, after giving her sedative-laced juice in Thottilpalam, in Kozhikode district of Kerala, police said here on Wednesday.The four were arrested today, the police said.The alleged gang-rape occurred in a tourist spot on October 3, they said.According to the police, one of the four, who is a friend and native of the 17-year-old victim, had invited her for sight-seeing and took her to the tourist spot.Upon reaching there, he took her to a resort and gave her a glass of juice laced with sedative.Later, he and three of his friends raped her and dropped her back near her house in Kuttiyadi.Also, they threatened her of dire consequences if the incident was revealed to any.Shocked and feared, the victim did not disclose the incident for about two weeks.Then, she revealed the trauma to her family which reported to the police on Tuesday.The arrested have been charged under the IPC Section 376 (Punishment for rape) and various sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, police said. The police also said all accused are in 25-30 age group and one person was involved in a drug case last yearOpposition Congress attacked the ruling LDF over the incident by alleging that the State government has failed to ensure safety of women.Leader of Opposition in the State Assembly V D Satheesan described the incident as shocking and urged the government to take seriously the increasing incidents of violence against women in the State.In a statement, Satheesan said it was the responsibility of the government to provide security for daughters and mothers and sought exemplary punishment to the culprits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minor-girl-gang-raped-in-kerala-four-arrested-101634755282683.html
21-10-2021||India||42 dead and 6 missing after floods, landslides: Kerala CM Vijayan||Forty-two people have died due to rains and landslides between October 12 and 20, while six people are missing, Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan confirmed on Wednesday. Talking to newsmen in the state capital on Wednesday, Vijayan said 217 houses were destroyed and 1,300 were partially damaged, and the government will do everything possible to alleviate the suffering of the flood-affected. “Twin low-pressure areas formed in the Arabian and Bay of Bengal aggravated the situation. Time is not ripe to lower our guard as fresh showers are expected. Many dams including Idukki were opened anticipating another wet spell,” he said, adding 11 teams of the Natural Disaster Response Force were camping in different districts. The chief minister has asked people residing near river basins and hill areas to be extremely vigilant. He said, currently 3,859 families are staying in 304 relief camps, and the government will expedite relief distribution soon. Vijayan also rejected the opposition charge that rescue operations got delayed at many places. “They are making wild allegations just for the sake of raising charges, and people reject them with contempt,” he said. Earlier in the day, the assembly adjourned after paying respects to the flood victims. The unseasonal downpour last week has left a trail of death and destruction in Kerala. Many areas in Wayanad and Thrissur witness heavy downpour and many shifted to relief camps. Wayanad is a landslip prone area and in 2019 it witnessed many landslides. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi represents Wayanad in LS. RESIDENTS IN AGONY Tragedy struck small-time farmer P Sebastian (52) in Erumeli (Kottayam) when he was piecing together his life after the 2018 floods, in which he lost everything. He only got an initial relief of ₹10,000 from the government but managed to rebuild his house after taking soft loans from many. But last Friday, he and his family of four were forced to flee again after gushing water ravaged his newly painted house. “I don’t know what to do. All furniture and household goods got destroyed. Even my small agricultural plot is now unsuitable for farming. I don’t know how to go ahead,” Sebastian said. Many rain-ravaged people share the same experience and agony. Semi-literate people like Sebastian have no idea about global warming or climate change, but they admit inclement weather has made their lives difficult. In Kootickal, where the landslide claimed 10 lives on Saturday, the situation is different. Even during the flooding of 2018, dubbed as the flood of the century that claimed 480 lives, this village was untouched. But on Friday, landslides polished off a part of this scenic village in Kottayam – carved mountains and slushy terrain stand testimony to nature’s fury. “We have been complaining about quarries functioning on the other side of the hills for long. We heard some of them even functioned on the day of the landslide. In 2013, the state biodiversity board had recommended that quarrying should be stopped here but nobody listened to it,” M P Chandradas, a resident who approached the court against these quarries, said. “Most of these disasters are man-made. Around 200 quarries are functioning illegally in three districts, Idukki, Kottayam and Pathanamthitta. Now the government is also thinking about a hill highway project. It’s another ploy to plunder natural wealth,” said John Pervanthanam, a conservation activist, adding that the state is yet to learn from the past calamities. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the state received 135 per cent excess rain during the period from Oct to 19. The usual rainfall during this period was 192.7 mm, but this time actual fall was 453.5 mm. Though the IMD issued a yellow alert in 11 districts, it was reduced to three, Pathanamthitta, Idukki and Kottayam, later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/42-dead-and-6-missing-after-floods-landslides-kerala-cmvijayan-101634755224028.html
21-10-2021||India||Developed world should fund clean energy projects: Power Minister RK Singh||Union minister for power and new and renewable energy, RK Singh on Wednesday said that developed countries should fund clean energy projects in poor countries through the International Solar Alliance. During the ministerial plenary of ISA’s fourth general assembly, in his opening remarks, Singh said, “It is your (developed nations) business. You developed nations used fossil fuels and occupied most of carbon space. You have created this emergency of climate change in some ways.” “It is true that the available carbon space has been taken up mostly by the developed world. For the developing world to develop some carbon space should be free. We have 800 million people around the world without access to energy and ISA can play a major role in ensuring that access. It is incumbent upon the entire developed world to enable the ISA to do this... Direct your funding to ISA so that we can set up solar parks, renewable energy parks in countries that have problems with energy access,” Singh added.The ISA is an inter-governmental treaty-based international organization with a global mandate to catalyse global solar growth by helping to reduce the cost of financing and technology for solar. International Solar Alliance (ISA) was initiated by India and conceived as a coalition of solar-resource-rich countries (which lie either completely or partly between the Tropic of Cancer and the Tropic of Capricorn) to address their special energy needs. It has 86 membersAn Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) report last month flagged that developed countries had not delivered on their promise of mobilising 100 billion dollars a year even in 2019. This finance was meant to support climate change mitigation and adaptation to climate change impacts through resilient infrastructure and other means in developing countries. This year’s report shows that in 2019, total climate finance provided and mobilised by developed countries for developing countries was USD 79.6 billion in 2019, an increase of only 2% from 2018.John Kerry, US Special Presidential Envoy on Climate also addressed ISA where he reiterated that the world needs to reach net zero emissions by 2050. “To keep 1.5 degree Celsius within reach, we need to take dramatic action during this critical decade in order to reduce emissions by half worldwide. If we don’t do enough between 2020 and 2030, we can’t achieve net zero by 2050 and we certainly can’t keep in limit the rise of the earth’s temperature by 1.5 degrees.” But he also made it clear that US alone shouldn’t be expected to “invest in solar energy”.“President Biden recognizes the clean energy opportunity of the value of solar energy. The United States has communicated a strong new NDC (Nationally Determined Contributions) ahead of the COP 26 Summit in Glasgow next month...”Frans Timmermans, European Commission Executive Vice President for the European Green Deal announced a project of 1 million Euros that “will allow the deepening of cooperation between EU and ISA including by connecting and mobilising academic, financial and business communities”. Ajay Mathur, Director General, International Solar Alliance (ISA) said “The solar power landscape is evolving everyday with new technologies, investment sources and ever lower tariffs being discovered across the globe. At ISA, we are making significant efforts to accelerate solar power deployment in every corner of the world and mobilising USD 1 trillion in solar investments...”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/developed-world-should-fund-clean-energy-projects-power-minister-rksingh-101634755222775.html
21-10-2021||India||Flood toll hits 52 amid rescue ops in Uttarakhand||The number of people who have died in Uttarakhand due to rain-related incidents this week has risen to 52, and at least five people are still missing, said officials on Wednesday as rescuers dug through debris of landslides and building collapses, and attempted to reach people marooned by flooded rivers.Record-breaking amounts of unseasonal rain led to flash flood in the Ramgarh area, and several other regions were hit by landslides. In multiple places, bridges were washed away and some roads remained blocked, making rescue work difficult. Chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami, who on Tuesday described the human loss as huge and said infrastructure as well as crops were destroyed, assured state support. “We want to assure the people that our government is with the affected people in this hour of need. We are providing every possible help including food and medicines to the needy ones and will continue to do so,” he said after visiting some of the badly hit areas on Wednesday. On Tuesday, the confirmed toll was at 34. According to Jyoti Negi, spokesperson of the state disaster management department, the 52 deaths confirmed till Wednesday include 28 from the Nanital district, six from Almora, eight from Champawat, two from Udham Singh Nagar, and one from Bageshwar district. The rest of the deaths have happed on October 17 (one) and October 18 (six).Around 500 people stranded on Kainchi to Bhowali road were rescued, taking the total number of people pulled to safety since Monday to around 1,500. State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) personnel also carried out rescue operations in waterlogged areas of Rudrapur in Udham Singh Nagar, using rafts at some places on Tuesday night. Most of the casualties were of people who died when their homes collapsed due to the heavy rain in the early hours of Tuesday. “We were sleeping in the house early in the morning when we heard a big blast-like sound. Soon, heavy muck and boulders came crashing down and buried our house. I’m not sure how, but I somehow stood up and came out of the house. My husband and grandchildren couldn’t,” said 54-year-old Kiran Negi. The children were pulled out 12 hours later, but her husband did not survive.Rescue workers said their job has been complicated by incessant rains. “We have already rescued many people in the last three days. Several rescue operations are still on in the affected areas with additional deployment of personnel in sensitive areas,” said SDRF commandant Navneet Singh Bhullar, who has been on the ground in Rudrapur to monitor and assist in relief and rescue. Electricity supply and telephone connectivity, badly hit by the rains, have been restored in the town. But villages on the outskirts remain affected, officials said.The rescue and restoration work was likely to pick up with the improvement in the weather, Nainital district magistrate Dhiraj Garbiyal said.Aerial photos showed raging rivers and the lake at the picturesque tourist town of Nainital overflowing onto the famous Mall Road. “In 1995, the water had overflown to some extent. But this time, it was much more. I don’t think such a case has happened here before,” said Ajay Singh Rawat, a noted environmentalist who lives in Nainital. Rawat said usually, local authorities release waters into Baliyanala when the water level rises. “But this time, the rains were so severe that it left the entire area inundated,” he said. By Wednesday morning, most of the water had receded from the roads.Dhami issued instructions to officials to conduct survey of crop damage in affected areas so that farmers can be compensated for their losses. He had on Tuesday announced ₹4 lakh compensation to the kin of the deceased. In the high reaches of Uttarkashi, at least 14 people — including eight trekkers from West Bengal and Delhi — went missing after heavy snow caused by the same weather system that brought the deluge in the lower reaches. Union home minister Amit Shah was scheduled to reach Uttarakhand on Wednesday night to assess the flood situation in the state on Thursday, said Devendra Bhasin, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state vice president. Uttarakhand saw 17.8 centimeters (7 inches) of rain in the first few weeks this month, but recorded nearly 58 centimeters (22.8 inches) within just 22 hours on Tuesday, news agency AP quoted aid Bikram Singh, the director of the Meteorological Center in Dehradun, as saying.Scientists have attributed an increasing trend of intense rainfall in parts of India to disruptions in weather patterns caused by the climate crisis, and this, experts say, has exacerbated the harms by unplanned construction work in ecologically sensitive areas such as the Himalayas and the Western Ghats, which too have been hit by floods and landslides. “In both these regions, we are seeing extremely destructive activities in the name of so-called development. Road projects cutting through hillsides are common to both regions. In 2019, I travelled to Puthumala in Kerala after the landslides and saw several small landslide sites leading up to the big one. These were all along a road construction project. Rock quarries are proliferating along these construction sites to provide construction material. This is leading to a gradual crumbling and weakening of the hills,” ecologist Madhav Gadgil told HT in an interview published on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flood-toll-hits-52-amid-rescue-ops-in-uttarakhand-101634755163249.html
21-10-2021||India||3 minors kill 6-yr-old girl for refusal to watch porn; father of one accused also nabbed||GUWAHATI: Police in Assam’s Nagaon district on Wednesday arrested three minors aged between 8 and 11 years and an adult in connection with the murder of a 6-year-old girl who refused to watch pornographic clips with them.The arrests come a day after the girl’s body was found in a toilet at a stone quarry in Kaliabor area of the district on Tuesday.It is alleged that the three juveniles also tried to sexually assault the victim but there was no confirmation by the police.“Unfortunate murder of 6 year old girl at Missa, Kaliabor solved within 24 hours. 3 juveniles, 1 adult arrested,” Nagaon police tweeted from their official handle on Wednesday evening. “Accused aged between 8 and 11 are porn addicts capable of conspiracy and gruesome execution of a dastardly crime. Seems it’s time for introspection and social intervention,” it added.According to reports, the three juveniles lived near the victim’s home and used to watch pornographic clips on their mobiles. On Tuesday, they reportedly lured the victim to the quarry where they tried to get her to watch those clips. When she refused, they killed her with stones.“It is a very unfortunate incident. Two of the accused are 11 year old and one 8 year old. The juveniles used to watch pornography on mobile of the adult who is the father of one of the three. We have seized the phone which was full of pornographic clips,” Nagaon superintendent of police Anand Mishra told reporters.The arrested adult is the father of one of the three juveniles. “Family/social intervention and institutional guidance to the kids could have saved these 4 young lives. 1 lost life, 3 lost for life. It can happen with anyone or anyone around us. If our upcoming generations fail on social-moral standards responsibility lies greatly on us,” Nagaon superintendent of police Anand Mishra tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6yrold-girl-refused-to-watch-porn-killed-by-neighbour-3-minors-including-son-101634755105076.html
21-10-2021||India||Congress calls Amarinder Singh an opportunist, BJP says open to alliance ahead of Punjab elections||A day after Amarinder Singh said he would launch a new outfit and hoped to tie up with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for the Punjab assembly elections next year, the Congress on Wednesday termed the move a “betrayal” while the BJP lauded the former Punjab CM as a “patriot”.Singh resigned as the Punjab CM last month after a bitter tussle with his rival, Navjot Singh Sidhu, amid infighting in the state Congress unit. The party later picked Charanjit Singh Channi as the next chief minister of the state. “Our doors are open for an alliance, though only our parliamentary board can take the decision,” BJP general secretary and party in-charge of Punjab affairs, Dushyant Gautam, said, adding that the BJP was always ready to join hands with outfits that are nationalistic, concerned about the country and national security.“He (Amarinder Singh) was a soldier. He knows about the threats to the country and how to secure it is... He is patriotic. And whenever it was a matter of national security and security at the borders, we have appreciated his stand,” he added.On Singh’s condition of resolving the ongoing farm stir, the BJP leader said Singh did not talk about ending the agitation against three central laws. “He talked about farmers’ issues. We are committed to it and are working for the welfare of farmers. When the time comes, both will sit together and discuss farmers’ issues,” Gautam told PTI.HT reported earlier this month that Singh was set to launch his own political party and could even consider an alliance or seat adjustment with the BJP. The development could alter the electoral landscape in the upcoming polls in Punjab. After resigning as the Punjab CM, Singh announced his intent to quit the Congress. The Congress, meanwhile, slammed Singh as an “opportunist”, asserting that allying with the BJP will kill the “secular Amarinder” within him. “Captain Amarinder Singh is an opportunist leader who only thinks about himself, his family and his friends... He has destroyed himself by announcing a seat arrangement with BJP, whom he has always abused,” said Punjab’s deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa. “Punjab does not fear Pakistan or China. If Punjab today faces any threat, then it is from Amarinder Singh,” he added.Congress general secretary and party’s Punjab in Charge Harish Rawat, too, attacked Singh. “If he (Amarinder Singh) wants to eat crow and go with BJP, he can. Who can stop him if he can’t stay with his old commitment to secularism? He was considered a symbol of “Sarvdharm Sambhav” and was connected to Congress’ traditions for a long time. If he wants to go, he should,” Rawat told news agency ANI after meeting party leader Rahul Gandhi in Delhi.“Who can forgive BJP that has kept farmers at the borders for 10 months? Can Punjab forgive them for the manner in which farmers’ agitation has been dealt with? His statement is really shocking. It seems he has killed the ‘secular Amarinder’ within him,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-calls-amarinder-singh-an-opportunist-bjp-says-open-to-alliance-ahead-of-punjab-elections-101634755042752.html
21-10-2021||India||‘Impression is state is dragging its feet’: SC to UP Govt on Lakhimpur||The Supreme Court on Wednesday pulled up the Uttar Pradesh government for the sluggish pace of investigation into the Lakhimpur Kheri incident that left eight people, including four farmers, dead on October 3, while observing that the impression this gives is that the state is “dragging its feet”.“This (investigation) cannot be an unending story... We get the impression that you are dragging your feet. Please, do the needful to dispel that,” said a bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana, as it heard the case registered by the top court on its own (suo motu) as a public interest litigation. The bench, which also comprised justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli, took umbrage to the fact that the state police was yet to record statements of all the crucial witnesses before a judicial magistrate so that their versions could have a greater evidentiary value during the trial. Ashish Mishra, son of Union minister of state for home affairs Ajay Mishra ‘Teni’, who is named as an accused in the murder first information report (FIR) lodged by the farmers, was arrested on October 9, a day after the Supreme Court came down heavily on the state government for the police’s lenient handling of Mishra. Senior advocate Harish Salve, representing the Yogi Adityanath government, on Wednesday cited a status report on the probe submitted in the court that pointed out that statements of 44 witnesses were recorded by the police, but only four were taken to a magistrate to put their versions on record under section 164 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC). “You have said in your status report that you recorded statements of 44 witnesses. But only four of them were recorded under section 164 (of the CrPC). Why haven’t you recorded statements of others under 164?” the bench asked Salve. “Your SIT (special investigation team) is in a better position to recognise who are the most vulnerable witnesses and can be browbeaten. We want to know why statements of only four have been recorded under 164? You know that evidentiary value will be far better for statements under 164,” added the bench.Salve replied that the concern of the court initially was that the police was going slow on the accused but all the 10 accused have now been arrested. He also mentioned that there were two FIRs arising out of violence on October 3, and that the arrests in the second FIR was a “little difficult” since a crowd had allegedly lynched four people after the vehicle ran over an equal number of protesting farmers. But the bench made it clear that it was not looking into the second FIR. “We are only concerned about the FIR where the farmers died,” the CJI told Salve. The bench also questioned the state government about the period of custodial interrogation of the accused in the FIR on the farmers’ deaths, adding that the police “cannot get out anything unless the accused are in police custody”. At this, the state’s additional advocate general, Garima Prashad, informed the bench that the accused were interrogated in custody, and that they were now in jail while the police have been working on reconstructing the crime scene. Salve submitted that several phones have been seized, and the purported videos of the incident have been sent for forensic examination. “If the forensic reports come, there may not be any need for further questioning in custody,” he added. To this, the CJI responded: “Mr Salve, it should not be a never-ending story... Ask your team to record section 164 statements as soon as possible...also, ensure protection and safety of witnesses.” Salve assured the bench that the necessary steps for recording of section 164 statements and witness protection will be taken to dispel the doubts of the bench. The court then adjourned the matter to October 26, asking the UP government to file a further status report on the investigation before the next date. Advocate Shiv Kumar Tripathi, the lawyer whose letter to the CJI formed the basis of this PIL, requested the bench for a copy of the status report that was filed by the state government in a sealed cover envelope. The bench, however, said it would consider sharing the report on the next date of hearing. The incident on October 3 claimed eight lives. Farm groups say a Mahindra Thar owned by Ajay Mishra mowed down protesters from behind while they were returning from a demonstration in Tikunia village on Sunday afternoon. A video clip that is yet to be authenticated forensically shows the same. The minister and his son, however, deny the charge that the latter was in the vehicle and say farmers pelted the car with stones that led to the driver losing control of the vehicle. They also accuse the protesters of lynching two BJP workers and the car’s driver. A local journalist was also killed.The Mishras claim that Ashish Mishra was not even at the site. On October 6, a new 45-second video of the incident showed the Thar ploughing through the farmers at high speed, with two vehicles in tow. The identities of individuals in the vehicles were not clear and HT could not independently verify the authenticity of the clips. On October 8, the apex court pulled up the UP government for not immediately arresting Ashish Mishra, commenting that the state police do not appear to be “really serious” even as the “brutal” episode left eight people dead. “This is an offence registered under Section 302 (murder charge under the Indian Penal Code). Do you treat everyone in the same manner? Issue notice and then wait for them to appear? Will an accused in every part of the country be treated in the same way like the present case? Giving them an invitation that you please come? We want to question you so you kindly come?” the bench had asked Salve and added that the court is “not satisfied” with the investigation conducted so far. Salve conceded at the time that what needed to be done was not done, and that gave a “personal assurance” that the state will be in a position to satisfy the court with its action by the next date of hearing (October 20). Mishra was arrested shortly after.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/impression-is-state-is-dragging-its-feet-sc-to-up-govt-on-lakhimpur-101634754922754.html
21-10-2021||India||India joins meet with Taliban; Afghan terror, aid discussed||New Delhi A Taliban team led by deputy prime minister Abdul Salam Hanafi held talks with a delegation of Indian diplomats on the margins of a regional conference on Afghanistan hosted by Russia on Wednesday and reportedly discussed the need to address the concerns of both sides. There was no official word from the Indian side on the talks held on the sidelines of the “Moscow Format” meeting, which brought together diplomats from 10 countries, including India, Pakistan and China, and the Taliban delegation. The talks represented the first contact between the Indian side and a top member of the Taliban’s interim cabinet, which was formed last month after the group marched into Kabul on August 15 following the collapse of the Ashraf Ghani government. On August 31, India’s envoy to Qatar had met senior Taliban leader Sher Mohammed Abbas Stanekzai. A statement issued by Taliban spokesman Zabiullah Mujahid said the delegation led by Hanafi met the Indian team led by joint secretary JP Singh, head of the Pakistan- Afghanistan-Iran desk in the external affairs ministry on the sidelines of the Moscow Format meeting. “Both sides considered it necessary to address each other’s concerns and improve diplomatic and economic relations,” Mujahid said. The Indian side expressed its readiness to provide humanitarian assistance to the Afghan people, he added. People familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity that the Taliban spokesman’s remarks were not a full and accurate reflection of the discussions. India has said repeatedly in recent weeks that it stands ready to help the Afghan people against the backdrop of a looming humanitarian crisis. Earlier, the diplomats from the 10 countries and the Taliban team discussed crucial issues such as providing humanitarian aid to Afghanistan and countering terror emanating from Afghan soil. Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov, in his opening remarks at the Moscow Format meeting, called on the Taliban to prevent anyone from using Afghan territory against the interests of third countries, primarily the immediate neighbours and the Central Asian states. The Indian side was represented by joint secretary JP Singh and joint secretary (Eurasia) Adarsh Swaika. Discussions at the Moscow Format meeting dragged on for more than six hours, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity. Lavrov, who held a separate meeting with the Taliban delegation before the Moscow Format meeting, said he had discussed with the Taliban leaders the need to prevent the use of Afghan soil against other countries. Pointing to the lack of stability in Afghanistan, Lavrov said: “Numerous terrorist groups, primarily the Islamic State and al-Qaeda, are trying to take advantage of this in turn, and are once again rearing their heads and launching brazen [and] deadly attacks in various parts of the country.” Speaking in Russian, he added, “Unfortunately, the problem of drug production in Afghanistan remains acute. Today there is a real threat of an overflow of terrorist and drug activity, including those masquerading as migration flows, onto the territory of neighbouring countries. In this context, for obvious reasons, we are especially concerned about the Central Asian region.” Countering these threats to the security of Afghanistan and the surrounding region requires a “timely, adequate response both within the country and from external partners”, Lavrov said. “We call on the Taliban movement to strictly follow the line of preventing anyone from using the territory of Afghanistan against the interests of third countries, primarily against Afghanistan’s immediate neighbours - the countries of Central Asia, our friends and allies.” The people cited above said the diplomats of several countries, including India, raised the counter-terrorism commitments made by the Taliban during the Moscow Format meeting. Lavrov also said sustainable peace could be achieved in Afghanistan through the formation of an “inclusive government, which should fully reflect the interests of all ethnic and political forces”. Hanafi, in his speech, contended the Taliban takeover of August 15 had resulted in a “historic transformation” that took place “without bloodshed and destruction”. According the text of his speech released by the Taliban, he said the security situation in Afghanistan is “satisfactory” and the Afghan people “have a responsible government committed to the national interest and safeguarding political freedom”. The Afghan people, Hanafi said, expect the world community to “have a formal interaction” with the Taliban government as the “isolation of Afghanistan is of no benefit”. He also called on the US to lift a freeze on the foreign assets of Afghanistan. A joint statement issued after the Moscow Format meeting noted the Taliban’s reaffirmation of previous commitments to “prevent use of the Afghan territory against its neighbours, other states in the region and the rest of the world”. Expressing concern at the activities of proscribed terrorist organisations in Afghanistan, the parties “reaffirmed their willingness to continue to promote security in Afghanistan”. The 10 countries called on the Taliban leadership to take “further steps to improve governance and to form a truly inclusive government that adequately reflects the interests of all major ethno-political forces”. They also called on the Taliban to “practice moderate and sound internal and external policies, adopt friendly policies towards neighbours of Afghanistan...and respect the rights of ethnic groups, women and children”. While expressing concern at the deteriorating economic and humanitarian situation in Afghanistan, the parties proposed to convene an international donor conference under the auspices of the UN as soon as possible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-joins-meet-with-taliban-afghan-terror-aid-discussed-101634754806357.html
21-10-2021||India||Centre’s reply sought on appointment of CBI director||The Supreme Court on Wednesday sought the Centre’s opinion on allowing the director of Central Bureau of Investigation to continue in office after retirement if his replacement isn’t recommended by a high-powered committee chaired by the Prime Minister in time. The suggestion came while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by NGO Common Cause that opposed the decision of the Centre to appoint an interim CBI director on February 3 this year, a day after the post fell vacant following the superannuation of the then CBI director Rishi Kumar Shukla. A regular CBI director was appointed only in May when the 1985-batch IPS officer Subodh Kumar Jaiswal was recommended to the post by the HPC having PM Narendra Modi, Chief Justice of India NV Ramana and Leader of Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury.Although the ground for the petition no longer remained, advocate Prashant Bhushan appearing for Common Cause asked the court to pass an order that an interim CBI director cannot be appointed as such a post is not contemplated under the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946 that governs CBI. “This is the third time an acting director has been appointed. It was previously done in 2016 and in 2019. On both occasions, petitions were filed but this can’t happen again and again,” Bhushan said.Attorney general KK Venugopal appeared for the Centre and said that such an order cannot be passed as there are “exceptional circumstances” when the HPC cannot meet. “Each member of the HPC holds a constitutional post and are concerned with important affairs of the state,” Venugopal said.Bhushan suggested that in such a case there is an option to continue with the existing director. The bench of justices L Nageswara Rao and BR Gavai found this suggestion favourable and asked the AG, “Do you accept this suggestion?” Venugopal sought time to seek instructions. The court posted the matter for Monday.Bhushan argued that the post of CBI director fell vacant on February 2 and the process to select his successor should have begun at least two months before. He cited the Prakash Singh judgment of the Supreme Court in 2006 which secured a minimum tenure for directors general of Police (DGPs) and required the state to send a panel of names to Union Public Service Commission at least two months in advance of the impending vacancy.The AG said that the suggestion about having a CBI director selected in advance is reasonable but pointed out practical difficulties faced by the Centre. “The meeting of the HPC could not be held as a letter was received from Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury dated April 18, 2021, informing that he won’t be available till May 2. If the HPC cannot meet, we have to appoint an acting director. We will produce material to show why acting directors came to be appointed.”The bench agreed to consider this limited issue on the next date and allowed AG to produce the material. The petition by Common Cause had said, “The Director of the CBI is the final authority in the organization. He supervises all the work in the CBI and is responsible for the constitution of investigating teams for probing cases. Hence, this Court and later even Parliament have made determined efforts to enhance the functional autonomy of the CBI Director and limit the extent of executive discretion in the matter of appointment of this key functionary.” The petition highlighted the importance of having an independent mechanism to appoint the CBI head since the agency probes cases involving rampant corruption in high places across the country. “The manifest unwillingness of the government to institute a transparent and accountable system to ensure that the culprits are punished seriously impairs the right of the people to live in a corruption and crime-free society which violates Articles 14 (right to equality) and 21 (right to life and liberty) of the citizens,” the petition stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centres-reply-sought-on-appointment-of-cbi-director-101634754806990.html
21-10-2021||India||Convictions over 65%, aim to cross 75%: CBI||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has been able to maintain a success rate of about 65-70% in getting conviction over the last 10 years, agency director Subodh Kumar Jaiswal has told the Supreme Court, adding that the CBI is trying to improve this average to 75% by August 2022.Submitting his personal affidavit, Jaiswal informed a bench headed by justice SK Kaul that CBI secured conviction of the accused in 69.83% and 69.19% of the cases in 2020 and 2019, respectively, and that he was making specific attempts to improve the directorate of prosecution for a better conviction rate in trial courts.“It is the endeavour of the CBI to bring the present conviction rate to 75% by August 2022,” stated the director’s affidavit while laying down several crucial statistics on the functioning of the premier investigating agency. India celebrates 75 years of Independence on August 15, 2022.
21-10-2021||India||SC questions Centre over exclusion of private doctors, health workers in insurance scheme||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked the Centre to explain why doctors and health workers employed in private clinics and dispensaries were kept out of a central insurance scheme that provided ₹50 lakh cover for the families of frontline health workers who died fighting Covid. The scheme introduced on March 28, 2020, under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package (PMGKP) was titled ‘Insurance Scheme for Hospital Workers Fighting Covid-19’. Under it, a sum of ₹50 lakh was assured to health workers employed in public healthcare institutions and the same was extended only to those private hospital staff and contract workers whose services were “requisitioned” for Covid duties by the state or central government hospitals or autonomous institutions like All India Institute of Medical Sciences. Other conditions attached to the scheme required the beneficiaries to be employed for Covid-related duties and their death had to be due to the infection. Funds for the scheme were allocated from the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF) and released through the New India Assurance Company.The bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and BV Nagarathna said, “Prima facie the objective of the scheme is to provide social security to health professionals in view of the risks they faced due to Covid-19, be it in public or private institutions.”The court was hearing an appeal filed by the family members of seven doctors of private establishments in Mumbai who died fighting the pandemic during the first and second waves. They challenged an order of March 9 passed by the Bombay high court which held that those not “requisitioned” by the state or Centre were not entitled to the insurance cover. Issuing a notice to the Union ministry of health and family welfare and the Maharashtra government, the bench said, “The matter raises issues of considerable public importance since it has bearing on the security of health professionals who served the nation during Covid-19.” Though the petition before the high court was filed by the widow of a single medical practitioner, the top court allowed the family members of six other doctors to represent the appeal before it, noting the “nationwide consequences” flowing from the petition.The court requested the solicitor general of India to assist in the matter when it comes up for hearing after three weeks to ensure that the objective of the scheme is duly fulfilled. The petition was argued by Pradeep Arora, one of the petitioners, who submitted that the HC order was wrong as it failed to consider an order issued by the commissioner of Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation on March 31, 2020, directing all clinics and private medical establishments to remain open for serving Covid-19 patients when the nationwide lockdown was in place.This came on the heels of another order of the state government on March 14 under the Epidemic Act, 1897, requiring all medical institutions to remain at the disposal of the municipal commissioner for steps to prevent and contain Covid-19. Fearing criminal action, the doctors were forced to keep their clinics open and, in the process, lost their lives treating patients.The petitioner who approached Bombay high court was one Kiran Bhaskar Surgade whose husband, having his private dispensary in Thane, succumbed to the infection on June 10, 2020. She first approached the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation to claim benefits under the PMGKP insurance scheme. On September 7, 2020, her claim was denied by the insurance company on the ground that the private dispensary of her husband was not recognised as a Covid-19 dispensary. Surgade challenged this order before the high court.While the issue was pending in the HC, the Maharashtra government wrote to the Union health secretary on October 1, 2020, on whether the benefit under the central scheme could be extended to all private practitioners. A fortnight later, the Centre responded by saying no benefit could be provided to those not “requisitioned” by the Centre or states. The HC relied heavily on the Centre’s letter and dismissed the widow’s petition. It said, “The letter (by the Union government) categorically states that for a private healthcare provider to be covered under the scheme, he or she must be ‘drafted’ by the state/Centre for Covid-19-related responsibilities.” It added, “Considering that Surgade’s services were not requisitioned as mandated under the scheme, we are unable to extend the applicability of the scheme to persons who fall outside the ambit thereof. Resultantly, no relief can be granted to the petitioner.”In the HC, the Central Council of Indian Medicine and Maharashtra Council of Indian Medicine had supported the petitioner and demanded an extension of the scheme to cover all private doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-questions-centre-over-exclusion-of-private-doctors-health-workers-in-insurance-scheme-101634754623522.html
21-10-2021||India||CBI files charge sheet in Dhanbad judge death; charges auto-rickshaw driver and accomplice for ‘murder’||New Delhi: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Wednesday filed a charge sheet against two accused in the alleged murder of Dhanbad additional district judge Uttam Anand, who was mowed down by an autorickshaw on July 28, an incident which sparked off security concerns in the entire judiciary. The central probe agency filed the chargesheet before a special court against auto driver Lakhan Verma, 22, and his accomplice Rahul Verma, 21, under sections 302 (murder),201 (destruction of evidence) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code, officials familiar with the developments said.The duo were arrested two days after the alleged murder took place. The CBI has accused them of deliberately knocking down the judge while he was on a morning jog. The two are presently in judicial custody. “Further probe into the larger conspiracy will continue,” a senior officer said, seeking anonymity. The chargesheet was filed within 90 days of the accused’s arrest, as per protocols, to ensure that they are not granted bail, the officer added. The Supreme Court and the Jharkhand high court took suo motu cognisance of the hit-and-run incident after CCTV footage showed the three-wheeler swerving on an empty road to knock him down. The auto-rickshaw, which was stolen from Dhanbad, was later recovered from the neighbouring Giridih district that night.The CBI took over the probe on July 31 after the Supreme Court said the incident had larger ramifications for the independence of the judiciary. The state government had also recommended an investigation by the central agency into the case. CBI joint director Sharad Agarwal, who is heading the special investigation team in the case, had informed the Jharkhand high court in September that the judge’s death was not an accident and the agency was investigating all angles to unravel the conspiracy. Several people have been interrogated in the last three months and lie-detector and psychoanalysis tests were also conducted on them, Agarwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-files-charge-sheet-in-dhanbad-judge-death-charges-auto-rickshaw-driver-and-accomplice-for-murder-101634754622668.html
21-10-2021||India||Terrorists behind three civilian killings gunned down in Kashmir||Security forces on Wednesday killed four terrorists, including two commanders linked to the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) who were involved in the killing of non-local workers in Jammu and Kashmir, a development that came amid a wave of attacks on civilians in the restive region.While two terrorists were killed in an encounter in Shopian’s Dragad, two others were shot dead in a gunfight in the Kulgam district, a police official said. An Indian Army soldier also lost his life in the Shopian gun battle. Two other security personnel were injured, another official said.The Jammu & Kashmir Police say they have “neutralised” 17 terrorists in 10 encounters in the Valley amid the latest phase of violence in which 11 civilians – seven of them in Srinagar – have been killed in targeted attacks since October 2. Some of these terrorists were allegedly either involved or were collaborators in the civilian killings – five of people from outside the Union territory – this month.The slain terrorists included two Lashkar-e-Taiba-linked district commanders who were allegedly involved in the killings of a carpenter from Uttar Pradesh on October 16 and two labourers from Bihar on October 17. The official, who asked not to be named, said the two terrorists were linked to The Resistance Front (TRF), a shadow outfit of Lashkar-e-Taiba.The Shopian encounter began after security forces received information about the presence of terrorists in Dragad area of the district. A cordon and search operation triggered a gunfight between the terrorists and a joint party of security forces including the police, army and the Central Reserve Police Force.“Two terrorists were killed in the encounter,” said a police spokesperson.In a late-evening tweet, the police said they also killed two terrorists in Kulgam, where two non-local labourers from Bihar were killed on October 17.“Police and Army neutralised LeT district commander (Gulzar Ahmd Reshi) of Kulgam and one other, who were involved in killings of two poor labourers from Bihar on October 10 at Wanpoh,” said inspector general of police, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar in a tweet.Raja Reshidev and Joginder Reshidev, labourers from Bihar, were shot dead on Sunday at Wanpoh, Kulgam. Chun Chun Reshi Das, also from Bihar, sustained multiple injuries and was being treated at the Government Medical College in Anantnag.The army’s Chinar Corps said the joint operation in Shopian earlier was launched based on specific inputs. “Repeated surrender appeals turned down by terrorists. Terrorists opened fire forcing Security Forces to retaliate,” it tweeted.The army also suffered a fatality in the encounter. “An Army man has attained martyrdom and two jawans have suffered non-fatal injuries,” said the army’s PRO Lt Col Emron Musavi.The slain soldier was identified as Sepoy Karamveer Singh of 44 Rashtriya Rifles. Aged 25 years, he was a resident of Daldal, Rampur Bhagelan, Madhya Pradesh.Inspector general of police Vijay Kumar identified one of the slain terrorists in Shopian as Adil Ahmad Wani, who was active since July 2020. Another slain terrorist was identified as Shakir Ahmad Wani, a resident of Litter Pulwama.“Adil Wani was district commander Shopian of proscribed terror outfit LeT(TRF),” Kumar said.He said that Wani was involved in the killing of a carpenter named Saghir Ahmad Ansari, a resident of Saharanpur, UP.Sageer Ahmad, 53, who was working in Litter Pulwama for the past one year, was killed after terrorists opened fire on him on October 16. He was living in a rented accommodation there and had been coming to Kashmir for the past one year. Another non –local, Arvind Kumar Sah, a golgappa seller, resident of Banka in Bihar, was also shot at close range by militants in Srinagar’s Eidgah area on the same day. On the same day (October 16), two LeT (TRF) militants were killed by security forces in an encounter at Drangbal area of Pampore in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/let-commander-involved-in-killing-carpenter-killed-jkpolice-101634729901095.html
21-10-2021||India||PM Modi: No safe haven for those committing crime against country||Prime Minister Narendra Modi called on the Central Bureau of Investigation and the Central Vigilance Commission to have a “zero tolerance” policy towards corruption and ensure that there were no safe havens for those committing crimes against the country. Addressing a joint conference of the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) and Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) virtually, Modi said that over the past seven years, the work of his government has given people faith that corruption can be stopped. He added: “ People of the country have faith today that they will get benefits of government schemes without any give and take or without any middlemen.” Comparing this with the record of the previous government he said that lacked the will to control corruption.“The way the earlier government functioned, it lacked the political and administrative will to fight corruption. Today, there is a political will and administrative reforms are also being carried out to achieve the goal.” The second term of the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance government was marked by several high profile corruption scandals and a popular protest against corruption and it is widely believed that its loss in the 2014 elections was partly on account of this. Modi reminded the officers of CBI and CVC about their responsibility. “You have to remember that your partnership is with this ‘mitti’ (soil), with Maa Bharti (Mother India). “The conference was themed around a New India that is increasingly using digital tools to push back corrupt practices. Modi’s comments on safe havens comes at a time when the central government is engaged in legal proceedings to bring back alleged economic offenders like Vijjay Mallya, Nirav Modi and Mehul Chowksi, who have taken refuge in foreign countries.Also Read: BJP, SP trade barbs over inauguration of Kushinagar International AirportHe also called upon the officers of CBI and CVC to rededicate themselves to abolishing corruption from all walks of national life and said that “corruption takes away the rights of people and hinders the pursuit of justice for all”.  21st century India no longer wants corrupt governance, the PM said even as he reminded citizens that the implementation of laws made by the government was their responsibility. Responding to PM’s barbs on previous governments, Congress spokesperson Pranav Jha said, “This is rich coming from a PM who only believes in opacity and obscurity. I wonder, if he really remembers that we don’t have a Central Vigilance Commissioner at the moment. The one officiating is merely an acting one. Look at how elections are being funded in the country, didn’t EC object to electoral bonds? Yet it continues. And one doesn’t want to remind the status of funds collected through PM Cares! In Corruption perception index India has slipped 6 places down in just 1 year in Jan, 2021... So these are hollow words, meaning nothing.”(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pmmodi-no-safe-haven-for-those-committing-crime-against-country-101634721560259.html
