22-10-2021||India||24-year-old man killed, 2 injured as Bihar police open fire on protesting villagers||Patna: A 24-year-old man was killed and at least two others were injured after police allegedly opened fire on a group of villagers protesting against a mukhiya candidate for the October 24 panchayat elections at Moriyama village of rural Patna on Friday, officials familiar with the matter said. Patna district magistrate (DM) Chandrasekhar confirmed the incident and said that one person was dead while two others sustained injuries in the firing.“I immediately cannot say how the youth sustained bullet injuries,” he said. The villagers alleged that police raided several houses on the pretext of storage of liquor. Sanjay Singh, inspector general, Patna range, said several teams of police were rushed to the spot to contain the situation.The deceased was identified as Rohit Choudhary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/24yearold-man-killed-2-injured-as-bihar-police-open-fire-on-protesting-villagers-101634927382887.html
22-10-2021||India||TMC MP Sushmita Dev attacked in Tripura: Police||AGARTALA: Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Sushmita Dev and a few party members were allegedly attacked at Amtali in Tripura while they were campaigning in a vehicle, police said on Friday.According to the TMC, Dev and 10 other party members were attacked allegedly by Bharatiya Janata Party cadre at Amtali Bazar area after which Dev lodged a police complaint.“We got a complaint from them. We got to know that some of their vehicles were vandalised while they were out for their political programme. Some of the persons are known to have sustained minor injuries, though the figure of injured is yet to be ascertained,” said Amtali sub-divisional police officer Anirban Das.Soon after the incident, TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee tweeted, “Under @BjpBiplab’s #DuareGundaRaj, attack on political opponents is setting new records! Physically manhandling a sitting female Rajya Sabha MP, @SushmitaDevAITC is BEYOND SHAMEFUL & POLITICAL TERRORISM by @BJP4Tripura goons! The time is near. People of Tripura will answer!”Reacting to the incident, BJP spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharya said, “Let the Trinamool Congress leaders lodge complaint by mentioning names of the perpetrators. All will come to know which party they belong to.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-mp-sushmita-dev-attacked-in-tripura-police-101634926962918.html
22-10-2021||India||Congress' Harish Rawat says focus now on 2022 Uttarakhand assembly polls after being relieved from duties in Punjab||After being relieved from his duties as the Congress in-charge of Punjab and Chandigarh, senior party leader Harish Rawat on Friday said that he would now focus on the Uttarakhand assembly elections scheduled for next year. Earlier in July 2021, Rawat was appointed by the party to oversee the 2022 election committee in Uttarakhand.On Friday, the Congress party announced that Rajasthan revenue minister Harish Chaudhary would replace Rawat as the party’s in-charge for Punjab, which is also scheduled to go to polls next year.Following this, Rawat said that he has been requesting the party’s central command to allow him to serve his native state, Uttarakhand. “Satisfied in knowing that Punjab Congress will go ahead on the path of development and I can focus on my new responsibility as Uttarakhand Congress campaign committee Chairman. I was requesting party leadership for [an] opportunity to do justice to Congress in my ‘matrubhumi’ (homeland),” news agency ANI quoted Rawat as saying.Also read | Rajasthan minister Harish Chaudhary replaces Harish Rawat as Punjab Congress in-chargeFurther, the Congress veteran also thanked the party’s interim president Sonia Gandhi and MP Rahul Gandhi for accepting his request to be relieved from Punjab. He also thanked the party’s Punjab unit, especially chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and the party’s state unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu.Earlier in the day, the party said in an order, “Harish Rawat is being relieved from his current responsibility as AICC General Secretary In-Charge of Punjab and Chandigarh. He shall continue as member CWC. The party appreciates his contribution as General Secretary.”Rawat saw the Punjab unit through a period of turmoil due to the feud between former CM Amarinder Singh and the current state chief of the party Navjot Sidhu. However, the dust appeared to have settled in Punjab with the resignation of Singh and Sidhu being asked to continue as the state unit’s chief.Earlier on October 20, Rawat, in a series of tweets, had cited the state assembly elections in both Punjab and Uttarakhand next year and had expressed his desire to concentrate more on Uttarakhand and asked to be relieved from his duties in Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-harish-rawat-says-focus-now-on-2022-uttarakhand-assembly-polls-after-being-relieved-from-duties-in-punjab-101634924246070.html
22-10-2021||India||India among select few countries developing hypersonic missiles: US Congressional report||Washington India is among the select few countries which are developing hypersonic weapons, an independent Congressional report has said, amidst a media report which claimed that China recently tested a nuclear-capable hypersonic missile which circled the globe before missing its target, demonstrating an advanced space capability that caught US intelligence by surprise. The independent Congressional Research Service (CRS), in a latest report this week, said that although the US, Russia and China possess the most advanced hypersonic weapons programmes, a number of other countries, including Australia, India, France, Germany and Japan, are also developing hypersonic weapons technology. While Australia has collaborated with the US, India has collaborated with Russia on this, the CRS said in its report. India has collaborated with Russia on the development of BrahMos II, a Mach 7 hypersonic cruise missile, the CRS report said. “Although BrahMos II was initially intended to be fielded in 2017, news reports indicate that the programme faces significant delays and is now scheduled to achieve initial operational capability between 2025 and 2028. “Reportedly, India is also developing an indigenous, dual-capable hypersonic cruise missile as part of its Hypersonic Technology Demonstrator Vehicle programme and successfully tested a Mach 6 scramjet in June 2019 and September 2020,” the CRS said. India operates approximately 12 hypersonic wind tunnels and is capable of testing speeds of up to Mach 13, said the Congressional report which is prepared by independent subject area experts for members of the US Congress. The Financial Times this week reported that China has tested hypersonic missiles. However, China denied it, saying it tested a hypersonic “vehicle” and not a nuclear-capable hypersonic “missile” as reported by the leading British newspaper which also said that the missile missed its target by about two-dozen miles. The report said that China tested the nuclear-capable hypersonic missile in August that circled the globe before speeding towards its target, demonstrating an advanced space capability that caught US intelligence by surprise. According to the CRS, since 2007, the US has collaborated with Australia on the Hypersonic International Flight Research Experimentation (HIFiRE) programme to develop hypersonic technologies.The most recent HIFiRE test, successfully conducted in July 2017, explored the flight dynamics of a Mach 8 hypersonic glide vehicle, while previous tests explored scramjet engine technologies, it said. HIFiRE’s successor, the Southern Cross Integrated Flight Research Experiment (SCIFiRE) programme, is to further develop hypersonic air-breathing technologies. SCIFiRE demonstration tests are expected by the mid-2020s. In addition to the Woomera Test Range facilities, one of the largest weapons test facilities in the world, Australia reportedly operates seven hypersonic wind tunnels and is capable of testing speeds of up to Mach 30, the report said. Like India, France has also collaborated and contracted with Russia on the development of hypersonic technology. And Japan is developing the Hypersonic Cruise Missile (HCM) and the Hyper Velocity Gliding Projectile (HVGP), it said. The CRS said that in recent years, the US has focused such efforts on developing hypersonic glide vehicles, which are launched from a rocket before gliding to a target, and hypersonic cruise missiles, which are powered by high-speed, air-breathing engines during flight. The Department of Defence (DOD) is currently developing hypersonic weapons under the Navy’s Conventional Prompt Strike programme, which is intended to provide the US military with the ability to strike hardened or time-sensitive targets with conventional warheads, as well as through several Air Force, Army and DARPA programmes, the CRS said. According to the CRS, unlike programmes in China and Russia, US hypersonic weapons are to be conventionally armed. “As a result, US hypersonic weapons will likely require greater accuracy and will be more technically challenging to develop than nuclear-armed Chinese and Russian systems,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-among-select-few-countries-developing-hypersonic-missiles-us-congressional-report-101634924922690.html
22-10-2021||India||Winter session of Parliament likely to begin from November 29||New Delhi: The winter session of Parliament is expected to be conducted between November 29 and December 23 this year, officials familiar with the development said on Friday.This would be the second full Parliament session since the Covid-19 pandemic hit India in March 2020, forcing early closure of last year’s budget and monsoon sessions and this year’s budget session. The 2020 winter session was skipped altogether due to the public health crisis.According to an official, the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha proceedings will be held simultaneously, with social distancing and Covid-appropriate protocols in place.The full session is expected to be stormy with the Opposition looking to corner the central government over the Lakhimpur Kheri incident and the contentious farm laws.With elections in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Uttarakhand due in March-April next year, both the Opposition and the ruling dispensation’s political tactics are also likely to take centre stage during the session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/winter-session-of-parliament-likely-to-begin-from-november-29-101634924511887.html
22-10-2021||India||Tripura Muslim body alleges attacks on mosques, says attempt to malign govt||AGARTALA: The Tripura State Jamiat Ulama (Hind) on Friday alleged that some mosques and minority habitations in parts of the state came under attack after the violence in Bangladesh and asked the state government to act against the miscreants.The group also condemned the communal violence in Bangladesh and said miscreants were attempting to disturb the communal harmony in Tripura and malign the state government. A delegation of the organisation submitted representations to chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb’s office and the state director general of police, asking them to ensure steps are taken to stop the attacks and legal action taken against the persons behind the incidents. “No person from the Hindu and Muslim communities in Tripura supports this kind of violence in Bangladesh. We have also protested against it,” the organisation’s president Mufti Tayebur Rahman told reporters at Gedu Miah mosque in Agartala on Friday evening.He added that some mosques and residential areas of the minority community were attacked, mostly in parts of West, North and Gomati districts of Tripura.BJP spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharya said: “Our party workers, mainly from minority cell, are keeping a close watch everywhere to ensure such undesirable activities do not happen.”CPM secretary Jitendra Chaudhury expressed hope that the state government takes proper steps to maintain peace.Top Tripura police officers could not be contacted for their reaction to the group’s representation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-muslim-body-alleges-attacks-on-mosques-says-attempt-to-malign-govt-101634924442749.html
22-10-2021||India||'Misinterpreting WhatsApp chats': What Aryan Khan said in his high court plea||In his bail plea which will be heard by the Bombay high court on October 26, Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan has said the Narcotics Control Bureau has misinterpreted his WhatsApp chats to implicate him in the case of seizure of banned drugs, a PTI report said. Aryan Khan moved the high court soon after his bail plea was rejected by the special NDPS court. The details of Aryan Khan's high court plea has now come to the surface.In his bail plea, Aryan Khan said that the chats that are being relied upon by the NCB are ex-facie (on the face of it) and those chats are from a period prior to the incident. "By no stretch of imagination can those purported messages be linked to any conspiracy for which the secret information was received," it said.Shah Rukh Khan, Aryan spoke on intercom inside jail, no special treatment given: Reports"The interpretation of the WhatsApp messages is that of the investigating officer and such interpretation is unjustified and wrong," the appeal said.'Let's have a blast', 'jugaad', 'Bulk quantity': What NCB said about Aryan Khan's WhatsApp chatsAryan Khan was arrested on October 3 from a Goa-bound cruise where a rave party was being hosted. He was not found carrying drugs while his friend Arbaaz Merchant was found in possession of six gram charas. The allegations against Aryan Khan of being a part of a drug network have been brought based on his WhatsApp chats. Bollywood actor Ananya Panday has also been called based on WhatsApp chats.NCB said Aryan Khan's WhatsApp chats had mentions of hard drugs and bulk quantity. He was also in touch with drugs suppliers, the agency said.He had written 'Let's have a blast' to Arbaaz Merchant, the NCB has disclosed to the court. He had also asked Ananya Panday for ganja 'jugaad', to which Ananya replied that she would arrange and this happened thrice. WhatsApp chats with Ananya took place during 2018-19, reports said, while Ananya has reportedly refused the allegations and said she never arranged drugs for Aryan. She said her chats were meant as a joke.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/misinterpreting-whatsapp-chats-what-aryan-khan-said-in-his-high-court-plea-101634921742530.html
22-10-2021||India||Successful UPSC candidates have no right to be allocated cadre of their choice: Supreme Court||Setting aside the orders passed by the Kerala high court, the Supreme Court on Friday said that successful civil services candidates have no right to be allocated a cadre or place of appointment of their choice as they opt to serve anywhere in the country with “eyes wide open”. A bench comprising Justices Hemant Gupta and V Ramasubramanian held that if candidates from Scheduled Castes (SCs), Scheduled Tribes (STs), or Other Backward Class (OBC) get selected in the general category without recourse to the benefit of reservation, they cannot use it for getting cadre or place of appointment of choice.Justice Gupta, who authored the 36-page judgement for the bench, noted that “scramble for the home cadre” starts once the candidates get selected to All-India Service. Referring to the Indian Administrative Service (Recruitment) Rules, the bench said that the procedure for allocation of cadre is a “mechanical process” and the State has no discretion at its “whims and fancies.”“It was held that a selected candidate has a right to be considered for appointment to the IAS but he has no such right to be allocated to a cadre of his choice or his home state. As stated above, allotment of cadre is an incidence of service,” the court said.“The applicant as a candidate for the All-India Service with eyes wide open has opted to serve anywhere in the country. Once an applicant gets selected to service, the scramble for the home cadre starts...,” Justice Gupta noted.The observation came after the Central government challenged a verdict of the Kerala high court which had asked it to grant home cadre Kerala to A Shainamol, a Muslim woman IAS officer who was posted in Himachal Pradesh. Shainamol secured 20th rank in the UPSC civil services examination 2006 under the general category despite belonging to the reserved Muslim OBC category.She was allocated Himachal Pradesh cadre but the IAS officer moved the Ernakulam Bench of the Central Administrative Tribunal against the allocation. The tribunal directed the Centre to accommodate her against “the outsider OBC vacancy in the Maharashtra cadre by virtue of her merit over the candidate already identified and allotted the Maharashtra cadre.”After both the Centre and the IAS officer challenged the verdict in Kerala high court, it allowed Shainamol’s plea seeking the declaration that she was eligible to be allotted home state cadre.“The entire basis of the claim of the applicant is that there was no consultation with the State of Kerala. The said argument is however untenable. The applicant was allocated to the State of Himachal Pradesh and there was consent duly given by the State of Himachal Pradesh for her allocation to that State. In fact, no consultation was required to be carried out in respect of the applicant with Kerala State,” the apex court held.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/successful-upsc-candidates-have-no-right-to-be-allocated-cadre-of-their-choice-supreme-court-101634919499140.html
22-10-2021||India||‘Relook and restore status quo’: Punjab CM on Centre’s decision to extend BSF’s jurisdiction||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Channi urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to “relook and restore" the status quo that existed before notification of 11th October 2021 regarding BSF's jurisdiction.Channi was referring to the notification released by the Ministry of home affairs on October 12, which amended the powers of the Border Security Force (BSF) to carry out search, seizure, and arrest in Gujarat, Punjab, West Bengal, and Assam. In Punjab, the jurisdiction of BSF was extended to 50 kilometre (km), up from the existing 15 km, along the international border in the state.Channi’s office insisted that restoring the status quo of BSF’s jurisdiction will“enable BSF and Punjab Police to work together against anti-national forces for safeguarding sovereignty and territorial integrity of India”.Similar extensions are also being enforced in West Bengal, and Assam whereas in Gujarat the existing jurisdiction of 80 km is being rolled back to 50 km, and in Rajasthan, the jurisdiction, which currently extends to 50 km of the international border, will remain unchanged.The two opposition-ruled states-Punjab and West Bengal - criticised the Centre’s move as an “attack on the country’s federal structure”. Channi had vehemently criticised the extension, telling reporters that the Congress government will not accept the Centre’s decision to allow BSF’s jurisdiction to be extended from the existing 15km as "it is against the spirit of federalism".Channi insisted that the state police is more than capable of handling law and order situations across the state as it has been doing so since the days of militancy and ensuring communal harmony is not disturbed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/relook-and-restore-status-quo-punjab-cm-on-centre-s-decision-to-extend-bsf-s-jurisdiction-101634917935816.html
22-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur violence: SKM calls for countrywide protests on Oct 26 demanding resignation of minister Ajay Mishra||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Friday issued a call for country-wide protests on October 26 demanding the sacking and the arrest of Union minister of state for home affairs Ajay Mishra, whose son Ashish Mishra has been arrested in connection with the violence in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri earlier this month. The protests would also mark the completion of 11 months of farmers’ protests against the Centre’s three farm laws, the SKM further said.The SKM, an umbrella body of several farmer unions, in a statement on the day asked the Union government to fulfil its “legitimate demands” namely, repeal of the three farm laws, legal guarantee on minimum support price (MSP) and the removal of Mishra from his ministerial position.“The SKM has now put out a call to all constituents to mark October 26 with country-wide protests, to intensify the demand for Ajay Mishra Teni's dismissal and arrest, and to mark the completion of 11 long months of peaceful struggle,” news agency PTI reported quoting the SKM’s statement.Also read | SKM suspends Yogendra Yadav for meeting kin of BJP worker killed in Lakhimpur Kheri violence“On that day, between 11 am and 2 pm, there will be sit-ins and marches,” the SKM further said. Previously, the SKM demanded that Mishra be removed from his post before October 11, failing which it would intensify the protests. While the minister’s son has been arrested in connection with the case, the senior Mishra continued as a minister.Earlier on October 3, eight people were dead in the violence that broke out in Lakhimpur Kheri where a running vehicle, allegedly carrying BJP workers, had rammed into a group of protesting farmers. Of the eight dead, four were farmers. Also, two BJP workers and their driver and a journalist were also killed in the violence that followed. Farmers have alleged that Ashish Mishra was in one of the vehicles, a claim denied by him and minister Ajay Mishra.In a related development, the SKM has also postponed a ‘Kisan Mahapanchayat’ (farmers’ gathering) that was scheduled to be held on October 26 in Lucknow protesting the Lakhimpur incident. However, it has now been postponed by the body due to adverse weather conditions and the harvest season, news agency PTI reported on the day.On October 18, the SKM held ‘rail roko’ agitations by protesting on the railway tracks against the incident, reiterating its demand for the removal of Mishra. The protests lasted for six hours between 10am and 4pm on the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-violence-skm-calls-for-countrywide-protests-on-oct-26-demanding-resignation-of-minister-ajay-mishra-101634917535604.html
22-10-2021||India||‘Why are you so perturbed’: Punjab deputy CM now directly attacks Captain over Aroosa Alam||Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Friday took to Twitter and asked former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh why he is so perturbed if the government investigates the ISI link of Captain's Pakistani friend Aroosa Alam. He also said the government will probe who sponsored her visa, after Amarinder Singh slammed the ‘personal attack' following Sukhjinder Singh's announcement of the investigation. On Friday, the deputy chief minister who also is the home minister of the Union territory said the government will look into the ISI links of Captain's friend Aroosa Alam. Captain raised the issue of drones coming from Pakistan, he said. The war of words on Friday touched a new low following Captain's resignation from the post of Punjab chief minister. Amarinder Singh has not yet resigned from the party but has announced that he will form a new outfit which will be open to ally with the BJP if the farmers' issue is addressed. Time and again, Captain mentioned that Sidhu is a threat to national security because of his closeness with Pakistan and Pakistan army chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa. (4/4) By the way,sir @capt_amarinder why are you so perturbed over probe on Aroosa and ISI links? Who sponsored her visa and everything concerning her will be throughly probed. I do hope eveyone concerned will co-operate with police in probeIt is in the same thread of security that Punjab deputy chief minister referred to Aroosa Alam.Amarinder Singh slammed the personal attack and said the government is deploying its resources in a baseless investigation instead of focusing on maintaining law and order. Amarinder Singh also said that Aroosa Aam had been coming to India for 16 years with due clearance from the government of India. "You were a minister in my cabinet. Never heard you complain about Aroosa Alam," Captain tweeted through his media advisor tagging Sukhjinder Singh Randhwa. He also asked the deputy CM whether he hinted that all the governments at the Centre in the last 16 years, including the UPA, connived with Pakistan ISI.What Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said“I am a true nationalist and you better know @capt_amarinder from which point our differences had erupted. Whereas, you don’t worry about law and order situation as we have not outsourced the Punjab govt to 'anyone'. Now, police is protecting people, not cheekus and seetafal. Regarding poll promises, let me remind your sir that it was you who failed to take the probe in Maur blast, Bargari sacrilege and drugs cases to logical conclusions Rest assured, all these cases will be taken to logical conclusion in coming days. Almighty is always great as you have suffered because you failed to fulfil the commitment towards Guru Sahib even after taking oath of holy ‘Gutka Sahib’. Punjab is and will remain in safe hands under the Congress government. By the way, sir, why are you so perturbed over probe on Aroosa and ISI links? Who sponsored her visa and everything concerning her will be thoroughly probed. I do hope eveyone concerned will co-operate with police in probe,” the minister wrote on Twitter, replying to all the allegations that Amarinder Singh brought against him, including personal attack, Punjab's law and order situation, Congress's ‘tall promises’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-are-you-so-perturbed-punjab-deputy-cm-now-directly-attacks-captain-over-aroosa-alam-101634915801354.html
22-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: DRDO successfully tests Abhyas aerial target vehicle and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.DRDO successfully flight-tests Abhyas aerial target vehicle from Chandipur ITRThe Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) on Friday successfully flight-tested Abhyas High-speed Expendable Aerial Target (HEAT) from the Integrated Test Range in Chandipur, off the Bay of Bengal coast in Odisha. Read MoreNavi Mumbai civic body starts vaccination drive in collegesThe Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) started conducting vaccination drives in colleges on Friday in order to make sure that the staff and the students of the colleges are fully vaccinated. Read MoreJoe Biden vows to defend Taiwan if attacked by ChinaThe United States will defend Taiwan if it is attacked by China, President Joe Biden said, seemingly changing long-standing American “strategic ambiguity” on the issue. Read MoreIndia vs England cancelled fifth Test in Manchester rescheduled to July 2022 in EdgbastonThe India vs England fifth Test match in Manchester which was postponed indefinitely will now take place in July 2022, announced the England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) on Friday. Read MoreWhen Anju Mahendroo said Sanjeev Kumar believed women were after his wealth: 'At the end he had neither home nor wife'Actor Sanjeev Kumar had 'lots of women around him all the time', actor Anju Mahendroo had once said. Read MoreIs your tea adulterated? Here's how to find outIf you like many others swear by your daily cup of tea, you must make sure it is not adulterated to reap its maximum benefit. Read MoreWhy Aryan Khan is in jail without drug possession? Top defence lawyer explainsn the latest episode of On the Record, Top defence lawyer Rebecca John speaks to Hindustan Times' National Political Editor, Sunetra Choudhury on the Aryan Khan drugs case. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-drdo-successfully-tests-abhyas-aerial-target-vehicle-and-all-the-latest-news-101634914840460.html
22-10-2021||India||6th mega Covid-19 vaccine camp in Tamil Nadu on October 23; to be held in 50,000 vaccination centres||Continuing with its trend of conducting mega camps for Covid-19 vaccination, the Tamil Nadu government has said that the sixth such camp would be held across the state on Saturday (October 23) with the aim of boosting the vaccinations in the state. The camp would be held in 50,000 vaccination centres, state health minister Ma Subramanian on Friday said.“The 6th ‘Mega Vaccine Camp’ is scheduled to be held at 50,000 centers under the guidance of the Hon'ble Chief Minister (MK Stalin),” Subramanian tweeted. “Nearly, 30.43 lakh beneficiaries will be administered the second dose in the sixth mega camp,” news agency PTI quoted the minister as saying earlier on October 18.Meanwhile, the state has so far held five mega vaccination camps, which the government has claimed is being used not only to improve the vaccination rate but also to create awareness among the public. Earlier in September, TN chief minister MK Stalin had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi noting that conducting such camps at regular intervals, in addition to the daily vaccinations, would help in increasing the vaccine coverage among the eligible population in the state.Also read | ‘Covid-19 vaccine a shield, but can’t let our guard down': PM on 1 billion dosesMore than 2.8 million people received the vaccine during the first camp and the count was above 1.6 million people during the second camp. The third and fourth camps saw over 2.4 million people and over 1.7 million people receiving the jabs respectively. Another 2.2 million beneficiaries were jabbed during the fifth camp, held on October 10.What changes this time ?The state government has decided to conduct the vaccine camp on Saturday this time, a deviation from all the previous camps that were held on Sundays.Subramanian said that the move is intended to ensure the participation of people who have been avoiding the Sunday camps. He said some people preferred the consumption of alcohol and meat on Sundays and have been avoiding the vaccination drives.“This time, the sixth mega COVID-19 vaccination camp will be held on October 23 instead of on the next day as those preferring meat or alcohol on Sundays have been avoiding the drive, as they are under a false impression that vaccine should not be taken due to the intake of non-vegetarian food or alcohol,” news agency PTI quoted the minister as saying. “But, this is not so. Anyway, the camp will be advanced to Saturday to ensure those avoiding it for some reason come and get the shots without fail,” he added.So far, 67% of the population have been administered at least one dose in the state while 25% have been fully vaccinated. On Thursday, 1,164 new Covid-19 cases and 20 more fatalities. As of 7am on Friday, 54,345,766 doses of the vaccine have been administered in TN, the Union health ministry’s data showed.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6th-mega-covid-19-vaccine-camp-in-tamil-nadu-on-october-23-to-be-held-in-50-000-vaccination-centres-101634914114544.html
22-10-2021||India||Goa Cong orders Constitution copy for Pramod Sawant, says it isn’t dictatorship||PANAJI: The Goa Congress on Friday said it is gifting a copy of the Constitution to chief minister Pramod Sawant to remind him of the rights the citizens are entitled to after Congress workers were subjected to what the opposition party described as an ‘unauthorised’ lathi charge for protesting against casinos in the state. “We have sent a pre-Diwali gift to our Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, a copy of the Constitution of India. We urge CM Sawant to read the Constitution from page to page and understand that he is not the king of a dictatorship, instead he is a public servant of democracy,” Congress spokesperson Himanshu Tivrekar, said. “He may also learn about the rights of the citizens before he behaves this way again. This democracy is very dear to us Goans. Chief minister Sawant, do not forget that a government is of the people, for the people and by the people. Without us Goan people, there is no government!” he added.The copy of the Constitution has been ordered online, and the Congress leader shared a screenshot of the online order. The delivery address is the chief minister’s official residence in state capital Panaji’s upmarket Altinho locality.“The CM also fails to understand that police may use force only in exceptional circumstances and that too upon instructions of the District Magistrate. There was no such written order issued by the DM (District Magistrate) given for lathi charge yesterday. Such unconstitutional behaviour by the chief minister of Goa is highly unprecedented and extremely dangerous,” Tivrekar said. To be sure, senior Goa police officers have denied that there was any lathi charge. The claim angered Congress leaders who promptly sought to rebut the police with a video of lathi-wielding cops beating Congress workers towards the end of the march. The Congress said some party workers sustained injuries.A few hours earlier, the party leaders also called on senior police officials and said they have handed over a bouquet of flowers.Chief minister Pramod Sawant remained unreachable for a comment on the Congress’ swipe. The Congress, however, said that they were unsure whether Sawant would ‘accept’ the package shipped to his residence and that whether he accepts the Constitution of India ‘in spirit’ was also under question.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-cong-orders-constitution-copy-for-pramod-sawant-says-it-isn-t-dictatorship-101634912592833.html
22-10-2021||India||DRDO successfully flight-tests Abhyas aerial target vehicle from Chandipur ITR||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) on Friday successfully flight-tested Abhyas High-speed Expendable Aerial Target (HEAT) from the Integrated Test Range in Chandipur, off the Bay of Bengal coast in Odisha. After the flight test, the ministry of defence said in a statement that the target aircraft will meet the requirements of HEAT for the armed forces. Defence minister Rajnath Singh congratulated DRDO for the successful flight trial of Abhyas, which was carried out as a part of developmental flight trials.Designed and developed by DRDO’s Aeronautical Development Establishment (ADE), the indigenous unmanned aerial vehicle will be used as a target for the evaluation of various missile systems. Abhyas HEAT is launched using twin under-slung boosters which provide the initial acceleration to the vehicle. The state-of-the-art UAV is powered by a small gas turbine engine to sustain a long endurance flight at subsonic speed.The ministry of defence said that the performance of the target aircraft was monitored through telemetry and various tracking sensors. The expression of interest for the production of the vehicle has already been floated to Indian industries, it added.Terming Abhyas as a force multiplier, DRDO Chairman Dr G Satheesh Reddy congratulated the teams associated with the successful flight test of the aerial target which demonstrated the accuracy and effectiveness of the UAV.Abhyas HEAT is equipped with a MEMS-based Inertial Navigation System (INS) for navigation along with the Flight Control Computer (FCC) for guidance and control. According to the ministry, the vehicle is programmed for fully autonomous flight and their check-out is done using a laptop-based Ground Control Station (GCS).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drdo-successfully-flight-tests-abhyas-aerial-target-vehicle-from-chandipur-itr-101634912129774.html
22-10-2021||India||‘Gladly accept’: Yogendra Yadav on being suspended over meeting BJP worker's family||A day after being suspended by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), social activist Yogendra Yadav on Friday released a statement saying that he respects the collective decision of the union and “gladly accepts the punishment awarded under this process”. Yadav was suspended for a month for visiting the family of a BJP worker who was killed in the October 3 violence in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri district."In any movement, collective opinion prevails above individual understanding. I am sorry that I did not talk to other comrades of SKM before taking this decision,” Yadav said in his public statement, adding that he regretted not consulting other members of the SKM before the meeting.“... it is saddening that this news has hurt the sentiments of my fellow colleagues in the farmers’ movement,” he said.“After paying my tributes to the four martyred farmers and a journalist in Lakhimpur Kheri, I went to the house of BJP worker Shubham Mishra who died in the same incident. Not in his glory but to offer my condolences to his family. To share the misery of even those who are your sworn enemies is in line with humanity and with Indian culture,” Yadav wrote.The activist said that he will “continue to work more diligently than ever for the success of this historic peasant movement", hoping that his public expression of sentiments only strengthens the farmers’ movement."I hope that a fruitful dialogue can be started on this question," he said.A senior farmer leader, announcing Yadav’s suspension, had on Thursday said that the decision was taken at a general body meeting of the SKM, which has been spearheading the nationwide protest against the Centre's farm laws."He (Yadav) cannot participate in the meetings and other activities of Samyukta Kisan Morcha," the leader said.Read the full statement here:Eight people were killed in Lakhimpur Kheri district of Uttar Pradesh. Four farmers and a journalist were run over by an SUV allegedly a part of a union minister’s convoy. The minister’s son was allegedly in the car that ploughed through a walking column of protesting farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri district.In retaliation, angry farmers allegedly dragged out a few people from vehicles part of the convoy and beat them to death, including two BJP workers and a driver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gladly-accept-yogendra-yadav-on-being-suspended-over-meeting-bjp-worker-s-family-101634906477336.html
22-10-2021||India||Gujarat Congress leaders meet Rahul Gandhi in Delhi; discuss 2022 assembly polls, appointment of new state chief||With the assembly polls scheduled later next year in Gujarat, Congress leaders from the state, on Friday, met party leader Rahul Gandhi in Delhi and held “strategic discussions” regarding the elections. The party’s general secretary KC Venugopal and Gujarat in-charge Raghu Sharma were also present during the meeting.“Today in New Delhi, senior leaders of the Gujarat Congress, met with Rahul Gandhi and had strategic discussions with him in view of the upcoming assembly elections,” Raghu Sharma said in a tweet in Hindi.आज नई दिल्ली में @INCGujarat के वरिष्ठ नेताओं के साथ आदरणीय श्री @RahulGandhi जी से मुलाकात कर आगामी विधानसभा चुनावों के मद्देनजर रणनीतिक चर्चा की। pic.twitter.com/hifgC8QjD1Further, Gandhi also met with the state unit’s senior leaders and sought their opinions on the appointment of a state Congress chief and leader of the Congress Legislature Party (CLP), news agency PTI reported. He also discussed with the leaders on strengthening the party’s organisation in Gujarat and sought their opinions regarding the same.Among the state leaders, Gujarat Pradesh Congress Committee Amit Chavda and the party’s working president Hardik Patel were present in the delegation that met Gandhi. Amid the meeting, the Congress party also said that the state of Gujarat was ready for a change.Also read | Can Priyanka Gandhi Vadra revive the Congress in UP?The meeting came as the Congress is looking for a new face as the leader for the Gujarat unit. Earlier, the previous Gujarat Congress president Chavda and the CLP leader Paresh Dhanani resigned from their posts. Also, the party suffered a major defeat in the recently concluded civic body elections for the Gandhinagar Municipal Corporation (GMC) winning only two out of the total 44 seats. While the Bharatiya Janata Party won 41 seats, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), contesting for the first time, won the remaining one seat.Earlier this month, the party had appointed Raghu Sharma as the All India Congress Committee (AICC) in-charge of Gujarat, Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli, according to an order from the party.Meanwhile, Gujarat Congress working president Hardik Patel and Rajya Sabha MP Shaktisinh Gohil seem to be the front runners for the party chief’s position, news agency ANI reported citing people familiar with the development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-congress-leader-meet-rahul-gandhi-in-delhi-discuss-2022-assembly-polls-appointment-of-new-state-chief-101634909238306.html
22-10-2021||India||Priyanka bumps into Akhilesh Yadav on plane. They speak, say will meet again||NEW DELHI: Samajwadi Party (SP) chief and former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav bumped into ex-ally Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on a Vistara flight to Uttar Pradesh capital Lucknow on Friday, their first interaction after their two parties contested the 2017 UP assembly elections in a partnership and split up when they figured it didn’t work.Friday’s afternoon’s brief interaction - someone also took a photo on their mobile phone, placing the two rivals in the same frame - on the afternoon flight to Lucknow was described as “cordial”, an aide to Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said.The aide, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said they told each other that “they should meet soon”.It is not clear if the remark was just a courteous way to end the conversation. Or could their parties explore the possibility of a partnership in the not-so-distant future?Elections to Uttar Pradesh’s 403-member assembly are less than five months away, and both parties are trying to dislodge chief minister Yogi Adityanath-led Bharatiya Janata Party government which came to power with 312 seats in 2017 riding a Modi superwave.Ahead of the 2017 elections, the two parties came together in a campaign titled `UP ko ye saath pasand hai’ (UP likes the two together). The short-lived pact, however, fell apart after a dismal showing where the BJP left just 47 seats for the incumbent SP and just seven seats for the Congress.SP leader Udaiveer Singh said an alliance with the Congress wasn’t possible.“There is zero chance of any alliance between the two,’’ said SP leader Udaiveer Singh, adding, “As my leader has said that we are not going to ally with any national party but will only tie-up with smaller parties that can help us strategically take down the BJP government.’’Priyanka Gandhi has also been seen publicly attacking Akhilesh Yadav. In an interview to HT this month, when asked about a possible alliance, she said.“If you look at the last two years, when have you seen Mr Akhilesh Yadav come out on the street for any agitation? Did you see him during the NRC-CAA protests or during the Hathras incident? Did you see him on the street representing the farmers? You did not.’’However, HT has learnt that the Congress did send some feelers to Akhilesh Yadav earlier in the year but he did not respond to the Congress’ overtures. He has maintained in the past that the 2017 alliance was a bad idea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyankas-1st-interaction-with-akhilesh-yadav-after-2017-breakup-is-on-a-plane-101634908603278.html
22-10-2021||India||Ananya Panday quizzed for 4 hours on 2nd day, called again on Monday||Bollywood actor Ananya Panday was questioned for around four hours on Friday in connection with the Aryan Khan drugs case. The actor will have to report to the NCB office again on Monday, ANI reported. Accompanied by her father actor Chunky Panday, Ananya reached the NCB office around 2.25pm. While her father waited outside, Ananya was reportedly questioned by NCB zonal chief Sameer Wankhede. At around 6.30pm Ananya and Chunky Panday left the NCB office. This was the second day of Ananya Panday's interrogation at the NCB office. On Thursday, the actor was questioned for two hours and was asked to be present again on Friday for the recording of her statement. “She has been called again on Monday morning. Questioning will be done. Further procedure will take place,” NCB DDG Ashok Mutha Jain told ANI. On whether Ananya gave any information regarding the numbers of drug peddlers, he said, “I've no such info as of now.”1st day of interrogationOn Thursday morning, the NCB officials issued the notice to Ananya Panday and asked her to be present at the NCB office at 2pm. Her laptop and mobile were seized after her name cropped up in Aryan Khan's WhatsApp chats. Ananya, accompanied by father Chunky Panday, reached the NCB office at around 4pm on Thursday and the questioning went on for a little over one hour. Ananya left the NCB office at around 6pm.The actor was asked about the WhatsApp chats which, according to the NCB, indicated that Ananya Panday helped Aryan Khan procure drugs on three occasions. The references are from 2018-19. Reports said that Ananya Panday refused the allegation of arranging drugs from Shah Rukh Khan's son and said she has never consumed drugs ever. When she was shown the chats, she said she meant it as a joke, reports claimed. 2nd day of interrogationAnanya Panday was called on Friday again for the recording of her statement. Reports said she was again asked whether she consumes drugs, whether she consumed drugs with Aryan Khan, their suppliers etc.Taking both days into account, Ananya Panday has been questioned for around six hours, but NCB's interrogation is not yet over as the actor has been asked to report to the NCB office again on Monday.  Ananya Panday is not an accused in the case and has been called for interrogation only in connection with Aryan Khan, not the other arrested in the case, it has been clarified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ananya-panday-questioned-for-4-hours-on-2nd-day-here-s-what-happened-101634907584013.html
22-10-2021||India||Parliament winter session could begin from fourth week of Nov: Report||The winter session of Parliament is likely to commence from the fourth week of November and will be held following by strictly adhering to Covid-19 protocols, people familiar with the developments told news agency PTI.The session will also conclude ahead of Christmas and will likely hold around 20 sittings.The winter session of Parliament was not held in 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The pandemic led to curtailing of the budget and the monsoon sessions as well. There has been no official announcement but according to the PTI report, the session could begin from November 29 and end around December 23.The Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha sessions will be held simultaneously but the members will have to follow social distancing norms. The first few sessions could be held at separate timings to ensure that not many people are present inside the Parliament complex. The parliamentarians during the winter session will be required to wear masks all the time and could be asked to undergo Covid-19 test.The winter session is significant as it is being held months before the legislative assembly elections in five states including the politically crucial Uttar Pradesh. The issues related to inflation, rise in fuel prices, rise in prices of edible oil, recent attacks on civilians in Kashmir and the continuing protests by farmer’s groups are likely to be raised by the Opposition to corner the government.The monsoon session was marked by protests by the Opposition who wanted answers from the government over the Pegasus spyware issue and repeal of the farmer’s law. It was curtailed sine die two days ahead of its scheduled adjournment. The government during the monsoon session successfully managed to introduce 15 bills and get Parliament’s approval for 20. According to a report by HT, the monsoon session saw the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha function for just 22% and 28% of their allocated time - lowest since the winter session of 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-winter-session-could-begin-from-fourth-week-of-nov-report-101634907332382.html
22-10-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: October 23, 2008 — Chandrayaan-1: India successfully launches first mission to the Moon||Sriharikota: There was no uncorking of champagne, no historic poses for the cameras, no after launch parties, no grand statements.Seconds after India’s moon rocket rode a blaze of flame into the dawn sky from Sriharikota spaceport, a gaggle of reserved, mostly south Indian scientists at Mission Control on this Bay of Bengal island pumped fists, briefly hugged each other, flashed a thumbs-up sign to the media, shared a meal and travelled back to their facilities across south India. “We met for a mission review and later shared a meal. That’s all,” said Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre Director K. Radhakrishnan.“The Chairman has left for Bangalore, and we are heading back to our places (of work).”“I am back at work in Bangalore at nine tomorrow morning,” Chandrayaan-I project director Mylaswamy Annadurai told HT.By dusk, the Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft and its mother ship — the workhorse Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle — were orbiting the earth, gathering pace to free themselves from earth’s gravity and slingshot themselves to the moon.Chandrayaan-I is scheduled to reach its orbit 100 km from the Moon (about 3, 86,000 km from earth) on November 8, and drop the Moon Impact Probe, with the Indian tricolour painted, on it a week later.The launch marked the beginning of new initiatives to study other celestial bodies of the solar system — Mars, asteroids and comets. These efforts would coincide with plans to send an Indian into space by 2015.Addressing his colleagues, Indian Space Research Organisation chairman Gopalan Madhavan Nair called the launch a “historic moment”.“We have started our journey to the Moon and the first step has gone off perfectly well,” he said.“It’s a remarkable performance by the launch vehicle and every parameter was on the dot.”India’s next target:Mars, the 4th planet from the sun and more than 146 times further from the earth than the moon.“Mars is the next natural destination,” Nair told reporters. “We’ve just started planningfor it and are looking for proposals from our scientific community to design instrumentsfor an orbiter to the red planet.”Nair also spoke about Chandrayaan-II, a Rs. 425 crore joint Indo-Russian mission, planned for 2012.“The lander (a clutch of instruments that will land on the Moon) will be designed andmade by Russia, while we will design other experiments,” he said. “If we have some morespace, then we will invite international teams.”Wednesday’s flight of the 316-tonne polar satellite launch vehicle (PSLV-C11) from the Satish Dhawan Space Centre was a dream come true for about 1,000 space scientists and technologists.The flawless flight was preceded by some anxious moments: Overcast skies, a nagging problem with the rocket fuel as it was loaded on to the rocket during the countdown.“We lost almost all hope of making a launch on Wednesday morning due to inclementweather,” said Nair. “To our luck, the rain gods and the clouds kept away.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-october-23-2008-chandrayaan-1-india-successfully-launches-first-mission-to-the-moon-101634906381867.html
22-10-2021||India||'Aroosa Alam has been coming to India for 16 years with govt permission': Amarinder Singh||Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Friday slammed the personal attack by the Punjab government against him and said it is worrying that instead of maintaining law and order amid the festive season, the Punjab government is now focussing on a "baseless" investigation into Amarinder Singh's friend Aroosa Alam's link with the ISI. Amarinder Singh's media advisor Raveen Thukral tweeted the statement of the former chief minister in which Amarinder Singh clarified that Aroosa Alam had been coming to India for 16 years with due clearance from the government of India. "You were a minister in my cabinet. Never heard you complain about Aroosa Alam. And she had been coming for 16 years with due GOI clearance. Or are you alleging that both NDA and Congress-led UPA governments in this period connived with Pak ISI?" the statement aimed at Punjab deputy CM Sukhjinder Randhawa said. ‘You were a minister in my cabinet @Sukhjinder_INC. Never heard you complain about Aroosa Alam. And she’d been coming for 16 years with due GoI clearances. Or are you alleging that both NDA and @INCIndia led UPA govts in this period connived with Pak ISI?’: @capt_amarinder 2/3"What I am worried about is that instead of focusing on maintaining law & order at a time when terror threat is high and festivals are around the corner, you’ve put DGP Punjab Police on a baseless investigation at the cost of Punjab’s safety," the statement read.
22-10-2021||India||50-yr-old passenger on Bengaluru-Delhi Vistara flight falls ill, dies in Indore||A 50-year-old Delhi based passenger on a Vistara flight from Bengaluru to Delhi on Thursday evening died after complaining of breathlessness, people familiar with the matter said.Flight UK 818 made a medical emergency landing at Indore’s Devi Ahilya bai Holkar airport after the passenger, Manoj Kumar Agarwal complained of uneasiness and fainted on board. The flight landed at 9.50pm with around 150 passengers on board. According to Indore airport officials, the passenger died while he was in the ambulance.Agrawal was, however, rushed to Banthia hospital but he couldn’t be revived. “The passenger’s pulse was very low at the time he was deboarded from the aircraft. He was declared dead on arrival by the hospital at 10.22pm,” said an airport official.The flight (an Airbus 320 aircraft) took off from Indore to Delhi at 10.52pm and landed at Indira Gandhi International (IGI) airport at 12.20am.Vistara did not comment on the incident.“The passenger’s family was later informed via phone call. The body will be flown to Delhi by a charter flight on Friday evening,” an Indore airport official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/50yrold-passenger-on-bengaluru-delhi-vistara-flight-falls-ill-dies-in-indore-101634904041522.html
22-10-2021||India||Swiggy floats ‘no-questions-asked’ period time-off policy for women delivery agents||Online food delivery platform Swiggy has set a new benchmark for companies with regards to the well-being of their female employees by introducing a time-off policy for women struggling to work on ‘that day of the month’. Swiggy announced that it has accommodated a “no-questions-asked, two-day paid monthly period time-off policy” for its women delivery partners, a move that enables more women to come forward in onboarding with Swiggy as a delivery agent.“Discomfort from being out and about on the road while menstruating is probably one of the most underreported reasons why many women don’t consider delivery to be a viable gig,” Mihir Shah, Swiggy's Vice President of Operations said in a recent blogpost.The period time-off policy is completely “voluntarily” and ensures that those who opt for it are still eligible for a minimum earnings guarantee for that duration. This means that women delivery agents at Swiggy can opt for 24 days of voluntary time-off in a year.“This industry-first initiative gives our female DEs the option to voluntarily take time-off during their menstrual cycle and be eligible for a minimum earnings guarantee during that time,” Shah informed.Last year, Zomato had announced an initiative by introducing 10 paid leave days for its female employees to cover ‘those days’ during their menstrual cycle.Apart from the period time-off, Swiggy has also taken a number of steps like introducing ‘safe zones’ and better hygiene facilities to employ female delivery partners and ensure their safety on the job. The food aggregator platform is also working towards facilitating EV cycles and bikes for women employees who do not have a vehicle at their disposal.Swiggy has nearly 1,000 female delivery agents now, in the span of about five years. The first batch of women executives in Swiggy’s delivery fleet were introduced in 2016 in Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/swiggy-floats-no-questions-asked-period-leave-policy-for-women-delivery-agents-101634898201103.html
22-10-2021||India||Haj 2022 application process to start in November, selection based on Covid-appropriate criteria||The selection criteria of Haj pilgrims will be decided by the Indian and Saudi governments and the official announcement of the next year’s Islamic pilgrimage to Mecca will be made in the first week of November, Union minister for minority affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said Friday. Chairing the Haj review meeting in New Delhi, Naqvi said the selection process of Haj pilgrims will be in accordance with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) guidelines, including the mandatory vaccination for the pilgrims.Naqvi added the significant and important changes in the entire Haj process include accommodation, period of stay of pilgrims, transportation, health and other facilities both in India and Saudi Arabia.The process of online application will also start along with the official announcement, according to the minority affairs ministry. The Haj pilgrims will be provided with Digital Health Card, “E-MASIHA” health facility and “E-luggage pre-tagging” for all information regarding accommodation and transportation in Mecca and Medina, the two major Islamic pilgrimage sites in Saudi Arabia.The ministry said that the entire Haj 2022 process will be 100 per cent digital in India, the country which sends the second largest number of Haj pilgrims.As the arrangements for Haj 2022 are being made during a pandemic, the process will be in accordance with the rules and regulations, eligibility criteria, age restrictions, health and fitness requirements and other relevant conditions of the Saudi Arabia government. Four ministries, the Haj Committee of India, the Indian Embassy in Saudi Arabia and India’s Consul General in Jeddah and other agencies have been involved in the deliberations regarding the Haj process.The applications of more than 3000 women who had applied for Haj 2020 and 2021 under without “Mehram” (male companion) category will be eligible for Haj 2022 also if they want to perform Haj next year, according to ministry citing Naqvi.All the women under without “Mehram” category will be exempted from the lottery system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haj-2022-application-process-to-start-in-november-selection-based-on-covid-appropriate-criteria-101634902364712.html
22-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: Punjab to probe Amarinder's friend's link with ISI, says Randhawa and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Punjab govt to probe Amarinder Singh's friend Aroosa Alam's link with ISI: MinisterCaptain kept raising the drones issue coming from Pakistan for the last 4-5 years, the deputy chief minister said adding that his friend Aroosa Alam's link with the ISI will be probed. Read more here. Dune movie review: Denis Villeneuve brings the thrill of a theme park and also the emotional depth of oneDune movie review: Denis Villeneuve's third sci-fi film is also is only disappointing one yet. With a star-studded cast, he is unable to make you care about any of them. Read more here. 'I have seen his shots. He does not stop': Wasim Akram names batter who can 'change the game' for India at T20 World CupAmid the glorious list of Indian players, former Pakistan captain Wasim Akram has pointed out one cricketer in particular, who he feels could be the game-changer for the team at the T20 World Cup. Read more here. Dad comes home from deployment to surprise son. Watch emotional videoThe wholesome video has left many emotional. Watch it here.Breast Cancer Awareness Month: ‘Nurture yourself,’ says cancer survivor Tahira KashyapAccording to the World Health Organisation, breast cancer is the most prevalent form of cancer all over the world. As of the end of 2020, there were 7.8 million women alive who were diagnosed with breast cancer in the past 5 years. Read more here. Boost for Indian army as Sela tunnel set for completion amid faceoff with China||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-punjab-to-probe-amarinder-s-friend-s-link-with-isi-101634901685151.html
22-10-2021||India||As a controversy hits BSF, the roots and evolution of India’s border force||New Delhi: An apparently unilateral decision taken by the Centre last week to extend the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) up to 50 km inside international borders in states such Assam, West Bengal and Punjab has created a political storm.
22-10-2021||India||‘Barbaric attack’: TMC says Sushmita Dev, party workers assaulted in Tripura, alleges collapse of law and order||The All India Trinamool Congress on Friday said that party leader Sushmita Dev and several workers were attacked by members of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Tripura, where Dev launched the party’s campaign for the upcoming civic body polls.Taking to Twitter, the party’s Tripura unit shared videos of the attacks and said that the people of Tripura would give a “befitting response” to the attack, which it described as “barbaric.”People of #Tripura will give a befitting response to this BARBARIC ATTACK!Police must immediately stop acting as mere spectators. This collapse of law and order is unacceptable. WE DEMAND JUSTICE!#ShameOnBJP pic.twitter.com/700tdmRBM8In the video shared by AITC Tripura, two to three unidentified men could be seen thrashing a man near the party’s vehicle. “People of #Tripura will give a befitting response to this BARBARIC ATTACK! Police must immediately stop acting as mere spectators. This collapse of law and order is unacceptable. WE DEMAND JUSTICE! #ShameOnBJP,” the party’s Tripura unit tweeted.Further, the TMC also alleged that Tripura CM Biplab Kumar Deb was behind the attack on its party members. “Once again @BjpBiplab proves that he CANNOT bear the presence of @AITCofficial in Tripura! His GOONS have BRUTALLY attacked us on the very first day of our campaign,” the party said in a subsequent tweet. “Why is @AmitShah silent? What about the safety and security of people in Tripura? Where is Democracy?” it asked.Once again @BjpBiplab proves that he CANNOT bear the presence of @AITCofficial in Tripura! His GOONS have BRUTALLY attacked us on the very first day of our campaign.Why is @AmitShah silent? What about the safety and security of people in Tripura? Where is Democracy? pic.twitter.com/pjQCuIhWvwThe TMC also claimed that the BJP has repeated attacked TMC workers in Tripura and created chaos in the state. “Yet another dastardly attack on Trinamool workers under the #DuareGundaRaj of @BjpBiplab! Shame on the @BJP4Tripura government for REPEATEDLY attacking us and creating chaos in the state! Is this what Democracy means to Biplab Deb? Is this what the people of #Tripura deserve?,” the party said.Meanwhile, TMC’s national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee slammed the BJP for “manhandling” Dev and called the incident “political terrorism.”“Under @BjpBiplab's #DuareGundaRaj, attack on political opponents is setting new records! Physically manhandling a sitting female Rajya Sabha MP, @SushmitaDevAITC is BEYOND SHAMEFUL & POLITICAL TERRORISM by @BJP4Tripura goons! The time is near. People of Tripura will answer!” he tweeted.Under @BjpBiplab's #DuareGundaRaj, attack on political opponents is setting new records!Physically manhandling a sitting female Rajya Sabha MP, @SushmitaDevAITC is BEYOND SHAMEFUL & POLITICAL TERRORISM by @BJP4Tripura goons!The time is near. People of Tripura will answer!On Thursday, Dev said that the party would contest in the upcoming civic body elections in Tripura, according to news agency PTI. She started the Tripurar Jonno Trinamool (TMC for Tripura) campaign earlier on Friday and said that she was looking forward to interacting with the people of Tripura.The tensions between the two parties continued in the state as several TMC members were arrested in the past months in Tripura for alleged violations of Covid-19 norms and TMC leaders had slammed the arrests earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/barbaric-attack-tmc-says-sushmita-dev-party-workers-assaulted-in-tripura-alleges-collapse-of-law-and-order-101634899426649.html
22-10-2021||India||Dancer Sudhaa Chandran posts message tagging PM Modi after being asked to remove prosthetic limb; CISF issues apology||Sudhaa Chandran, renowned Bharatanatyam dancer and actress, on Thursday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to issue senior citizen cards so that people belonging to that age group do not have to face hassles while checking in through airport security.A post shared by Sudhaa Chandran (@sudhaachandran)Chandran in an Instagram post revealed that she was asked to remove her prosthetic limb during the security check. Chandran, who lost her leg in an accident, made a comeback and won accolades as a dancer as well as an actor. She said that the process of opening her prosthetic leg is painful and airport authorities have been requested every time to use ETD (Explosive Trace Detector) but to no avail.“Good evening, this is a very personal note that I want to tell to our dear Prime Minister Narendra Modi Ji, this is an appeal to the central government, I am Sudhaa Chandran, an actress and dancer by profession, who has danced with an artificial limb and created history and made my country very proud of me,” Chandran said in a video post on Instagram.“But every time that I go on my professional visits, each time, am stopped at the airport and when I request them at the security, to the CISF officers that please do an ETD (Explosive Trace Detector) for my artificial limb, they still want me to remove my artificial limb and show it to them. Is this humanly possible, Modi ji? Is this what our country is talking about? Is this the respect that a woman gives to another woman in our society? It is my humble request to you Modi ji that please give senior citizens a card that says they are senior citizen,” she further added.Chandran said that she did not like being grilled every time she had to go through the airport security and requested the central government to take prompt action.We will examine why the lady personnel concerned requested Ms. Sudhaa Chandran to remove the prosthetics. We assure Ms.Sudhaa Chandran that all our personnel will be sensitised again on the protocols so that no inconvenience is caused to travelling passengers. 2/2The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) on Friday issued an apology via a tweet and said that authorities are looking into the issue. “We will examine why the lady personnel concerned requested Ms. Sudhaa Chandran to remove the prosthetics. We assure Ms.Sudhaa Chandran that all our personnel will be sensitised again on the protocols so that no inconvenience is caused to travelling passengers,” the CISF said in a series of tweets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dancer-sudhaa-chandran-asked-to-remove-prosthetic-limb-at-airport-101634897499241.html
22-10-2021||India||Drugs probe: Ananya Panday arrives for questioning for second day||Actor Ananya Panday arrived at the Narcotics Control Bureau’s (NCB) office in Mumbai for questioning for the second day in connection with the agency’s probe into drugs found on a cruise ship three weeks ago. NCB on Thursday expanded its probe into the case and questioned Panday for two hours besides visiting actor Shah Rukh Khan’s home in Mumbai to collect evidence in connection with charges against his son Aryan Khan.Officials said Panday, 22, was called for questioning after investigators found WhatsApp conversations between her and Aryan, 23, who is in jail on drug consumption and conspiracy charges.She has maintained she has never consumed any drugs and that the chats with Aryan Khan were all in a lighter vein, said an NCB officer.An NCB team searched her home on Thursday and seized her mobile phone and laptop. Later in the day, a five-member NCB team visited Khan’s home in connection with the case and left after half an hour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drugs-probe-ananya-panday-arrives-for-questioning-for-second-day-101634898402992.html
22-10-2021||India||PDP issues legal notice to Satya Pal Malik for defamatory remarks against Mehbooba Mufti||People's Democratic Party (PDP) on Friday issued a legal notice to former Jammu and Kashmir governor Satya Pal Malik for alleged defamatory statements against party president Mehbooba Mufti. In a video widely shared on social media, Malik, the current Meghalaya governor, was heard alleging that Mufti was a beneficiary of state land under the Roshni Act of 2001, which was scrapped last year following an order from the Jammu and Kashmir high court.He said that the Roshni Act, originally called the Jammu and Kashmir State Land (Vesting of Ownership Rights to the Occupants) Act, 2001, was introduced by the Farooq Abdullah government promising that the funds accrued giving ownership rights to the unauthorised occupants of state land will be used to improve the electricity situation in the erstwhile state."The electricity situation did not improve but plots were given to Farooq Abdullah, his son and Mehbooba... I cancelled the allotments and constituted an inquiry," Malik alleged.The legal notice stated the allegation was not only incorrect but also defamatory in nature with the "sole objective of tarnishing her otherwise politically neat and clean image." The PDP has called upon the Meghalaya governor to pay ₹10 crore within 30 days of the receipt of the legal notice, saying the amount will be donated or utilised for the public good.Earlier this week, Mufti said that the "false” and “unsavoury” statements of Malik were highly mischievous, warning him to either withdraw the comments or be prepared to get sued.“False & unsavoury utterances of Satya Pal Malik about me being a beneficiary of Roshni Act is highly mischievous. My legal team is preparing to sue him. He has the option to withdraw his comments failing which I will pursue legal recourse,” she tweeted while sharing the video.False & unsavoury utterances of Satya Pal Malik about me being a beneficiary of Roshni Act is highly mischievous. My legal team is preparing to sue him.He has the option to withdraw his comments failing which I will pursue legal recourse. pic.twitter.com/QVSOEFLGYp||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pdp-issues-legal-notice-to-satya-pal-malik-for-defamatory-remarks-against-mehbooba-mufti-101634895976846.html
22-10-2021||India||Punjab govt to probe Amarinder Singh's friend Aroosa Alam's link with ISI: Minister||Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Randhawa on Friday said the government will probe into former chief minister Amarinder Singh's links with the ISI through Aroosa Alam, who is a defence journalist of Pakistan. "Captain Amarinder Singh is now saying that there is a threat from ISI. We will look into the woman's connection with it. Captain kept raising drones issue coming from Pakistan for last 4-5 years," the deputy chief minister said, as quoted by ANI. "So Captain first raised this issue and later got BSF deployed in Punjab. We will ask DGP to look into this matter," the minister said referring to Aroosa Alam's link with ISI.Amarinder Singh has been raising the security issue and said Navjot Sidhu is a threat to the country's security because of his close relationship with the ISI and Pakistan. When the Captain was in New Delhi to visit Union home minister Amit Shah, Captain also met National Security Advisor Ajit Doval.Amarinder Singh: Floating new party, open to alliance with BJP ahead of Punjab pollsFollowing his acrimonious exit from the post of the chief minister, Amarinder Singh burnt the bridge with the Congress as he recently announced his decision to float a new party ahead of the election. The party will be launched soon, the former Punjab chief minister said, adding that his new party will be open to ally with the BJP if the farmers' issues are addressed.Who is Aroosa Alam?The daughter of yesteryear Pakistan politician Aqleem Akhtar, Aroosa Alam at present is a journalist. According to reports, Aroosa Alam met Amarinder Singh in 2004 when Amarinder went to Pakistan.This is not the first time that her name has been dragged into Punjab politics. In fact, in August this year, Sidhu's then advisor Malvinder Singh Mali reportedly posted Amarinder Singh's photo with Aroosa Alam and questioned Amarinder Singh. "I used to think that this is your personal matter but now that you have linked Navjot Sidhu's advisors with Congress politics and national security, I am compelled to post this," Mali reportedly posted.In 2007, Aroosa Alam for the first time was romantically linked with Captain Amarinder Singh. At that time, at an event in Chandigarh Press Club, Aroosa Alam had termed their relationship as platonic. "I am his friend and not in love with him," she had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-govt-to-probe-amarinder-singh-s-friend-aroosa-alam-s-link-with-isi-minister-101634897276134.html
22-10-2021||India||2019 Jamia rioting case: JNU student Sharjeel Imam denied bail||Jawaharlal Lal University (JNU) student Sharjeel Imam was denied bail by a Delhi court on Friday in connection with allegedly delivering an inflammatory speech which incited violence in 2019. The court observed that the speech was on communal lines and the content of the speech tended ‘to have a debilitating effect on the peace and harmony.’According to Delhi Police, Iman allegedly delivered a speech during the protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and National Register of Citizens (NRC) which was provocative in nature on December 13, 2019 which led to riots two days later when a mob of over 3,000 people attacked cops and torched vehicles in Delhi’s Jamia Nagar.The additional sessions judge Anuj Agarwal while denying Imam the bail said that the cursory and plain reading of the speech displays that it was on communal lines. “The tone and tenor of the incendiary speech tend to have a debilitating effect upon public tranquility, peace, and harmony of the society,” he said.The judge also quoted Swami Vivekananda while delivering the verdict. “We are what our thoughts have made us; so take care about what you think; Words are secondary; Thoughts live; they travel far,” he said, according to a report by news agency ANI.The judge also did note that the evidence in support of the allegations that the rioters got instigated by Imam's speech and following which they indulged in the acts of rioting, mischief, and attacking the cops was sketchy. It said that whether the speech would fall in the ambit of section 124A (Sedition) Indian Penal Code or not still requires deeper analysis at an appropriate stage.Alongside this case, Imam is accused of being the "mastermind" of the February 2020 northeast Delhi riots, which led to deaths of 53 people and injured over 700.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2019-jamia-rioting-case-jnu-student-sharjeel-imam-denied-bail-101634896959744.html
22-10-2021||India||Kerala new-born missing case: Govt orders probe||The Kerala government on Friday ordered a probe into “serious lapses and delay” on the part of its agencies in locating the baby of the daughter of a ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) or CPI (M) leader, who has accused her parents of snatching away her newborn as they disapproved of her relationship with her Dalit husband.Health minister Veena George said they will do everything possible to locate Anupama S Chandran’s baby. “We will also examine the role of the child welfare committee and other agencies. I have sought a report from the social welfare secretary,” said George.The Kerala State Women’s Commission on Thursday also ordered an inquiry in the case.The CPI (M) too pledged support to Chandran. Anavoor Nagappan, a CPI (M) district secretary, said the party will stand with Chandran and help locate her baby. Chandran, 23, reiterated the party was aware of everything and did not expect justice from it. She added it was forced to react as the case has hit national headlines. Chandran said she has been struggling to trace her baby after she was allegedly separated three days after birth last October.“When I approached the district secretary (Nagappan), he was rude to me. He was also instrumental in expelling my husband from the party. After I filed a police complaint against my father for kidnapping my child, he was elevated and given new responsibility... What the district secretary is saying is a bunch of lies.”Chandran, who is a leader of the Students Federation of India, said she lodged a police complaint in April, approached the chief minister, police chief saying her baby was snatched. She added they feign ignorance now. Chandran said police failed to take action due to political pressure and she was forced to go to the media. She said since she went public, she feared for the baby’s life.PS Jayachandran, Chandran’s father, has claimed said since the baby was born out of wedlock, they sent the baby to the government-run children’s home in Thiruvananthapuram with his daughter’s consent. He added Chandran signed on stamp paper but the daughter has said she did so under duress.“My father is misleading the investigation. At times he says the child was shifted to Tamil Nadu and later he said the baby was in the children’s home in the state capital (Thiruvananthapuram). The DNA test of two children admitted at the same period in the children’s home was also done but they did not match us,” she said.The opposition Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have sought a probe and the baby’s return to the mother. “It really shocked the conscience of the state but the party is still clinging on technicalities and dismisses it as a mere family issue,” said Congress leader V D Satheessan.BJP leader K Surendran questioned the CPI (M)’s claim of being a rights champion. “How can it deny the right of a mother? Left intellectuals, who sign joint statements at a drop of a hat, are silent now.”Police have issued sent summons to the children’s home and child welfare committee. Shiju Khan, a CPI(M) leader and the secretary of the home, refused to comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-orders-probe-after-ruling-party-leader-s-daughter-says-her-parents-separated-her-newborn-101634896902481.html
22-10-2021||India||‘Could have achieved this 6 months ago...’: Sisodia on govt’s vaccination feat||Hours after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address to the nation congratulating citizens on achieving the milestone of 1 billion vaccine doses, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and Delhi’s deputy chief minister, Manish Sisodia, on Friday criticised the central government saying that the milestone could have been achieved at least six months ago if the Union government had done adequate arrangements and not exported vaccines at a time India faced a shortage of doses.“While celebration the 100 crore vaccine milestone, we must remember that if the central government made adequate arrangements in time and not invested in public relation activities, such as exporting doses when India was facing a shortage, then the medical teams across the country could have achieved the milestone at least six months ago,” Sisodia said in a tweet.Earlier on Friday, while addressing the nation a day after the cumulative vaccine doses against coronavirus crossed the landmark figure of 100 crore, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the country has succeeded in its Covid campaign and 130 crore citizens are behind it.The vaccination drive across India was rolled out on January 16, starting with health care workers, later expanding in phases to include groups such as frontline workers, elderly people, those with comorbidities, individuals aged over 45 years, and eventually the entire adult population of the country.In Delhi, government records showed, around 21 million total doses have been administered so far which includes full (double-dose) vaccination of 7.1 million people - which is around 40% of the city’s total adult population.The Delhi government has been at loggerheads with the central government over the export of vaccines and the AAP witnessed several protests over it during June. They had also been asking the Union government to draft strategies to increase the production of vaccines in India, including resorting to methods like sharing of patents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/could-have-achieved-this-6-months-ago-sisodia-on-govt-s-vaccination-feat-101634895402160.html
22-10-2021||India||Rajasthan minister Harish Chaudhary replaces Harish Rawat as Punjab Congress in-charge||Rajasthan revenue minister Harish Chaudhary will be the Congress in-charge of poll-bound Punjab replacing veteran Congress leader and former Uttarakhand chief minister Harish Rawat. The development is not sudden as Harish Chaudhary's name was being speculated as a replacement for Harish Rawat for some time amid the Congress's trouble in Punjab."Congress President has appointed Shri Harish Chaudhary as AICC In-Charge of Punjab and Chandigarh with immediate effect. Harish Rawat is being relieved from his current responsibility as AICC General Secretary In-Charge of Punjab and Chandigarh. He shall continue as a member of CWC. The party appreciates his contributions as General Secretary," said AICC general secretary K C Venugopal in a statement.Chaudhary's name was speculated at a time when Sidhu resigned from the post of the Punjab Congress chief following his differences with Charanjit Singh Channi over appointments. At that time, Chaudhary said he will take whatever opportunity the party will give him.The differences between Channi and Sidhu were resolved and Sidhu continued in the post of the party president. The situation was overcome after it was decided that a coordination committee will be formed.While the change in the party affairs in-charge was due, an apparent new threat to Punjab Congress is Amarinder Singh floating a new party that may tie up with the BJP. The Congress however asserted that this will not be a threat for the party; Amarinder Singh's outfit will only divide the rival votes, the Congress said.Harish Chaudhary was a key part of the developments that rocked Punjab in the last few months, including the resignation of Amarinder Singh. Chaudhary was appointed as an observer of the party's affairs by Congress president Sonia Gandhi.Harish Rawat, on the other hand, had been requesting the party leadership to relieve him from Punjab Congress in-charge duty as he wanted to focus on plans for the upcoming Assembly elections in Uttarakhand, reports said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-minister-harish-chaudhary-replaces-rawat-as-punjab-congress-incharge-101634894777469.html
22-10-2021||India||PM Modi shares ‘half-baked ’ information: Congress spokesperson Gourav Vallabh||The Congress on Friday criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi for devaluing the hard work of India’s scientific community and researchers and sharing “half-baked” information in his speech on the billionth Covid-19 shot administered in the country on Thursday.“Modi has shared incorrect and misleading data. He has not recognised the hard work our scientific community and our researchers have put in,’ said Congress spokesman Gourav Vallabh. He added Modi ignored their research by saying this was the first time India has made a vaccine. Vallabh said Rajiv Gandhi started vaccination drives against six diseases or the universal immunisation programme when he was the Prime Minister in 1985. He added Gandhi also launched the Leprosy Eradication Programme without fanfare, unlike Modi.Vallabh’s comments came after Modi, in a televised address to the nation on Friday, said India has given a befitting reply to those who questioned the country’s ability to vaccinate its population and face the challenge of the pandemic by achieving the target of administering one billion Covid-19 vaccine doses.The billionth shot was administered on Thursday exactly nine months and five days after the country’s Covid-19 immunisation programme kicked off on January 16. Only China has been able to administer more doses.Vallabh said Modi has been comparing India to nations with smaller populations. “China administered 216 crore vaccines and inoculated 80% of its population with both doses. But India on the other hand has doubly vaccinated only 21% of the population.” He asked the government to apologise to the families of those who lost their lives during the second wave of the pandemic this summer. “Deaths in the second wave took place due to poor governance and inefficiency.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-accuses-pm-of-devaluing-hard-work-of-scientific-community-sharing-half-baked-info-101634893602206.html
22-10-2021||India||EC warns political parties from campaigning in adjoining districts||The Election Commission of India (ECI) has warned political parties and candidates against organising poll-related activities in areas near the places where by-elections are being held on October 30.“It has been brought to the notice of the Commission that certain political parties/candidates are organizing electioneering activities in the areas adjoining the district/constituency where the bye-election is being conducted,” the ECI said in a statement on Thursday. “In this regard, all political parties/candidates are advised not to organize any political activities directly related to the bye-elections even in the areas adjoining the district/constituency where the bye-election are being held. The District Election Officers concerned will ensure that the MCC (model code of conduct) instructions and COVID guidelines relating to the norms of social distancing are followed in the districts adjoining to the poll going district/constituency.”By-polls are being held to three Lok Sabha and 30 assembly seats. The ECI has said those found violating Covid-19 protocol will be barred from campaigning. The counting of votes will take place on November 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-warns-political-parties-from-campaigning-in-adjoining-districts-101634892461948.html
22-10-2021||India||Ananya Panday says she never consumed drugs, chat with Aryan was joke: Reports||The Narcotics Control Bureau has summoned Bollywood actor Ananya Panday for the second consecutive day for questioning in the drug-related case in which Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan has been arrested. The first round of questioning took place on Thursday and on Friday, the actor was called at 11am, though Ananya started from her Bandra house at around 2pm. Reports said that Ananya has denied the allegation of supplying drugs to Aryan Khan. She has also told the NCB officials that she never consumed drugs in her life. "Ananya denied the supply related talks in the chat conversation and told the NCB officials that she has never consumed or supplied the drugs," news agency ANI reported citing NCB sources. Another report said Ananya Panday said that the WhatsApp chats in which she purportedly promised to arrange ‘ganja’ for Aryan Khan were meant as a joke. Why Ananya Panday is being questionedNCB officials said Ananya Panday's name cropped up in Aryan Khan's WhatsApp chats. According to reports, Aryan Khan's chats indicate that in the year 2018-19, Ananya Panday helped supply drugs to Aryan Khan thrice by providing him with the numbers of drug dealers, ANI reported. Ananya Panday and Aryan Khan are known to be childhood friends and hence the actor has now come on NCB's radar following Aryan Khan's arrest.  #WATCH | Mumbai: Actor Ananya Panday arrives at NCB office for questioning in the ongoing drugs case pic.twitter.com/DCg4vUwKg5Ananya Panday is not an accused in the caseNCB officials on Thursday said that summoning her for interrogation does not indicate that she is an accused in the case. Ananya Panday has been summoned for interrogation. On Friday, her statement will be recorded. Reports said Ananya Panday was called for the second day as it was getting late on Thursday. Both days, she failed to turn up at the NCB office on time. What questions did NCB ask Ananya on 1st day of interrogation?Though the drugs case now involves 20 arrests, Ananya's questioning is specific to Aryan Khan and his WhatsApp chats. It is based on those WhatsApp chats that the NCB opposed Aryan Khan's bail plea claiming that Aryan is not new to drugs and has been consuming drugs for some time.Ananya Panday was asked whether she knows anything about Aryan Khan's drugs consumption, whether she has consumed drugs, whether she arranged drugs for Aryan Khan etc. It has been learnt that Ananya Panday has dismissed any link with drugs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ananya-panday-told-ncb-she-never-consumed-drugs-to-face-questioning-for-2nd-day-101634892251858.html
22-10-2021||India||As Amit Shah turns 57, birthday greetings from PM Modi, others||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union ministers, leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), as well as those from the opposition, on Friday extended greetings to Union home minister Amit Shah on his 57th birthday. “Birthday greetings to Shri @AmitShah Ji. I have worked with Amit Bhai for several years and witnessed his outstanding contributions to strengthen the party and in the government. May he keep serving the nation with the same zeal. Praying for his good health and long life,” PM Modi tweeted. Birthday greetings to Shri @AmitShah Ji. I have worked with Amit Bhai for several years and witnessed his outstanding contributions to strengthen the Party and in Government. May he keep serving the nation with the same zeal. Praying for his good health and long life.Here's how others wished the Union home minister:Defence minister Rajnath Singh: “Greetings and warm wishes to Union home minister and our senior colleague, Shri @AmitShah on his birthday, He is making tremendous efforts to ensure a safe and secure India.” Greetings and warm wishes to Union Home Minister and our senior colleague, Shri @AmitShah on his birthday. He is making tremendous efforts to ensure a safe and secure India. Praying for his long and healthy life in service of the people.BJP president JP Nadda: “Your hard work and service towards nation-building is an example for all. I pray to God for your good health and long life.” ऊर्जा, कर्मठता, ज्ञान और कार्यकुशलता के धनी, केंद्रीय गृह एवं सहकारिता मंत्री माननीय श्री @AmitShah जी को जन्मदिन की हार्दिक शुभकामनाएं।राष्ट्र निर्माण के प्रति आपका परिश्रम और सेवाभाव सभी के लिए अनुकरणीय है। ईश्वर से आपके उत्तम स्वास्थ्य एवं सुदीर्घ जीवन की प्रार्थना करता हूँ। pic.twitter.com/mweQbJp36STransport minister Nitin Gadkari: “Birthday greetings to my colleague in the Union cabinet and home minister Shri Amit Shah. I pray for your healthy and long life.” केंद्रीय कैबिनेट में मेरे साथी देश के गृहमंत्री श्री @AmitShah जी को जन्मदिन की हार्दिक शुभकामनाएं। आप स्वस्थ और दीर्घायु रहें, ईश्वर से यही कामना करता हूं।Former Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadnavis: “Heartiest birthday greetings from entire Maharashtra, to our great leader, Hon’ble union home minister of India Shri Amit Shah ji! Wishing him a long life and good health!” Heartiest Birthday Greetings from entire Maharashtra, to our great leader, Hon’ble Union Home Minister of India Shri @AmitShah ji !Wishing him a long life and good health! pic.twitter.com/cNaQFa5duIAam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal: “Birthday greetings to Hon'ble Union minister Shri @AmitShah ji. I pray for your long and healthy life.” Birthday greetings to Hon'ble Union Minister Shri @AmitShah ji. I pray for your long and healthy life.Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) leader and CM Hemant Soren: “My warm wishes to Shri @AmitShah ji Union Home Minister @HMOIndia on his birthday. May he be blessed with good health in the months & years to come.”
22-10-2021||India||Siddaramaiah says only 21% people fully inoculated, questions celebrations||Former Karnataka chief minister Siddaramaiah on Friday hit out at the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders for celebrating the billionth Covid-19 vaccine shot administered in India on Thursday while failing to notice that only 290 million or 21% of Indians have received both doses.“’1 billion doses’ sounds fancy number but the devil is in the details. Only 29 Cr people out of 139Cr are fully vaccinated, which means only about 21% are fully vaccinated. What are @BJP4India leaders celebrating for? For vaccinating just 21% of the population?” Siddaramaiah tweeted.“In US - 56% population are fully vaccinated, in China it is 70%, in Canada it is 71%. But India’s fully vaccinated coverage is just 21%. Mr. @narendramodi, let us raise the bar before celebrating!!” Siddaramaiah added.A series of events were held around the country to celebrate the milestone. The government launch a theme song, the largest khadi tricolour in the country, weighing around 1,400 kg, displayed only on special days, was unfurled to mark the occasion. Hundred monuments were also illuminated in tri-colour.“There may be a need for booster dose too & with even 1st doses & 2nd doses pending for large population, can we even think of booster dose? Mr PM @narendramodi, Let us put an hold to the celebrations & concentrate on vaccinating everyone,” Siddaramaiah said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/siddaramaiah-says-only-21-people-fully-inoculated-questions-celebration-of-billionth-covid-19-vaccine-shot-101634889943025.html
22-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: Militants, security forces exchange fire in J&K's Chanapora and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Heavy exchange of fire between militants, security forces in ChanaporaAn exchange of fire triggered in Srinagar’s Chanapora locality after security forces tried to intercept a vehicle on Thursday evening. Police and the paramilitary Central Reserve Police Force carried out a combing operation in areas but could not trace anyone. Read moreIslamic State, Al-Qaeda have increased online propaganda, warns FATFThe Islamic State and Al-Qaeda have increased online propaganda to incite unaffiliated individuals to launch attacks and to raise funds since last year and the risk of “self-financed, radicalised lone actor terrorists” is significant, the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) has warned. Read morePeople say, 'he is the Inzamam-Ul-Haq of India': Shoaib Akhtar names batter whom 'Pakistan considers greater than Kohli'Former fast bowler Shoaib Akhtar has lauded the Indian cricket team, saying that cricket fans in Pakistan are fond of certain batsmen from Team India. Read moreArjun Kapoor photoshops himself into Parineeti Chopra's travel pics, calls her ‘World Tourism Ambassador’Parineeti Chopra is celebrating her birthday today and its the hilarious Instagram post from her Ishaqzaade co-star Arjun Kapoor that is a sure winner. Read moreHow overthinking can play havoc with your mental health. Know from an expertAre you trapped in your mind, unable to shrug off some pesky thoughts that just don't go away, no matter how hard you try? There is nothing more exhausting than going through the same pattern of negative thoughts over and over again. Read moreImage of first FIR filed by Delhi Police in 1861 goes viral againAn image showcasing a First Information Report (FIR) filed by Delhi Police in 1861 has gone viral again. It is the first ever FIR that was filed by them. Shared on Twitter, the post has now left people in awe. See here'Befitting reply to detractors': PM on how 100 cr jabs is reflection of New IndiaPM Modi addressed the nation a day after India's 100 crore Covid vaccination milestone. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-militants-security-forces-exchange-fire-in-j-k-s-chanapora-and-all-the-latest-news-101634885499185.html
22-10-2021||India||As Covaxin awaits nod, WHO official says, ‘it takes longer sometimes’||The World Health Organisation (WHO), which has yet to provide a formal nod to Bharat Biotech's Covaxin – India's indigenously made vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) – said on Friday the process of approval takes longer sometimes.A top official of the global health body said the process of thoroughly evaluating a vaccine for use and recommending it sometimes takes a long time but it has to be ensured that the right advice is given to the world “even if it takes another week or two.”Also Read | WHO to meet on Oct 26 to consider Covaxin's emergency listingDr Mike Ryan, the executive director of the WHO Health Emergencies Programme, said that the UN agency is “very clear” that it wants all countries to recognise vaccines that have been given an Emergency Use Listing (EUL) by the WHO advisory process. “But it is also very important that WHO, when it makes a recommendation like that, is making that globally,” he added.According to a PTI report, the WHO official was responding to a question over when there will be a definitive answer to the Covaxin EUL.Earlier this week, the international public health body had said that it “cannot cut corners” to recommend Covaxin’s inclusion in the EUL for vaccination against Covid-19. The agency said it is expecting one additional piece of information from the Covaxin manufacturer which has been submitting data to the WHO on a rolling basis.“We are aware many people are waiting for WHO’s recommendation for Covaxin to be included in the #COVID19 Emergency Use Listing, but we cannot cut corners - before recommending a product for emergency use, we must evaluate it thoroughly to make sure it is safe and effective,” the WHO said in a series of tweets.The WHO nod for Covaxin’s emergency use authorisation is a much-anticipated one for its widespread acceptability as a safe and effective vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-covaxin-awaits-nod-who-official-says-it-takes-longer-sometimes-101634882987797.html
22-10-2021||India||SC to hear UP govt plea against ex-Twitter India head in Ghaziabad assault case||The Supreme Court on Friday agreed to hear a petition of the Uttar Pradesh government challenging an order of the Karnataka high court quashing a notice against former Twitter India managing director Manish Maheshwari in connection to a probe into a communally sensitive video. The video uploaded on the microblogging site was related to the alleged assault of a Muslim man in Loni Ghaziabad. A bench, comprising Chief Justice NV Ramana, Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli, heard the government's plea. Appearing for the Yogi Adityanath government, solicitor general Tushar Mehta questioned the territorial jurisdiction of a high court, a Livelaw report said.   “There's a question of law that needs your examination. For the time being, ignore the reason why the summon was issued. It was a 41A notice, so there's no question of arrest. The question is the territorial jurisdiction of the high court,” Mehta said.The court asked senior advocates AM Singhvi and Siddharth Luthra, appearing for Maheshwari, to accept the notice. “We have to hear the notice,” the CJI said. The video, which went viral on social media, showed a Muslim man alleging that he was assaulted and forced to chant "Jai Shri Ram", with miscreants also chopping his beard off. Although the Uttar Pradesh police has ruled out any 'communal angle' in the case, an FIR was registered over offenses insinuating criminal conspiracy and enmity between religious groups.Maheshwari has been held accountable by the Uttar Pradesh government for the uploaded video, which the prosecution says "resulted in violence".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-hear-up-govt-plea-against-ex-twitter-india-head-in-ghaziabad-assault-case-101634883909313.html
22-10-2021||India||India's vaccination feat a ‘testament’ to its ability, says Bill Gates||Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates, who has frequently lauded India's efforts in its fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), on Friday praised the country yet again, this time over its feat of administering more than 1 billion (100 crore) doses of vaccines against Covid-19. Taking to Twitter, the American entrepreneur said that the achievement was a “testament” to India's ability to manufacture at scale.Also Read | ‘India capable of setting difficult targets and achieving them too’: PM Modi“India has administered 1 billion vaccine doses, a testament to its innovation, ability to manufacture at scale, and the efforts of millions of health workers backed by CoWIN,” Gates tweeted, a day after the country crossed the said milestone. In his post, Gates also tagged Prime Minister Narendra Modi, health minister Mansukh Mandaviya, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) and the Union health ministry. India has administered 1 billion vaccine doses, a testament to India’s innovation, ability to manufacture at scale, and the efforts of millions of health workers backed by CoWIN. Congratulations @narendramodi @mansukhmandviya @PMOIndia @MoHFW_India https://t.co/vygRkSkPRmOn August 28, the billionaire philanthropist extended his congratulations when, on the day before, more than 10 million (1 crore) Indians were inoculated against the viral illness. This marked the first time when more than 10 million citizens were vaccinated in a single-day and, since then, the feat has been achieved on at least four other days.  Also Read | In PM Modi's billion jab praise to ‘new India’, a message for detractorsPreviously, Gates has also lauded PM Modi for the latter's leadership during the pandemic.On Thursday, India achieved the milestone of administering more than 1 billion jabs, some nine months after the nationwide vaccination drive commenced on January 19. The figure includes both single and fully (double) jabbed beneficiaries. The Centre aims to fully vaccinate all adults (18 years and above) by the end of the year. Also, it is yet to announce an inoculation drive for those below 18 years of age.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-vaccination-feat-a-testament-to-its-ability-says-bill-gates-101634882875696.html
22-10-2021||India||Heavy exchange of fire between militants, security forces in Chanapora||An exchange of fire triggered in Srinagar’s Chanapora locality after security forces tried to intercept a vehicle on Thursday evening. Police and the paramilitary Central Reserve Police Force carried out a combing operation in areas but could not trace anyone.A police officer said the terrorists involved in the exchange of fire could have escaped under the cover of darkness. “The forces are still keeping a close watch on the area...” the officer said, requesting anonymity.Security arrangements have been tightened across the Valley, especially in Srinagar, after a series of targeted attacks this month left 11 civilians dead.Union home minister Amit Shah is due to arrive in Srinagar on Saturday for a three-day visit. Police have seized motorcycles and put up extra checking points across the city. “Seizing some bikes and shutting down of internet of some towers is purely related to terror violences. It has nothing to do with visit of the Hon’ble HM (Shah), “ inspector general Vijay Kumar said in a tweet on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/forces-exchange-fire-in-srinagar-amid-spike-in-violence-101634882201458.html
22-10-2021||India||India reports 15,786 new Covid-19 cases; active cases lowest in 232 days||India on Friday saw a significant fall in its daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after 15,786 were reported in the last 24 hours, which pushed the caseload to 34,143,236, according to the Union health ministry's dashboard. Friday's infection count is 2,668 less (over 14%) than that of Thursday's, when 18,454 cases were reported, the highest single-day spike since October 14.Also, the daily positivity rate that has remained below 3% for the last 53 days touched 1.19% during the day, the health ministry said.As many as 231 patients died due to related complications, while 18,641 people were discharged in the last 24 hours. With this, the cumulative count of deaths and recoveries climbed to 4,53,042 and 3,35,14,449, respectively. Active cases now stood at 1,75,745, the lowest in 232 days and constitute 0.51% of the total caseload. The recovery rate, meanwhile, has risen to 98.16%, the highest since March last year.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Friday that 59,70,66,481 samples have been tested for Covid-19 so far of which 13,24,263 were tested in the last 24 hours.Authorities across India have administered 100,59,04,580 vaccine doses to eligible beneficiaries in total. Of these 70,93,86,804 beneficiaries have received the first dose, while 29,65,17,776 have been fully vaccinated against Covid-19.Also Read| In PM Modi's billion jab praise to ‘new India’, a message for detractorsOn Thursday, India became the second country after China to administer over a billion or 100 crore vaccine doses. It took nine months for the Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre to achieve this feat, and now it is aiming towards inoculating the entire population by the end of 2021."We are witnessing the triumph of Indian science, enterprise and the collective spirit of 130 crore Indians. Congrats India on crossing 100 crore vaccinations. Gratitude to our doctors, nurses and all those who worked to achieve this feat," Modi wrote on Twitter on Thursday.Meanwhile, the health ministry said on Thursday that over 1.045 billion vaccine doses have been provided to states and Union Territories (UTs) through the Centre's free of cost channel and direct state procurement strategy. More than 116.5 million balance and unutilised doses are still available with states and UTs to be administered, the ministry added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-15-786-new-covid-19-cases-active-cases-lowest-in-232-days-101634875012638.html
22-10-2021||India||1 billion jabs identity of a new India: PM Modi||India gave a befitting reply to those questioning the country’s ability to vaccinate its population against Covid-19 and surmounted the challenge posed by the pandemic by administering one billion shots in a short time, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday.Modi also took a swipe at his opponents and said economic growth was getting a boost from rising vaccinations, a day after India administered the billionth Covid-19 shot to much fanfare.“100 crore vaccinations are not just a figure, but a reflection of the strength of the country, it is the creation of a new chapter of history. This is a picture of a new India that sets difficult goals and knows how to achieve them,” the PM said in a televised address to the nation.He said that while other countries had the expertise, India achieved the target by basing the vaccination programme on scientific methods. “Questions were asked if Indians can cope with this pandemic, where will it get the money to purchase vaccines, will Indians get the vaccines or not, will it be able to inoculate so many to stop the (Covid-19) spread… This one billion is an answer to these questions,” he added.The billionth shot was administered on Thursday, nine months and five days after the country’s Covid-19 immunisation programme kicked off on January 16. Only China has been able to administer more doses. The vaccines were administered in roughly 430,000 centres and a total of at least around 2 million health workers were directly involved in the process.Modi said the success belonged to every citizen. He referred to the initial scepticism about India’s ability to administer vaccines to its large population and added that the speed with which it crossed the one billion mark is being appreciated worldwide. “...but there is one thing that has not been taken into account. Where did we begin? ...other countries... had expertise in research, etc, India was largely dependent on vaccines from these counties.”Modi said given the numbers of those vaccinated, the world will now consider India safe. “India has got recognition as a pharma hub and the whole world is looking at it.” He said the vaccine drive was the biggest example of the “sabka sath, sabka vikas” (inclusive development for all) mantra of the government.“At the beginning of the pandemic, there were apprehensions that it would be hard to fight the pandemic in India. But we ensured a free vaccination drive. There was only one mantra -- no discrimination in giving vaccines. There would be no VIP culture. No matter how rich or powerful a person was, they would get the vaccine like ordinary people will.”Modi spoke about vaccine hesitancy and said India proved the sceptics wrong. “Some said people will not turn up for the vaccination. In many countries, vaccine hesitancy is a big challenge, but Indians have made them speechless.” He took a pot shot at those who criticised his call for lighting lamps and appreciating the health care workers by clanging metal plates in 2020. “…some asked will the disease go away, but for us, we saw the unity and collective power in that. And this is what has helped us reach one billion in such a short time.”Modi credited the use of technology and scientific temper for accelerating the speed and reach of the vaccination. “It is a matter of pride that the whole programme was science bound, science-driven and science-based. From manufacturing to administering vaccines, there was a scientific approach at each step.” Modi referred to the CoWIN platform for vaccination registration and said it helped ordinary people and made work easier for the medical staff.Data shows that about three-fourth (75.6%) of India’s nearly 940 million adults have now received at least one dose while around 31% are fully immunised. Of these, around 886 million doses have been of Covishield (the brand name under which Pune-based Serum Institute of India has been manufacturing the vaccine developed by Oxford-AstraZeneca), while around 115 million doses have been of Covaxin (the shot developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the country’s apex biomedical research regulator, the Indian Council of Medical Research).The event was marked with a series of events across India on Thursday, including the launch of a theme song. The largest khadi tricolour in the country, weighing around 1,400kg, displayed only on special days, was unfurled to mark the occasion, and 100 monuments under the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) were illuminated in tricolour and local artists displayed 100 different ideas across 100 districts.But Modi cautioned that people still needed to be careful.“We cannot drop the ball, no matter how modern the shield. Till the war is on, weapons are not laid down. We need to celebrate our festivals with great care and masks have to be on. Just as we wear shoes, we must make wearing a mask a habit.” He asked those yet to be vaccinated to make it a priority, and those who have been jabbed to inspire the others to follow suit.The Congress criticised the Prime Minister, accusing him of “devaluing” the hard work of India’s scientific community and researchers and sharing “half-baked” information in his speech. “Modi has shared incorrect and misleading data. He has not recognised the hard work our scientific community and our researchers have put in,’ said Congress spokesman Gourav Vallabh.Vallabh said Modi has been comparing India to nations with smaller populations. “China administered 216 crore vaccines and inoculated 80% of its population with both doses. But India on the other hand has doubly vaccinated only 21% of the population.”Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and Delhi’s deputy chief minister, Manish Sisodia also criticised the central government saying that the milestone could have been achieved at least six months ago if the Union government had made adequate arrangements and not exported vaccines at a time India faced a shortage of doses.“While celebrating the 100 crore vaccine milestone, we must remember that if the central government made adequate arrangements in time and not invested in public relation activities, such as exporting doses when India was facing a shortage, then the medical teams across the country could have achieved the milestone at least six months ago,” Sisodia said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-capable-of-setting-difficult-targets-and-achieving-them-too-pm-modi-on-vaccination-feat-101634881540253.html
22-10-2021||India||‘Covid-19 vaccine a shield, but can’t let our guard down': PM Modi on 1 billion doses||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday equated vaccination against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to a “shield,” as he warned citizens not to let their guard down even though the country has crossed the milestone of administering more than 1 billion or 100 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines. The PM's remark came as he addressed the nation to mark the occasion, a day after the nationwide cumulative vaccination coverage crossed the 1 billion-mark.Also Read | In PM Modi's billion jab praise to ‘new India’, a message for detractors“Regardless of how good or modern the shield is, and even if it guarantees cent per cent protection, we can't let our guard down till the war (against Covid-19) is going on. Hence, I request all of you to celebrate the festivals with utmost care,” PM Modi said in his national address, which began shortly after 10am. “We have to make wearing masks a habit, in the same way as we put on shoes when we go out,” he added.Watch | 'Befitting reply to detractors...': PM Modi on how 100 crore jabs is reflection of New IndiaIn a message to people who are yet to get vaccinated, Prime Minister Modi urged them to make their inoculation a “top priority”. Those who have taken their jabs should encourage others to do so as well, he further said. “I have full confidence that if all of us work together, we will be able to defeat the virus at the earliest,” PM Modi said.Also Read | PM Modi: Ensured VIP culture doesn't overpower Covid-19 vaccination driveThe nationwide vaccination drive began on January 16, and, after a little over nine months, the nation surpassed the 1 billion dose-milestone, which includes both single and fully (double) jabbed beneficiaries. Nearly 1.6 billion doses have been administered thus far, including more than 6.1 million on October 21, according to the Union health ministry's dashboard.Currently, only those aged 18 and above are eligible for vaccination. The government aims to fully inoculate all 944 million adults by the year-end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccine-a-shield-but-can-t-let-our-guard-down-pm-modi-101634878425159.html
22-10-2021||India||Salute to billion vaccine drive, ‘vocal for local’ movement: Top 10 quotes from PM Modi's address||Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the nation a day after India crossed a historic milestone of administering the billionth shot of vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). In his Friday address, the Prime Minister hailed the country's vaccination drive, which he said relied heavily on a “science-based” approach, and also urged citizens to imbibe the policy of “vocal for local” when they step out this festive season to buy goods for themselves and their loved ones.Also Read | In PM Modi's billion jab praise to ‘new India’, a message for detractorsThe Prime Minister also hit out at his detractors, adding that while there were many critics of ‘taali, thaali’ (initial campaigns in the fight against the coronavirus menace), the fact that India managed to administer 100-crore vaccine doses showed that the country was united in the battle.Here are the top quotes from Modi's address to the nation:1. Our country has succeeded in its Covid-19 vaccination campaign and 130 crore citizens are behind it. It is their success. I congratulate you all.2. 100 crore vaccines is not just a statistic, it is a symbol of ‘New India’.3. While we are now being lauded by countries across the world, many would not remember where we started, when we were dependent on others. At the time, lots of questions were being raised - will we be able to afford it? Will we be able to vaccinate fast enough to beat the pandemic? This moment today has answered all these doubts.4. As a pharmaceutical hub, our status in the world has been reinforced. “Sabka saath, sabka vikas, sabka vishwaas … sabka prayas” is what exemplifies the vaccination drive.Watch | 'Befitting reply to detractors': PM on how 100 cr jabs is reflection of New IndiaPrime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the nation a day after India crossed a historic milestone of administering the billionth shot of vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). In his Friday address, the Prime Minister hailed the country's vaccination drive, which he said relied heavily on a “science-based” approach, and also urged citizens to imbibe the policy of “vocal for local” when they step out this festive season to buy goods for themselves and their loved ones.Also Read | In PM Modi's billion jab praise to ‘new India’, a message for detractorsThe Prime Minister also hit out at his detractors, adding that while there were many critics of ‘taali, thaali’ (initial campaigns in the fight against the coronavirus menace), the fact that India managed to administer 100-crore vaccine doses showed that the country was united in the battle.Here are the top quotes from Modi's address to the nation:1. Our country has succeeded in its Covid-19 vaccination campaign and 130 crore citizens are behind it. It is their success. I congratulate you all.2. 100 crore vaccines is not just a statistic, it is a symbol of ‘New India’.3. While we are now being lauded by countries across the world, many would not remember where we started, when we were dependent on others. At the time, lots of questions were being raised - will we be able to afford it? Will we be able to vaccinate fast enough to beat the pandemic? This moment today has answered all these doubts.4. As a pharmaceutical hub, our status in the world has been reinforced. “Sabka saath, sabka vikas, sabka vishwaas … sabka prayas” is what exemplifies the vaccination drive.Watch | 'Befitting reply to detractors': PM on how 100 cr jabs is reflection of New India|#+|5. India started the free Covid-19 vaccine campaign to drive home the point that no 'VIP culture’ exists in the country.6. People questioned the ‘taali, thaali’ campaign, but it was a move to show that the country was united, stood together, and even managed to administer one crore vaccines in a single day.7. India’s vaccination drive is science-driven and relied heavily on a scientific approach followed all along.8. Optimism, optimism, optimism – we see that all around us. Indian companies are not only getting new investment opportunities, but job offers for the youth are opening up.9. I urge all citizens to make the ‘Made in India’ and ‘vocal for local’ movements as integral as the ‘Swachch Abhiyaan’. This Diwali, unlike the last one, we have a sense of belief and confidence.10. However strong the ‘kawach’ (shield) is, the war is not over. Just like we are used to wearing shoes, please make wearing masks a habit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-salutes-india-s-vaccination-drive-urges-vocal-for-local-top-10-quotes-101634878306657.html
22-10-2021||India||PM Modi: Ensured VIP culture doesn't overpower Covid-19 vaccination drive||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday the Centre ensured that the VIP (very important person) culture did not overpower the ongoing vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), adding that beneficiaries, irrespective of their position and wealth, would be vaccinated just like any other citizen of India.Addressing the nation a day after the country achieved a record feat of over a billion vaccinations, Modi said, “The ‘Sabko vaccine, muft vaccine’ (free vaccine for all) initiative was started by taking everyone along. The country had one mantra- if the Covid-19 disease does not discriminate, then there cannot be any discrimination in vaccination too. Hence, it was ensured that the VIP culture does not overpower the vaccination drive.”Also Read| In PM Modi's billion jab praise to ‘new India’, a message for detractorsThe Prime Minister said at the beginning of the Covid-19 crisis, fears started arising that it would be very difficult for a democracy like India to fight this pandemic.“It was being said for India and its citizens, how so much control and discipline will work here. But for us, democracy means everyone's support,” he said.During his address on Friday, PM Modi also threw light on the topic of vaccine hesitancy, which is still being discussed across the world. Modi said that in many developed nations, vaccine hesitancy is a big challenge.“It was also said that a majority of Indians would not take the vaccine. But, with the administering of a billion vaccine doses, the citizens of the country have silenced such people,” he also said.Also Read| ‘Covid-19 vaccine a shield, but can’t let our guard down': PM ModiIndia began its vaccination drive in January this year and it took nine months to administer more than one billion doses. Until now, only China had managed to administer these many doses.On Friday, Modi changed his photo on his Twitter profile to highlight this landmark achievement. "Congratulations India-100 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses administered," his profile photo on the microblogging site read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-centre-assured-vip-culture-doesn-t-overpower-covid-vaccination-drive-101634877901285.html
22-10-2021||India||UK foreign secy begins India visit today; tech, infrastructure deals on cards||The United Kingdom will announce a series of tech and infrastructure deals, including a £50.4 million investment to fund green tech infrastructure projects across India, during foreign secretary Liz Truss’ visit beginning Friday. As part of the India-UK 10-year roadmap, Truss and her Indian counterpart S Jaishankar will announce the “Strategic Futures Forum”, bringing together leading figures from government, business and academia of both countries to drive closer links in key areas such as tech and security and to shape the long-term, strategic vision for the bilateral partnership. The tech and infrastructure deals to be finalised during Truss’ two-day visit are aimed at boosting jobs and increasing green growth. She will unveil the £50.4-million ($70 million) investment by the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office’s investment arm CDC to fund green tech infrastructure projects across India through the joint Green Growth Equity Fund. Truss will also announce an £11.5-million British investment in two venture capital funds aimed at supporting India’s transition to cleaner energy. “Both funds will return a profit to the UK taxpayer and make use of UK expertise,” a statement from the British high commission said. There will also be an investment of £500,000 by the UK Research and Innovation (UKRI) to build a new virtual network of Indian and British labs working to promote net-zero targets in key industries such as glass, cement, and metals. In a statement ahead of her arrival in India, Truss said, “I want the UK and India to step up their partnership in critical areas like technology, investment, security and defence. India is the world’s largest democracy, a tech and economic powerhouse and a vital strategic partner for the UK.”Closer ties between the two countries in areas such as tech and infrastructure “will deliver jobs and growth in both countries, boost developing world economies and help us promote our values on the global stage,” she added. Truss will also outline agreements to deepen investment ties between the two sides and work together on finance and technical support packages for the developing world. “The deals include more tech transfer and knowledge sharing with developing countries alongside heavy capital investment – a model that the UK is looking to replicate with partners around the world,” the statement said. These agreements will help drive forward the “Build Back Better World” initiative launched by G7 leaders in June to meet the huge need for clean infrastructure in the developing world.While India has the third-highest number of tech start-ups in the world, the UK has the third-largest number of tech “unicorns” or start-ups valued at more than $1 billion. Truss wants to strengthen Britain’s economic, technology and security links with fast-growing economies and like-minded partners and build “a network of liberty” around the globe, the statement said. “Closer ties with like-minded democracies such as India are key to that ambition,” it added. The Roadmap 2030 for India-UK ties was finalised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his British counterpart Boris Johnson at their virtual summit in May. Besides Jaishankar, Truss will meet environment minister Bhupender Yadav in Delhi to discuss areas for closer collaboration. During her meeting with Yadav, Truss is also expected to discuss climate targets and underline the importance of making concrete progress on climate change ahead of the COP26 Summit in Glasgow next month. She will note that India already leads the world in renewable technology and express her hope that New Delhi will commit to a “more ambitious Nationally Determined Contribution”.She will then travel to Mumbai, where she will visit the UK carrier strike group, which is led by Britain’s largest warship, the aircraft carrier HMS Queen Elizabeth. Truss will also meet Indian business leaders at a Build Back Better World roundtable in Mumbai on Saturday to boost infrastructure in the developing world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-foreign-secretary-to-visit-india-this-week-tech-infrastructure-deals-on-cards-101634878960138.html
22-10-2021||India||In PM Modi's billion jab praise to ‘new India’, a message for detractors||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said 100 crore vaccines against the coronavirus disease is not just a statistic, but a symbol of new India. Hitting out at his detractors, the PM said that while many spoke about ‘taali, thaali’ (initial campaigns in the fight against the virus), the latest accomplishment showed the country was united in the battle. Addressing the nation a day after the cumulative vaccine doses against coronavirus crossed the landmark figure of 100 crore, Modi said our country has succeeded in its Covid campaign and 130 crore citizens are behind it. “It’s their success. I congratulate all,” he said.Also read | Salute to billion vaccine drive, ‘vocal for local’ movement: Top 10 quotes from PM's address“While we are being lauded by countries across the world, most will miss where we started- where we were dependent on others,” he said.The PM said at the time, a lots of questions were raised - would we be able to afford, would we be able to vaccinate quickly to beat pandemic? “This moment today has answered all these doubts,” he added.“As a pharma hub, our status has been reinforced. Today is a live example of 'sabka saath, sabka vikas, sabka vishwaas… sabka prayas”.Modi further said India started free campaign of vaccines to drive home the point that ‘no VIP culture’ exists in the country.Speaking about vaccine hesitancy, he said this was a problem in many developed countries, but the administering of 100 crore doses reveal this was not an issue in India.Slamming his detractors over the initial campaigns of beating utensils to motivate frontline workers, Modi said, “People questioned ‘taali, thaali’ but it was a move to show that the country was united, it stood together and even administered one crore vaccines in one day.”Also read | ‘Covid-19 vaccine a shield, but can’t let our guard down': PM ModiHe said India’s vaccine programme is science-driven and scientific approach followed all along.“Optimism, optimism, optimism-- we see that all around us. Indian companies are not just getting new investment but job opportunities for the young opening up”“There was a time when ‘made in this and that country’ was the rage. Now all citizens are feeling the power of ‘made in India’.”“I urge all citizens to make ‘made in india’ and ‘vocal for local’ as much of a movement as ‘swachch abhiyaan’. This Diwali unlike the last one, we have a sense of belief and confidence.”“However strong the ‘kawach’ (shield) is, the war is not over. Just like we are used to wearing shoes, please make wearing masks a habit,” the PM added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-hails-new-india-of-130-crore-on-a-billion-vaccine-milestone-101634877357510.html
22-10-2021||India||Sonia Gandhi set to overtake cumulative years her family members led Congress||In 2010, when Congress leaders wanted to celebrate Sonia Gandhi’s record as the longest-serving party president, she asked them to cross-check with then finance minister Pranab Mukherjee, who was known for his memory. Eleven years later, as she continues to lead the party, she is set to overtake the cumulative years her family members Jawaharlal Nehru, Indira Gandhi, Rajiv Gandhi, and Rahul Gandhi led the party. This includes her leadership as the interim or provisional president from August 2019 after Rahul Gandhi quit the post following the Congress’s debacle in the national elections.Sonia Gandhi has served roughly 21 years as the Congress chief—almost the same years her family members have led the party. Her stint is set to continue for another 12 months. The Congress Working Committee, the highest executive body of the party which met on October 16, announced she will continue to be the interim president till her successor is elected between August 21 and September 30 next year. At the meeting, Sonia Gandhi hit back at dissenters for “talking to her through media” and reminded them that she has been “a full-time and hands-on Congress President.”India’s first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, a key figure in both pre-Independence and post-Independence Congress, presided over the All-India Congress Committee session first in 1929. He was also the Congress president in 1930, 1936-37, 1951-54. Nehru led the party for eight years.Indira Gandhi, who led the party for seven years, first got its leadership in 1959. She led the party again from 1978 to 1984. Her son, Rajiv Gandhi succeeded her as the party president and Prime Minister in 1985 before he was also assassinated six years later in 1991.Narasimha Rao and Sitaram Kesari led the party until Sonia Gandhi shed her initial reluctance and became the Congress president in March 1998. She became the longest-serving chief of the party before Rahul Gandhi took over from her in 2017. Sonia Gandhi again took the top post in 2019 after Rahul Gandhi resigned citing the poor performance of the party in the general elections. The Congress bagged just 52 out of the 543 seats in Lok Sabha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-set-to-overtake-cumulative-years-her-family-members-led-congress-101634876979802.html
22-10-2021||India||‘Cruel joke on citizens by Centre’: Rahul Gandhi’s jibe on rising fuel prices||Congress leader and former party chief Rahul Gandhi once again took a dig at the Central government on Twitter over the increasing petrol and diesel prices. He claimed that the government is playing a joke on the public.“GOI is playing a cruel joke on our public. #TaxExtortion,” the Wayanad MP tweeted, along with an image captioned, “FILLIONAIRE: One who can afford a full tank in India.”This tweet came after the price of petrol and diesel rose by 35 paise per litre, resulting in prices rising for the second consecutive day. Before this hike, there was no change in the rates on October 18 and 19.However, this is not the first time the opposition has reacted to the sky-rocketing fuel prices. On October 18, Priyanka Gandhi reacted to the fuel rates costing more than aviation fuel. “The BJP government promised that people wearing hawai chappal (slippers) will travel in airplanes. However, the BJP has increased the fuel prices so much that now it is more difficult for the middle class to travel by road,” she tweeted in Hindi and attached a newspaper clipping comparing aviation turbine fuel prices with that of petrol and diesel.Rahul Gandhi chimed in too, tweeting, “Sabka vinash, mehengaai ka vikas (destruction of all, development of rising prices).”While petrol prices have already crossed the ₹100-mark for a litre across all metropolitan cities, diesel prices have only crossed the mark in over a dozen states.The Centre is currently in talks with countries exporting oil to India. According to news agency ANI, the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas has raised concerns over rising prices of crude oil, supply and demand of oils to the major oil-producing countries. “As crude oil prices rise internationally, the petroleum ministry has called on the energy ministries of many countries such as Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, UAE, Russia and others,” ANI quoted a person familiar with the development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cruel-joke-on-citizens-by-centre-rahul-gandhi-s-jibe-on-rising-fuel-prices-101634876319945.html
22-10-2021||NA||Highlights: PM Modi says India's vaccine drive relied heavily on 'science-based' approach||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday addressed the nation, a day after the nationwide cumulative vaccination coverage against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crossed the 1 billion or 100 crore-mark. “PM @narendramodi will address the nation at 10am today,” the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) informed in a tweet.India took a little over nine months to cross the milestone, as the nationwide vaccination drive against Covid-19 began on January 16. Currently, only those aged 18 and above are eligible for inoculation. The government aims to fully vaccinate all 944 million adults by the year-end.Follow all the updates here:‘Made in India’ should become a national movement like Swachh Bharat: PM ModiI urge all the citizens to make ‘made in india’ and ‘vocal for local’ as much of a movement as ‘swachch abhiyaan’. This diwali unlike the last one, we have a sense of belief and confidence: PM ModiAll citizens feeling power of ‘made in India’: PM ModiThere was a time when ‘made in this and that country’ was all the rage. Now all citizens are feeling the power of ‘made in India’: PM ModiIndia's vaccine science driven, says PM ModiIndia’s vaccine programme is science driven and scientific approach followed all along, says PM Modi.India's unity was on display during ‘thali bajao’ and lighting diya: PM ModiMany people mocked when Indians banged thalis and lit diyas last year. However, it was India's unity that was on display during those events: PM ModiIndia achieved difficult but extraordinary target, says PM ModiYesterday, India's cumulative Covid-19 vaccination coverage crossed 1 billion. We achieved a target which was difficult, but extraordinary: PM ModiPM Modi begins address to nationPrime Minister Modi's address to nation begins, day after country crossed 100 crore Covid-19 vaccination mark.PM likely to speak on vaccination milestonePM Modi's address is likely to be on the country's cumulative Covid-19 vaccination coverage crossing the 100 crore-mark, which it did on Thursday.PM Modi to address nation at 10amPrime Minister Narendra Modi's address to the nation will begin at 10am, the PMO announced in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-s-address-to-nation-live-updates-101634874192761.html
22-10-2021||India||Scorsese, Szabó to be honoured with Satyajit Ray Lifetime Achievement Award||The Satyajit Ray Lifetime Achievement Award will be conferred on filmmakers Martin Scorsese and István Szabó at the 52nd edition of the International Film Festival of India (IFFI) being held in Goa from November 20 to 28 in a hybrid format, officials familiar with the matter said. Scorsese has directed Oscar-winning movies such as Taxi Driver and Goodfellas. Szabo, a Hungarian film director, is best known for directing Mephisto, which won an Academy Award.Union information and broadcasting minister Anurag Thakur said there will be many firsts at this year’s IFFI. His ministry has planned a masterclass for young people in direction, acting, cinematography, editing, and production. Over-the-top (OTT) platforms will also participate in the event.“As India is celebrating 75 years of independence, we have started a new initiative for training 75 creative minds of tomorrow. These young talented people will be offered an opportunity to apply for a masterclass with the experts. The participants will be shortlisted by a jury and get an opportunity to interact with industry leaders,” said Thakur.A competition to attend the class will be held this year as well as the next. “It is difficult for the young to reach out to these experts otherwise,” he said.HT on September 23 reported IIFI is looking to tie up with Netflix to screen an original during the festival and host a masterclass with experts from the OTT platform.An official said this is the first time the festival is tying up with OTT platforms. “Cinema and movies are being viewed on OTTs. Series and films are made specifically for OTT platforms. In Covid-19 times, they are earning a higher revenue than traditional mediums.” The official added by tying up with the platforms such as Netflix, IFFI is embracing new tech and giving a platform for artists to interact with OTT players. “IFFI will give a platform to budding talent across India,” the official said. “75 creative minds (under 35 years) will be invited (to)... interact with Industry leaders and attend masterclasses.”The official said BRICS (Brazil, Russia, India, China, and South Africa) Film Festival is being held alongside IFFI for the first time.The festival will open with an International premiere of Carlos Saura’s The King of all the World.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scorsese-to-be-conferred-satyajit-ray-lifetime-achievement-award-101634874999419.html
22-10-2021||India||‘What an achievement’: US lawmakers as India's cumulative Covid-19 vaccination coverage tops 1 billion||Top US lawmakers have congratulated India after the country’s cumulative Covid-19 vaccination coverage, on Thursday, crossed the 1 billion or 100 crore-mark. Congressman Gregory Meeks, who heads the powerful House Foreign Affairs Committee, said, “Congratulations to India on reaching this important milestone in the global fight against the Covid-19 pandemic.”Also Read | 1 billion doses: No mean featAs a global leader in pharmaceutical and vaccine manufacturing, the country’s success will help the world overcome this pandemic, Meeks added.Congresswoman Robin Kelly described the achievement as a “promising milestone.” Kelly said, “Vaccination rates across the world are an important factor in our global recovery from this pandemic.” Senator Steve Daines from Montana, meanwhile, remarked, “Great to see that India has reached 1 billion doses of the Covid-19 vaccination. What an achievement.”Also Read | 1 billion Covid doses: Across the country, a billion cheersThe New York Times, too, said that topping the 1 billion-mark represented a “turnaround” in a vaccination drive which “got off to a slow start.” Referring to the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) election rallies in April and May, the newspaper further said that the governing party “prioritised the elections” and showed a “lax attitude” in tackling the virus. Also Read | 100 monuments lit in tricolour to celebrate India's 1 billion vaccine featEarlier, the United States’ embassy in India, and the US' deputy secretary of state, Wendy R Sherman, also extended their congratulations on the occasion. Congratulations to India on administering its 1 billionth dose of COVID-19 vaccine today – a major milestone in the world’s efforts to combat the global pandemic. #VaccineCentury #CongratulationsIndiaCongratulations to India on administering their 1 billionth dose of COVID-19 vaccine! We applaud India’s commitment to ramp up vaccine production for export and use worldwide. With the #Quad, the U.S. and India are working together to vaccinate the world and end the pandemic. India’s vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease began on January 16, and, since then, 31 per cent of the eligible population has been fully vaccinated (received both doses), while 75 per cent beneficiaries have taken at least one dose of a Covid-19 jab. The government aims to fully vaccinate all 944 million adults by the end of the year. However, those below 18 years of age are not yet eligible for inoculation.The 1 billion-mark includes both single and double-jabbed beneficiaries.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-an-achievement-us-lawmakers-as-india-s-cumulative-covid-19-vaccination-coverage-tops-1-billion-101634873764392.html
22-10-2021||India||Monsoon to withdraw around Oct 26; rain likely over NW India around Oct 23-24||Conditions are becoming favourable for further withdrawal of monsoon from remaining parts of northeast India, north Bay of Bengal, remaining parts of West Bengal, some parts of Central Bay of Bengal, remaining parts of Odisha, some parts of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, entire Goa, some more parts of Karnataka and some more parts of Central Arabian Sea today and tomorrow according to India Meteorological Department.With the likely setting in of northeasterly winds over the Bay of Bengal and extreme south Peninsular India, the monsoon is likely to withdraw completely around October 26. Simultaneously, the northeast monsoon rains are also likely to commence over Southeast Peninsular India from around October 26. A cyclonic circulation is lying over the Comorin area and neighbourhood and a trough is running from the cyclonic circulation to the east-central Arabian Sea off the Karnataka coast. Under its influence, widespread and heavy rain with thunderstorms and lightning is likely over Kerala, Mahe, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Karaikal, Coastal and South Interior Karnataka till today.A fresh western disturbance is likely to affect the Western Himalayan region especially Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan and Muzaffarabad and Himachal Pradesh from October 22 to 24 and adjoining plains of northwest India till 24. Isolated heavy rainfall with thunderstorms, lightning, gusty wind and hailstorm is likely over Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan and Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh and Punjab on October 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-to-withdraw-around-oct-26-rain-likely-over-nw-india-around-oct-2324-101634873919677.html
22-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: UK's daily Covid-19 count crosses 50,000 again and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19: UK's daily count crosses 50,000 again, Boris govt says no to fresh curbsOn Thursday, the daily tally crossed the 50,000-mark with 52,009 people testing positive for the virus, the highest single-day increase since July 17. Read moreMajor lapse in CM Yogi's security: Man enters auditorium with revolver, 4 cops suspendedThe man was later taken out of the auditorium and had his identity ascertained. The role of a number of policemen has come under the lens. Read moreMumbai: Cinema halls, auditoriums, amusement parks to reopen todayThe reopening of cinema halls, drama theatres, and auditoriums in Mumbai are set to gradually bring the city's entertainment and cultural landscape back on track. Read more'India can destroy Pakistan like a house of cards': Panesar names 4 game-changers from both sides ahead of T20 WC clashFormer England left-arm spinner Monty Panesar believes India can hammer Pakistan in their upcoming T20 World Cup contest in Dubai on Sunday. Read moreEternals actor Harish Patel tests Covid-19 positive, quarantined in US: 'Family was ready to attend LA premiere with me'Indian actor Harish Patel was unable to join Angelina Jolie and Salma Hayek at the Eternals' Los Angeles premiere after testing Covid-19 positive. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-uk-s-daily-covid-19-count-crosses-50-000-again-and-all-the-latest-news-101634869545345.html
22-10-2021||India||Top US dept of justice, FBI officials talk emerging crime trend with CBI in Delhi||Senior officials of the US Department of Justice and Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) held a meeting with their counterparts from the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in Delhi this week “to further strengthen law enforcement cooperation”.Deputy assistant attorney general Arun G Rao of the US Department of Justice Civil Division’s consumer protection branch and FBI officials held talks with personnel of India’s premier investigating agency, a press release said.Deputy Assistant Attorney General Arun G. Rao of the U.S. Department of Justice Civil Division’s Consumer Protection Branch and FBI, met this week with Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) officials in Delhi to further strengthen law enforcement cooperation: US Dept of Justice pic.twitter.com/s4ajqnxwkzThe statement issued by the US Department of Justice said the top officials discussed means to combat emerging crime trends, including fighting rising telemarketing fraud. They also affirmed their shared commitment to strengthen cooperation in combating crime, on efforts to probe and prosecute cyber-enabled financial frauds and telemarketing frauds, it further said.The teams also discussed the need for continued cooperation in tackling emerging technology-based crimes through faster information exchange and evidence sharing, with a view to ensure security and protection of citizens of both jurisdictions, the release added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-dept-of-justice-fbi-officials-talk-emerging-crime-trend-with-cbi-in-delhi-101634871327163.html
22-10-2021||India||Himachal: Bad weather at Lahaul-Spiti, 80 people stranded||As many as 80 people are stranded in Himachal Pradesh's Lahaul-Spiti district due to bad weather, a disaster management official said on Thursday. Eleven tourists travelling in cars are among those stranded at Batal, he added.They are staying at the PWD rest house and Chacha-Chachi Ka Dhabha at Batal, the official said.A plan has been chalked out to take them to safer places in 4x4 vehicles on Friday, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/himachal-bad-weather-at-lahaul-spiti-80-people-stranded-101634869343279.html
22-10-2021||India||Major lapse in CM Yogi's security: Man enters auditorium with revolver, 4 cops suspended||In what is being called a major security lapse at an event attended by Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath in Basti district, a man with a licensed revolver entered the auditorium minutes ahead of the former’s arrival on Tuesday.While the man was taken out of the auditorium soon after, at least four police personnel were suspended on Thursday due to laxity.Adityanath was attending a programme at the Atal Bihari Vajpayee Auditorium in Basti district earlier this week. Personnel from local police stations, as well as those from other districts, were deployed on security duty.About 45 minutes before the chief minister's arrival, one Jatshankar Shukla, a representative of the Gaur block, reached the spot. According to a report by HT's sister publication Live Hindustan, Jitendra Pandey, the brother-in-law of Shukla's younger brother Amardeep, also entered the auditorium with his licensed revolver, but was later pulled out by the police personnel present there.Basti SP Ashish Srivastava told news agency ANI, “There was a VIP event of the chief minister in Basti district. Forty-five minutes before his arrival, a man arrived at the auditorium with his licensed revolver; the circle officer present there on duty saw him.”He said the man was later taken out of the auditorium and had his identity ascertained. Given that the gunman managed to enter the auditorium where a high-profile event was being held, the role of a number of policemen soon came under the lens.“In the initial probe, seven police personnel, including four posted in Basti district, were found to be negligent,” the Basti SP said. “Two of them were posted in Siddharthnagar and another in Sant Kabir Nagar.”“The four policemen posted in Basti district have been suspended, and reports have been sent to the SPs concerned regarding the remaining three policemen. Departmental action will be taken,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/major-lapse-in-cm-yogi-s-security-man-enters-auditorium-with-revolver-4-cops-suspended-101634864579862.html
22-10-2021||India||PM Modi to address nation at 10am today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation at 10am on Friday, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) has announced in a tweet. “PM @narendramodi will address the nation at 10am today,” the PMO informed on its official Twitter handle. PM @narendramodi will address the nation at 10 AM today.PM Modi's address to the nation comes a day after India's vaccination coverage against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crossed the 1 billion or 100 crore mark. On the occasion, he visited Delhi's Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) Hospital to interact with doctors and health care workers there.The Prime Minister may also, once again, stress on the need to not let one's guard down during the ongoing festive season as this could lead to a third wave of the viral illness. Over the last few days, the country has seen less than 20,000 daily Covid-19 cases.The nationwide vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease began on January 16 with two vaccines--Covaxin and Covishield. Since then, four other jabs have been given emergency use authorisation (EUA) by the Drugs Controller General India (DCGI). Among these, two--Covaxin and ZyCoV-D--are indigenously made shots. While the former has been developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited, Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadilla has developed the latter.Currently. only those aged 18 and above are eligible for inoculation against Covid-19. The Centre aims to vaccinate the entire 944 million-strong adult population by the year-end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-nation-at-10am-today-101634866580232.html
22-10-2021||India||Drugs case: NCB to continue questioning actor Ananya Panday today||Bollywood actor Ananya Panday will appear before the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) for the second day in a row on Friday for questioning in the drugs case in which superstar Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan is behind the bars.Ananya, the daughter of actor Chunky Panday, is scheduled to reach the NCB office in Mumbai around 11am during the day. The 22-year-old was interrogated for more than an hour by agency officers on Thursday regarding some relevant WhatsApp chats she had with Aryan. Also read: Chunky Panday reaches Ananya Panday's house as NCB raids her residence, watchShe had come to the NCB office accompanied by her father and amid heavy police deployment and media glare, hours after a team of officers searched her home, seized her mobile phone and laptop and summoned her to record her statement. The NCB officials are yet to clarify about her role, if any, in the case. Around the same time, another team from the anti-drugs agency visited Khan's Bandra residence 'Mannat' to collect documents related to his son. This was a little after the actor briefly met Aryan, who is lodged in Mumbai’s Arthur Road Jail, for the first time since his arrest in the drugs abuse case.Also read | Shah Rukh Khan, Aryan spoke on intercom inside jail, no special treatment given: ReportsAryan and a few others were held on October 3 after the NCB raided a Goa-bound cruise ship off the Mumbai coast and claimed to have seized drugs, including charas.The Bombay High Court will hear the 23-year-old’s bail application on October 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drugs-case-ncb-to-continue-questioning-actor-ananya-panday-today-101634863505927.html
22-10-2021||NA||‘Constructive meetings’ with Union ministers, says top European official||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:All tourists stuck in Batal, Lahaul-Spiti due to bad weather rescued by local adminAll tourists stuck in Batal, Lahaul-Spiti in Himachal Pradesh have been resuced by the local administration, reports ANI.“We have rescued all stranded tourists. Local people and Army all played an important role. We worked as a team and overcame all challenges and completed it,” said Mahendra Pratap Singh, Kaza SDM.4 dead, 12 injured in accident near Navle bridge, PuneFour people were dead and around 12 were injured in an accident near Navle bridge in Pune, reports ANI. The injured have been rushed to a nearby hospital. More details awaited.‘Constructive meetings’ with Union ministers, says top European official Constructive meetings with Ministers Bhupender Yadav, RK Singh,S Jaishankar,Nirmala Sitharaman&HS Puri on COP26&opportunities in renewable energy, green hydrogen,clean transport,smart cities,circular economy&sustainable finance: Frans Timmermans, Executive VP, European Green Deal pic.twitter.com/4MTy0B35jOExecutive VP of the European green deal Frans Timmermans said that the he had constructive meetings with Union ministers Bhupender Yadav, RK Singh, S Jaishankar, Nirmala Sitharaman and Hardeep Singh Puri “on COP26 and opportunities in renewable energy, green hydrogen, clean transport, smart cities, circular economy and sustainable finance,” reports ANI.CRPF says situation in Kashmir valley ‘under control’CRPF is deployed there. CRPF and all the other security forces are more than equipped to handle any situation in the valley. The situation is under control: Zulfiquar Hasan, Director General, CRPF, in Delhi on current situation in Kashmir valley pic.twitter.com/x1yTKf2LdYDirector general of the CRPF said that the situation in Kashmir valley is under control and the forces are “more than equipped” to handle the situation there, reports ANI. Delhi reports 38 new Covid-19 cases, 1 death in last 24 hoursDelhi reports 38 new #COVID19 cases, 8 recoveries and 1 death in the last 24 hours.Total cases 14,39,526Total recoveries 14,14,095Death toll 25,091Active cases 340 pic.twitter.com/VOP8hrHTMoDelhi reported 38 new Covid-19 cases and one fatality in the last 24 hours, taking the total cases to 1,439,526 and the death toll to 25,091, reports ANI. Tamil Nadu reports 1,152 new Covid-19 cases, 19 deaths in last 24 hoursTamil Nadu reports 1152 new #COVID19 cases, 1392 recoveries and 19 deaths in the last 24 hours.Total cases 26,92,949Total recoveries 26,43,431Death toll 35,987Active cases 13,531 pic.twitter.com/bTni130eK9Tamil Nadu logged 1,152 new Covid-19 cases and 19 deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the state's tally to 2,692,949 and the death toll to 35,987, reports ANI. UK foreign secretary says vaccination a ‘great area’  of collaboration with IndiaVaccination is a great area of collaboration between our two countries - the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine produced here at the Serum Institute. There's so much more we can do in areas like sharing our expertise on the environment ahead of COP26: UK Foreign Secretary Elizabeth Truss pic.twitter.com/Y0hCHCFasXUK foreign secretary Elizabeth Truss said that the Covid-19 vaccination was a great area of collaboration with India pointing at the AstraZeneca shot being produced at the Serum Institute of India. “There's so much more we can do in areas like sharing our expertise on the environment ahead of COP26,” Truss said, reports ANI.Maharashtra logs 1,632 new Covid-19 cases, 420 infections from Mumbai Maharashtra logged 1,632 new Covid-19 cases and 40 deaths as the state's tally reached 6,599,850 and the death toll climbed to 139,965. Mumbai contributed 420 new cases and five deaths to the state's tally.  The city has so far seen 753,653 cases and 16,202 fatalities.Punjab CM Channi urges PM Modi to restore staus quo regarding extension of BSF's jurisdictionPunjab chief minister Charanjit Channi urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to relook and restore the status quo that existed before the Centre's notification of October 11, 2021, so as to enable the BSF and the Punjab Police to work together against anti-national forces, reports ANI citing Channi's office.Karnataka reports 378 new Covid-19 cases, 11 deaths in last 24 hoursWith 378 new Covid-19 cases and 11 deaths in the last 24 hours, Karnataka's tally reached 2,985,227 cases and the death toll climbed to 37,995, reports ANI.NCB summons Ananya Panday for questioning again on Oct 25#UPDATE | Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has called actor Ananya Panday for questioning once again on Monday, 25th October.#MumbaiThe Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) summoned actress Ananya Panday for questioning her again on October 25 in connection with the Aryan Khan drugs case, reports ANI.Defence ministry signs contract with US for procurement of various weapons at ₹423 croreDefence Ministry today signed a contract with US Government under Foreign Military Sale (FMS) for procurement of MK 54 Torpedo and Expendable (Chaff and Flares) for IndianNavy at a cost of ₹423 Crores. These weapons are the outfit of P-8I aircraft: Ministry of Defence pic.twitter.com/ocG6QkAOgiThe ministry of defence signed a contract with the US Government under the foreign military sale (FMS) for procurement of MK 54 Torpedo and Expendable (Chaff and Flares) for the Indian Navy at a cost of ₹423 Crores, reports ANI.Ananya Panday leaves NCB office after nearly 4 hours of questioningAnanya Panday, along with her father Chunky Panday left the NCB office after being questioned for nearly four hours.UK foreign secretary to meet Union ministers Jaishankar, Bhupender Yadav in Delhi UK foreign secretary Elizabeth Truss to meet external affairs minister S Jaishankar and environment minister Bhupender Yadav in Delhi shortly, reports ANI.‘Future inductions must aim at introducing new disruptive technologies’: CDS General Bipin RawatChief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat said “future inductions must aim at introducing new disruptive technologies such as Artificial Intelligence, big data analysis, quantum computing, hypersonic weapons, robotics, nanotechnology, autonomous unmanned system and directed energy weapons to remain ahead of our adversaries,” reports ANI.J&K admin issues new Covid-19 guidelines to regulate pilgrims at Vaishno Devi shrineJammu and Kashmir government sets fresh guidelines to regulate pilgrims at Mata Vaishno Devi shrine to prevent the spread of #COVID19 'Valid & verifiable RT-PCR/Rapid Antigen Test of Yatri not older than 72 hours of arrival should be made mandatory,' reads the order. pic.twitter.com/KPZDHzdQHfThe Jammu and Kashmir administration has issued fresh Covid-19 related guidelines to regulate pilgrims at Vaishno Devi shrine, reports ANI. Police say 4 people arrested for drug trading in Assam; Car, ₹1 crore recoveredDibrugarh, Assam | Four people apprehended for drug trading. A car, drugs worth about ₹1 crore recovered from them. All four have been identified. Three from Assam Rifles and one is a civilian: Shwetank Mishra, SP Dibrugarh pic.twitter.com/9whRC132UrAssam police said that four people were arrested for drug trading and a car, ₹1 crore have been recovered, reports ANI. CBI arrests 6 more in case related to derogatory posts on judges, judiciaryThe CBI arrested six more accused in an ongoing case related to the derogatory posts on social media against judges and the judiciary, reports ANI.CISF issues apology to actor Sudhaa Chandran after being stopped at airport for prosthetic limbCISF apologises to actor Sudhaa Chandran after she shared a video on being stopped at airport for prosthetic limb. "We'll examine why the lady personnel concerned requested Sudhaa Chandran to remove prosthetics & assure that no inconvenience is caused to travelling passengers." pic.twitter.com/oaVThYB0LvThe CISF apologised to actor Sudhaa Chandran after her complaint of being stopped at airport for prosthetic limb, reports ANI."We'll examine why the lady personnel concerned requested Sudhaa Chandran to remove prosthetics and assure that no inconvenience is caused to travelling passengers," CISF said.Congress appoints Harish Chaudhary as Punjab and Chandigarh AICC in-chargeHon'ble Congress President has appointed Shri Harish Chaudhary as AICC In-Charge of Punjab and Chandigarh with immediate effect. pic.twitter.com/aoHuxuPs8LThe Congress has appointed Harish Chaudhary as the party's in-charge for Punjab and Chandigarh after relieving Harish Rawat.PM Modi to interact with beneficiaries of Aatmanirbhar Bharat Swayampurna Goa programme tomorrowPM Narendra Modi to interact with beneficiaries and stakeholders of Aatmanirbhar Bharat Swayampurna Goa programme tomorrow (October 23), reports ANI. Ananya Panday reaches NCB office for questioningActress Ananya Panday reached NCB office along with her father Chunky Panday at Ballard Estate in Mumbai.Court denies bail to JNU student Sharjeel Imam in Delhi riots caseThe Saket court on Friday denied bail to Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student Sharjeel Imam in a case related to alleged inflammatory and instigating speeches during the protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and National Register of Citizens (NRC) in Delhi.Beijing begins Covid booster shots four months ahead of Winter OlympicsAuthorities in China have started offering booster shots against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Beijing and surrounding regions, four months before the capital city hosts the Winter Olympics, local media reports said. Read moreCong calls meeting of top party office-bearers, state unit heads on Oct 26The Congress party has called a meeting of its top office bearers and state unit heads on October 26. Fire breaks out in Mumbai high-rise, man dies after he leaps from 19th floorA level-three fire was reported at a multi-storey building in Mumbai's Parel area on Friday, according to the BMC's Disaster Management Cell. Around 24 tenders are present at the Avighna park apartment and firefighting operations are still going on. A 30-year-old man jumped from the 19th floor of the building and was declared dead on arrival at the KEM hospital. While another person was injured in the incident and was also sent to the KEM hospital, the BMC's Disaster Management Cell also said.   Ex-Goa CM Luizinho Faleiro appointed TMC's national vice-prezFormer Goa CM Luizinho Faleiro appointed as the National Vice President of the party: All India Trinamool Congress(file photo) pic.twitter.com/E9tNcjr500Former Goa chief minister Luizinho Faleiro was on Friday appointed as the national vice-president of the Trinamool Congress (TMC). SC issues notice to ex-Twitter India MD Manish MaheshwariThe Supreme Court on Friday issued a notice to ex-Twitter India MD Manish Maheshwari over plea of the Uttar Pradesh government against Karnataka high court's decision to quash a notice seeking Maheshwari's appearance for a probe into a communally sensitive video uploaded by a user on the micro-blogging site. Sub-judge convicted of raping, cheating woman in JammuA fast-track court in Jammu on Thursday convicted suspended sub-judge Rakesh Kumar Abrol of raping and cheating a woman, who sought his legal help in 2018. Read moreOdisha Cong working president Pradeep Majhi quits partyPradeep Kumar Majhi, the working president of the Odisha Pradesh Congress Committee (OPCC), quit the party on Friday and sent his resignation letter to Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi. "The party has almost lost its credibility which may take a long time to revive," he added," Majhi said in the letter. With extreme pain, I have decided to resign from the primary membership of Indian National Congress. I had joined the party with utmost enthusiasm to serve the needy. Accordingly, the party also gave me ample opportunities along with a top position," he added. If disease doesn't discriminate, then there can't be any discrimination in vaccine too: PM ModiPrime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday it was assured that there should be no VIP culture in the ongoing vaccination drive. “India had only one mantra that if the disease doesn't discriminate, then there cannot be any discrimination in vaccination too.”One billion vaccine doses is not just a number, it’s a symbol of new India: PM ModiPrime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday that the achievement of administering over one billion doses of the vaccine against Covid-19 is not just a number, but a symbol of new India. PM Modi addresses nation#WATCH | PM Modi's address to the nation https://t.co/2JjOwK5ntFPrime Minister Narendra Modi is currently addressing the nation.India reports 15,786 new Covid-19 cases, 231 deathsIndia on Friday saw a fall in its daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after 15,786 new cases were recorded in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload to 34,143,236, according to the Union health ministry's dashboard. As many as 231 patients died and 18,641 were discharged in the last 24 hours. With this, the cumulative count of deaths and recoveries has climbed to 453,042 and 33,514,449 respectively. Nihang arrested for assaulting labourer at Singhu borderOne Naveen Kumar, a Nihang has been arrested for assaulting a labourer, fracturing his leg at Singhu border, Sonipat allegedly after the latter refused to give him chicken for free. FIR lodged: Haryana PoliceThe Haryana Police said on Friday that a Nihang has been arrested for assaulting a labourer at the Singhu border, where farmers have been protesting against the Centre's three new farm laws since 2020, news agency ANI reported. Mizoram reports 737 new Covid-19 infections, caseload climbs to 115,944COVID19 | Mizoram reports 737 new cases; Active caseload stands at 10,034, death toll 400 pic.twitter.com/IjTiy6IP4aMizoram's caseload of the coronavirus disease climbed to 115,944 on Friday after 737 new cases were reported in the last 24 hoursCovid-19 Pandemic inquiry accusations 'fantasies', says Brazilian Prez BolsonaroBrazilian President Jair Bolsonaro said that the charges against him recommended in a senate Covid-19 pandemic report were fantasies and should be ignored. “I am not going to discuss these people's fantasies. I am not going to discuss this load of stupidity,” Bolsonaro said on Thursday, his first address since the senate inquiry report came out. The report alleged that the Brazilian president committed crimes against humanity, for bungling Brazil’s response to Covid-19 and contributing to the country having the second-highest pandemic death toll globally.PM Modi to address nation at 10 am todayPM @narendramodi will address the nation at 10 AM today.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation at 10 am today, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) tweeted. Petrol diesel prices in India increase againPrice of petrol & diesel in #Delhi is at ₹106.89 per litre (up by ₹0.35) & ₹95.62 per litre (up by ₹0.35) respectively today.Petrol & diesel prices per litre- ₹112.78 & ₹103.63 in #Mumbai, ₹107.45 & ₹98.73 in #Kolkata; ₹103.92 & ₹99.92 in Chennai respectively pic.twitter.com/yg2uNz3C8NQueen Elizabeth II spends a night in hospital after years for testsBritain's Queen Elizabeth II spent a night at a hospital for the first time in years having cancelled her visit to Northern Ireland for some tests, Buckingham Palace said on Thursday. Read more Cruise ship drugs case: Actor Ananya Panday to appear before NCB for 2nd straight dayOn Friday, actor Ananya Panday will once again appear before the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) for questioning in the Mumbai cruise ship drugs case in which actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan has been arrested. In video, Haiti gang leader threatens to kill North American hostagesThe leader of a Haitian gang who kidnapped a group of North Americans over last week has threatened to execute them, according to video seen by news agency AFP. The video, which was released on Thursday, showed Wilson Joseph, surrounded by armed men, in front of coffins containing the bodies of five members of his gang. "Since I'm not getting what I need, I'll kill these Americans," Joseph said in Haitian Creole.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-october-22-2021-101634863446874.html
22-10-2021||India||Women comprise nearly half of informal sector workers, data from new national portal shows||Nearly half of 40 million workers of the country’s informal economy registered on a recently launched national portal are women, and most workers regardless of gender are from disadvantaged castes, official data that shines new light on India’s invisible unorganised labour force shows. Trends in registrations of poor, mostly migrant workers, suggest that there could be as many women in the labour pool as men, or even more, a fact hitherto unbeknownst to policymakers. The countrywide registration drive is aimed to count all such workers who lose out on social security benefits because they are undocumented. In 2020, India saw a reverse migration of millions thousands of such workers from industrial and urban centres back to villages under distressful conditions when the government clamped a stringent lockdown to control the pandemic’s first wave. The government wasn’t able to respond with any immediate help because there was no database of who these people were. The then labour minister, Santosh Gangwar, told Parliament in September 2020 that there was no data on how many migrant workers left cities or how many died en route their homes. The migrant workers’ portal is supposed to address this gap. It is a joint venture between the labour and employment ministry and common service centres (CSC) run by the electronics and information technology ministry. Workers who have registered so far belong to diverse occupations, such as construction, apparel manufacturing, fishing, gig and platform work, street vending as well as domestic work. “In some of these sectors, an overwhelming proportion of migrant workers are also engaged. All unorganized workers. including migrant workers, can now take the benefits of various social security and employment-based schemes through registration on the e-Shram portal,” an official said, requesting anonymity. Lack of data on informal economy workers mean that few benefit from labour welfare schemes. Data from the portal show that 50.02% registrations are women. A nearly equal proportion of men and women have been registering themselves, the labour ministry official cited above said. “The trends show that women workers make up one half of the informal labour force. This is significant simply because we didn’t know this and women-specific policies, such as maternity and child care benefits aren’t available to these workers,” said Gopal Renjen, the CEO of Staffing Solutions Pvt Ltd. Renjen said a women-led informal workforce could be a possibility and gender and caste compositions of further registration should be monitored to appropriate policies. Around 65.68% of workers who have enrolled so far are in the 16-40 age group, pointing to a younger labour pool. They mostly belong to backward social categories. Workers from other backward classes (OBC) make up 43% of such workers, while 23% and 7% belong to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, respectively. The registrations enable unorganised workers to receive a digital card and a universal account number for social-security benefits. Such workers are eligible to get ₹200,000 for injury due to accidents and on death or permanent disability and ₹100,000 on partial disability. While there are no official estimates of migrant workers, a novel statistical tool developed by former chief economic adviser Arvind Subramanian had revealed an annual “interstate migrant population of about 60 million and an interdistrict migration as high as 80 million” between 2001 and 2011.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/women-comprise-nearly-half-of-informal-sector-workers-data-from-new-national-portal-shows-101634862406702.html
22-10-2021||India||VHP activists stopped from taking out procession clash with police in Tripura||AGARTALA: Activists of Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) clashed with security personnel in Tripura after the police disallowed them from taking out a procession in the Udaipur area of Gomati district, about 50km from state capital Agartala, against attacks on members of the Hindu community in Bangladesh.Police said three security personnel and one VHP activist sustained injuries.Amidst tension in Bangladesh, a three days long second Bangladesh Film festival scheduled to start from Thursday in Agartala was cancelled.“Three security personnel sustained injuries as the protesters pelted stones at them after their procession was halted by police. One protester was also injured,” said Tripura’s inspector general (Law and Order) Arindam Nath.The local administration has imposed prohibitory orders in the area till Friday to avoid any other incident.A police officer said the VHP march was ordered to be stopped after authorities received information that it could lead to disruption of law and order but the protesters did not comply with the instructions.Someone might have misled the police that it will lead to deterioration of law and order, a local RSS leader Abhijit Chakraborty said.“The scuffle took place between us and the police after they suddenly tried to obstruct us. Twelve of our protesters were injured after the police resorted to lathi-charge and all of them are admitted to hospital in Gomati district,” he said.Different organizations also held processions at Dharmanagar in North district apart from Agartala in West district on Thursday evening demanding punishment for the people involved in alleged attacks on minorities in Bangladesh.The three-day second Bangladesh Film festival scheduled to start from Thursday in Agartala has already been cancelled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vhp-activists-stopped-from-taking-out-procession-clash-with-police-in-tripura-101634848112829.html
22-10-2021||India||J&K: Encounter breaks out between forces, terrorists||An encounter broke out between security forces and terrorists in Chanapora area of Srinagar on Thursday.“The Encounter started at Chanapora area of Srinagar. Police and security forces are on the job. Further details shall follow,” tweeted Kashmir Zone Police.Poonch encounter: No exchange on Day 11There were no fresh exchanges between the army and terrorists hiding in Nar Khas forests of Mendhar sub division in Poonch district on Thursday.Defence spokesperson Lt Col Devender Anand said, “There were no fresh exchanges on Thursday. However, a tight cordon is on. No terrorist has been killed so far.”The protracted encounter between the army and terrorists entered 11th day on Thursday.On Wednesday morning security forces and terrorists had traded heavy gun followed by a low intensity blast around 4.37pm.The blast was probably of a UBGL used by the soldiers to blow up a natural cave inside the forest.The operation in the Rajouri-Poonch belt has become the longest ever with highest number of casualties of army personnel in recent years.Officers, on condition of anonymity, said the terrorists were well-trained in guerilla warfare, and were using the thick forest with natural caves to their advantage.The police have so far detained around eight people including a woman and her son on the suspicion of providing terrorists with logistical support.Army has so far lost nine soldiers including two JCOs in Chamrer area of Surankote and Nar Khas forests in Mendhar respectively.Man detained for photographing army installations in PoonchAmid protracted operation in the forests of Nar Khas, security forces on Thursday detained a man from Bhimber Gali area in Poonch district.The suspect was detained after he was found clicking photographs of the army installations and vehicles of media persons in Bhimber Gali.“He was taking photographs of army locations and vehicles of media persons. He was detained for questioning,” said a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/encounter-breaks-out-in-srinagar-101634846372885.html
22-10-2021||India||AIADMK files police complaint against Sasikala for identifying as party gen secy||The All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) has filed a police complaint against expelled leader VK Sasikala, aide to former chief minister J Jayalalithaa, for unveiling a plaque identifying herself as the party’s ‘general secretary’. The party’s organisational secretary and former minister, D Jayakumar filed the complaint at Chennai’s Mambalam police station on Wednesday night. The AIADMK has sought action against Sasikala for “cheating by impersonation, promoting disharmony, enmity and hatred and circulating statements with intent to cause fear or alarm.” On October 17, on the day AIADMK rang in its golden jubilee year of founding, Sasikala, along with her supporters, went to party founder M G Ramachandran’s (MGR) memorial to unveil a plaque with an engraving identifying her as general secretary. “Sasikala knew that the said conduct on her part was dishonest and in effect impersonation of an office to which she has no claim,” the AIADMK’s written complaint read. They went on to explain the circumstances that led to Sasikala’s expulsion and the eventual consolidation of the party under the dual leadership of O Panneerselvam and Edappadi Palaniswami. Jayakumar reiterated how the Election Commission of India settled the dispute over the party name and symbol following J Jayalalithaa’s death by recognising the dual leadership as the ‘real AIADMK’. “It’s a settled matter. Even elections are over. She’s doing this out of boredom,” Palaniswami said on Wednesday while interacting with reporters. “She has no links with the party,” he added. When Jayalalithaa died while she was still the CM, in December 2016, Paneerselvam was swiftly sworn in to the chair. Sasikala was elected as general secretary-- the highest post in the AIADMK--previously held by MGR and Jayalalithaa. After Paneerselvam resigned to make way for Sasikala to be chief minister, in a dramatic turn of events, he rebelled against her. Sasikala handpicked Palaniswami as chief minister before surrendering as a convict in 2017 in the disproportionate assets case in a Bengaluru jail. But Pannerselvam and Palaniswami eventually merged their factions and expelled Sasikala and the party made Jayalalithaa the permanent general secretary. Pannerselvam and Palaniswami function as coordinator and co-cordinator of the party. The AIADMK had previously complained against Sasikala for using the party flag on her car bonnet after she returned from prison earlier this year in February. Sasikala has been trying to reclaim her position in the party. Her latest move comes after the AIADMK’s humiliating defeat in the recently concluded rural body polls in nine newly carved districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiadmkfiles-police-complaint-against-sasikala-for-identifying-as-party-gen-secy-101634846012301.html
22-10-2021||India||Karnataka logs 365 fresh Covid cases, 8 deaths||Bengaluru Karnataka on Thursday reported 365 new cases of COVID-19 and 8 deaths, taking the caseload to 29,84,849 and death toll to 37,984, the health department said.The day also saw 443 discharges, pushing the total number of recoveries to 29,37,848, leaving 8,988 active cases.Bengaluru Urban accounted for 210 new infections, as the city saw 220 discharges and 4 deaths.While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.31 per cent, case fatality rate (CFR) was at 2.19 per cent.Apart from Bengaluru Urban, Dakshina Kannada, Dharwad, Shivamogga and Tumakuru registered one death each.After Bengaluru Urban, Dakshina Kannada and Hassan each logged the highest of 33 fresh cases, Mysuru 17 and Shivamogga 12.Bengaluru Urban district now has a total of 12,50,125 positive cases, followed by Mysuru 1,78,862 and Tumakuru 1,20,617.Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 12,27,149, followed by Mysuru 1,76,094 and Tumakuru 1,19,267.Cumulatively, 4,98,07,867 samples have been examined so far, of which 1,17,713 were tested on Thursday alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-logs-365-fresh-covid-cases-8-deaths-101634845654862.html
22-10-2021||India||6 women HC judges in Kerala for first time||With the swearing-in of two more women judges on Wednesday, the number of women judges in Kerala High Court rose to six, a first in the judicial history of the state. The two judges, Justice Sofi Thomas and Justice C S Sudha took oath on Wednesday. There are four other women sitting judges, Justice Anu Sivaraman, Justice Mary Joseph, Justice V Shersy and Justice M A Anitha.“It is a glorious chapter in the judicial history of the state. Usually, women judges’ numbers will be minuscule in higher courts. This is the first time six women judges are taking up their position in the High Court. It is a good day for the judiciary, but we need more,” said senior lawyer and former director-general of prosecution T Asaf Ali, adding representation is still poor as out of 41 judges, only six are women. “I am sure the situation will change as more women are taking up judicial positions,” he said.“It is a welcome trend as it recognises the long expectations and aspirations of women law officers. Though it may not be reflecting the demographical share of women, it is a positive step. I am sure this will inspire more women to choose a career in law and judiciary,” said Supreme Court lawyer M R Abhilash.Interestingly the state contributed the country’s first female judge Anna Chandy in 1937, who later became the first female judge of the Kerala High Court in 1959. The first women Supreme Court judge Justice Fathima Beevi (1989), also hailed from Kerala and later became the governor of Tamil Nadu in 1997.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-women-hc-judges-in-kerala-for-first-time-101634845653683.html
22-10-2021||India||Bengaluru: ED attaches assets worth ₹7.48 crore of retired chief engineer||Assets worth around ₹7.48 crore of a retired chief engineer of the Bengaluru Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB) has been attached on charges of money laundering, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) said on Thursday.“The attached movable/immovable properties include balance amounts lying in bank accounts, 3.41 kg gold and diamond jewellery along with immovable properties situated in various locations in Bengaluru and Mysuru which includes 2 residential sites, 1 commercial complex and 6 residential flats,” the ED said in a statement on Thursday.The developments come even as allegations of corruption are made against the officials and elected representatives in Bengaluru.The action has been taken under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). “ED initiated (a) money laundering investigation on the basis of FIR registered by Karnataka Lokayukta, Bangalore City Division, under Section 13 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. As per the charge-sheet filed by Karnataka Lokayukta in 2018, S.M. Basavaraju had amassed wealth beyond his known sources of income and was in possession of disproportionate assets worth Rs. 4.45 crore in excess to his known sources of income,” the agency said in its statement.The investigation revealed that there was money laundering by the engineer who had amassed wealth beyond his legitimate sources of income and purchased various movable/immovable properties in his name or as benami properties, in the name of his family members including his mother-in-law.On Wednesday, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) demanded that a white paper be furnished by chief minister Basavaraj Bommai over the spending of ₹20,000 crores on Bengaluru roads over the last five years.They alleged that the money was misused and charged the government and officials of pocketing the money while the conditions of roads in India’s IT capital remain in a pitiable condition.Raids and searches by the Income Tax Department on October 13 on people allegedly close to former chief minister BS Yediyurappa and his son BY Vijayendra unearthed ₹750 crores of cash and other assets.The IT had raided associates of Yediyurappa in an irrigation-related scam which was, among others, raised by a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator, AH Vishwanath.The huge budget in Bengaluru is also one of the reasons why Bommai has retained the district incharge portfolio as his cabinet minister slug it out to gain control over the finances over one of India’s biggest cities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-ed-attaches-assets-worth-rs-7-48-crore-of-retired-chief-engineer-101634845532130.html
22-10-2021||India||After several rounds of talks, Congress declares Kerala office-bearer list||After several rounds of heated discussion and uncertainty, the All India Congress Committee (AICC) on Thursday released the list of the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) office-bearers.Releasing the list, state Congress president K Sudhakaran said the party is supreme and all those who love the party will have to abide by the decision of the high command. Instead of an earlier jumbo list of 150 office-bearers, this time, the list contains just 56 members.The party will have four vice-presidents, 23 general secretaries, 28 executive members and one treasurer.Former Speaker N Sakthan, V T Balram, V J Paulose and VP Sacheendran are the PCC vice presidents.Among general secretaries, three are women -- former Youth Congress general secretary Deepti Mary Verghese, K A Thulasi and A Jameela. Though former chief minister K Karunakaran’s daughter Padmaja Venugopal’s name was doing rounds for some time, she failed to get into the list. Prathapa Chandran is the new treasurer. Aryadan Shoukath, Sony Sebastian, P A Saleem and A A Shukoor are prominent names in the general secretary list.The revamping of the PCC list got delayed due to pulls and pressures from various factions. The party was also cautious this time as the District Congress Committee (DCC) presidents’ list two months back triggered a revolt in the party, which led to many expulsions and resignations. To avoid such a situation, the party had several rounds of discussion with senior leaders.After a humiliating defeat in the April assembly elections, the party was forced to carry out major surgery in the state unit. It decided to clip the wings of two powerful groups and elevate a new crop of leaders. K Sudhakaran, a tough leader from Kannur, became the PCC president, and another popular leader V D Satheesan appointed as the opposition leader, sidelining two powerful blocs led by the former chief minister of state Oommen Chandy and Ramesh Chennithala, who led the party for more than a decade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-several-rounds-of-talks-congress-declares-kerala-office-bearer-list-101634845472047.html
22-10-2021||India||Karnataka: Protests against CM Bommai for remarks on moral policing||Activists, human rights workers, lawyers, LGBTQIA community and several other sections of the society gathered in huge numbers across regions in Karnataka on Thursday in protest demanding an apology from Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai for his October 13 remarks in Mangaluru after a spate of incidents relating to moral policing, communal violence and hate crimes.“The communal health of the state is fast deteriorating owing to the rising violence by Hindutva groups. These organizations are effectively imposing social segregation on the basis of religion, gender and caste which is contrary to the core principles of the Constitution of fraternity and secularism. In fact, in S.R. Bommai vs. Union of India (UOI) and Ors., the Supreme Court has categorically held that secularism is a basic feature of the Constitution. Despite this, you have failed to take any action against any such groups,” the protestors said in a statement released on Thursday.“We wish to bring to your notice the oath taken by you when you were sworn in as the 23rd chief minister of the state of Karnataka under the third schedule of the Constitution of India, in which you have solemnly affirmed to bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution as by law established, to uphold the sovereignty and integrity of India, to faithfully and conscientiously discharge your duties as the chief minister for the state of Karnataka, and to do right to all manner of people in accordance with the Constitution and the law without fear or favour, affection or ill-will. And you have acted in complete violation of this constitutional obligation,” the protesters said in its statement.The protests come at a time when Karnataka has seen at least 10 incidents of moral policing and communal violence with perpetrators almost getting a free hand to indulge in activities like assaulting interfaith couples, questioning and discriminating against persons from other religions and sometimes, murdering people for any relationship from other communities.“When sentiments are hurt, it is natural that there are actions and reactions. Even the youth should keep in mind these sentiments and act accordingly. This is a societal question. Society needs morality. Can we live without morality? No, we cannot. Relationships and peace are maintained by this morality,” Bommai had said on October 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-protests-against-cm-bommai-for-remarks-on-moral-policing-101634845294973.html
22-10-2021||India||Kerala women commission takes note, orders inquiry in missing child case||The Kerala state women’s commission on Thursday ordered an inquiry into the missing child case of Anupama Chandran, daughter of CPI(M) leader Jayachandran, six months after she filed a complaint against her parents for allegedly snatching away her new-born child.Women commission chairperson P Sathi Devi, also a former member of parliament, directed the state director general of police to inquire into the incident and locate the baby at the earliest. The commission has also decided to call a sitting next week and asked all involved to appear before it.Police were forced to register a case against her parents and four others on Tuesday after Anupama appeared on a news channel narrating her bitter tale. She said she knocked on many doors for six months and turned to the media finally on missing child’s first birthday, October 19.The red-faced CPI(M) leaders are yet to react on the matter, and most of them avoided a reply saying the state party secretary will explain it later. However, party insiders said many women leaders are upset with the way the sensitive issue was handled, as it gave enough opportunities to corner the party. A prominent section of the CPI (M) dubbed it only as “a family issue”, but admitted it dented the party’s image. “Finally, the women commission opened its eyes. If this is happening to a member of the party, what about others? Her parents should be arrested immediately, and police should locate her baby,” said Congress leader Bindhu Krishna criticising the silence of the left intellectuals and women activists. “The party is exposed terribly, and it is reduced to a criminal gang. Shockingly, even Politburo members failed to get her justice,” said BJP general secretary Geroge Kurian seeking action against all who tried to cover up the mother’s plight.The incident triggered enough outrage after the mother Anupama S Chandran (23), said she even approached senior leaders of the Politburo, including Brinda Karat and chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan to get her child back, but she failed to get justice. Anupama said her parents opposed their relationship as her husband belonged to Dalit Christian sect. Though her father, P S Jayachandran, party branch committee member and CITU leader, claimed that the child was with a government-run child welfare committee home, the couple failed to trace the child. Police booked the father, mother and four others under sections including 361 of the Indian Penal Code (kidnapping baby from lawful guardianship). Though most of the sections are non-bailable, the police are yet to make an arrest.Jayachandran’s father, late Peroorkada Sadasivan, was the CITU state general secretary and longest-serving member of the Kerala party committee.Though Jayachandran claimed that the baby was with the government-run child welfare committee home (an orphanage), the couple failed to trace the baby. Police have booked the father, mother and four others under sections including 361 of the Indian Penal Code (kidnapping baby from lawful guardianship). Though some of the sections are non-bailable, no arrest was carried out, the police said.On April 19, Anupama registered a complaint with the police and sent a copy of it to the chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and state police chief alleging that her relatives forcibly took away her baby and they feign ignorance now. She said the police failed to take any action due to political pressure, and she was forced to speak on a news channel after her all attempts failed. According to her complaint, the baby was found missing three days after delivery on Oct 19, 2020.Jayachandran claimed that since the child was born, the couple decided to shift her to a care home with the full consent of Anupama. He said she signed on stamp paper, but Anupama said she signed under duress, and she had several problems post-delivery because it was a C-section. Both Anupama and her husband Ajith are active workers of the Student Federation of India (SFI) and Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI), CPI (M) feeder organisations.Jayachandran said they opposed their relationship because Ajith had already married and had a child. But Ajith said he got married to Anupama only after his divorce from his first wife, and now his in-laws were opposing their relationship since he belonged to a Dalit family. But Jayachandran insisted that if they want their child back, they can proceed legally.“I was shooed away from many offices. Some of them later pleaded helplessness, fearing the wrath of the party. Is this the way to treat a distraught mother? How can they deny a mother’s legitimate rights citing silly issues,” she said, adding she was tortured while pregnant and taken to several places to abort but failed after they denied her consent.“My father sometimes says the child is in Tamil Nadu or north Kerala. The DNA test of two children admitted at the same period in the children’s home was also done but both failed to match us. I am ready to fight it out for my baby,” she said.“I am facing the worst kind of ex-communication. When I sought some jobs party leaders intervened and foiled my chances. I was also thrown out of the party. This is not Communism that I was taught,” said her husband.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-women-commission-takes-note-orders-inquiry-in-missing-child-case-101634845172528.html
22-10-2021||India||Kerala rains abate, blame game takes centre stage||As the dark clouds hovering over Kerala receded, a blame game on the political front began as the opposition parties have accused the ruling CPI (M), led by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, of failure to deal with the flash floods and landslide that claimed the lives of 42 people across the state. State opposition leader V D Satheesan, who visited the affected areas, said the government failed to prepare itself despite enough warnings. He also said that CM Vijayan is surrounded by sycophants and is not ready to face criticism or questions on how his government dealt with recurring natural disasters. “If someone questions or criticises him, they will be branded as traitors or anti-nationals just like Prime Minister Narendra Modi is doing. There is no difference between their style and functioning,” he said. He said despite the state witnessing four back-to-back natural calamities and losing hundreds of human lives since 2018, the state government failed to place a system to anticipate such disasters and deal with them. Satheesan also said a red alert was issued after the tragedy in Kottayam and Idukki districts. “The State Disaster Management Authority is reduced to a big disaster. The government needs to be aware of areas that could be affected by floods if water rises a bit in Pampa, Meenachil, Bharathapuzha or any other river for that matter”. He said Congress has repeatedly called for the strengthening of the early warning weather system since 2018, but nothing happened. “It seems we are waiting for another tragedy to occur. We need long-term strategies to deal with such calamities, and we have to check ecological degradation of fragile areas also,” he said. The BJP also came down heavily on the government, saying its inept handling led to the loss of precious lives and properties. “The government failed miserably even after the tragedy also. Volunteers and NGOs are distributing food, water, clothing, masks and other necessities in relief camps,” state BJP president K Surendran said, adding that enough funds were not allocated for relief works.State Congress president K Sudhakaran also accused the CM of not learning a lesson despite his much-touted trip to the Netherlands to study ways to tackle floods. “The LDF government collected billions in the name of Flood Relief Fund and Rebuild Kerala project, but nothing happened on the ground. People are still running from pillar to post for help,” he said, adding thousands of people who lost everything in the calamities in the previous years were still living on the roads and relief camps. However, CPI(M) acting secretary A Vijayaraghavan said that Sudhakaran was playing cheap politics during a calamity. “He has an uncanny knack to attack the CM personally. He proved beyond any doubt that he is not fit for the position he is holding,” he said. Though weathermen predicted heavy rains in four districts, situations were under control, and many areas remained sunny. Currently, around 30,000 people are staying in 428 rehabilitation camps across the state. “We are with the suffering people. We don’t want to play politics now,” said state revenue minister K Rajan referring to the opposition criticism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-rains-abate-blame-game-takes-centre-stage-101634845112400.html
22-10-2021||India||Panchamasali seer raises quota pitch before Karnataka bypolls||In a veiled threat to the Basavaraj Bommai-led government, an influential seer from the Panchamasalis, one of the biggest sub-sects of the dominant Lingayat community, on Thursday demanded action on their reservation-related request or expect a backlash in the October 30 bypolls. Kudalasangama-based Panchamasali Mutt seer Jagadguru Basava Jaya Mrityunjaya Swami on Thursday said that the government should get the report from the backward classes commission before the October 30 bypolls. “There is some discontentment among the people. Last time when the results of Maski and Belagavi came, the media showed that it was the impact of Panchamasali discontentment,” the seer said. Though he said that there was no relation with the October 30 bypolls and the demands made by the sub-sect, the seer added that members of this community account for a significant portion of Hanagal and Sindgi constituencies.“In both places there are several of our people. In Hanagal there are 60,000 Panchamasalis, in Sindgi there are around 37,000 people. If any candidate has to win, they have to get the votes of all the communities. In this backdrop, there has been some major discontentment (among the people in the community) that we did not get reservation, the chief minister’s post (for a member of this community) and no ticket also was given. There is discontentment for various reasons,” the seer said. The developments come even as all three political parties undertook fervent campaigns in the run up to the bypolls. In Karnataka’s deeply caste-based political culture, dominant communities are seen to be backing particular political parties and both sides use this to their advantage when required. The Lingayats are believed to back the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) while the Vokkaligas, found in large numbers in the old Mysuru region, back former prime minister HD Deve Gowda-led Janata Dal (Secular). The Congress is believed to have the backing of minorities, backward classes and Dalits among other sections. The Panchamasalis have threatened to revive their agitation to be included in 2A category of the state backward list. After this demand, several other dominant communities like the Vokkaligas, Valmikis and Kurubas among others have also raised similar demands for better reservation opportunities that have added to the challenges of the Bommai government. A collective of extremely marginalised groups have approached the courts to block any move of the government to give in to the demands of the Panchamasali as it would further deprive extremely backward communities of more opportunities. The community had called off their decision to hold an indefinite agitation from October 1 after assurances from the chief minister the previous day. Leaders of the community then said that they will give the government three months time after receiving the report from the backward classes commission. The seer said that it may take a long time for the government to give the community its ‘rightful’ reservation but the least they can do is get the report from the backward classes commission. Leaders of the community are also reaching out to members of their community in all parts of the state including Bengaluru to raise awareness and put more pressure on the government to heed to its demands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/panchamasali-seer-raises-quota-pitch-before-karnataka-bypolls-101634844992265.html
22-10-2021||India||Kerala HC: Woman habituated to intercourse no reason to absolve rape accused||A woman or girl being of easy virtue or habituated to sexual intercourse cannot be reasons to absolve someone of rape, especially a father who is expected to be the “fortress and refuge” of his daughter, the Kerala High Court has said convicting a man for repeatedly raping his daughter which also resulted in her becoming pregnant.The high court noted that when a father rapes his daughter, it was worse than a gamekeeper becoming a poacher or a treasury guard becoming a robber.The observations by Justice R Narayana Pisharadi came after the victim’s father claimed that he was being falsely implicated in the case as his daughter has admitted that she had sexual relations with another person. Rejecting his claims of innocence, the high court further said that DNA analysis of the baby, born in May 2013 as a result of the sexual assault, reveals that the victim’s father was the biological father of the infant also. The high court said, “Even in a case where it is shown that the victim is a girl of easy virtue or a girl habituated to sexual intercourse, it may not be a ground to absolve the accused from the charge of rape. Even assuming that the victim is previously accustomed to sexual intercourse, that is not a decisive question.” “On the contrary, the question which is required to be adjudicated is, did the accused commit rape on the victim on the occasion complained of. It is the accused who is on trial and not the victim.” The high court further said that the father “was duty bound to provide the victim girl protection and support.” “But, he perpetrated sexual assault and rape on her. One cannot even imagine the trauma the victim would have suffered. The indelible imprint which the incestuous act has left in her mind cannot be ignored. She may feel the mental agony and pain for years to come,” it said.The high court also observed that “There can never be more graver and heinous crime than the father committing rape on his own daughter. The protector then becomes the predator. The father is the fortress and refuge of his daughter.“Charged of raping his own daughter under his refuge and fortress is worst than the gamekeeper becoming a poacher and treasury guard becoming a robber.” In the instant case, the high court also noted that due to the rape committed by her father, the victim delivered a male child and therefore, the sufferings endured by her “would be beyond imagination”. “In such circumstances, the accused is not entitled to any leniency in the matter of punishment,” it added.The high court while convicting the man for rape and sentencing him to 12 years in jail, set aside the trial court’s decision to sentence him to 14 years imprisonment under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act on the ground that the prosecution was unable to prove the victim was a minor when the rapes occurred between June 2012-January 2013.The high court also set aside the man’s conviction and sentence for criminal intimidation of the victim, saying the prosecution has not proved that she was being threatened with dire consequences by her father.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-hc-woman-habituated-to-intercourse-no-reason-to-absolve-rape-accused-101634844933045.html
22-10-2021||India||India invited Pakistan to attend conference on Afghanistan: Shah Mahmood Qureshi||Islamabad: Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi said on Thursday that Pakistan has received an invitation from India to attend a conference on Afghanistan and a decision about attending the meeting would be taken in due course of time.Qureshi made the comments while addressing a press conference in Islamabad after returning from his day-long visit to Kabul where he met Afghanistan’s acting Prime Minister Mullah Hassan Akhund along with a high level delegation and discussed various issues.“Currently ties between Pakistan and India lack warmth…We will decide the issue of attending the conference after consultation,” he said.Ties between India and Pakistan nose-dived after a terror attack on the Pathankot Air Force base in 2016 by terror groups based in the neighbouring country. Subsequent attacks, including one on an Indian Army camp in Uri, further deteriorated the relationship.The relationship dipped further after India’s war planes pounded a Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorist training camp deep inside Pakistan on February 26, 2019 in response to the Pulwama terror attack in which 40 CRPF jawans were killed.The relations deteriorated after India announced withdrawing special powers of Jammu and Kashmir and bifurcation of the state into two union territories in August, 2019.India has told Pakistan that it desires normal neighbourly relations with Islamabad in an environment free of terror, hostility and violence. India has said the onus is on Pakistan to create an environment free of terror and hostility. Earlier this month, Indian Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla, when asked about the possibility of improvement in India’s ties with Pakistan, said unless the basic core issue of terrorism emanating from the neighbouring country is dealt with, “I think we will not see much forward movement in the relationship.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-invited-pakistan-to-attend-conference-on-afghanistan-shah-mahmood-qureshi-101634844931865.html
22-10-2021||India||Gauri Lankesh murder accused to face charges under KCOCA: Supreme Court||New Delhi: The Supreme Court on Thursday directed one of the accused in the murder of journalist Gauri Lankesh to be tried under the Karnataka Control of Organised Crime Act, 2000 (KCOCA). Mohan Nayak, the accused in question obtained an order from the Karnataka high court on April 22 which held that the charges under the 2000 Act were not made out against him. The high court went on to quash the charge sheet filed by the special investigation team (SIT) in the case. Setting aside the HC order on separate appeals filed by Lankesh’s sister and filmmaker Kavitha Lankesh and the Karnataka government, a three-judge bench headed by Justice AM Khanwilkar said, “The High Court committed manifest error and exceeded its jurisdiction in quashing the charge sheet filed before the competent court qua the writ petitioner – Mohan Nayak N, regarding offences under Section 3(1)(i), 3(2), 3(3) and 3(4) of the 2000 Act.” Lankesh was shot dead in Bengaluru in September 2017 and Nayak was accused of providing shelter to one of the shooters involved in the incident. Initially, a case of murder was registered on September 5, 2017 but after the investigation stood transferred to SIT, it was found Nayak was in close touch with Amol Kale, the main accused in the murder. Incidentally, Kale is also facing probe in connection with the murders of political activist Govind Pansare at Kolhapur in Maharashtra in February 2015 and noted Kannada writer MM Kalburgi in August 2015 in Dharwad, also in Maharashtra. Connecting the dots, the SIT took approval from the Karnataka’s additional director general of police on August 14, 2018 to invoke KCOCA provisions against Nayak to show he was part of an organised crime syndicate. On prima facie reading, the approval was granted and SIT filed a supplementary charge sheet under KCOCA provisions against Nayak in November 2018. The trial court also took cognisance of this charge sheet a month later. This approval granted by the Karnataka police was challenged by Nayak in the HC, which proceeded on the basis that for a person to be charged under KCOCA, there must be past criminal cases or charge sheets filed against him. The bench, also comprising of justices Dinesh Maheshwari and CT Ravikumar, said, “The specific role of the concerned accused is not required to be and is not so mentioned in the state prior approval (of August 14, 2018). That aspect would be unraveled during investigation, after registration of offence of organised crime. The high court, thus examined the matter by applying erroneous scale.” The bench further stated that the HC judgment glossed over the “core and tangible facts” which required that the persons accused under KCOCA need not be one who has direct role in the commission of an organised crime as such. Even the requirement of having more than two criminal cases or charge sheets in the preceding 10 years will not be applicable for invoking provisions under the 2000 Act to show nexus with the accused, who is a member of organised crime syndicate and where the person charged has been found to play the role of an abettor or facilitator in the crime, the bench added. In the present case, the SIT discovered Nayak’s nexus with the “brain behind the entire event being none other than Amol Kale and master arms trainer Rajesh Bangera” who were part and parcel of an organised crime syndicate and had committed organized crimes as such. The court finally clarified that the judgment will not come in the way of the accused seeking any other relief as the consideration was limited to the correctness of prior approval for invoking KCOCA provisions against Nayak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gauri-lankesh-murder-accused-to-face-charges-under-kcoca-supreme-court-101634844691733.html
22-10-2021||India||Death case of Jayalalithaa’s driver reopened||The Salem Rural police have reopened the road accident case of late Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa’s car driver, Kanagaraj, who died five days after the April 2017 heist at the Kodanad estate in Nilgiris district, which was used by the former AIADMK supremo as a retreat.The case was reopened after obtaining required orders from the district court and an inquiry will begin soon, police sources said on Thursday.Valuables from the Kodanad property were looted while the security guard was killed.Kanagaraj, the prime suspect in the heist and murder case, died in a road accident on the Salem-Chennai National Highway, while attempting to cross the road on a two wheeler on April 28. The family members of Kanagaraj and his brother had lodged a complaint suspecting the accident to be a murder, as another suspect Sayan also met with a mishap in Palakkad in Kerala at the same time, in which his wife and daughter were killed.However, after investigation, the case was closed on the basis of postmortem report, citing Kanagaraj was drunk at that time.As the trial in heist and murder case was going on in a court in the Nilgiris district, the Salem Rural police have reopened this case and a special team will be formed to investigate it, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/death-case-of-jayalalithaa-s-driver-reopened-101634844632037.html
22-10-2021||India||Industrialised India has special climate responsibility: Frans Timmermans||Days ahead of the Glasgow climate change conference (COP 26), Frans Timmermans, executive vice-president of the European Commission in-charge of the European Green Deal, who is on a three-day visit to India, in an interview to Jayashree Nandi, says he expects clear commitments on reducing emissions from developing countries in the next two weeks. He also sees contentious issues like a new carbon trading scheme and the issue of loss and damage being resolved at COP 26. With India, the EU will be working closely on green steel, green hydrogen, and other renewable energy projects. Edited excerpts:Do you think the target of net zero emissions by mid-century is feasible and is it possible to keep global warming under 1.5 degree C?It is extremely difficult. Humanity has been asked to change its ways in such a radical way in such a short period of time… I believe net zero by the middle of the century is possible and desirable. Net zero doesn’t mean there is going to be zero emissions, but that we will not emit more than the atmosphere can absorb. I think it is achievable. If major emitters on this planet reduce their emissions and the richest countries get serious about helping the poorer nations to reach the same goal, then 1.5 degree C is still within reach. We need to start moving now. It’s only 30 years from now. When the Berlin wall came down 30 years back, I was already an adult. I am not sure if I will make it to 2050, but my children will and I want them to make it in a planet that is able to live within its boundaries.What are your expectations from India? The goal of net zero emissions is a global one, do you expect every country to commit to it?It would be a noble undertaking if all countries commit individually to net zero by mid-century. But there is a special responsibility for industrialised countries and in many aspects, India is an industrialised country. There is a differentiated approach but common responsibility. Countries I represent here have had 200 years of building their societies on the basis of carbon and so built up 200 years of emissions. Other countries like India did not have these 200 years. Some countries still aspire to give their population the human development that we almost see as self-evident in Europe. Every human on this planet has the right to aspire to the same level of development as many of my co-citizens. No one can escape their responsibility, but this responsibility is differentiated on the basis of history, development and wealth and that I think would be a fair approach to the issue.One of the most contentious issues to be discussed at COP 26 is a carbon trading mechanism. How do you see it coming up?Globally, if you want to decarbonise your economy, you have to put a price on carbon. You can do this in different ways: through taxation, through regulation. We have decided to let the market do this. With the rights to emissions, initially this system was seen as unsuccessful and people were complaining about the fact that price of carbon was so low that it did not have an effect on the behaviour of market parties. Now, the complaint is that the price is too high. The fact of the matter is that the market is used to it, the system is working, those who must work with the system are decarbonising. So, we strongly believe in this system. A major emitter like China has also introduced carbon trading. Of course, everyone is free to choose how to do it, but that we have to put a price on carbon seems to me an essential element of decarbonising our economy.Another unresolved issue is Loss and Damage (compensating vulnerable countries affected by climate disasters for the loss). Will there be consensus on that?We have been dodging around this issue for so many years and it is linked to so many other issues that need to be clarified, such as share of proceeds, transparency, accountability, common timeframes, part of global compromise that could emerge. Loss and damage should be part of that compromise in fair ways, so that everyone can recognise themselves. I think it’s possible to reach that compromise in Glasgow. For the EU what is important is that on a global scale we can compare apples to apples and not apples to oranges. For us, (EU) elements of transparency and accountability are extremely important. If we get good understanding on that then the issue of loss and damage becomes within reach of compromise.There is a lack of trust among developing countries because the $100 billion climate finance hasn’t come through. Will the money come and what are your views on a post 2025 climate finance goal?I think we should concentrate now on the $100 billion and I have been doing everything I can to increase the contribution of the rich nations. I believe we in EU are making a serious effort to do our part. The president of EC has increased our contribution, which was already the largest. Our total contribution is around $25.4 billon. This gives us the right to tell other nations to do more. At the same time, I will not hide the fact that I am encouraging my own member states to do more. It’s very tough. We are not there yet. But I hope we can use the next days and weeks to get us over that line. Once that is achieved, we can also create a positive basis upon which we can start discussing the post 2025 finance goal.The developing and developed countries stand divided ahead of COP 26. Developing nations expect rich countries to transition to net zero in advance so that there is carbon space for others. What will be your measure of success at the end of COP 26?The measure of success in my view is at the end of COP 26 can we say with justification, with facts that we will stay well below 2 degrees C of temperature rise, we still have a shot at 1.5 degrees C. That is the measure of success and for that to happen, we need clear commitments on mitigation also from developing countries. So, I hope we can use the next couple of weeks to stimulate clarity on NDCs. Of course, that also means stimulating clarity on what richer countries will do on adaptation and finance. Everything starts and ends with mitigation. If there is no mitigation, then why invest in adaptation as the whole thing will get out of control anyway. But without adaptation, you will not be able to convince countries to invest in mitigation because they will say you are leaving me on my own here. The climate crisis is happening now, case in point the floods in India in the past few days.What kind of meetings and partnerships did you forge during your visit in India?I really enjoyed my conversations with environment minister (Bhupender Yadav) and power minister (RK Singh) where we discussed very concrete things we could do together. I am very impressed with the commitment in material and political terms to massively increase the generation of renewable energy in India. The 450 GW renewable energy target by 2030 is quite something. We have laid groundwork on increased cooperation between India and EU on several issues, including green hydrogen where EU is leading. We will build on our cooperation on renewable energy also, strengthen our supply chains, build our solar capacity, grids and share knowledge on smart grids. One area obviously is steel. We are on the verge of green steel, wherein we use hydrogen to create the furnaces to make steel. India as a steel producing country could profit enormously if we could jointly make that transition. Indian companies are already involved in it in Europe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/industrialised-india-has-special-climate-responsibility-frans-timmermans-101634844452860.html
22-10-2021||India||Prime Minister Modi to attend COP 26 summit in Glasgow, says Bhupender Yadav||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will attend the U.N. climate summit in Glasgow, Union environment minister Bhupender Yadav said on Thursday, in a boost for efforts to agree steeper emissions cuts to tackle global warming.India is the world’s third-biggest emitter of greenhouse gases after China and the United States, and Modi’s participation in the COP26 summit, which runs from Oct. 31 to Nov. 12, was seen as critical amid uncertainty over whether Chinese President Xi Jinping would attend.Both India and China, which have not yet made stronger pledges to cut emissions, known as nationally determined contributions or NDCs, face pressure to do so at the conference.“The prime minister is going to Glasgow,” Yadav said in an interview, adding that India was doing its bit to help tackle climate change.Summit host Britain welcomed Modi’s decision to attend.“India plays an important role in this and the prime minister has had a number of conversations with Modi on the importance of climate change, so we look forward to discussing it with them further,” Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s spokesman told reporters.Growing public pressure for action on climate change has spurred promises by countries and companies worldwide to contribute to the effort, which will be reviewed and amended at Glasgow.U.S. climate envoy John Kerry has visited India twice in the past few months to urge the Modi government to raise its climate ambition and consider a net zero commitment as scores of other countries have done.Net zero means balancing out greenhouse gas emissions with actions such as planting trees, restoring soil and using technology to prevent emissions reaching the atmosphere.But energy-hungry India, which still relies heavily on fossil fuels, says it should not be expected to make deep carbon cuts like rich countries because it is a developing economy.India’s Cabinet, chaired by Modi, will decide the position to be taken at COP26, most probably within a week, an environment ministry spokesperson said.Yadav said India was doing its part to cut emissions.“India’s NDCs are quite ambitious,” he said. “We are doing more than our fair share. Our NDCs are more progressive than major polluters.”The country is on track to increase green energy capacity to 450 GW by 2030, he said. It has installed more than 100 GW of renewable energy, which accounts for more than 25% of overall capacity.India has not yet committed to achieving net zero carbon emissions by 2050, considered a vital goal in limiting global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius.Government sources have told Reuters that India is unlikely to bind itself to that goal, as tougher deadlines would hit demand growth that is projected to outstrip that of any other nation over the next two decades.Last month, India’s chief economic adviser K.V. Subramanian said rich nations should commit much more than $100 billion to help poor countries fight climate change, due to their high historical share of emissions.“Even today, India’s per capita greenhouse emission is one-third of the world average,” Yadav said.About 120 countries have submitted revised NDCs, but there is a lack of consistency with no common timeframe for meeting pledges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prime-minister-modi-to-attend-cop-26-summit-in-glasgow-says-bhupender-yadav-101634844151618.html
22-10-2021||India||Shouldn’t expect favourable results in every round of China talks: Army chief||India should not expect favourable outcome in every round of talks being held with China to settle border issues and “points of divergence” with the neighbouring country will be resolved as long as both the nations keep talking, army chief General MM Naravane said on Thursday.“What I would like to put across is that we should not expect a favourable outcome in every round of talks. There are always going to be some points of convergence, some differences . As long as we keep talking, we will be able to resolve those points of divergence,” the army chief said at a defence conclave.Earlier this month, India and China failed to make any headway in resolving the 17-month standoff in the remaining friction points in eastern Ladakh during the 13th round of military talks between the two countries.The situation that developed in eastern Ladakh last year required acclimatisation of a large number of IAF personnel and stretching of equipment to limits, but the force is “much better prepared” now in case there is a “long haul”, Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal VR Chaudhari said.“The situation that developed in eastern Ladakh last year was something that we were not very familiar with, particularly in the kind of environment that we needed to operate. It required acclimatisation of a large number of personnel at short notice, required stretching our equipment to limits, which some of it were not cleared for,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shouldnt-expect-favourable-results-in-every-round-of-china-talks-army-chief-101634844031688.html
22-10-2021||India||1 billion Covid doses: Across the country, a billion cheers||As part of his daily routine, 30-year-old Rajeev Singh was waiting for the passenger train that would take him back to his village in Janjgir Champa at the Bilaspur Railway station. Like every day, Singh was tired and short of sleep, having spent the night guarding a parking lot in the city. At 10 minutes past 10 o’clock though, Singh was shaken out of his reverie. A loud, cheerful voice boomed across the public announcement system, congratulating the nation on achieving the vaccination of one billion vaccine doses.As the crowds around him began to chatter, struck by the enormity of the number, Singh smiled to himself. One month ago, he had received his first Covishield shot. “I am happy that I am part of that billion,” Singh said.The first announcement had come in English.“Today India has achieved landmark milestone of 100 crore Covid vaccine doses. This is the world’s largest and fastest vaccination drive,” said the announcement. It was only when it was repeated in Hindi, that Singh wrapped his head around the number. “Sau crore (100 crore). It gives me a sense of security. That was all we could talk about on the train back.”There were celebrations all across the country on Thursday -- with the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) on Thursday illuminating 100 monuments, sweets were distributed at health centres in several districts, announcements rang out in airports and railway stations, and political leaders across parties congratulated heath workers for administering a billion doses since the start of vaccination drive in January.At the Rourkela government hospital at around the same time as the announcement was heard in Bilaspur, there was something else playing over the speakers. In a festive atmosphere, singer Kailash Kher’s voice serenaded the hospital, belting out “Bharat ka teekakaran, yehi jaan bachayega” (India’s vaccination, this only will save lives) as over a hundred nurses, doctors and other health workers milled around a rangoli celebrating the one billion mark. Former Union minister Jual Oram felicitated the 100th, 200th, and 300th people to get their vaccine shots at the hospital on Thursday, as well as every health care worker. “It feels good to celebrate a milestone. Even we have given over 1 lakh Covid shots at our centre,” said Dr Santosh Swain, director of RGH.At the Katju Hospital in Bhopal, Shubhi Singh from Kolar, seven months pregnant, was one of the patients that received the vaccine closest to when celebrations broke out in earnest, 15 minutes past 10am. “I had not been able to get my vaccine shot because of some medical complications. I was cleared a little while ago, but was deferring it until I read that India would hit one billion today. I wanted to be part of that so I came to the hospital,” she said.Some kilometres away, at the primary health care Centre in Kshipra, Indore, Dr Tripati Kandare marvelled at the change in attitudes she was seeing in front of her. Here, too, there was a Rangoli and sweets that were being distributed, but one patient after another came up to shake her hand. Kandare said that during the first wave, she had been attacked in the rural parts of Indore for holding vaccination camps. “This appreciation now feels wonderful,” she said.Leaders from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) hailed the achievement, and said that this could be achieved because of the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. BJP leaders held media interactions in various parts of the country -- Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said the feat was achieved under “guidance and leadership of the PM Modi, and Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai called it an “achievement sure to inspire the world”.Several chief ministers from other parties -- Arvind Kejriwal of Delhi, Pinarayi Vijayan of Kerala, and Uddhav Thackeray of Maharashtra -- said the occasion signified the dedication of health workers. “Congratulations to all the countrymen on administering 100 crore vaccines. Salute to the doctors, nurses and front-line workers who made this possible,”Kejriwal tweeted. Thackeray stressed that health workers worked tirelessly since the outbreak of Covid in March last year.President Ram Nath Kovind in Patna termed the achievement as “historic” and said it was because of collective effort of all Indians.Some Congress leaders, however, appeared to be at odds over how to tag the milestone.MP Shashi Tharoor said credit should be given to the government for achieving the 100 crore landmark, but drew a response from party colleague Pawan Khera, who asserted that giving credit was an “insult” to millions of families that “suffered due to the mismanagement” of the pandemic.Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) President TV Narendran said that unyielding efforts and sacrifices made by India’s researchers, doctors, health care workforce, administrative teams, and police personnel were extraordinary and laudable. “This is a truly inspiring achievement under the committed leadership of Hon’ble Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” said Narendran.So far, all adults in nine states and Union territories -- Andaman & Nicobar Islands, Chandigarh, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Lakshadweep, Sikkim, Uttarakhand, and Dadra & Nagar Haveli -- have received at least one dose of the vaccine.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-billion-covid-doses-across-the-country-a-billion-cheers-101634843855576.html
22-10-2021||India||Aamir Khan ad has created unrest among Hindus: BJP MP||Taking objection to an advertisement by tyre major Ceat Ltd in which actor Aamir Khan is seen advising people not to burst crackers on the streets, BJP MP Anantkumar Hegde has asked the company to also address the “problem blocking roads in the name of Namaz and noise emitted from mosques during Azan.” In a letter to the company’s MD and CEO Anant Vardhan Goenka, he requested him to take cognisance of the recent advertisement creating an “unrest among the Hindus”, and expressed hope in future the organisation will respect the “Hindu sentiment”.“Your company’s recent advertisement in which Aamir Khan advising people not to fire crackers on the streets is giving a very good message. Your concern to public issues needs applause. In this regard, I request you to address one more problem faced by people on roads, i.e., blocking roads in the name of Namaz on Fridays and other important festive days by Muslims,” Hegde said.In the letter dated October 14, he said, it is a very common scene in many Indian cities where Muslims block busy roads and perform Namaz, and at that time, vehicles like ambulances and firefighter vehicles are also struck in traffic causing “grave losses”.Also, requesting Goenka to highlight the issue of noise pollution in the company’s ads, the MP from Uttara Kannada said, every day, “loud noise is emitted from mikes arranged on the top of mosques in our country when Azan is given”.“That sound is beyond the permissible limits. On Fridays, it is prolonged for some more time. It is causing great inconvenience to people suffering from different ailments and taking rest, people working in different establishments and teachers teaching in classrooms. Actually, this list of sufferers is very long and only a few are mentioned here,” he said.“As you are very keen and sensitive towards the problems faced by the general public and you also belong to the Hindu community, I am sure you can feel the discrimination done to the Hindus since centuries,” he further said, adding, nowadays, a group of “Anti-Hindu actors” always hurt the Hindu sentiments whereas, they never try to expose the wrong doings of their community.“Therefore, I kindly request you to take cognisance of this particular incident where your company’s advertisement has created an unrest among the Hindus,” Hegde said, as he expressed hope that in the future Goenka’s organisation will respect the Hindu sentiment and will not hurt it directly or indirectly by any means.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aamir-khan-ad-has-created-unrest-among-hindus-bjp-mp-101634843791409.html
22-10-2021||India||War of words erupts between Maha minister, NCB official||A verbal war erupted between Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik and Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) zonal director Sameer Wankhede on Thursday over an ongoing drug case against Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan and others.Malik, a Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and minister of minority affairs, alleged that Wankhede was brought in by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to harass Bollywood actors and visited Maldives and Dubai as a part of extortion schemes. Hours later, Wankhede hit back, saying he was never in Dubai and that his family was being targeted.Wankhede supervised a raid on a cruise liner off the Mumbai coast earlier this month that led to the alleged recovery of drugs, following which Aryan Khan, 23, and 19 others were arrested. Malik, whose party is a key constituent in the state’s Maha Vikas Aghadi government, has repeatedly attacked Wankhede in the past and claimed that the NCB was unfairly targeting Aryan.“Attempts were made to implicate certain people in false cases. During the Covid-19 pandemic, the entire film industry was in the Maldives. What was the officer and his family doing in the Maldives and Dubai? This has to be clarified by Sameer Wankhede,” said Malik. “We are very clear. All this ‘vasuli’ (extortion) took place in Maldives and Dubai and I will release those photos,” he added.Malik said Wankhede was appointed after the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput in June last year and filed “bogus cases” against celebrities to get publicity. “Actor Rhea Chakraborty was framed based on the payment of ₹4,000. Based on WhatsApp chats, dozens of actors and actresses were paraded at the NCB office,” said the NCP spokesperson. Chakraborty is currently out on bail and the Central Bureau of Investigation is probing Rajput’s alleged suicide.Malik said Wankhede targeted his son-in-law Sameer Khan and put him in jail for eight-and-a-half months. “The court, while giving him bail, said that the offence against him doesn’t stand legally. All this is an attempt to defame Maharashtra government and Bollywood and BJP is behind the conspiracy,” the minister added.He referred to Wankhede’s sister Yasmeen as “lady don” and said she was in Maldives with him. Malik also released photos of Yasmeen, purportedly taken in the Maldives.“It is a challenge to Wankhede, within a year you will lose your job. You were trying to put us in the jail, now the people of the country will see you going to jail. I have proof that he is a bogus officer,” Malik said.Wankhede hit back, saying his family was being targeted because he was doing his job, but added that it would not affect his morale. He said photos released by Malik alleging he was in Dubai were actually taken in Mumbai. “The allegations of my visit to Dubai are totally false. This is false information. I was in Mumbai on the date the minister has mentioned in his allegations and he can fully investigate it,” he said.“I had gone to Maldives with my family and took appropriate permissions from government authorities for it. You cannot call it as an extortion. My wishes are with Nawab Malik if he wants my job to go. My family has been abused and threatened because I am doing my job. This will not lower my morale,” the officer added.Wankhede said he didn’t meet any celebrity in the Maldives. “He (Malik) is a big minister and I am a small government servant..., if he wants to send me to jail for service to the nation, honest work and anti-drugs action then I am welcoming it,” said the officer.“There has been continuous personal attack since the last 15 days against my dead mother, my retired father and my sister and I am condemning the attack,” he added.Yasmeen Wankhede, the officer’s sister, said she was free to go anywhere. “It is my personal life. I can go wherever I want to, so why should I tell him what I was doing there. Who is he, what authority does he have? I will tell this to my family and my brother. Tell him to go to court, do not waste the time of the people and press,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sameer-wankhede-visited-maldives-dubai-as-part-of-extortion-schemes-nawab-malik-101634843611504.html
22-10-2021||India||Time for India to start exports to help lower-income nations: SII's Adar Poonawalla||Nearly nine of every 10 Covid-19 vaccine doses given to people in India have been of Covishield made by Serum Institute of India (SII) in Pune. The company’s contribution has been a reflection of its position as the world’s largest vaccine maker by volume as well as India’s position as ‘the pharmacy of the world’. In an interview with HT, SII chief executive officer Adar Poonawalla says India must now resume exports to build on its position and help under-served regions, particularly before considering booster doses. Edited excerpts: India has now administered one billion Covid-19 vaccines; what do you have to say about the journey so far? The first milestone was finding the right partner and the right vaccine in terms of technology and potential efficacy. We have been incredibly fortunate and lucky to have Oxford and AstraZeneca as partners. After that came execution challenges, like getting funding, building facilities, going through permissions and the approvals -- [after] all those milestones, we were licensed in India on January 3rd. We were approved by the WHO (World Health Organization) in February, which was another key milestone because that meant we could export to other nations. And in March-April, we partnered with the government to build capacity and we succeeded and now are at 220 million a month. Covishield continues to remain the mainstay of India’s Covid vaccination programme; did you expect this? I feel relieved that it all worked out; the blood and sweat my team, my workers and I put through for the last one-and-a-half years. It is a validation that all this effort was worth it. I feel relieved and happy that India is safe in terms of its vaccine supplies security and going forward, you’ve got other Indian manufacturers who will scale up as well. What about vaccine exports; how soon do you see it happening? It’s time actually for India to start exporting and look at getting back to being the pharmacy of the world. The Covax facility and the lower income countries, particularly the African continent is where I am really looking forward to contributing. This should happen now in November and December and more so as we go into January, February, (quarter one of 2022), by when India will have reached two doses for all these beneficiaries we have today. What’s your take on booster doses? There is a scientific argument and there’s an ethical argument; the scientific argument still says that if you are the vulnerable and elderly, then yes may be after a few months you could take a third dose. The ethical and equitable argument is that there are many cases in the world where everyone should get first two doses before we even think and talk about the third dose. In Africa only 3% are covered, and even in India, everyone should get two doses before we get to talk about a booster. Have you made any profits? Of course, we have. We have worked with the government to come to a price where there’s some basic profit, which is sustainable because you have to be able to re-invest. Otherwise, how else am I going to be able to make factories and create jobs? In fact, they [the government] were very particular that you must make a sustainable profit otherwise you cannot re-invest and scale upIs the pressure off somewhat now? There were times when there was stress but now we are in a very relaxed situation as everyone understands and everyone has what they wanted and we performed; in fact, surpassed the promises we made of producing a billion doses by 2021. The pressure in some sense is still there because there is a long way to go still. I don’t want to rest until we have given billions of doses to the world, and launched some of my other vaccines, including Covovax for children, which we hope to launch by the first quarter of 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/time-for-india-to-start-exports-to-help-lower-income-nations-adar-poonwalla-101634843442170.html
22-10-2021||India||RSS wants BJP to undertake another outreach to farmers before UP elections||New Delhi: Worried that continuous agitations against the agricultural laws along with the recent violence in Lakhimpur Kheri may hurt the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) has suggested that the party make a fresh outreach towards farmers ahead of the Uttar Pradesh elections next year.According to people aware of the details, the Sangh has also urged the party to ensure that it does not end up alienating minorities such as Sikhs and caste groups such as the Jats during the elections.The people cited above said that RSS joint general secretary Krishna Gopal met a select group of legislators, ministers and MPs, particularly from western Uttar Pradesh, in the past one week to take stock of the situation on ground. “The Sangh is concerned that the party should not be perceived as anti-minorities. The Sangh is already accused of being anti-Muslim, which is not true. Now, because of the ongoing farmers’ stir and the utterances of some BJP leaders, there is a sentiment brewing that the Sangh and the BJP are also anti-Sikh. Such perceptions need to be contested,” one of the persons cited above said, seeking anonymity. The Sangh always distances itself from electoral politics but has a key functionary to coordinate with the BJP on a host of issues, particularly related to governance and politics. The joint general secretary who has that mandate now is Arun Kumar, who took over the role from Krishna Gopal earlier this year. HT had earlier reported how the Sangh planned a special outreach in Punjab, the epicentre of the farmers’ protest, over concerns of a pro-secessionist movement gaining ground in the state. “There are some political groups trying to create a wedge between the BJP and various caste groups. Earlier, they tried to project the party as anti-Dalit, now they have turned to the Jats. But the people will see through these conspiracies as the work done by the BJP for the upliftment of all castes speaks for itself,” a BJP functionary said, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rss-wants-bjp-to-undertake-another-outreach-to-farmers-before-uttar-pradesh-elections-101634843371375.html
22-10-2021||India||New House panel report on data protection bill likely by Nov 6||A new draft report by the joint parliamentary committee (JPC) looking into the Personal Data Protection Bill is likely to be circulated among all members by November 6, people familiar with the matter said, after marathon discussions were held over some contentious clauses and suggestions.The report is expected during the winter session this year.“Most of the changes have been agreed upon by the committee,” one such person said, asking not to be named. “There was a lot of deliberation on how the new law must be in consonance with existing guidelines.”Unverified accounts and what action to take against them was also discussed by the panel, the person added. The constitution of the Data Protection Authority is also being closely worked out, with suggestion of a member appointed by the attorney general being floated.A second person familiar with the matter said that there was a lack of unanimity on certain issues. “Clause 35 and how many exemptions the government needs were highly debated,” this person said. “There needs to be a limit to the powers and whether they should be within the government or outside was discussed,” this person said.The person added Clause 28, wherein the law proposes to make social media companies liable for content moderation, was also discussed. “Then issues of delegated legislation and whether there should be a process to verify the capacity of a child to give consent was also brought up. The last two days have seen intense session.”The draft Personal Data Protection law was referred to a JPC to iron out several contentious issues in 2019. A previous draft was scheduled to be circulated among the members earlier this year but was abandoned when the then head, Meenakshi Lekhi, was inducted into the government and was replaced by the incumbent, PP Chaudhary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-joint-parliamentary-committee-report-on-personal-data-protection-bill-likely-by-november-6-101634843131194.html
22-10-2021||India||Centre can’t pull ₹8 lakh limit for EWS quota out of thin air: Supreme Court||Suggesting the Union government should do a “high-level policy rethink,” the Supreme Court on Thursday observed that the Centre cannot “pull” the ₹8 lakh annual income limit to identify economically weaker section (EWS) for providing 10% quota in public jobs and educational institutions “out of thin air” and questioned if the attempt was to “make unequals as equals”.A bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and BV Nagarathna took a grim view of the government’s inability to explain the methodology adopted in fixing the income criteria for EWS, as it examined a clutch of petitions that have challenged the 10% quota for EWS within all-India quota (AIQ) seats in medical admissions from the current academic year, 2021-22.“You must have some demographic or sociological or socioeconomic data. What is the exercise that you have done? Please, tell us that. You cannot just pull out ₹8 lakh out of thin air,” the bench told additional solicitor general(ASG) KM Nataraj, who was appearing for the Centre in the case.Demanding a categorical affidavit from the Centre within a week to explain the basis of fixing the ₹8 lakh ceiling for EWS, the court also questioned how the 50% ceiling on reservation, as laid down by the Supreme Court in the Indra Sawhney judgment of 1992, could be breached by providing for 10% reservation for EWS through an executive order when quota for scheduled castes (SC), schedules tribes (ST) and other backward classes (OBC) already constitute 49%.The 10% EWS quota was introduced under the 103rd Constitution (Amendment) Act, 2019 which is under challenge before a five-judge Constitution bench of the Supreme Court.Since the Act has not been stayed by court, the government issued a notification on July 29 introducing 10% EWS quota along with 27% quota for OBC within AIQ seats for postgraduate medical courses from this academic year. By this decision, 2,500 PG seats in government medical colleges would go to OBCs and 1,000 to those from EWS.This decision was challenged in a clutch of petitions that came up for hearing on Thursday. The income criterion of ₹8 lakh fixed by the Centre was one of the grounds taken by the petitioners to question the July 29 decision.Meanwhile, the ASG sought to argue that the income criteria was based on recommendations of the 2010 Sinho Commission report, and some other inputs, which were in the nature of “policy matters” and hence exclusively in the domain of the government. The three-member commission, headed by Major Gen S R Sinho (retired), was instituted by the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government, and submitted its report in July 2010.But the bench was unimpressed with the law officer’s tacit appeal to it to not interfere.“There has to be some exercise done before fixing this criterion. The only thing you argue is that it is for parity with OBC. But that will have a serious constitutional hurdle for you. You are making unequals as equals by applying ₹8 lakh limit. We gave you two weeks on the last date to file your affidavit and you should have done that in a matter as serious as this,” it told Nataraj.Clarifying the apex court will not stay away, the bench added: “You may say that these are issues of policy but we will have to interfere for adhering to the constitutional principles. You will have to set your house in order.”The court pointed out that unlike OBCs, EWS are not considered as socially and educationally backward under the constitutional scheme. “The creamy layer of OBC category is identified by the ones who have become advanced and have an annual income of more than ₹8 lakh. On the other hand, you fix the same income criteria of ₹8 lakh to include the beneficiaries under EWS category. So, you use the same criteria to exclude one segment of the OBC and include EWS. Is that justified? Have you taken factors like rural and urban areas into account? Or the residential flat category or exclusion of asset?” it asked the ASG.The bench then proceeded to frame specific issues that needs to be answered by the government in the affidavit to be filed before October 28 – the next date of hearing.The first two questions asked whether the Union government undertook any exercise before arriving at the income criteria to determine EWS and if so, whether the Sinho Commission report was the basis of this fixation.“The income limit for determining creamy layer in OBC and EWS is same at ₹8 lakh. In the OBC, those economically progressed is excluded so that social backwardness diminishes. In EWS, it is done to include the segments. Therefore, the income criterion in OBC, which is based on exclusion, is based on inclusion for EWS. In such a scenario, will it be arbitrary to provide similar income limit for EWS and OBC,” asked the court.It further sought a response from the Centre whether difference in rural and urban purchasing power has been accounted for while deriving the income limit of ₹8 lakh, and the reasons why assets are excluded in arriving at the annual income for EWS.“It would be necessary for the Centre to disclose before the court the nature of exercise undertaken in accordance with Article 15 (power of the State to make special provisions for identified classes). We make it clear that we are not entering area of policy but need the disclosure for adhering to constitutional principles,” recorded the bench in its order.It also told Nataraj that one of main contentions by the petitioners is that there is already 49% reservation combining SC/ST and OBC but by an executive order, the 50% ceiling on reservation has been breached to include 10% EWS. “If you want to do a high-level policy rethink, then do that,” the bench told the ASG.Representing the petitioners, senior advocate Arvind Datar and Shyam Divan have argued in the case that the per capita income in states differs widely and therefore, determining EWS at the all-India level requires careful study by an expert committee, so that the ends of social justice are attained. For this year, the lawyers have pleaded, EWS reservation should not be given effect in the absence of any criteria explaining the reservation.The petitions have also referred to a government order of January 17, 2019 which said income from all sources will be counted for EWS reservation. However, in August 2021, another government communication referred to the Sinho Commission that formed the basis for providing EWS reservation by fixing ₹8 lakh as the income limit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-can-t-pull-8-lakh-limit-for-ews-quota-out-of-thin-air-supreme-court-101634842953790.html
22-10-2021||India||SC resumes physical hearings after 19 months||The Supreme Court on Thursday held physical hearings, on a limited scale, for the first time since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic last year, with Chief Justice of India (CJI) N V Ramana hinting that the top court may ramp up physical sessions after the Diwali break.The corridors of the top court were crowded and bustling as lawyers returned to the premises after a year and seven months. Expressing happiness over the resumption of physical hearings, Justice D Y Chandrachud said: “It is so good to see so many lawyers who bring joy and sunshine into this court intellectually. You cannot imagine how lonely it was to see the screen every day.”In a fresh standard operating procedures (SOP) issued on October 7, the top court had said that all matters listed on Wednesdays and Thursdays would be heard in physical presence of lawyers and litigants in courtrooms only. Hearings on Mondays and Fridays, when fresh matters are usually taken up, will strictly be conducted on virtual mode.The SOPs came into effect from Thursday. “It is a pleasure to come to the court and argue. We had been missing it all this while. Today morning, I came to the court at 9.45, much before the court began at 10.30 to catch up with my friends and colleagues at the bar,” senior advocate Dushyant Dave said.Speaking on similar lines, advocate Prashant Bhushan, after appearing for one of the cases, said: “We are happy that physical hearing of cases has begun.” Advocate VK Biju, who was present in the court on Thursday, urged the judges to consider holding physical hearings on all days.“Physical hearing of cases must resume. Junior lawyers have been suffering while seniors are not affected if virtual hearing continues,” Biju said. To this, Justice Chandrachud said: “Let us hope that we keep seeing your faces physically.” Advocate Biju’s concerns were also echoed by eminent jurist Fali S Nariman during an online lecture organised by the Indian Law Institute- Kerala chapter. “If the health situation is good, we must resume physical hearings. I know several young advocates in the Supreme Court who are facing difficulties and are suffering,” he said. While hearing a case, CJI Ramana suggested that the physical hearings are here to stay. “After Diwali, we may start physical hearing on a large scale,” he said.Another bench, led by Justice Rao, also told lawyers during the hearing of a case that physical hearing will be expanded after the Diwali break. Later in the evening, the CJI held a meeting with a group of representatives from the Bar to discuss the October 7 SOPs after senior lawyers Kapil Sibal and Abhishek Manu Singhvi demanded that the virtual hearing facility be available even on Wednesday and Thursday. Four other senior judges, Justices Uday U Lalit, AM Khanwilkar, Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and L Nageswara Rao, were also present in the meeting, besides attorney general K K Venugopal, solicitor general Tushar Mehta, Bar Council of India chairman Manan Kumar Mishra, Supreme Court Bar Association president Vikas Singh, Supreme Court Advocates on Record Association (SCAoRA) president Shivaji Jadhav.People familiar with the developments said the meeting culminated into the judges agreeing to modify the October 7 SOPs, considering the sensibilities of the request made by the senior lawyers. “It has been decided that lawyers may make requests for hearing of their cases through virtual mode even on Wednesday and Thursday. The bench concerned may accede to such a quest after examining the reasons cited,” the people cited above told HT. Meanwhile, the first day of the physical hearing witnessed several lapses in the implementation of the SOPs. For instance, social distancing was not maintained in the corridors and outside the court. “I was in Court 5 where a reservation matter was being heard throughout the day. Nearly 40-50 lawyers were present in the courtroom, and nobody was asked to vacate for sanitizing the courtroom,” said advocate Sachin Patil, practising in the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-resumes-physical-hearings-after-19-months-cji-says-may-continue-on-larger-scale-after-diwali-101634842951996.html
22-10-2021||India||Singh questions Cong’s secularism, accuses it of ‘sheer political opportunism’||Former Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh hit out at the Congress on Thursday for its “sheer political opportunism” in joining forces with the Shiv Sena in Maharashtra and inducting people like Navjot Singh Sidhu from the Sangh Parivar, a day after AICC Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat questioned his secular credentials.Singh resigned as the CM last month after a bitter tussle with Punjab Congress chief Sidhu. On Tuesday, he said he would float a new party soon and hoped to tie up with the Bharatiya Janata Party for the forthcoming state polls. The announcement drew sharp reactions from the Congress, including Rawat who said that if Captain wants to eat crow, he can.“Stop talking about secularism @harishrawatcmuk ji. Don’t forget @INCIndia took in @sherryontopp after he was with @BJP4India for 14 years. And where did Nana Patole and Revnath Reddy come from if not RSS? And Pargat Singh was with @Akali_Dal_ for 4 years!” said Singh’s media adviser Raveen Thukral on Twitter quoting him.In his no-holds-barred attack, Singh also questioned the Congress’s tie-up with Shiv Sena, asking Rawat if it was okay to join forces with so-called communal parties if it suited the party’s purpose.Responding to Rawat’s charge that he helped the Akalis, the former CM tweeted: “Today you’re accusing me of helping my rival @Akali_Dal_ for 4-and-a-half years. Is that why you think I’ve been fighting court cases against them for the last 10 years? And why I’ve won for the Congress all elections in Punjab since 2017?” Singh further said that Congress damaged its own interests by not trusting him and giving the state unit into the hands of an unstable person like Sidhu who was only loyal to himself.Meanwhile, Sidhu and Singh traded barbs once again on Thursday after Sidhu called the ex-CM the “architect” of the three central farm laws.“The Architect of 3 Black Laws… Who brought Ambani to Punjab’s Kisani… Who destroyed Punjab’s Farmers, Small traders and Labour for benefitting 1-2 Big Corporates!! (sic)” the PPCC chief tweeted with an old video clip of Singh in which he, as chief minister, talked about inviting private companies to the state.Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting at Delhi’s borders for nearly a year against the three farm laws enacted by the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre.Responding to Sidhu’s remarks, Singh called him a fraud and cheat for trying to pass off an old diversification initiative as being linked to the farm laws. “What a fraud and cheat you are @sherryontopp! You’re trying to pass off my 15-year-old crop diversification initiative as connected with #FarmLaws, against which I’m still fighting and with which I’ve linked my own political future!” he was quoted as saying by his media adviser Thukral in a series of tweets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amarinder-singh-questions-congress-s-secularism-accuses-it-of-sheer-political-opportunism-101634842535728.html
22-10-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi promises smartphones for 12th pass girls if Congress wins UP elections||After promising to reserve 40% of seats for women candidates, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday announced smartphones for Class 12 female passouts and electric scooties for women graduates if her party was voted to power in the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections slated for early next year. “Yesterday I met some girl students. They said they needed smartphones for their studies and their security. I am happy that today the UP Congress has decided, with the consent of the manifesto committee, that it will provide smartphones to inter pass girls and electronic scooties to graduate girls on forming its government,” the Congress leader tweeted in Hindi.Priyanka Gandhi, who is the party’s UP in charge, also attached with her tweet a video of a group of college girls interacting with a journalist. In the video, one of the girls said Priyanka Gandhi asked if they had a phone for clicking selfies. “We said we neither have phones nor are they allowed in colleges. She then asked us if she should get it announced that girls should get phones and we said what more can we ask for our safety,” the student said in the video.“She asked us to study hard. I want her to continue to meet and talk to us like this,” another student is seen saying in the video.The girls said Priyanka Gandhi also told them about the Congress slogan “Ladki Hoon, Lad Sakti Hoon”.“Please make sure to take these announcements to the people and post them on social media platforms,” UPCC organisation secretary Anil Yadav said in a communication to party workers.A Congress leader, who did not wish to be named, said: “These announcements will be part of the Congress’s poll manifesto to be released later.” On Tuesday, Priyanka Gandhi had announced that 40% of candidates fielded by the party for the assembly elections next year would be women.A close scrutiny of data by the Election Commission of India suggests that as on January 1, 2021, Uttar Pradesh has 145.85 million voters, of which 67.05 million are women. On Congress’ latest announcement, state BJP vice-president and MLC Vijay Pathak said: “Congress is making all such announcements in view of the 2022 assembly elections. Everybody knows how the Congress did not keep its promise of loan waiver in Madhya Pradesh. People are also aware of what the Congress has done for women in states where the party is in power.” “Announcing freebies in elections has become a norm for political parties in recent years. It’s better to promise something to young girls in the education sector than making announcements on caste or community lines that are not healthy. As far as the issue of giving 40 per cent Congress tickets to the women is concerned, this may not cut much ice unless the party addresses other serious issues like rising unemployment,” Professor Roop Rekha Verma, former vice chancellor of Lucknow University, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-gandhi-promises-smartphones-for-12th-pass-girls-if-congress-wins-up-elections-101634842471043.html
22-10-2021||India||Big milestone for vax drive: Billion doses and counting||The billionth shot of the Covid-19 vaccine was administered in India on Thursday morning – exactly nine months and five days after the country’s massive Covid-19 immunisation programme kicked off on January 16.The significant milestone in the country’s grand vaccination drive, one of the world’s largest, comes at a time when the second wave of Covid-19, which ravaged India in the summer, continues to recede with new infections currently at the lowest levels in more than seven months – a factor that experts have credited, at least in part, to the success of the vaccination campaign.In absolute numbers, the billion (100 crore) shots place India as the second country in the world (next to China with 2.2 billion shots administered) in terms of total Covid-19 vaccine doses administered. The vaccines were administered in roughly 430,000 centres and a total of at least around 2 million health workers were directly involved in the process. Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed gratitude to doctors, nurses and all those who worked on crossing 100 crore vaccinations. “India scripts history. We are witnessing the triumph of Indian science, enterprise and collective spirit of 130 crore Indians. Congrats India on crossing 100 crore vaccinations. Gratitude to our doctors, nurses and all those who worked to achieve this feat. #VaccineCentury,” he tweeted . On Thursday morning as the news broke of the country’s billion-dose milestone, the PM visited Delhi’s Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) Hospital’s vaccination centre and interacted with hospital officials, beneficiaries, and frontline workers. He was accompanied by Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya.As of 11pm on Thursday, 100,6152,914 shots of the Covid-19 vaccine have been administered across the country to 710.9 million people, according to data from Union health ministry’s CoWIN dashboard. This means that about three-fourth (75.6%) of India’s nearly 940 million adults have now received at least one dose while around 31% are fully immunised, data shows.Of these, around 886 million doses have been of Covishield (the brand name under which Pune-based Serum Institute of India has been manufacturing the vaccine developed by Oxford-AstraZeneca), while around 115 million doses have been of Covaxin (the shot developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the country’s apex biomedical research regulator, the Indian Council of Medical Research). To celebrate the event, a series of events were held around the country, including the launch of a theme song and the release of an AV. The largest khadi tricolour in the country, weighing around 1,400 kg, displayed only on special days, was unfurled to mark the occasion, and 100 monuments under the Archeological Survey of India (ASI) were illuminated in tri-colour and local artists displayed 100 different ideas across 100 districts.The UN health body, World Health Organisation (WHO) also congratulated India. WHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus congratulated PM Modi, scientists, health workers and Indian citizens. “Congratulations, Prime Minister @narendramodi, the scientists, #healthworkers and people of #India, on your efforts to protect the vulnerable populations from #COVID19 and achieve #VaccinEquity targets,” he said in a tweet.The roll out of the vaccine drive was patchy, largely on account of supply issues but after the second wave, the pace of vaccinations has picked up – more than half of the billion shots have been administered since August 1. “There were some issues in the beginning, but gradually the supplies improved as companies increased their monthly vaccine production. For the month of October, The Centre has been promised about 280 million vaccine doses that includes 220 million doses of Covishield and another 60 million of Covaxin. This is going to go up further. Zydus, for example, should be able to give 6 million doses of their vaccine ZyCoV-D. Increased supplies also lead to increased number of single day vaccinations that puts the whole vaccination drive at a far better place then where we were a few months ago,” said a senior government official aware of the matter on condition of anonymity.The makers of Covaxin and Covishield, Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute of India also appreciated Indian government’s efforts to administer such a large number of doses in nine months.“Reaching the 1 billion mark of Covid-19 vaccinations in just nine months is a remarkable achievement for India. Bharat Biotech is proud to have contributed to this historic landmark. This is a unified effort of the government, vaccine manufacturers, health care workers and all the vaccinated citizens of India, making it a true success story of atmanirbharta,” said Krishna Ella, chairman and managing director, Bharat Biotech. Suchitra Ella, joint managing director, Bharat Biotech, thanked the government and all the stakeholders. “We thank the PMO, ministry of health, Indian Council of Medical Research, academic collaborators, industry partners, stakeholders, suppliers and employees for enabling us to maximise our efforts and deliver Covaxin successfully to India’s vaccination.” Serum Institute of India’s CEO, Adar Poonawalla, said he feels he made the right decision by tying up for the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine. “Everyone has been watching this journey and has been a part of this journey along with us; ever since we tied up and made the decisions. The first milestone was finding the right partner and the right vaccine partners in terms of technology and which vaccine will work. We have been incredibly fortunate and lucky to have Oxford and AstraZeneca as a partner,” said Poonawalla.THE PATH AHEADIndia’s next target is to fully vaccinate all adults by the end of the year. The demands on the pace of vaccination drive remain high, with the daily dose rate having seen a near-consistent decline from the peak levels seen during the second half of September – a factor that Union health ministry officials and experts have attributed to low turnout during the ongoing festive season and the country nearing a ceiling in terms of coverage of population. The seven-day average of daily vaccinations, which touched a peak of 9.7 million for the week ending September 23, dropped nearly 60% to around 4 million shots a day in the past week.An easy way to understand the impact of this drop in vaccination pace is to see it as the required run rate in the final overs of a cricket match. In the race for vaccination, as is the case in a run chase, a slower run rate in the middle of an innings requires heavy slogging in the final overs. In the case of vaccination, it means that if India had sustained its shot rate from September end, then it would have been on course to meet its year-end target; but the recent drop has now pushed the required rate to more than 12 million doses every day till the end of the year. Such a calculation, of course, assumes that the entire adult population of the country will want vaccines, an unlikely proposition. Most experts fear the vaccine drive will hit a ceiling around the 75-80% level. At 75%, it would mean India has to administer only 875 million more shots till the end of the year. In a press briefing on Thursday, Congress general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala raised the required rate of vaccination to criticise the government. “Data shows that in 70 days, 106 crore Covid-19 vaccines need to be administered... Will the Modi government, instead of making television headlines, answer how it is going to administer 106 crore vaccines in 70 days, and what is going to be their policy?” the Congress leader asked. India has around 940 million people aged 18 and over, which means that it actually has to administer around 875 million shots over 71 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/big-milestone-for-vax-drive-billion-doses-and-counting-101634842170188.html
22-10-2021||India||J&K: Encounter breaks out between security forces, terrorists in Chanapora||An encounter between security forces and terrorists broke out in the Chanapora area of Srinagar on Thursday, police said. “Encounter has started at Chanapora area of Srinagar. Police and security forces are on the job. Further details shall follow,” Kashmir Zone Police posted on Twitter.According to people familiar with the developments, there were no reports of any casualties at the time of filing this report but exchange of fire took place for several minutes. A search operation is going on to track down the terrorists, they said. Earlier in the day, an Improvised Explosive Device (IED) was detected on the National Highway between Chaklu-Tragpura in the Rafiabad area of Baramulla district by Border Security Force (BSF)’s Road Opening Party.The traffic was stopped and a bomb disposal team from the army camp was moved to the spot and the IED was destroyed at the location.The army said that traffic resumed after the IED was destroyed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-encounter-breaks-out-between-security-forces-terrorists-in-chanapora-101634841992074.html
22-10-2021||India||FATF retains Pak on its ‘grey list’||The Financial Action Task Force (FATF) on Thursday retained Pakistan in its grey list and urged the country to do more to investigate and prosecute senior leaders and commanders of UN-designated terror groups involved in terror financing.FATF president Marcus Pleyer said after a three-day plenary meeting of the multilateral watchdog that Jordan, Mali and Turkey had been added to the list of countries under increased monitoring or grey list because of serious issues in their regimes to counter money laundering and terror financing. Following the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan, FATF also expressed “concern about the current and evolving money laundering and terrorist financing risk environment” in the war-torn country. “Pakistan remains under increased monitoring,” Pleyer told an online news briefing. “Pakistan has taken a number of important steps but needs to further demonstrate that investigations and prosecutions are being pursued against the senior leadership of UN-designated terror groups,” he said. Pakistan was added to the grey list in mid-2018 and given a 27-point action plan by FATF to control money laundering and terror financing. In June this year, FATF asked Pakistan to implement another seven-point action plan to address serious deficiencies related to money laundering. Pleyer said Pakistan had “addressed or largely addressed” 30 out of the 34 items in the two action plans. He said the country had made “good progress” on the 2021 action plan by tackling four out of the seven items, including checks on businesses and enacting legislative amendments to ensure international cooperation.But Pleyer insisted Pakistan must deliver on the sole remaining item in the 2018 action plan by demonstrating that its investigations and prosecutions are targeting senior leaders and commanders of UN-designated groups. He brushed aside several questions from Pakistani journalists that FATF’s actions were political in nature and said that the watchdog made all decisions within a technical framework following voting by the organisation’s members. FATF said in a statement that Pakistan had made significant progress in addressing its “strategic counter-terrorist financing-related deficiencies”.The statement added: “Pakistan should continue to work to address its other strategically important AML/CFT deficiencies, namely by: (1) providing evidence that it actively seeks to enhance the impact of sanctions beyond its jurisdiction by nominating additional individuals and entities for designation at the UN; and (2) demonstrating an increase in ML investigations and prosecutions and that proceeds of crime continue to be restrained and confiscated in line with Pakistan’s risk profile, including working with foreign counterparts to trace, freeze, and confiscate assets.”In a separate statement on Afghanistan, FATF said that the watchdog, “as the global standard setting body for anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing, expresses its concern about the current and evolving money laundering and terrorist financing risk environment in the country”.FATF affirmed the UN Security Council Resolutions on the situation in Afghanistan, especially resolution 2593 which “demands that Afghan territory not be used to threaten or attack any country or to shelter or train terrorists, or to plan or to finance terrorist acts”. The statement on Afghanistan added, “The FATF calls on all jurisdictions’ competent authorities to provide advice and facilitate information sharing with their private sectors on assessing and mitigating any emerging ML/TF risks identified, in accordance with the risk-based approach.”At the same time, FATF reiterated the “upmost importance of ensuring non-profit organisations (NPOs) and all other humanitarian actors can provide the vital humanitarian assistance needed in the region and elsewhere, without delay, disruption or discouragement. The FATF calls on all jurisdictions to protect NPOs from being misused for terrorist financing.”The FATF, together with its affiliates APG, EAG and the Global Network, will “closely monitor the situation, including any changes to money laundering and terrorist financing risks in Afghanistan”, and consider all options to help promote security, safety and the integrity of the global financial system.At its last virtual plenary meeting in June, the watchdog had retained Pakistan in its “grey list” for failing to adequately investigate and prosecute leaders of UN-designated terrorist groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fatf-retains-pak-on-its-grey-list-101634841990164.html
22-10-2021||India||Probe widens: NCB knocks SRK’s door, quizzes Ananya||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Thursday expanded its probe into drugs found on a cruise ship three weeks ago, questioning Bollywood actor Ananya Panday for two hours and visiting actor Shah Rukh Khan’s home in Mumbai to collect evidence in connection with charges against his son Aryan Khan. NCB officials said Panday, 22, was called in for questioning after investigators found relevant WhatsApp conversations between her and Aryan, 23, who is in jail on drug consumption and conspiracy charges. She visited the NCB office accompanied by her father Chunky Panday to record her statement and is scheduled to appear before the agency on Friday, said officials. An NCB team searched her house in the morning, and seized her mobile phone and laptop. Later in the day, a five-member NCB team visited Khan’s home in Bandra to collect evidence in connection with the case and left after half an hour. “Today, a team of NCB Mumbai Zonal Unit Officials visited Mannat, the residence of Aryan Khan in connection with CR 94/21 (Aryan Khan cruise drug case) for seeking certain material related to the investigation of the case from Shah Rukh Khan, father of Aryan Khan by following due procedure of notice etc. It wasn’t a raid as erroneously reported in certain sections/channels of media,” said Sameer Wankhede, NCB’s Mumbai zonal director. The day began with the 55-year-old Khan visiting his son at Arthur Road jail for the first time since he was arrested on October 3. Khan reached the jail at 9.15am, spoke to Aryan for 15 minutes over an intercom system and separated by a glass wall, said a prison official. He left the jail surrounded by body guards at 9.40am, briefly greeting the crowd gathered outside. This was the first day that family visits resumed at the jail after a pandemic-enforced six-month break. “The actor was allowed to meet his son, as per the prison manual, like any other family member of a prisoner and no special treatment was given to him,” said a second prison official on condition of anonymity. “Four guards were present along with them during their conversation,” the official added. Aryan is lodged in Arthur Road jail for alleged consumption and conspiracy under the stringent Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act after the NCB raided Cordelia, a Goa-bound holiday cruise ship on October 2 and recovered multiple drugs, including 13 grams of cocaine, 5 grams of mephedrone, 21 grams of Charas, and 22 pills of MDMA (ecstasy), and ₹1.33 lakh in cash. Wankhede had led the raid on the cruise ship, docked at Mumbai’s International Cruise Terminal at Green Gate on October 2. Since then, 20 people, including Delhi-based event management professionals, Nigerian nationals, and Mumbai-based drug peddlers, have been arrested under various sections of the NDPS Act. The NCB sought Aryan’s custody, claiming that his WhatsApp chats revealed that he was in touch with a person abroad who appeared to be part of an international drug trafficking network. On Wednesday, a special NDPS court denied him bail, saying there was prima facie evidence that the 23-year-old was indulging in “illicit drug activities” on a regular basis, and could commit a similar offence if released.Aryan approached the Bombay high court (HC) for bail, but the court posted the bail application hearing to October 26 even as a special court extended his judicial custody to October 30. Aryan has already received ₹4,500 (the maximum permissible amount for an inmate in a month) from his family to buy eatables and other items from the jail canteen. Aryan had earlier spoken to his family over a video call a few days ago.ANY COMMENT ON WHAT PANDAY SAID IN HER STATEMENT? Since Aryan’s arrest on October 3, noted film personalities, including Hrithik Roshan, Zoya Akhtar, Farah Khan and Raveena Tandon, have expressed their solidarity with Khan and his wife Gauri. Salman Khan has also visited the couple several times. “My heart is broken for SRK. May there be light at the end of the tunnel,” director Alankrita Shrivastava said in a tweet. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/probe-widens-ncb-knocks-srk-s-door-quizzes-ananya-101634841810602.html
22-10-2021||India||NCB delayed producing Nigerian before judge. HC does the math, orders bail||PANAJI: A Nigerian national detained for a day before being arrested in March this year was ordered to be released on bail by the Bombay high court at Goa on Thursday because the Narcotics Control Bureau, or NCB, did not produce him before a magistrate within 24 hours of his detention.Justice Manish Pitale rejected NCB’s contention that the agency formally arrested the 39-year-old Nigerian national on March 8, and the 24-hour period should be calculated from this date.“It was found that the moment the accused was out under complete control of the officers with absolute restrictions on his movement, his arrest was complete in law,” the judge ruled, granting the accused bail on this ground of delay.But it will be some time before Ugochukwu Solomon Ubabuko is released on bail. Given that he is already facing four drug trafficking-related cases, the judge ordered him to apply for a fresh passport from jail (since he claimed to have lost his original passport), get a valid visa and then surrender it to the investigating officer. He will also have to report to NCB’s Goa office every Monday once he is released on bail.Ubabuko petitioned the high court for bail, citing Article 22 (2) of the Constitution which requires “every person who is arrested and detained in custody” to be produced before the nearest magistrate within a period of 24 hours of such arrest.He told the court that NCB raided his house and detained him at 6.25pm on March 7 this year, placed him under arrest at 5.30pm on March 8 and produced him before a magistrate only on March 9.Ubabuko contended that the failure of NCB to produce him before a magistrate on March 8 violated his right guaranteed by the Indian constitution and was a ground to be granted bail.According to him, the federal drug enforcement agency officials raided his house in Mazal vaddo Assagao on March 7 this year home where he lived with John Infinity alias David, from Congo. The raids were part of a probe to find out the drug suppliers who allegedly supplied drugs to the intermediaries who ultimately supplied them to actor Sushant Singh Rajput.According to the case records, Ubabuko resisted a search by officers who knocked on his door on March 7 evening but was brought “under control”. The officers allegedly seized contraband from his house.Ubabuko and David were taken to the police station and the formalities about the seizures were completed at 1:20am on March 8. He was, however, kept in the police station the entire day of March 8 and on March 9, he was produced before the Magistrate in the morning at about 10am.According to NCB, there was nothing illegal about his detention since he was placed under arrest at 5:30pm on March 8 (nearly 24-hours after the raid) and was produced at 10 am on March 9 before the magistrate, and at 3 pm before the special NDPS court which remanded him in judicial custody.“The applicant was neither detained nor arrested during this period (between the raid and his arrest). The procedure of searching the premises of the applicant was followed in a strictly legal manner and that Ubabuko voluntarily accompanied the raiding officers to the police station for recording his statement,” lawyer Mahesh Amonkar, appearing for NCB, argued.Ubabuko’s lawyer Raju Poulekar contested this claim, contending that he was effectively under arrested from 6:25pm the previous day, when the raid started and his freedom of movement was curtailed.“Even as per the panchanama, at 6:25pm on March 7 itself, the applicant (Ubabuko) was detained as his movements were controlled and curtailed,” Poulekar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncb-delayed-producing-nigerian-before-judge-hc-does-the-math-orders-bail-101634841691892.html
22-10-2021||India||Key tunnel for Tawang likely to be completed before deadline||A strategic tunnel under construction in Arunachal Pradesh will be ready ahead of deadline by June 2022, permitting swifter deployment of weapons and soldiers to forward areas near the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Tawang sector in all-weather conditions, officials familiar with the development said on Thursday. The Sela tunnel, a ₹700-crore project announced by the government in 2018, will be the longest twin-lane tunnel above 13,000 feet in the world, and will cut down travel time to Tawang by at least one hour as well as provide all-weather connectivity, said Sela tunnel project director Colonel Parikshit Mehra.Winter connectivity to Tawang over the 14,000-foot pass, Sela, posed a logistics challenge for the army for decades, with the movement of men, weapons and stores severely affected for at least three months, said a second official cited above. The Sela project, being executed by the Border Roads Organisation (BRO), involves the construction of three tunnels --- a main tunnel, an escape tube, and a shorter third tunnel --- and a road connecting the main and the third tunnels. The tunnels are coming up through two ridges west of the Sela pass. The main and escape tunnels are 1,555 metres long each, the shorter tunnel 980 metres and the road stretches 1,200 metres (only tunnels longer than 1,500 metres have to have an escape passage alongside).The Sela tunnel is a part of the Balipara-Charduar-Tawang road, one of the key strategic projects near the Chinese border. The main tunnel was fully excavated last week, with defence minister Rajnath Singh presiding over the breakthrough blast via video conferencing. The escape tube of the Sela tunnel was excavated last year. The BRO has set Army Day 2022 (January 15) as the target for the complete excavation of the third tunnel.Singh said on October 14 that the Sela Tunnel, located in West Kameng district of Arunachal Pradesh, will play a crucial role in bolstering national security and ensuring the region’s socio-economic development.“All-weather connectivity in this critical sector is critical. The Sela tunnel project will result in speedy mobilisation of troops and equipment as also enhance the army’s logistics support capability. This is important as China has built roads right up to its anticipated ingress points,” said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General BS Jaswal (retd).As many as 50 engineers and 500 workers are directly involved in the construction of the Sela tunnel using latest Austrian tunneling techniques. The Austrian method involves observing and studying the rock, and designing tunnel support according to rock behaviour, Mehra said. He was handpicked for the Sela project last year factoring his experience in the construction of the Atal tunnel in Rohtang, a project he was associated with for five years --- from beginning to end.He was moved to Nuranang to accelerate the Sela tunnel by applying the lessons learnt in Rohtang. “The lessons of poor geology learnt in Rohtang have helped us here. If bad rock is coming our way, we are taking measures in advance. We are using extra tunnel support so that deformations and collapses can be avoided,” said Mehra, who holds an M. Tech degree from IIT Delhi and another master’s degree from Austria.Around 4,000 army and civilian vehicles are expected to use the tunnel daily. Its dimensions will support the movement of all types of army vehicles and military hardware, including the Bofors guns that have to be towed to forward areas by Scania trucks.On Tuesday, eastern Army commander Lieutenant General Manoj Pande said both India and China were attempting to scale up infrastructure near the LAC in the eastern sector. The Indian Army is regularly picking up increased military vehicular movement across LAC in the Arunachal Pradesh sector due to improved Chinese infrastructure. There is a tremendous thrust on building infrastructure in Arunachal Pradesh whether it is through the development of border roads or the efforts of the civilian government, Major General Zubin A Minwalla, the commander of the Rupa-based HQs 5 Mountain Division, said earlier this week. The division’s responsibilities encompass the sensitive Tawang sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/key-tunnel-for-tawang-likely-to-be-completed-before-deadline-101634841571096.html
22-10-2021||India||Akhada Parishad split down the middle weeks after seer’s death||The apex body of Hinduism’s 13 monastic orders, the Akhada Parishad, suffered a major split on Thursday with half of its members distancing themselves from an upcoming meeting to elect a new governing body and naming their own office bearers. Seven influential akhadas announced a new president, general secretary and working committee members to steer the apex body, drawing an angry response from Akhada Parishad officials. “The appointment of the new working committee of the Akhada Parishad was done in an open and transparent manner, which augurs well for the seer community,” said Mahant Ravindra Puri, a member of Maha Nirvani Akhada who was named president of the Akhada Parishad by the rebel faction. He said the meeting and appointment of the new office bearers was done under acting president Devendra Shastri so it was a legal electoral process.But the current office bearers of the Akhada Parishad dismissed the new appointments and called them illegal. “Actual meeting regarding the election of Akhada Parishad new working committee has already been announced and convened at Baghambari Math in Prayagraj raj on October 25. So, the decision and election of new working committee along with president and general secretary will only take place there only. The majority of Akhadas and saints are with us only,” said Hari Giri Maharaj, the Akhada Parishad general secretary. Niranjani Akhada secretary Ravindra Puri Maharaj also termed the rebel faction’s appointments as “inappropriate” and questioned how the meeting could be held without current office bearers of the Akhada Parishad. The open rebellion indicates a deepening of the crisis roiling the Akhada Parishad after the death of its erstwhile chief, Mahant Narendra Giri, on September 20 by alleged suicide. The Central Bureau of Investigation is probing the death, and has arrested three people named in the seer’s suicide note.Giri, an influential figure with ties to top politicians, had controlled the Akhada Parishad and the Baghambari Gaddi Math in Prayagraj for 15 years. On October 5, Giri’s successor at the Baghambari Math was announced but swirling speculation about his suicide note, veracity of his will and circumstances before his death prevented the Akhada Parishad from naming its chief. Giri’s death also sparked a tussle between members of the Akhada Parishad for control of the powerful body that has a decisive say in key Hindu festivals and events, such as the Mahakumbh. This is the first split in the Akhada Parishad in almost a decade. The body split into two factions in 2010 but the warring groups reconciled three years later. The seven akhadas were led by Shri Panchayati Maha Nirvani Akhada, which has thousand of seers and followers.Three Bairagi Akhadas — Nirmohi, Digambar and Nirvani — who played a major role in fanning the rebel faction, also backed the move. Since the Mahakumbh in Haridwar in April-May 2021, the three Bairagi Akhadas have been demanding representation in the Akhada Parishad working committee , general secretary post , land allocation and other facilities at par with the Juna and Niranjani Akhadas -- the two biggest constituents of the Akhada Parishad who have traditionally steered the body. They claimed support from Maha Nirvani, Nirmal and Bada Udasin Akhadas.“Bairagi Akhada has been raising issues of due representation at the Akhada Parishad. It’s a decision of seven Akhadas done in the interest of the body, and we are now representing Akhada Parishad,”said Mahant Rajendra Das of Nirmohi Ani Akhada, the newly elected general secretary of Akhada Parishad.But the rebel faction was condemned by major members of the Akhada Parishad, including the Juna Akhada , Niranjani Udasin Akhada,Agni and Aahwan Akhada. “Any meeting is called after 15 days prior information. This meeting as well as election procedure is illegal and violative of Akhada Parishad rules and regulations. We term the new working committee as void and the Akhada Parishad meeting at Prayagraj will discuss this issue in length. Action may also be taken against those who violate the Akhada Parishad constitution,” said Hari Giri Maharaj. Akhada officials from both sides indicated at a major showdown at the October 25 meeting in Baghambari Math, the seat of the former chief Giri. The exact strength of each side will be clear at the event, they added. Noted Akhada and Kumbh follower Mahesh Parikh, who has written a book on the subjects’ histories, said that political ,social and financial power that wrest with Akhada Parishad has led to the current division.“Its quite surprising that within a month of the death of Akhada Parishad president Narendra Giri, Akhada Parishad has broken into two factions.Now, the Prayagraj meeting will decide the outcome as two biggest Akhadas ,Juna and Niranjani,” said Parikh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akhada-parishad-split-down-the-middle-weeks-after-seer-s-death-101634841510736.html
22-10-2021||India||Uttarakhand toll hits 64, trekkers among dead||The death toll from floods, landslides and building collapses in Uttarakhand due to intense rain earlier this week reached 64 on Thursday, with at least 11 people still missing, officials said. Authorities began assessing the damage to personal property, infrastructure and agriculture, as Union home minister Amit Shah carried out aerial surveys of some of the affected regions. Shah, who reached Dehradun late on Wednesday from Ahmedabad, accompanied chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami, governor Lt Gen Gurmit Singh (retd), Union minister of state for defence Ajay Bhatt, Rajya Sabha member Anil Baluni and other senior officials of state and central government. “During the aerial survey of the affected areas for about two hours, many things came up. At least 64 have died so far while over 11 are still missing. The property loss is, however, yet to be ascertained as it requires ground survey by the official which takes time. It would be done by the officials of home ministry along with the state government officials in a couple of days which will then send a report to the Centre for appropriate assistance,” said Shah while addressing media persons in Dehradun. At least 13 people, including 10 trekkers, died in separate incidents in the higher reaches of the state after being trapped in snowfall, officials confirmed on Thursday. Officials said 65 people are still trapped at different regions in the upper reaches.“Over 65 tourists are trapped in higher reaches of Bageshwar — 20 at Kafni and 34 at Dwali glacier besides the 10 at Sunderdhunga. We have sent three rescue teams from the district along with one helicopter and one NDRF team from Dehradun to rescue the tourists, who are mostly from Kolkata,” said Shikha Suyal, district disaster management officer, Bageshwar.Of the 13 confirmed dead, three were porters working for the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) posted at the Indo-China border in Uttarkashi district. The 10 trekkers who died included eight who went missing while on their way to the Lamkhaga Pass near Harsil in Uttarkashi district, 230km from Dehradun, on October 14. Seven of the eight were from West Bengal while the remaining person was from Delhi.Devendra Patwal, district disaster management officer, Uttarkashi, said, “The rescue workers compromising SDRF and air force personnel spotted five bodies near Lamkhaga Pass on Thursday morning. The bodies will soon be airlifted from the spot.” The other group of trekkers who died were in the Bageshwar district. Four from this group were rescued near Sunderdhunga glacier. Shah said, “Timely warning issued by the Centre to the state government on October 16 helped in saving many lives.” “The warning issued before 24 hrs of the heavy rain forecast definitely helped in minimising the damage... Fewer lives were lost due to timely actions taken by the state government on the basis of the prior warning,” he said. He added that “17 teams of NDRF, 60 of SDRF, 15 companies of PAC and over 5,000 personnel of state police are on the ground at present for rescue works in the affected areas”. “Because of the alertness of these along with central forces — ITBP, army and air force — the Char Dham pilgrims were asked to stay in safe places in the three days of heavy rains. Due to this, not a single pilgrim or tourist lost his/her life. These rescue forces also rescued about 3,500 people and evacuated over 16,000 people to safety as a precautionary measure,” said Shah. The home minister, after holding a meeting with the officials, also said that the road connectivity has been restored in most places, except few where roads have been completely washed away. “In those places, new roads are to be constructed by cutting the hills which will take some time. Power supply has also been restored up to 60% in the affected areas. Apart from this, 80% phone connectivity has also been restored,” said Shah. While assuring the state government of “every possible assistance”, he added that the Centre last month provided “ ₹250 crore from the disaster management department to Uttarakhand for disaster mitigation”. “Apart from this, the Centre will provide more financial help to the state as soon as it receives the assessment report of property loss in the state by the officials.” Addressing the media on the steps being taken by the government to manage such disasters in the future, the Union home minister also said the Centre would soon open an institute for research and mitigation of disasters in Uttarakhand. “A proposal for the same had already been sent by the state to the Centre a few months ago. At least four meetings on the same have happened on it...It will soon be established after which it will not only be beneficial for the Himalayan region but entire country,” said Shah, adding, “Centre is standing with the people of Devbhoomi in this hour of need.” Earlier on Wednesday, CM Dhami had conducted an aerial and ground survey of the flood-affected areas in the Kumaon division of the state during which he too had assured all possible help to the victims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-toll-hits-64-trekkers-among-dead-101634841331151.html
22-10-2021||India||UP custodial death: Dalit man died of heart attack, says autopsy report||The post-mortem report of a sanitation worker, who died in the police custody after being arrested in connection with a theft of ₹25 lakh from a warehouse, showed heart attack as the cause of his death, the Uttar Pradesh police said on Thursday. “In compliance with the norms laid down by the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), the post-mortem was conducted by a panel of doctors. According to the post-mortem report, the cause of death is myocardial infarction (heart attack),” said Agra senior superintendent of police (SSP) Muniraj G. “Further investigation in the matter is underway,” the SSP added. The sanitation worker, Arun Valmiki, was arrested by the police in connection with the theft of ₹25 lakh from the warehouse of Jagdishpura police station in Agra on Sunday (October 17). He was accused of stealing the money on Saturday night from the “malkhana” (a storage house where items confiscated by police are kept) of the Jagdishpura police station, where he worked as a cleaner. Valmiki died in police custody on Tuesday night. “During questioning, he confessed to the crime. Police recovered ₹15 lakh from his home. During recovery, he fell ill. Police and his family rushed him to the hospital. The doctor declared him brought dead. An FIR has been registered,” the Agra SSP had earlier said. Citing the post-mortem report, people aware of the developments and speaking on condition of anonymity said there were some injury marks on the body of the deceased, but were not serious enough to have caused his death. They, however, could not ascertain if these injury marks, including blue marks on the hips and scratch on legs, were recent or old. Meanwhile, additional director general of police (Agra) Rajiv Krishna said, “Our officers are in contact with his family. They’re cooperating. Action will be taken if there was any negligence. The family has filed a complaint. They suspect he was beaten up by the police following which he died. FIR was registered and the matter will be probed.” (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/upcustodial-death-dalit-man-died-of-heart-attack-says-autopsy-report-101634841210628.html
22-10-2021||India||The numbers behind India’s billion dose landmark||India administered its billionth dose of Covid-19 vaccines early on Thursday, the only country other than China (2.2 billion doses administered) to cross the milestone. India’s adult population (the only ones eligible for vaccines right now) is estimated at 940.2 million, and this milestone in absolute numbers is a milestone in coverage too. As of 5pm, around 76% of adults in the country had received at least one dose of the two-dose vaccine. And around 31% have been fully vaccinated.Seen in the context of the last national sero-prevalence survey (these test for antibodies) that showed that almost two-thirds of the population had been exposed to Covid-19, and the current low daily case numbers, the vaccination statistics mean that India will likely not see a third wave of infections according to experts.But India’s high population (1.3 billion) mean that the country’s vaccine drive still has some distance to cover.Half the districts have covered 75% of their population with at least one doseThe 1 billion dose count has come along with coverage of 75% adults with at least one dose. At the district-level, a little over half the districts – 345 of 628 districts of 2011 census with all of Delhi’s and Mumbai ‘s districts taken together – have reached this level of coverage. The top five districts in terms of coverage of first doses are Diu, Kolkata in West Bengal, Gurgaon in Haryana, Solan in Himachal Pradesh and Dadra and Nagar Haveli. The first dose coverage in these districts is the complete adult population as estimated through the number of electors.Another 261 districts have given at least one dose to 50%-75% of their population. Only 22 districts have vaccinated less than 50% of their population. 16 of these 22 districts are in the north-eastern states (nine in Nagaland alone) and the other six are in Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and Chhattisgarh.
22-10-2021||India||Remove all illegal constructions in animal corridors near Kaziranga: SC to Assam||A Central Empowered Committee (CEC), constituted by the Supreme Court, has directed the Assam government to remove all illegal constructions in the nine animal corridors around Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve.In a letter to Assam chief secretary Jishu Baruah on October 6, a copy of which HT has seen, the panel also sought an action taken report from the government within four weeks in this regard. “It is requested that immediate action is taken to remove all constructions made in violation of Hon’ble Supreme Court order dated 12.04.2019 and not permit any new constructions along the nine identified animal corridors,” CEC member secretary Amarnatha Shetty said in the letter.The CEC’s latest directions came after a report by the Union environment ministry in September indicated that several new structures had cropped up in the concerned corridors in violation of a top court ruling in April, 2019. The report was prepared by Laetitia J Syiemiong, deputy inspector general of forest (central) of Shillong office of the Union environment, forest and climate change ministry, on the CEC’s order. The CEC had sought inspections of the nine corridors after activist Rohit Choudhury complained about the new constructions. The inspection revealed that a temple, shops, hotels, restaurants, tea estates and even a government building were built in eight corridors. Most of the constructions were found in Haldibari and Kanchanjuris corridors. The report noted a lack of coordination between the district administration, forest department and police, and blamed them for violating the top court order. It added that no action was initiated to remove the constructions. The report also noted that while delineation of the nine animal corridors, spread over 44.205 km, has taken place, the state government is yet to formally notify it. It suggested demolition of illegal constructions in the animal corridors and a proper survey.“The problem is that the animal corridors fall in revenue land and not in the forest area. Therefore, the forest department cannot remove structures constructed there. It is the duty of the district administrations to do that,” Amit Sahai, principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife), said. “We have asked the government to constitute a committee, comprising district administration as well as the forest department, so that this issue can be resolved,” he added. Principal secretary (forest and environment) Avinash Purushottam Das Joshi said the government has received the letter and necessary directions have been issued for action.Choudhury said the government appeared to be least bothered about encroachment on animal corridors that hamper the safe movement of wild animals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/remove-all-constructions-from-animal-corridors-sc-panel-directs-assam-101634814926153.html
22-10-2021||India||6-yr-old killed for resisting sexual assault bid by 3 minors, say police||A six-year-old girl, whose body was found in a toilet at a stone quarry in Assam’s Nagaon district earlier this week, was murdered for resisting a sexual assault attempt by three boys who were addicted to watching pornographic clips, investigators said on Thursday.All the three accused, aged between 8 and 11, were taken into custody on Wednesday while the parents of one of them were arrested for alleged criminal conspiracy and destruction of evidence. While the minors were produced before a juvenile justice board and sent to a remand home, the parents were remanded to judicial custody by a local court on Thursday, the investigators added. Police said the girl’s body, with injury marks on her head and chest, was found in the toilet of a non-functional stone quarry in Kaliabor area on Monday hours after she went missing from home. Preliminary probe indicated that the minor was hit with a blunt object. While a post-mortem report is awaited, prima facie it appeared to be a case of physical assault and molestation but not rape, police added. “On Monday, the three minors took the girl to the quarry and tried to molest her. When she resisted and threatened to complain against them, the minors hit her on the head and chest with a stone which resulted in her death. The minors then hid the body in the quarry’s toilet,” Mrinmoy Das, a sub-divisional police officer, said.“The security guard of the quarry told us the victim’s body was first spotted by the minors. The boys said the body was removed from the spot by the guard. When we questioned the guard again, he said the crime was committed by the minors,” he added. Police said the accused minors were the son and nephew (both aged 11) of the guard, and another eight-year-old who lived near the victim’s home. The girl’s mother had passed away and she used to stay with her father, a daily wager, and her grandmother.Investigators said the guard had purchased a smartphone for his son to attend online classes but the child, along with the other accused, started watching pornographic clips instead. The phone’s browsing history confirmed the same, they said. It was learnt that the accused used to molest other minor girls as well, police said.A case under section 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code has been registered and more sections are likely to be added after approval from court, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-boys-killed-6-year-old-girl-for-resisting-sexual-assault-police-101634809945913.html
22-10-2021||India||India scripts history, administers one billion Covid-19 vaccine doses||At 10.35 am on Thursday, India achieved the milestone of administering one billion Covid-19 vaccine doses as part of the national immunisation drive started in January with Prime Minister Narendra Modi thanking doctors, nurses, and others who worked for making it possible.In a tweet, Modi said, “India scripts history. We are witnessing the triumph of Indian science, enterprise and collective spirit of 130 crore Indians. Congrats India on crossing 100 crore vaccinations. Gratitude to our doctors, nurses and all those who worked to achieve this feat. #VaccineCentury.”All major monuments under the Archaeological Survey of India were being illuminated as part of the celebrations planned to mark the achievement. Ships anchored on Indian ports hooted at a pre-decided time while artists were working on 100 different ideas across 100 districts to celebrate the milestone. At the main celebration event at Delhi’s Red Fort, the longest national flag will be unfurled while an anthem and a short film on key vaccination components will be released to mark the occasion.Among the monuments to be illuminated include Cellular Jail, (Andaman and Nicobar Islands), excavated remains of Nava Nalanda Mahavihara (Bihar), Sher Shah Suri’s Tomb (Bihar), Raipur Circle (Chhattisgarh), Chandigarh Capitol Complex, Astodia Gate (Gujarat), Sun Temple (Gujarat), Kangra Fort (Himachal Pradesh), Tipu Sultan’s Palace (Karnataka), Bekal Fort (Kerala), Gwalior Fort (Madhya Pradesh), Aga Khan Palace (Maharashtra), Temple of Vishnu (Manipur), Dimapur Fort (Nagaland), Qutub Minar (Delhi), Konark Sun Temple (Odisha), Kumbhalgarh Fort (Rajasthan), Vellore Fort (Tamil Nadu), Golconda Fort (Telangana), Ancient Fort (Jammu & Kashmir), Fatehpur Sikri (Uttar Pradesh), and Metcalfe Hall (West Bengal).Free rides at all major ropeways across the country will also be offered to people who have been fully vaccinated.The Union health ministry created hashtag #VaccineCentury and a digital clock ticking backward to determine the number of vaccination doses left to be administered to reach the one-billion target.The World Health Organization (WHO) congratulated India for achieving the target.“Huge congratulations to India for marking yet another milestone -- a billion COVID-19 vaccine doses administered. This extraordinary feat in a short span was not possible without strong political leadership, inter-sectoral convergence, dedicated efforts of the entire health and frontline workforce, and the people themselves. India’s progress must be viewed in the context of the country’s commendable commitment and efforts to ensure that these life-saving vaccines are accessible globally,” said Poonam Khetrapal Singh, regional director, WHO, South-East Asia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-administers-one-billion-covid-19-vaccine-doses-101634794885385.html
22-10-2021||NA||Financial Action Task Force keeps Pakistan on 'grey' list||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:Maharashtra minister says ‘no question of state govt probe’ regarding Nawab Malik's allegations on NCB officialNo question of a probe by state govt because he (Sameer Wankhede) is working through a central agency. I've no info on his (Nawab Malik) statement. He has not given me any evidence regarding this. I'll take info from him. Right now I've no info: Maharashtra HM Dilip Walse Patil pic.twitter.com/IiDvHtJGxJMaharashtra home minister Dilip Walse Patil said that the state government would not probe NCB official Sameer Wankhede with reference to NCP leader Nawab Malik's allegations against him, reports ANI.US to withdraw punitive tariffs after agreement on EU digital taxes, reports AFP#BREAKING US to withdraw punitive tariffs after agreement on EU digital taxes pic.twitter.com/0KddbXXRdpUS to withdraw punitive tariffs after agreement on EU digital taxes, reports AFP.Pakistan remains on FATF grey listPakistan continued to remain on the grey list of the Financial Action Task Force (FATF).Kashmir Police say encounter underway at Chanapora, Srinagar#Encounter has started at #Chanapora area of #Srinagar. Police and security forces are on the job. Further details shall follow.@JmuKmrPoliceThe Kashmir Zone Police said that an encounter is underway at the Chanapora area of Srinagar. “Police and security forces are on the job. Further details shall follow,” the police tweeted. NCB's Sameer Wankhede responds to NCP minister Nawab Malik's allegationsMy best wishes are with him. I am just a government employee. He is a minister. If we want to put me in jail for serving the country, for working honestly and eliminating drugs menace then I welcome it: NCB Zonal Director Sameer Wankhede https://t.co/soQM2ngmMW pic.twitter.com/rWsHLkPnIESameer Wankhede, zonal director of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) responded to NCP minister Nawab Malik's allegations of ‘bogus cases’ against him and said, “If we want to put me in jail for serving the country, for working honestly and eliminating drugs menace then I welcome it,” reports ANI.AIIMS chief Dr Guleria hails ‘historic moment’ of administering billion Covid vaccine dosesHistoric moment for India to complete 1 billion doses, not only in terms of numbers but also because all doses were manufactured here... It will give new boost to those not vaccinated. This achievement proves that vaccine is safe, effective: Dr Randeep Guleria, AIIMS Director pic.twitter.com/FnMAM1VhEOAIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria said that it was a “historic moment” for India to administer 100 crore Covid vaccine doses and said that the achievement proved vaccines are safe, reprots ANI. 'After death of 800 farmers, Captain says will get matter resolved by BJP': Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Amarinder SinghA CM who had taken the oath for Punjab becomes helpless to an extent that he hands over the farming of Punjab to Modi-Shah & stops agriculture in the state. After the death of 800 farmers, today Captain sahab says that he will get the matter resolved by BJP: Harsimrat Kaur BadalSAD leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal criticised former Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh and said that after the death of 800 farmers, Singh has said that he would resolve the issue by BJP, reports ANI.Actress Ananya Pandey leaves NCB office after hours of questioning, summoned again tomorrowActress Ananya Pandey left the NCB office at 6.15pm after being quizzed for hours in connection with her alleged WhatsApp chats with Aryan Khan. The NCB said it has summoned the actress again on Friday to record her statement.US deputy secretary of state congratulates India for billion Covid vaccine dosesCongratulations to India on administering their 1 billionth dose of COVID-19 vaccine! We applaud India’s commitment to ramp up vaccine production for export and use worldwide. With the #Quad, the U.S. and India are working together to vaccinate the world and end the pandemic.US deputy secretary of state Wendy Sherman congratulated India for administering billion Covid-19 vaccine doses. “We applaud India’s commitment to ramp up vaccine production for export and use worldwide. With the #Quad, the U.S. and India are working together to vaccinate the world and end the pandemic,” Sherman tweeted.UP reports 12 new Covid-19 cases, 1 death in last 24 hoursUttar Pradesh reported 12 new Covid-19 cases one death in the last 24 hours as the death toll climbed to 22,899. The state currently has 107 active cases of the disease, reports ANI.F-35B fighter aircraft lands vertically on British Royal Navy aircraft carrier HMS Queen Elizabeth in Arabian Sea#WATCH | F-35B fifth generation fighter aircraft lands vertically on the British Royal Navy aircraft carrier HMS Queen Elizabeth in Arabian Sea near Mumbai. Warship is in India for a joint exercise with Indian forces. pic.twitter.com/2PwkA9PTtLA F-35B fifth generation fighter aircraft landed vertically on British Royal Navy's aircraft carrier HMS Queen Elizabeth in the Arabian sea near Mumbai. The warship is in India for a joint exercise with the Indian forces, reports ANI. Pfizer/BioNTech say their third dose of Covid-19 vaccine is 95.6% effectiveThe third dose of the Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine has been found 95.6% effective, according to a study published by the makers, reports AFP.4 killed in explosion at Chinese BBQ restaurant, reports ReutersFour killed in gas explosion at Chinese BBQ restaurant https://t.co/c7QLUXSH7h pic.twitter.com/9rz7FXzFi6Four people were killed following a gas explosion at a Chinese BBQ restaurant, reports Reuters.Ali Harbi Ali charged with murder of UK MP Sir David Amess, reports BBCAli Harbi Ali, 25, charged with the murder of UK MP Sir David Amess and the preparation of terrorist acts, reports BBC.West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee to visit Goa on Oct 28West Bengal chief minister and TMC chief Mamata Banerjee will visit Goa on October 28 and will return to West Bengal on November 1, reports ANI.Special NDPS Court extends judicial custody of Aryan Khan, others till October 30 in drugs-on-cruise caseThe special NDPS court extended the judicial custody of Aryan Khan and others in the drugs-on-cruise case till October 30.EC advises political parties, candidates to not organise political activities related to by-polls even in adjoining areasAdvisory to political parties/ contesting candidates for compliance of MCC during bye polls - not to organize any political activities directly related to bye-polls even in the areas adjoining the district/constituency where bye-polls are being held: Election Commission of IndiaThe Election Commission of India has advised political parties and candidataes to not organise any activities directly related to the by-polls even in areas adjoining the constituency, reports ANI. Cabinet approves PM Gatishakti plan, to be monitored in three-tier system: Anurag ThakurThe PM GatiShakti NMP will be monitored in a three-tier system. Implementation framework includes an Empowered Group of Secretaries (EGoS) headed by Cabinet Secretary: Union Minister Anurag ThakurThe Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) approved PM GatiShakti National Master Plan including institutional framework for rolling out, implementation, monitoring and support mechanism for providing multi-modal connectivity, reports ANI quoting Union minister Anurag Thakur.‘What have you done for Punjab?’: Sukhbir Singh Badal questions CM Channi Bhoa MLA Joginder Pal's slapping of a poor boy who questioned him over his govt's failure exposes the frustration of Cong leaders. How far will the CM @CHARANJITCHANNI & @INCPunjab leaders run away- will they slap everyone who asks them - 'What have you done for Pb?' #TuKiKitta pic.twitter.com/SXlfRpcmiBShiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal questioned Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi over an incident where Bhoa MLA Joginder Pal slapped a man for asking what had the government done in five years. “How far will the CM @CHARANJITCHANNI & @INCPunjab leaders run away- will they slap everyone who asks them - 'What have you done for Pb?” Badal tweeted.NC's Farooq Abdullah says BJP spreading hatred to win UPBalakot! Balakot! Did line (LoC) change? Did we get back any piece of land from Pakistan? Line is still there. We dropped our own aircraft there. What did we get? BJP came to power. They're doing it today too. They're spreading hatred to win UP: NC chief Farooq Abdullah, in Jammu pic.twitter.com/WyrjdIkXZsNational Conference leader Farooq Abdullah said that the BJP was spreading hatred to win the elections in UP, reports ANI.IMA hails PM Modi, all stakeholders on administering billion vaccine dosesIndian Medical Association salutes and hails Prime Minister Narendra Modi and all stakeholders on the abundant accomplishment of 1 billion vaccination feat pic.twitter.com/j3AWcE7geRThe Indian Medical Association (IMA) hailed PM Modi and other stakeholders on administering billion Covid-19 vaccine doses, reports ANI. 75% population in country received first dose; 9 states, UTs achieve 100% first dose coverageOver 75 percent of India's adult population has received at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine, with nine states and UTs administering first dose to all its 18-plus population; more than 31 percent of country's adult population has been administered both doses: Health MinistryMore than 75% eligible population received at least one dose of the vaccine while over 31% have been fully vaccinated in the country, reports PTI citing the health ministry. Also, nine states and UTs have achieved 100% first dose coverage.US embassy in India congratulates on administering 1 billion Covid vaccine dosesCongratulations to India on administering its 1 billionth dose of COVID-19 vaccine today – a major milestone in the world’s efforts to combat the global pandemic. #VaccineCentury #CongratulationsIndiaThe US embassy in India congratulated the administration of one billion Covid-19 vaccine doses and called it a “a major milestone in the world's effort to combat the global pandemic.”Sensex slips by 750 points; Nifty sheds 180 points ahead of closing sessionSensex slipped by 750 points and traded at 60,739 while Nifty shedded 180 points and traded at 18,086.Gujarat Cong leaders to meet Rahul Gandhi in Delhi tomorrowLeaders of the Gujarat unit of Congress will meet Rahul Gandhi in Delhi tomorrow, ahead of selection of Gujarat PCC Chief, reports ANI. No tourist casualty so far due to rains in U'khand, says Amit ShahThere has been no tourist casualty so far due to heavy rains in #Uttarakhand. More than 3500 people were rescued & more than 16,000 precautionary evacuations were done. 17 NDRF teams, 7 SDRF teams, 15 companies of PAC, more than 5000 police personnel deployed: HM Amit Shah pic.twitter.com/DeEX6sRKTMUnion home minister Amit Shah said on Thursday that no tourist casualty has been reported so far due to incessant rainfall in Uttarakhand, adding, over 3,500 people were rescued and more than 16,000 precautionary evacuations were done'Huge congratulations': WHO hails India on 1 billion Covid vaccination markWorld Health Organization (WHO) chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus on Thursday congratulated the central government after India achieved the landmark milestone of administering one billion doses of the vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read moreAmit Shah conducts aerial survey of flood-affected areas of U'khandUnion Home Minister Amit Shah along with Uttarakhand CM Pushkar Singh Dhami, Governor Lt Gen Gurmit Singh (retd) conducted an aerial survey of the rain-affected areas of Uttarakhand pic.twitter.com/VkyQgvk3FSUnion home minister Amit Shah on Monday conducted an aerial survey of the flood-affected areas in the state of Uttarakhand. He was accompanied by chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami and governor Lt Gen Gurmit Singh (Retd). NCB team reaches Shah Rukh Khan's house, summons Ananya Panday for questioning todayJust hours after Shah Rukh Khan paid visit to his son Aryan, who is currently in Mumbai's Arthur Road Jail in connection with the cruise ship drugs case, officials from the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) are currently present at Shah Rukh Khan's residence. Meanwhile, a team of the NCB also arrived at Ananya Panday's residence. She has been summoned by the bureau today.  WHO congratulates India on crossing 1 billion Covid vaccinations"Congratulations, PM Narendra Modi, the scientists, healthworkers & people of India, on your efforts to protect the vulnerable populations from Covid-19 and achieve vaccine equity targets," WHO’s director general Tedros Adhanom tweeted on Thursday. Farmer groups given 3 weeks to respond on plea seeking to remove protesters from Delhi bordersThe Supreme Court Thursday granted three weeks' time to farmer unions, leading the nearly year-long agitation along the borders of Delhi and elsewhere against the three central farm laws, to file their response on a petition seeking removal of the protesters from the roads.Toll due to floods in U'khand climbs to 54, five people missingThe total number of deaths due to the floods in Uttarakhand triggered by heavy rains has climbed to 54. Nineteen people have been injured till now five others are still reported missing. Cruise ship drugs case: Bombay HC to hear Aryan Khan's bail plea on October 26The Bombay high court will on October 26 hear the bail application of Aryan Khan, who was arrested after seizure of drugs on a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast following a raid by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on October 2. Read more IAF's trainer aircraft crashes in MP's Bhind, pilot injuredMadhya Pradesh | Indian Air Force's trainer aircraft crashes in Bhind, pilot injured: Bhind SP Manoj Kumar SinghDetails awaited pic.twitter.com/nOlCRGU1D5'India scripts history,' says PM Modi as total vaccinations cross 1 billionIndia scripts history. We are witnessing the triumph of Indian science, enterprise and collective spirit of 130 crore Indians. Congrats India on crossing 100 crore vaccinations. Gratitude to our doctors, nurses and all those who worked to achieve this feat. #VaccineCentury"India scripts history. We are witnessing the triumph of Indian science, enterprise and collective spirit of 130 crore Indians. Congrats India on crossing 100 crore vaccinations. Gratitude to our doctors, nurses and all those who worked to achieve this feat,"  Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted on Thursday.India's daily Covid tally goes up by 18,454; recovery rate above 98%India saw an increase in its daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Thursday after 18,454 new cases were recorded in the last 24 hours, which pushed the caseload to 34,127,450, according to the Union health ministry's data. ReIndia's cumulative vaccination count crosses one billion-mark; PM Modi visits Delhi's RML hospitalIndia crossed a major milestone on Thursday when the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine doses administered in the country crossed the 100 crore (1 billion) mark. Read moreOn the occasion, Prime Minister Narendra Modi was seen visiting the RML Hospital in New Delhi.Police Commemoration Day: Tributes pour in for braveheart copsEvery year, October 21 is celebrated as the Police Commemoration Day, to pay tributes to all police personnel who died in the line of duty. Last year, tributes were also paid to the cops who lost their lives due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. Read moreShah Rukh Khan reaches Arthur Road jail to meet son Aryan#WATCH Actor Shah Rukh Khan reaches Mumbai's Arthur Road Jail to meet son Aryan who is lodged at the jail, in connection with drugs on cruise ship case#Mumbai pic.twitter.com/j1ozyiVYBMActor Shah Rukh Khan has reached the Arthur Road jail in Mumbai to meet son Aryan Khan, who has been held in connection with the cruise ship drugs case. Maharashtra's Thane adds 226 new Covid cases, 3 more deathsThane district's caseload of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) climbed to 563,975 after 226 cases were recorded in the last 24 hours. Three more people succumbed to the viral disease, taking the death toll to 11,468. Police Commemoration Day: UP CM pays tributes  to fallen police personnelCM Yogi Adityanath lays wreath at Reserve Police Lines, to pay tribute to police personnel who lost their lives in line of duty on Police Commemoration Day in Lucknow pic.twitter.com/U46ntE5raSUttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday laid wreath at the  Reserve Police Lines, to pay tribute to police personnel who lost their lives in line of duty. Monsoon likely to withdraw completely around October 26Monsoon is likely to withdraw completely from India around October 26 and simultaneously northeast monsoon is likely to commence over peninsular India, according to the India Meteorological Department. Read more'Assam govt failed to keep its promises': Cong to stage statewide protests todayThe Assam Pradesh Congress Committee (APCC) will on Thursday stage protests across the state against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led state government for failing to keep its promises made to the public before the assembly elections this year. Read moreGas explosion reported in China's Shenyang CityA gas explosion was reported through a restaurant on Taiyuan Street South in Shenyang City of China on Thursday morning, news agency ANI reported citing local media. The number of casualties are unknown and rescue work is on. 52 dead in Uttarakhand floods, Amit Shah to conduct aerial survey todayUnion home minister Amit Shah, who reached Uttarakhand around midnight, will take stock of the flood situation in the state on Thursday. Shah was welcomed by chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami at the Dehradun airport. Read moreDonald Trump announces plans to launch new social networkFormer United States President Donald Trump announced plans to launch his new social network called 'TRUTH Social', news agency AFP reported on Thursday. Read moreEnforce UN sanctions on North Korea, say US and EUThe United States and the European Union on Wednesday's condemned North Korea's submarine missile tests this week and said that the country's technical advances demonstrate the urgent need to ramp up implementation of United Nations sanctions on its nuclear and missile programs along with its economic activities, news agency AP reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-october-21-2021-101634776598782.html
