23-10-2021||India||Cop fires at man for objecting to open urination||A 29-year-old constable of Indian Reserve Batallion (IRB) was arrested after he allegedly fired at a man in Dehradun who confronted him for urinating in an open area near his shop on Friday night, police said on Saturday.The victim, who sustained a bullet wound in his stomach, was rushed to a nearby hospital where he is undergoing treatment, the police said.According to Janmejay Khanduri, senior superintendent of police, Haridwar, the accused was identified as one Nitin Kumar Lohan, while the victim was one Puneet Kharola.“The incident happened at around 10.30 pm in Rajput area when Lohan reached a store where Kharola was already there with his friend. There, Lohan, after buying something, started urinating in the open in the same compound, on which Kharola confronted him, leading to an argument between the two,” the senior superintendent said.“During that, Lohan took out his licensed pistol and fired at Kharola, who sustained a bullet wound in his stomach. Lohan then fled from the scene only to be nabbed when Kharola’s father lodged a complaint. He was then booked for an attempt to murder and produced before the local court on Saturday, which sent him to jail,” said Khanduri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cop-fires-at-man-for-objecting-to-open-urination-101635013730686.html
23-10-2021||India||China’s foray into South Asia, Indian Ocean not in India’s interest: General Bipin Rawat||China’s foray into South Asia and Indian Ocean is not in India’s national’s interest, chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat said in Guwahati on Saturday. “China is making big inroads in South Asia and the Indian Ocean region through the Belt and Road Initiative projects. Of late we are witnessing a geo-strategic competition and huge investments by China in the region,” Rawat said while delivering the keynote address of the 1st Ravi Kant Singh memorial lecture. He mentioned that Bangladesh and Myanmar have been the largest recipients of Chinese military aid in the recent past along with significant investments in Nepal, Sri Lanka and Maldives to gain strategic foothold. “China’s foray into Bangladesh and Myanmar is not in India’s national interest and these are pearls in the string of pearls that is attempting to engulf India. There exists an omnipresent danger of regional strategic instability, threatening India’s territorial integrity and strategic cohesion,” said Rawat. The CDS mentioned that Pakistan’s continued sponsoring of cross-border terrorism by state/ISI and non-state sponsored acts against India are a major stumbling block to our peace process and called out China for its partnership with the western neighbour. “China’s partnership with Pakistan through provision of military hardware, supporting Pakistan at various forums in the geo-political arena and the insensitivity towards India’s territorial claims while pursuing the China-Pakistan economic corridor or CPC through Pakistan-occupied Jammu & Kashmir can be best described as an anti-India nexus,” he said. Rawat said that the uncertainty of the Taliban leadership in Afghanistan has plummeted the nation into political instability and turmoil making it a playground for future great Asian power rivalry. Later addressing reporters, the CDS blamed Pakistan of indulging in a proxy war with India and said they will do anything to disturb peace and tranquillity in Jammu & Kashmir. “The adversary will always try and do something. But if we start falling into the trap of the adversary, it will not be good for us. We should not fall prey to their propaganda and we should be shunning these activities,” said Rawat. He said that China was using money power and economics to gain popularity in India’s neighbourhood, but we have to continue with mission SAGAR (Security and Growth for All) and assure neighbours that we are their permanent friends and we want to engage with them on equal terms. “We need to be able to convince them that we will be your friends in the long term. In the short term, they may get monetary advantage from China. But at what cost?” questioned Rawat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinas-foray-into-south-asia-indian-ocean-not-in-india-s-interest-general-bipin-rawat-101635013310783.html
23-10-2021||India||China’s inroads into South Asia not in our national interests: General Bipin Rawat||GUWAHATI: China’s foray into South Asia and the Indian Ocean region is not in India’s national interest, chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat said on Saturday, adding the northern neighbour’s ambitions and aspirations to global power presented an “omnipresent danger” to stability in South Asia. “China is making big inroads in South Asia and the Indian Ocean region through the belt and road initiative projects. Of late we are witnessing a geo-strategic competition and huge investments by China in the region,” Rawat said while delivering the keynote address of the first Ravi Kant Singh Memorial Lecture. General Rawat said that Bangladesh and Myanmar have been the largest recipients of Chinese military aid in the recent past along with significant investments in Nepal, Sri Lanka and Maldives to gain strategic foothold. “China’s foray into Bangladesh and Myanmar is not in India’s national interest and these are pearls in the string of pearls that is attempting to engulf India. There exists omnipresent danger of regional strategic instability, threatening India’s territorial integrity and strategic cohesion,” said Rawat. The CDS also mentioned that Pakistan’s continued sponsoring of cross-border terrorism against India are a “major stumbling block to our peace process” and called out China for its partnership with the western neighbour. “China’s partnership with Pakistan through provision of military hardware, supporting Pakistan at various forums in the geo-political arena and the insensitivity towards India’s territorial claims while pursuing the China-Pakistan economic corridor or CPC through Pakistan-occupied Kashmir can be best described as an anti-India nexus,” he said. Rawat also said that the uncertainty of the Taliban leadership in Afghanistan has plummeted the nation into political instability and turmoil making it a playground for future great Asian power rivalry. Later, while addressing reporters, the CDS blamed Pakistan of indulging in a proxy war with India, adding the neighbouring country would do anything to “disturb peace and tranquillity in Jammu & Kashmir”. “The adversary will always try and do something. But if we start falling into the trap of the adversary, it will not be good for us. We should not fall prey to their propaganda and we should be shunning these activities,” said Rawat. He said China was using money power and economics to gain popularity in India’s neighbourhood, but “we have to continue with mission SAGAR (Security and Growth for All) and assure neighbours that we are their permanent friends and we want to engage with them on equal terms”. “We need to be able to convince them that we will be your friends in the long term. In the short term, they may get monetary advantage from China. But at what cost?” questioned Rawat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinas-inroads-into-south-asia-not-in-our-national-interests-general-bipin-rawat-101635013250795.html
23-10-2021||India||Women should not visit police stations after dark: BJP VP Maurya||Former governor and BJP national vice president Baby Rani Maurya has advised women not to visit police stations after dark.Addressing women during a programme organised in Valmiki Basti of Bajardiha area here on Friday, Maurya said women should take a male family member along when visiting a police station.“There are female officers present in police stations, but I would say that women should never go to a police station after 5 pm when it is dark. If necessary, take your brother, father or husband to the police station the next morning,” Maurya said.The former Uttarakhand governor also claimed that under the BJP government, a lot of work has been done for women and the system has changed.Meanwhile, BSP MP Kunwar Danish Ali targeted the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh government over Maurya’s statement.Sharing a video of Maurya’s statement on Twitter, he said, “Police stations have become so unsafe for women under (chief minister) Yogi Adityanath that former governor and BJP vice president Baby Rani Maurya is warning women to not visit police stations after 5 pm as it is not safe.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/women-should-not-visit-police-stations-after-dark-bjp-vp-maurya-101635013190727.html
23-10-2021||India||Rajasthan man given death penalty for rape, murder of minor||A 25-year-old man on Saturday was awarded death penalty by a special POCSO court in Merta city, Nagaur, for raping and killing a seven-year-old girl on September 20 this year in a village under the Padukalan police station in the district.Special Judge Rekha Rathore sentenced the convict, a maternal uncle of the victim, terming his offence as “the rarest of rare” after holding the trial continuously for 11 days, special public prosecutor Sumer Singh said.Earlier on October 5, a Jaipur court had sentenced a 25-year-old man to 20 years in jail for raping a 9-year-old girl, imposing the punishment within nine days of the commission of the crime.Setting a benchmark on the swiftness of the delivery of the verdict that, experts say, also enhances the deterrence value of the punishment, the special Jaipur POCSO court, had decided the case within five working days after filing of the charge sheet by the police in barely 18 hours.Additional Sessions Judge Rathore held the continuous trial after the Nagaur police completed the probe into the case in barely six days and filed the charge sheet on September 27, said SPP Singh.During the trial, the ASJ examined 29 prosecution witnesses while the defence was able to put up only one witness in defence of accused, he said.The court, however, dismissed the defence witness’ deposition claiming accused to be suffering from a mental disability as it found the accused to be fully mentally fit, said Singh.According to the prosecution, the girl’s maternal uncle had on September 20 lured her to an agriculture farm, where he raped her and fearing that she might disclose the incident to other family members, had killed her and dumped her body behind bushes.On a complaint lodged by the girl’s mother, police managed to recover the victim’s body and arrest the accused the same day. Expediting the investigation into the case, police filed the charge sheet in just six days in the POCSO Court.Chief minister Ashok Gehlot too welcomed the prompt court decision and swift police probe into the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-man-given-death-penalty-for-rape-murder-of-minor-101635012950793.html
23-10-2021||India||Varun Gandhi posts video of UP man setting fire to crop, urges govt to rethink our agriculture policy||New Delhi: Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Varun Gandhi on Saturday shared a video clip purportedly showing a man setting fire to a heap of paddy crop after his vain efforts to sell it, and sought a rethink of the agriculture policy. “It is a failure of all in the nation if we cannot protect those who feed us,” he said. Gandhi shared the video of the man on Twitter. “Samodh Singh, a farmer of Uttar Pradesh, had been running around mandis for the last 15 days to sell his paddy crop. When paddy did not sell, he in frustration put fire to it himself. Where has this system brought the farmers? The need of the hour is to rethink our agriculture policy,” he said. “There is no greater punishment that a farmer can inflict upon himself than setting fire to his own crops. We must all introspect as to why the system has pushed them to the edge for no fault of their own. It is a failure of all in the nation if we cannot protect those who feed us,” Gandhi added.Without making a direct attack, the BJP leader has been critical of the government’s handling of agri issues of late and has also sympathised with the farmers protesting against the three farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/varun-gandhi-posts-video-of-up-man-setting-fire-to-crop-urges-govt-to-rethink-our-agriculture-policy-101635012591974.html
23-10-2021||India||U.P. govt renames Faizabad station as Ayodhya Cantt||The Uttar Pradesh government on Saturday decided to rename the Faizabad Junction to Ayodhya Cantt railways station, chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s office announced in a tweet. “UPCM Shri@myogiadityanath has decided to rename Faizabad railway junction as Ayodhya Cantt,” a tweet stated. In another tweet, the CM’s office said the Centre granted its consent to the decision, and Adityanath has given a green signal to issue a notification in this regard.However, Suresh Kumar Sapra, divisional railway manager (DRM), Lucknow Division, Northern Railways (NR), said the department is yet to receive a notification on the matter.“As of now, we haven’t received any order from the Railway Board regarding any change of name. According to the procedure, the state government sends a proposal to the ministry of home affairs, from where it goes to the Railway Board for final implementation. Hence, we are awaiting orders from the Railway Board, after which we will accordingly make changes in our records, logbooks and computer system,” he said.Reacting to the BJP government’s latest decision, Samajwadi Party state spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary said, “In four-and-a-half years this government could do nothing but change names or take credit for the works done by Samajwadi Party government. Even while this government is on it’s way out it continues to change names and inaugurate SP government’s projects.”Earlier in 2018, the Yogi Adityanath government had renamed Faizabad Ayodhya on the occasion of Diwali. The BJP government also changed the name of Allahabad to Prayagraj and Mughalsarai railway junction as Pt Deen Dayal Upadhyay junction.Opened in 1874, the Faizabad railway station comes under the Northern Railway zone. It falls under the Lucknow-Varanasi section.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-govt-renames-faizabad-station-as-ayodhya-cantt-101635012173450.html
23-10-2021||India||Prices of matchboxes soar owing to inflation, to cost ₹2 from Dec 1||The All India Chamber of Matches in Sivakasi decided to increase the cost of matchboxes after 14 years, hiking the prices from Re 1 to ₹2. Citing rising costs and inflation, the matchbox industry announced the price hike from December 1.The matchbox may have been the only item that is being used in daily life which did not see a price increase in the last 14 years. The price of the matchbox was last hiked in 2007 from 50p to Re 1. Earlier, the cost of matchbox was increased from 25p to 50p in 1995, according to reports.The manufacturers of matchboxes highlighted that there are 14 items that are needed for making matchboxes. The price of a kilogram of red phosphorus, an important material required to make matchboxes, rose from ₹425 to ₹810, wax from ₹58 to ₹80, the outer box board from ₹36 to ₹55 and the inner box board from ₹32 to ₹58.The manufacturers also said that the rising costs in acquiring items like paper, splints, potassium chlorate and sulphur have also led to the rise in the price of the matchbox. Secretary of the National Small Matchbox Manufacturers’ Association, VS Sethurathinam while speaking to the Times of India said that manufacturers have decided to increase the selling price from our units 60% to ₹430- ₹480 per bundle which is excluding the 12% GST levied on them.Reports also highlighted that the manufacturers initially wanted to price a single unit at ₹1.50 but nixed the idea as shopkeepers would find it difficult to give back 50p change to customers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prices-of-matchboxes-soar-owing-to-inflation-to-cost-rs-2-from-dec-1-101635010188670.html
23-10-2021||India||Tamil Nadu eases Covid-19 curbs; allows movie theatres to run at full capacity from Nov 1. Check full details||The Tamil Nadu government led by chief minister MK Stalin on Saturday extended the statewide restrictions pertaining to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic till November 15. However, several curbs have been relaxed as per the new order, including allowing 100 per cent occupancy in film theatres, among others, from November 1 onwards.The decision to lift certain curbs was made following a Covid-19 review meeting chaired by Stalin at the Secretariat today, an official release noted.Last month, the state government had announced reopening of schools from classes 1 to 8 from November 1 onwards. Besides, the lockdown curbs were extended till October 31. Stalin, at the time, had said that the decision to reopen schools was made as “prolonged closure of schools” were causing stress to students and also resulting in their “learning loss.”Tamil Nadu on Saturday reported as many as 1,140 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the overall case count of the southern state to 26,94,089. With 17 fresh fatalities, the death toll of the state currently stands at 36,004. There are 13, 280 active Covid-19 cases in Tamil Nadu, according to the health bulletin data.What has been allowed?1.     Movie theatres have been allowed to function at 100 per cent occupancy from November 1 onwards.2.     Schools for classes 1 to 8 can reopen on rotational basis from November 1 onwards.3.     Inter-state air conditioned (AC) and non-AC buses, barring those connecting Tamil Nadu to Kerala, can run at 100 per cent occupancy among districts and other states.4.     The 11pm deadline for shops, bakeries and restaurants have been lifted from today in view of the upcoming festive season.5.     Indoor and outdoor sports, sports training, and use of swimming pools for therapeutic requirements have been permitted with immediate effect.6.     Bars and standalone bars have been allowed to run.7.     Shooting for films have been allowed as well, but crew must mandatorily adhere to all Covid-19 protocols and those participating in the process must have been inoculated with both shots of the vaccine.What is yet to be allowed?The Stalin-led government has extended the ban on public gatherings, and conducting festivals and political events.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-eases-covid-curbs-allows-movie-theatres-to-run-at-full-capacity-from-nov-1-101635009796350.html
23-10-2021||India||First bodyguard, then manager. What papers SRK is submitting for Aryan Khan case||A bodyguard of Shah Rukh Khan visited the office of the Narcotics Control Bureau on Friday evening and handed over some documents in a sealed envelope on behalf of the actor, news agency PTI reported, citing sources.A day after, SRK's manager Pooja Dadlani was spotted outside the NCB office. Reports said she also carries an envelope with her and spent an hour inside the office. Both of them refused to talk to the media persons outside the NCB office, the PTI report said.This comes after NCB officials visited Shah Rukh Khan's house on Friday and sought some documents regarding Aryan. According to reports, the agency sought details of Aryan Khan's bank accounts, medical reports, his foreign tour visits etc.The agency has not found any drugs on Aryan Khan after he was arrested from the cruise rave party on October 3. The agency has been opposing his bail pleas based on Aryan Khan's WhatsApp chats where he reportedly spoke about hard drugs, bulk quantity etc.Aryan Khan case: NCB extracting deleted WhatsApp messages, checking bank detailsAryan Khan's bail plea will next be heard by the Bombay high court on October 26. The NCB will oppose Aryan Khan's bail plea and hence the agency is reportedly gathering evidence against Aryan Khan. The agency is now checking Aryan Khan's financial transaction to trace any huge expense towards drugs. Reports said the agency is checking the financial transaction of all the accused.‘Aryan victimised for being SRK’s son’: Digvijaya Singh tweets; BJP says stop ‘appeasement politics’After being arrested on October 3, Aryan Khan was in NCB custody till October 7. Since October 8, he has been lodged at the Arthur Road prison. All his bail pleas so far have been cancelled owing to the strong opposition of the NCB lawyers. On Thursday, Shah Rukh Khan went to meet his son in the jail premises after the authorities started allowing guests following Covid-19 norms. On the same day, NCB officials visited SRK's house and raided Ananya Panday's residence. While the visit to the SRK house was for some documents, Ananya was issued a notice to be present at the NCB office for interrogation.At least till October 26, Aryan Khan will have to spend in the jail and reports said on the suggestion of the jail authorities, Aryan has started reading religious books as he was feeling anxious. Aryan Khan has been reading a book written on Ram and Sita, ANI reported. Earlier he was reading a book called The Lion's Gate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-bodyguard-then-manager-what-papers-srk-is-submitting-for-aryan-khan-case-101635009527355.html
23-10-2021||India||‘India-Pakistan T20 World Cup match not in the interest of nation’: Ramdev||Yoga guru Ramdev on Saturday said the India-Pakistan T20 World Cup match scheduled for Sunday is against the national interest and "Rashtradharma" as the "game of cricket and the game of terror cannot be played at the same time". Speaking to reporters at the Nagpur airport, Ramdev said the addiction of drugs in Bollywood is very dangerous for the younger generation of India. "The way drug addiction is glamorised and the celebrities who are regarded as role models, ideals or icons by the people are seen involved in this conspiracy is a wrong inspiration to the people," the Yoga guru said, adding that the film industry should clear this mess. When asked about Sunday's India-Pakistan cricket tie amid tensions on the LOC, Ramdev said, "I feel that the cricket match under such a situation is against 'Rashtradharma ' and not in the interest of the nation. The game of cricket and the game of terror cannot be played at the same time". Queried on his statement that repatriation of black money will reduce fuel prices, Ramdev said he had suggested that the price of petrol should be in line with the prices of crude oil and proposed lower taxation. "The government has to continue with welfare programmes of the national interest and it has to also handle various financial challenges. Because of these factors, the government is not able to reduce taxes. However, someday this dream will come true," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indiapakistan-t20-world-cup-match-not-in-the-interest-of-nation-ramdev-101635008585165.html
23-10-2021||India||Himachal: 15 students test Covid-19 positive in a govt school, classes shut||A government school in Himachal Pradesh’s Hamirpur district was closed after its 15 students tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday, officials said.Overall 258 fresh coronavirus cases were reported in the state in the past 24 hours, they said.Government senior secondary school at Bara in Nadaun town of Hamirpur has been closed till further orders after fifteen students and one staff member were found COVID-19 positive, a health official said.Besides, seven jawans of the Indian Reserve Battalion, Jangel Beri (Sujanpur Tira) in Hamirpur district have tested coronavirus positive, he said.The jawans were told to remain in isolation, he added.One more person died of COVID-19 in the state on Saturday, taking the death toll to 3,718.The fresh death was reported from Mandi district.The 258 new cases pushed the total infection count to 2,22,569, a state health official said.As many as 163 more patients recovered from the infection in the past 24 hours, he said.The overall recoveries have reached 2,17,256, he added.The Covid active cases in the state as on Saturday was 1,578, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/himachal-15-students-test-covid-19-positive-in-a-govt-school-classes-shut-101635007567225.html
23-10-2021||India||‘No Punjab Police posting happened without payment to Aroosa Alam’: Navjot Kaur Sidhu alleges||Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu's wife Navjot Kaur Sidhu hit back at Captain Amarinder Singh over his friendship with Pakistani journalist Aroosa Alam, alleging that postings in Punjab police never happened without paying off Alam.“Not a single posting in the police department in Punjab happened without a gift or payment to Aroosa Alam,” Sidhu said on Saturday.“The PM and Union home minister know everything. They need to take action on it,” she added, reported ANI.The accusation comes a day after deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said Aroosa Alam's ISI links need to be probed."Captain Amarinder Singh is now saying that there is a threat from ISI. We will look into the woman's connection with it. Captain kept raising the issue of drones coming from Pakistan for last 4-5 years," Randhawa said, reported ANI. "Captain first raised this issue and later got BSF deployed in Punjab. We will ask the DGP to look into this matter," he added.Singh had responded to Randhawa’s claims, slamming what he called “personal attacks” and insisting the allegations against him were “baseless”.He released a statement and posed a question to Randhawa through his media advisor Raveen Thukral on Twitter."You were a minister in my cabinet. Never heard you complain about Aroosa Alam. And she had been coming for 16 years with due GOI clearance. Or are you alleging that both NDA and Congress-led UPA governments in this period connived with Pak ISI?" Singh asked Randhawa."What I am worried about is that instead of focusing on maintaining law & order at a time when terror threat is high and festivals are around the corner, you’ve put DGP Punjab Police on a baseless investigation at the cost of Punjab’s safety," his statement said.Alam, a Pakistani defence journalist and daughter of Pakistan politician Aqleem Akhtar, met Singh for the first time since 2004 during the latter’s visit to Pakistan, and according to her, the two have remained platonic friends since then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-punjab-police-posting-happened-without-payment-to-aroosa-alam-navjot-kaur-sidhu-alleges-101635007234027.html
23-10-2021||India||TMC to set up working units in 15 states in next one year: Abhishek Banerjee||The ruling Trinamool Congress in West Bengal will expand its base in five states other than Goa and Tripura, where the party has already begun building a presence, in the next three months and plans to set up working units in at least 15 states within the next one year, party chief Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee said on Saturday. “We have already reached Tripura and Goa. The party will expand its base in five other states, including Uttar Pradesh and Meghalaya, in the next three months. In the next one year, we will set up working units in 12 to 15 states. There will be a contest in Goa, Gujarat, Tripura and Uttar Pradesh,” said Abhishek Banerjee. He was addressing a campaign rally at Khardah in North 24 Parganas where by-elections will be held along with three other assembly seats in West Bengal on October 30. Earlier in the day he held another rally at Gosaba in South 24 Parganas. This comes just ahead of West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s maiden two-day visit to the poll-bound state of Goa from October 28. “As I prepare for my maiden visit to Goa on the 28th, I call upon all individuals, organisations and political parties to defeat the BJP and their divisive agenda. The people have suffered enough over the last 10 years,” Banerjee tweeted. Earlier in June this year, after being appointed as the party’s national general secretary, Abhishek Banerjee announced that the party would expand its base in other states to take on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. The party has already made inroads into Tripura and announced steering and youth committees for its unit in the north-eastern state with an eye on the assembly polls scheduled for 2023. The TMC MP from Diamond Harbour in South 24 Parganas also upped the ante against the BJP ahead of the by-polls while playing the ‘outsider card’ once again, which had given them rich dividends during the assembly polls. “Amit Shah had made several promises while addressing a public rally at Gosaba in March ahead of the assembly polls. But after the BJP lost did you see a single BJP leader from Delhi and Madhya Pradesh? Did they come to help you after Cyclone Yaas hit? No, because they were outsiders,” he added. Though the BJP’s top leadership including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Amit Shah had claimed that the party would win more than 200 seats in the West Bengal assembly polls, it was the TMC which returned to power for the third time in a row winning 213 out of the 292 seats. Later it won two more seats in by-polls. The party is now eying all the four assembly seats where by-polls will be held later this month. “Five BJP legislators have already joined the TMC. If we open our doors the BJP (in West Bengal) would be wiped out the next day. But we are not allowing any traitors to join the TMC. We have kept our doors shut. Those who have joined were allowed to do so after lot of atonement,” he added. The BJP, however, said that the TMC may embark upon political tourism but the BJP won’t call them ‘outsiders’. “They are acting like private companies and business houses and not like a political party. We have never heard any political party saying that they would open offices in other states. This is nothing but political tourism. They may go to any state to refresh themselves. The BJP won’t consider them outsiders as they are all Indians,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesperson in West Bengal. The TMC also attacked the Congress saying that it has no ideals left. This is, however, not the first time that Mamata Banerjee or Abhishek Banerjee had attacked the Congress even after Congress president Sonia Gandhi held a virtual meeting with 19 ‘like-minded’ non-BJP parties on August 20. Mamata Banerjee had attended the meeting. “The Congress sometimes made settlements with the BJP to defeat the TMC, while sometimes it formed alliances with the CPIM and the Indian Secular Front. The party has no ideal and hence has no place in Bengal. For the last seven years, the Congress has been losing against the BJP. The TMC is winning against the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-to-set-up-working-units-in-15-states-in-next-one-year-abhishek-banerjee-101635005210362.html
23-10-2021||India||Drugs-on-cruise case: NCB hints at use of darknet in drugs transaction||The Narcotics Control Bureau on Saturday hinted at the use of darknet in drugs transaction in connection with the case linked to Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan, news agency PTI reported. However, the agency did not say anything about Aryan Khan's link with this new finding. Dark net is clandestine internet portal which can only be accessed with specific software, configurations etc. This is not the first time that NCB has referred to darknet as soon after the raid of the cruise, NCB officials mentioned darknet and bitcoins. But now the agency has claimed how the darknet has been used.Talking to PTI, an NCB official said the agency seized hydropnic weed from the accused, the number of which is now 20. This weed was procured through dark net, the news agency reported citing an NCB official.Aryan Khan case: NCB extracting deleted WhatsApp messages, checking bank detailsThe NCB had allegedly found MDMA from some of the accused during the raid. This drug is mostly sourced from Europe and the United States, and the agency is now probing from where the accused obtained it, the official said to PTI.Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan was not found with drugs though the NCB is accusing him of being a part of a bigger network. After eight people, including Aryan, were arrested on October 3, the agency conducted several raid -- some based on what the arrested told them, and arrested another 12 people in one month.Among the arrested, there is Achit Kumar, who recently told the court referring him as 'peddler' is harming his future. His lawyer told the court that he studies in a university in London and in India because of the pandemic. His bail plea has also been opposed by the NCB which on Saturday told the court that the agency is not 'loosely' calling him a peddler; it has some evidence, NCB said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drugsoncruise-case-ncb-hints-at-use-of-darknet-in-drugs-transaction-101635004059374.html
23-10-2021||India||No drugs, alcohol, public criticism of party: Cong's new rules for new members||The Congress in its new membership form asked its new members joining the party to abstain from alcohol and drugs and give an undertaking to not criticise the party's policies and programmes in public forums.According to the Congress party’s membership form, new members have to declare that they will not own any property in excess of the ceiling laws. They are also asked to not hesitate from undertaking ‘physical labour and work’ to further the party’s policies and programmes.The membership form designed by the Congress ahead of its membership drive launch outlines 10 points for a personal declaration by those willing to join the party.“I am a habitual weaver of authentic Khadi; I stay away from alcoholic drinks and intoxicant drugs; I don't practise social discrimination or inequality and believe in working towards removing such distortions in society; and I am willing to commit myself to execute the works assigned to me by the working committee including any form of physical labour” are among the declarations made by the party.All new members will give an undertaking that they will not indulge in any form of social discrimination and will work towards removing it from society.Congress’ membership drive will begin on November 1 and continue till March 31 next year before organisational elections. The Congress will hold the elections to choose a new Congress president between August 21 and September 20 next year. The decision was approved by the Congress Working Committee earlier this year.Congress in its membership form said that the objective is welfare and progress of all Indians. The form mentioned Congress' objective to establish a socialist state through peaceful and constitutional means based on parliamentary democracy. The party also mentioned that it seeks to establish a regime where there is equality in opportunities and economic, political and social rights. The form says that the party also aims to bring world peace and universal brotherhood in society.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-drugs-alcohol-public-criticism-of-party-cong-s-new-rules-for-new-members-101635003024735.html
23-10-2021||India||Chhattisgarh Police to ensure total ban on hookah bars, drug smuggling||The Chhattisgarh government has directed the police to ensure a complete ban on hookah-bars in the state and to take strong measures to check drug too, officials said on Saturday. Raipur Police on Saturday raided around half-a-dozen hookah bars after the directions from the Chhattisgarh government. The move came a week after an SUV, allegedly transporting ganja from Odisha to Madhya Pradesh, ploughed into a religious procession in Jashpur, killing one person and injuring 17 others. On Friday, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel during a meeting of police chiefs, in Raipur asked them to take strict measures to check the menace of drug smuggling in the state and also ensure strict monitoring on inter-state borders to prevent the entry of narcotics from outside. Officials present at the meeting said that Baghel also directed them to ensure that ‘hookah’ bars are completely banned in the state. “Baghel said that police should take stern action to prevent (contraband) drugs trade in the state. They should ensure that narcotics do not enter Chhattisgarh from other states. Even a single leaf of ganja (cannabis) should not be allowed to enter Chhattisgarh from other states,” an official said. The chief minister also directed the IGs and SPs to hold a meeting with their counterparts in neighbouring Odisha and Madhya Pradesh to contain drug smuggling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-police-to-ensure-total-ban-on-hookah-bars-drug-smuggling-101635003230477.html
23-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: China passes law to reduce homework pressure on students and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.China education reforms: Law passed to reduce homework pressure on studentsChina has passed a new law to cut down on students’ homework and off-school tutoring, seeking to strike a balance between academics, rest and physical education, local media reported on Saturday. Read MoreNCP chief Sharad Pawar-led panel contests election to retain control of 123-yr-old libraryA panel led by Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar is contesting election for the control of Mumbai Marathi Granth Sangrahalaya (MMGS), a 123-year-old library in Mumbai. Read MoreMNS chief Raj Thackeray tested Covid positiveMaharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray on Saturday tested positive for Covid-19, and has been advised home quarantine, according to officials of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Read More‘Pakistan a very strong team. We have to play our best cricket to beat them’: India captain Virat KohliIndia captain Virat Kohli termed Pakistan ‘a very strong team’ ahead of their ICC T20 World Cup 2021 opener in Dubai on Sunday. Read MoreWoman performs traditional dance while wearing rollerblades, video wows peopleThere is no shortage of talent in our country. Thanks to the Internet, every now and then we also get the chance to discover the amazing skills of people. Read MoreSukesh Chandrashekhar and Jacqueline Fernandez were dating, claims his lawyer; actor denies ‘slanderous statements’Actor Jacqueline Fernandez was in a relationship with Sukesh Chandrashekhar, who is being investigated for alleged cheating and extortion to the tune of around ₹200 crore, his lawyer Anant Malik claimed. Read MoreKarva Chauth: Red fashion tip from Ananya Panday, Sidharth Malhotra, other starsNorth India's highly romanticised festival of Karva Chauth is just on our doorstep and if you feel yourself in a fashion fix, take sartorial tips from Ananya Panday, Katrina Kaif, Sidharth Malhotra. Read MorePratik Gandhi: 'Butterflies in stomach as Bhavai is my 1st Hindi film as a hero'Pratik Gandhi and Aindrita Ray feature in the latest edition of 'Aur Batao' and talk about their new project 'Bhavai'. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-china-passes-law-to-reduce-homework-pressure-on-students-and-all-the-latest-news-101635001272640.html
23-10-2021||India||Himachal woman killed in drug-related violence in Mexico||The family of Anjali Ryot, who was killed in a shootout between two drug gangs in Mexico, was shattered here in Himachal Pradesh when they got a call about her death from her brother.Her father K D Ryot told PTI over the phone that it was difficult for him to believe that she is no more.She had spent three-four months with them in Solan last year after the coronavirus outbreak, he recalls.Anjali and her husband Utkarsh Shrivastava had gone to Mexico to celebrate her 30th birthday on October 22 from their current home at San Jose city in California of the United States, her father said.Utkarsh informed her younger brother Ashish, who currently lives in Chicago, that she was shot dead in the Caribbean coast resort of Tulum soon after they had taken ice cream from a stall following their dinner, he added.Ashish called his father on October 21 to inform about the tragedy, in which a German woman was also killed.A former director in Himachal Pradesh's Animal Husbandry Department, K D Ryot, and his wife Nirmala Ryot recalled that she had spent three-four months with them in Solan last year after the coronavirus outbreak.Anjali had come to Mumbai from California to do a diploma related to film industry, he said.She visited them immediately after completing her course as a lockdown was imposed to check the coronavirus spread.She left for California after spending three to four months with inSolan, he added.Anjali had gone to California in 2012 to do her masters in electronics from San Jose State University after completing her B Tech from Jaypee University of Information Technology (JUIT), Waknaghat.Her Facebook account mentioned that she did her schooling from St Luke's in Solan and Sacred Heart High School in Dharamshala.Anjali was working as senior software engineer with Linkedin since July this year, her father said, adding that she had earlier worked as a software engineer with Yahoo from 2014-19.Her Facebook account stated that she was also a former teaching assistant at San Jose State University.Anjali was fond of travelling and was a travel blogger, her father added.Efforts are on to bring her body to Solan for the last rites, he said.Hailing from Jabalpur in Madhya Pradesh, Anjali's husband Utkarsh currently works as senior manager with Netflix.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/himachal-woman-killed-in-drug-related-violence-in-mexico-101634999506910.html
23-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan case: NCB extracting deleted WhatsApp messages, checking bank details||The Narcotics Control Bureau officials are now going through the financial details of Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan and other accused in the case to confirm any bulk purchase of drugs, news agency PTI reported. Aryan Khan's bail plea will be heard by the Bombay high court on October 26 which the central agency will oppose. And now the agency is working towards gathering more evidence against Aryan Khan.The probe team has already collected transaction records of some of the accused from whom `commercial' or large quantity of drugs (which attracts harsher punishment under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act) had been seized, the official said. The agency is also checking the accused persons' sources of income, PTI reported.Why Ananya Panday got an earful from NCB's Sameer Wankhede during interrogationThe investigating team is extracting deleted messages and WhatsApp chats from mobile phones, laptops and other electronic gadgets of the accused and checking if they used any other social media platforms for communicating with each other, the official said.Aryan Khan's WhatsApp chats are being used as major evidence in the case against him. In fact, based on his chats, Bollywood actor Ananya Panday has been summoned for interrogation in the case. Reports said Aryan Khan asked for some 'jugaad' to get ganja to which Ananya said she will arrange. These chats, as the NCB claims, are from 2018-19. The agency also said that this happened thrice. Ananya has, however, refuted the allegation and said her chat was meant as a joke.The NCB claimed though no drugs were found on Aryan Khan on October 2 when the rave party was raided, Aryan Khan is not new to drugs. Based on his WhatsApp chats, the agency claimed that he was in touch with suppliers and even talked about the bulk quantity of drugs. Aryan in his bail plea to the high court said his WhatsApp chats were being misinterpreted by the agency and he has been implicated in the case.After being arrested on October 3, Aryan Khan spent the first few days at the NCB custody and then since October 8, he has been at the Arthur Road jail. All his previous bail pleas have been rejected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aryan-khan-case-ncb-extracting-deleted-whatsapp-messages-checking-bank-details-101634998545153.html
23-10-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: October 24, 2004 — Insurance sector opened up to private companies||New Delhi- The Insurance sector has finally been thrown open to private companies. The Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (IRDA) on Monday issued the first batch of six licences to joint ventures with 26 per cent foreign equity. Six insurance joint ventures - three in life and three non-life - were granted licences by IRDA chairman N. Rangachari. Reliance General Insurance Co Ltd, HDFC Standard Life Insurance Company Ltd, Royal Sundaram Alliance Insurance Co Ltd which have already brought in the equity capital, have been given final clearances. Three other insurance joint ventures - ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Co, Max New York Life Insurance Co Ltd and Iffco-Tokio General Insurance Co - were granted “in-principle clearance” for registration. Once these companies put in their equity, final licences would be accorded by the IRDA. Sources in the IRDA said that another six cases would be processed for insurance clearances in the next one month. With the grant of six licences, the monopoly of state-owned insurance companies, including Life Insurance Corporation (LIC), General Insurance Corporation (GIC) and its subsidiaries, has come to an end. According to indications, all the six firms would be vying to issue the first private insurance policy in the country. Grant of licences within a very short period after receiving applications has come as a “pleasant surprise” to several promoters who had experienced policy-related inordinate delays in the past three years. Statutory norms prescribed by the IRDA stipulate that companies in life insurance business will have to bring in ₹200 crore towards equity capital. For non-life insurance joint ventures the limit has been set at ₹100 crore.Along with the grant of the first batch of six licences, the IRDA on Monday also allowed setting up of 14 institutes for training insurance agents. However, none of them are located in the northern or eastern regions. Though 26 per cent foreign equity is allowed in insurance business, Reliance has no foreign partner in the general insurance business. According to industry sources, it may rope in a partner abroad for re-insurance business to reduce its own risks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-october-24-2004-insurance-sector-opened-up-to-private-companies-101634998071844.html
23-10-2021||India||Amit Shah says August 5 for J&K will be written in 'golden letters'||Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday assured that strict action will be taken against those who want to ruin the prevailing peace in Jammu and Kashmir. Shah, who is on his first visit to the union territory since the abrogation of Article 370 in August 2019, claimed that terrorism has “reduced and stone pelting has become invisible”, and pledged support to the cause of development there.“Terrorism has reduced, stone pelting has become invisible and ...I want to assure you that strict action will be taken against those who want to ruin peace of J&K, no one can obstruct development here. It's our commitment,” the home minister said on Saturday, reported ANI.Shah, who held a security review meeting at Raj Bhavan on Saturday afternoon, hailed the abrogation of Article 370 and said, “5th August, 2019 will be written in golden letters. It was the end of terrorism, nepotism, corruption... J&K youth has to contribute to the development of the Union Territory, it is their responsibility.”
23-10-2021||India||Delimitation will happen, J&K statehood to be restored: Amit Shah in Srinagar||Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday asserted that the statehood of Jammu and Kashmir will be restored soon after the delimitation, followed by elections. “Why should we stop delimitation,” Shah questioned. The home minister is on a three-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir, marking his maiden trip to the union territory since the abrogation of Article 370 in August 2019.“Delimitation will happen, followed by elections and then restoration of statehood...I want to be friends with the Kashmiri youth,” Amit Shah said at an event with members of Jammu and Kashmir's Youth Clubs in Srinagar. He said that the abrogation of Article 370 from the erstwhile state has brought democracy to grassroots level, which was earlier restricted to a few families.“People questioned the curfew and internet suspension (in J&K). Had there been no curfew, we don't know how many lives would have been lost. Kashmir’s youth have been saved due to curfew and internet suspension... three families ruled for 70 years...Why were 40,000 people killed,” Shah asked, launching a veiled attack on the Valley’s political leaders.He assured that strict action will be taken against those who want to ruin the peace in the Valley, adding that no one can obstruct development in the union territory. Over the past few days, several civilians have been killed in the terror attacks in Jammu and Kashmir, sparking fear in the region.Delimitation of J&K is a contentious process that gathered momentum after Prime Minister Narendra Modi met members of 14 political parties in the region at a landmark event in Delhi in June this year. The Delimitation Commission has already started the process of redrawing assembly segments based on the 2011 census of the erstwhile state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delimitation-will-happen-j-k-statehood-to-be-restored-amit-shah-in-srinagar-101634995181277.html
23-10-2021||India||Vaccine makers thank PM Modi, say he went out of his way to ensure fast approval for Covid-19 jabs||As Prime Minister Narendra Modi met the seven Indian Covid-19 vaccine makers on Saturday, two days after the country achieved the glorious feat of inoculation India's 100 crore population against Covid-19, the manufacturers thanked PM Modi for his continuous support and help in the process of getting the vaccines ready in record time and then bringing them from the laboratory to the people.“PM went out of his way, made everyone move very fast... Had it not been for him... and the health ministry, today India would not have been able to make a billion doses,” Serum Institute's Cyrus Poonawalla said after the meeting.  #WATCH | "...PM went out of his way, made everyone move very fast... Had it not been for him... and driving the health ministry, today India would not have been able to make a billion doses....: Cyrus Poonawalla, Serum Institute, after meet with PM Modi. (Source: PMO) pic.twitter.com/UpxV55yjNR"When he came to our plant in Pune in November, I assured him and today he is very happy that our assurance has been fulfilled..that we would make India self-sufficient in Covid-19 vaccine too, like in all other vaccines, at the lowest possible price in the world. That is the main achievement of the vaccine industry," Cyrus Poonawalla said."We discussed how to take the industry forward, to prepare for future pandemics, to continue enhancing the capacities and other things that will support the vaccine industry going forward. All over the world, countries are now investing in vaccine production and India needs to stay ahead and we discussed how to do that," Adar Poonawalla said after the meeting."Our DNA vaccine has been developed by the efforts of our scientists. The major support came from PM Modi. He encourages us from the very beginning that go ahead, the government is with you. It is our pride that PM Modi talked about our vaccine in the United Nations. We are hopeful that India will progress fast in this new chapter of innovation," Pankaj Patel of Zydus Cadila said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccine-makers-thank-pm-modi-say-he-went-out-of-the-way-to-ensure-fast-approval-101634994167333.html
23-10-2021||India||BJP celebrating deaths...: Nana Patole's dig over 1-bn vaccine coverage||A day after India celebrated the milestone of administering one billion (100 crore) Covid-19 vaccines, Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole on Saturday came down heavily on the central government. Patole said the Narendra Modi government did not take adequate measures to stop the spread of coronavirus, adding it was "unfortunate the BJP is now celebrating the deaths of people", reported PTI.Patole also hit out at the Union government over other issues including unemployment, farm distress, inflation and the India-China standoff. He claimed China was intruding into our borders time and again but the Modi government continued to maintain a silence on these issues, PTI further reported.Patole claimed the Centre is trying to divert attention by using central agencies to raid ministers in Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra. But the Maharashtra government is “giving it back”. Few MVA ministers and their family members recently came under the scanner of the central agencies such as Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Income Tax, including Nawab Malik and Ajit Pawar."However, to divert attention, the Centre is using probe agencies like ED but the MVA government in Maharashtra is giving it back," the news agency quoted Patole as saying.Speaking about the cruise ship drugs bust case, in which film superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan is an arrested accused, Patole said the ruling BJP was trying to "divide Hindus and Muslims". He remarked the Centre was yet to take action on a massive consignment of drugs found in a port controlled by a “top industrialist”, pointing out the Mundra port drug seizure.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-celebrating-deaths-nana-patole-s-dig-at-centre-over-1-bn-vax-coverage-101634988909359.html
23-10-2021||India||Indian-origin travel blogger from US killed in drug-gang shootout in Mexico||A 25-year-old California-based Indian-origin woman techie, who travelled to Mexico to celebrate her birthday, was one of the two foreign tourists killed in a shootout between two drug gangs in the Caribbean coast resort of Tulum, according to media reports.The incident happened on Wednesday night. Anjali Ryot was killed along with another German tourist in the crossfire, Californianewstimes.com news portal reported.Ryot arrived in Tulum on Monday prior to her birthday on October 22, it said.Her Instagram account listed her as a travel blogger from Himachal Pradesh, living in San Jose, California.Ryot has been working as a Senior Site Reliability Engineer on LinkedIn since July. She was previously employed by Yahoo, the Californianewstimes.com report said.On Wednesday night, Ryot and four other foreign tourists were dining on the terrace of La Malquerida restaurant when four men armed with assault rifles fired at an adjoining table in the premises around 10:30 pm, the Spanish newspaper El Pais reported.The stray bullets hit the foreigners. Ryot and the German woman were killed, while the three others -- from Germany and the Netherlands -- were wounded. Authorities point to a confrontation between rival organised crime gangs. Ryot and her friends were just the collateral victims, it said.The fight was between two rival groups that operate drug sales in the area, the Quintana Roo state prosecutor's office said in a statement.Several drug cartels operate in the Mexican state, which is known for a lucrative retail drug market and as a landing spot for drug shipments, the Associated Press reported from Mexico City.Meanwhile, Ryot's brother Ashish Ryot has asked the mayor of Tulum to speed up the procedures to be able to repatriate his body, the El Pais report said.Ashish urged the authorities for help so that his visa was approved and he could enter Mexico to take his sister's body back to India for her last rites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indianorigin-travel-blogger-from-us-killed-in-drug-gang-shootout-in-mexico-101634992263937.html
23-10-2021||India||PM Modi meets Covid-19 vaccine makers on India's 100-cr vaccine jabs milestone||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday held a meeting on the occasion of achieving the key milestone of administering 100-crore vaccine doses against the coronavirus disease. PM Modi interacted with seven vaccine manufacturers including representatives from Serum Institute of India (SII), Bharat Biotech, Dr Reddy's Laboratories, Zydus Cadila, Biological E, Gennova Biopharma and Panacea Biotech.PM Modi discussed various issues including furthering the vaccine research as well as the experiences so far with representatives including SII’s Adar Poonawalla. Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya and minister of state (MoS) health Bharati Pravin Pawar were also present at the meeting.On October 21, India achieved a momentous milestone in its coronavirus vaccination programme as the country’s cumulative vaccine doses surpassed the 100-crore mark, resulting in celebratory events across various parts.According to the latest data by the health ministry, the country’s Covid-19 vaccine doses have exceeded 101.30 crore, with more than 75% of eligible population having received at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine.Meanwhile, 31% or around 93 crore adults in India have been administered both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, the health ministry data stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-meets-covid-19-vaccine-makers-on-india-s-100-cr-vaccine-jabs-milestone-101634991344418.html
23-10-2021||India||At MP border district, petrol costs ₹119; pump owners ask state to ease burden||As petrol prices continue to surge creating concerns among common citizens, the border districts of Madhya Pradesh reported an exorbitant hike in prices of petrol and diesel as the prices rose to ₹119 per litre and ₹108 per litre, respectively, on Saturday in Anuppur district.Petrol in Jaithari, which is about 13 km from the district headquarter Anuppur, cost ₹119.22 per litre while diesel cost ₹108.4 per litre, Sukhlal Kushwaha, a pump owner told news agency PTI. He, however, added that petrol prices are cheaper by ₹10 and diesel prices are cheaper by ₹4 on the other side of the state border in Chhattisgarh, which is about 50kms away from Anuppur.Ajay Singh, pesident, Bhopal's Petrol Pump Dealers Association told news agency PTI that the petrol pump owners in the border districts of the state are suffering the most due to the high prices.Singh pointed out that fuel is cheaper in the neighbouring states and most of the commercial vehicles refuel in other states before entering Madhya Pradesh. He also said that the state government should think about rising fuel prices pointing out that the state government charges Value Added Tax (VAT) on a percentage basis while the Centre realises a fixed amount of tax per litre of fuel irrespective of the prices.“The state has a scope to reduce the price,” Singh was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Amar Singh Narde, a petrol pump owner from Madhya Pradesh’s Balaghat which shares borders with Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh, said that petrol prices have soared to ₹118.25 per litre and diesel prices have reached ₹107.46 per litre. Balaghat recorded a hike of 26 paise on petrol and 37 paise on diesel on Saturday, Narde told news agency PTI.“The fuel business is hit badly in Balaghat, as most vehicles prefer to get refuel in Maharashtra or Chhattisgarh. The petrol and diesel in Maharashtra are cheaper by ₹7 and ₹4 per litre respectively,” Narde said.Petrol and diesel prices in the state capital Bhopal soared to ₹115.90 per litre following a hike of 36 paise, while diesel is being sold at ₹105.27 per litre after a hike of 38 paise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-mp-border-district-petrol-costs-119-pump-owners-ask-state-to-ease-burden-101634990538466.html
23-10-2021||India||Amarinder Singh releases these photos amid Aroosa Alam row with Congress||The row over Pakistani journalist Aroosa Alam reached a notch higher on Saturday as former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh released some photos through his media adviser Raveen Thukral on Saturday. Aroosa Alam is a friend of Amarinder Singh whose apparent links with Pakistan ISI is now being questioned by the Congress government in Punjab. Amarinder Singh on Saturday released purported photos of former Punjab DGP Mohammad Mustafa's wife and daughter-in-law with Aroosa Alam. "Mixing politics with friendship! Aroosa Alam personally cherishes these and many more such memories with your family," Captain wrote. ‘And how about you explaining this @MohdMustafaips. Isn't that your wife & daughter-in-law with the same lady? How low can you get? Mixing politics with friendship! #AroosaAlam personally cherishes these & many more such memories with your family’: @capt_amarinder pic.twitter.com/rvC3u6laJbJust by the way. (File photo). @Sukhjinder_INC @INCPunjab @CHARANJITCHANNI @INCIndia pic.twitter.com/NxrrZZT4icThe former DGP replied on Twitter and addressing Amarinder Singh's media advisor, he said even during bitter fights ‘we draw a line’. MY TIME TOO PRECIOUS TO ENGAGE PROXIES @RT_Media_Capt. THE DEPTH & DIMENSIONS OF OUR RELATIONSHIPS WITH CAS ARE BEYOND EVERYONE'S COMPREHENSION, MILES ABOVE PURE COMMERCE. EVEN DURING BITTER FIGHTS WE DRAW A LINE, RAVEEN BHAI, NO SLF APOINTD SURROGATE WUD EVER UNDERSTAND THAT.Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Friday said Aroosa Alam's link with the ISI should be probed. Later, the minister clarified that the Research and Analysis Wing take up this investigation. Tagging Amarinder Singh on Twitter, the deputy chief minister asked the Captain why he got so perturbed over Aroosa Alam's issue.'Aroosa Alam has been coming to India for 16 years with govt permission': Amarinder SinghThe war of words went on with Amarinder Singh clarifying that Aroosa Alam's India connection is not new. She has been coming to India for the past 16 years with the due clearance from the government of India, Amarinder Singh said. The former Punjab chief minister also clarified that he sponsored Aroosa Alam's visa for the past 16 years. "Requests for such visas are sent by Indian high commission to MEA which gets them cleared by RAW and IB before approving. And that's what happened, in this case, every time," Amarinder Singh clarified on Friday.Amarinder Singh also said that a detailed inquiry was conducted in 2007 when he was not Punjab's chief minister by the National Security Adviser on the instruction of then prime minister. "You still want to waste Punjab's resources on this? I will help you with whatever you need," Captain said.Who is Aroosa Alam and what is the controversy?The daughter of a Pakistani politician, Aroosa Alam is a defence journalist. Captain reportedly met her for the first time in 2004 when he went to Pakistan. Since then, Aroosa visited India on several occasions and was seen with Amarinder Singh. The issue has been raked up with Amarinder Singh's relationship with the Congress becoming bitter every day since his resignation from the post of the chief minister. While he expressed his disappointment with the Congress leadership, he now has announced that he will float a new party that might be open to alliance with the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amarinder-singh-releases-these-photos-amid-aroosa-alam-row-with-congress-101634988313304.html
23-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: 3 dead in J&K after tent comes under landslide debris and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.3 dead, 1 injured in Jammu and Kashmir after tent comes under landslide debrisThree persons died and one was left injured after their tent in South Kashmir’s Awantipora came under the debris due to a rain-triggered landslide in the region, Pulwama deputy commissioner Baseer Ul Haq Choudhary said. Read more.‘Phase 2 trials almost completed’: Dr Krishna Ella on nasal Covid-19 vaccineThe phase 2 trials of Bharat Biotech International Limited’s nasal vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are almost over, Dr Krishna Ella, the Hyderabad-based firm’s chairman and MD, said on Saturday, as he congratulated the country on achieving the feat of administering more than 1 billion or 100 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines. “We’ve almost completed the phase 2 trials for the nasal vaccine, and it has shown good results. It will help in controlling the transmission of the infection,” Dr Ella said, according to news agency ANI. Read more.Singapore allows travellers from India, Bangladesh, Pakistan from Oct 26Despite witnessing a rise in Covid-19 cases, Singapore on Saturday announced the resumption of travel for South Asian countries, including India, Nepal and Bangladesh. In a statement, the country's health ministry said all travellers with 14-day travel history to India, Bangladesh, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka will be allowed to enter or transit through Singapore from October 26, 2021, news agency ANI reported. Read more.Why Ananya Panday got an earful from NCB's Sameer Wankhede during interrogationBollywood actor Ananya Panday reportedly was pulled up bt Narcotics Control Bureau Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede on Friday, the second day of her questioning in connection with the Aryan Khan drugs case. An ANI report said that Wankhede gave the actor an earful for arriving late at the NCB office on both days. Read more.‘What he brings at No.6 is something you can’t create overnight': Kohli backs Hardik, says he's fit to bowl 'at least 2'India captain Virat Kohli sounded confident about Hardik Pandya bowling ‘at least two overs’ at some point in the T20 World Cup 2021. The all-rounder's bowling fitness has been one of the biggest talking points for India in the lead-up to the World Cup. Kohli said currently Hardik looks fit enough to chip in with a couple of overs but he is likely to regain full fitness as the tournament progresses. Read more.Granddaughter posts pics of grandparents dressed as couple from the film UpA few throwback images posted by a granddaughter of her grandparents dressed as the couple from the animated film Up has won people’s hearts. There is a possibility that the share will tug at your heartstrings too. Read more.Raj Kundra missing from Shilpa Shetty’s family trip to Alibaug with kids Viaan-Samisha, mom Sunanda Shetty. See picsShilpa Shetty took off on a trip to Alibaug with her family. She was seen taking the ferry to Mandwa Jetty. While she was accompanied by her mother Sunanda Shetty and children Viaan and Samisha, her husband Raj Kundra did not join them. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-3-dead-in-j-k-after-tent-comes-under-landslide-debris-101634985538927.html
23-10-2021||India||CDRI to launch infrastructure resilience project for small island nations at COP 26||The Coalition of Disaster Resilient Infrastructure (CDRI), a global partnership of 27 countries initiated by India in 2019, will be launching a programme to help small island states develop resilience to climate crisis at the upcoming Glasgow climate change conference COP 26 (October 30 to November 12).CDRI was launched by PM Narendra Modi at the UN Climate Action Summit in New York in 2019. The programme titled “Infrastructure for Resilient Island States’ will be implemented between 2022 to 2030 in 58 countries located across three geographic regions: the Caribbean, the Pacific, and the Atlantic, Indian Ocean, Mediterranean and South China Sea.India, Australia and UK are likely to pledge 10 million dollars each for the project and other CDRI initiatives. Other countries are also likely to contribute. Japan and US have offered support in kind, mainly in technical expertise.These countries are highly susceptible to economic losses due to disasters with average annual losses ranging from 1% to 10% of the gross domestic product (GDP) according to a World Bank report titled ‘Climate and Disaster Resilient Transport in Small Island Developing States.’ They account for two-thirds of the countries in the world that suffer the highest relative losses due to disasters. Overall, these nations also have the highest multi-hazard risks relative to the size of their capital stock as per the UN Global Assessment Report (2017).“When you consider losses as proportion of GDP, these countries are the hardest hit. Some countries have lost 80% to 90% of their GDPs in single disaster events in the past. Because of modest sea-level rise there is an increase in wind and water disasters. So, since February this year we started consultations with governments and organisations in these countries. For example, we have consulted countries in South Pacific; CARICOM (of the Caribbean islands); partners like Asian Development Bank, United Nations Environment Programme etc,” said Kamal Kishore, Indian co-chair of CDRI’s Executive Committee.One of the examples of devastating disasters in island nations is when Fiji was ravaged by the Category 5 Cyclone Winston in February 2016. In total, the cyclone claimed 44 lives, damaged 40,000 homes, hundreds of schools, and ravaged much of Fiji’s infrastructure and transport systems.In Kiribati, Marshall Islands, Suriname, Tuvalu and Maldives 60 to 100% of the population lives within only 5m above sea level.“These regions also face development challenges that constrain their economic prospects such as remoteness to global markets, poor connectivity, lack of economies of scale, inadequate labour-mobility, low levels of development combined with rapid population growth and limited capacity to adapt,” a concept note by CDRI states adding that “their geography and natural resource base offer unique opportunities such as potential for growth of eco-tourism, expansion of fisheries sector, forestry amongst others. However, leveraging these opportunities requires significant investment in infrastructure development whether from national or international budgets. This includes investment in transport infrastructure, improved access to electricity in rural areas and outer islands, updated housing and building codes, tourism infrastructure, water and sanitation, and coastal protection infrastructure.”CDRI will mainly facilitate technical assistance and capacity development in these countries. “Even in ongoing projects, we are trying to ensure they are built in a way that they are resilient and bankable. That will also ensure investment in these islands. For example, many island nations don’t have building codes. National building codes have to be context specific and hence they have to be developed with local organisations. We want a bottom-up approach to this project not a top-down model. Locals should be involved,” Kishore added.“In the context of climate negotiations, this is an important move from India because we are a developing country and yet we are looking to collaborate on infrastructure development in small island countries. Its exemplary that we are stepping up and playing a global role. On the other hand, even the promised 100-billion-dollar fund promised by developed nations hasn’t been delivered. This is a positive story for India,” an official from CDRI said.The Infrastructure for Resilient Island States programme will be launched at a high-level event at COP 26 and is likely to have presence of leaders of states from various countries.On ‘Loss and Damage’ also India will support the stand of least developed countries or the countries most vulnerable to climate change impacts. Loss and Damage is a mechanism by which vulnerable nations will be compensated for irreversible impacts of climate change such as sea level rise, biodiversity loss or extreme weather events. The draft text on loss and damage was weak and couldn’t be finalised during COP 25 in Madrid. “The floods, unseasonal rains, severe cyclones have increased in frequency and severity. There is 1.2 degree rise in global temperature and we are already seeing this. Island countries and all vulnerable nations need to be compensated for such events. We will support the least developed countries on loss and damage because we are also suffering. It needs to be resolved how this money will come through insurance or trust fund etc,” a senior environment ministry official said on Friday. India is also willing to contribute to compensation based on its share but also expects to be compensated for damage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cdri-to-launch-infrastructure-resilience-project-for-small-island-nations-at-cop-26-101634987809541.html
23-10-2021||India||5 illegally migrated Myanmar nationals arrested in Assam’s Cachar||Five illegally migrated Myanmar nationals have been detained by Assam police at Lailapur inter-state border on Friday evening. According to the police, they were travelling without any valid document. During interrogation, they admitted that they are residents Chin district of Myanmar. They entered India through Mizoram and were attempting to move towards Delhi. The detained have been identified as Thang Khawm Pau (21), Khen Khan Kham (19), Pau Hawmliam Mung (23), Cin Aih Mang (23) and Pau Biak Muang (19). They all are residents of Tiddin village under Sezang police station of Myanmar’s Chin district, informed Superintendent of police of Cachar district Ramandip Kaur. She said, “Based on secret information, our officials searched a few vehicles coming from Mizoram at Lailapur border check-post where they detained these five. A 19-year-old lady named Dimdeihluni who claims to be a resident of Champai district of Mizoram has also been arrested for helping the migrants. Though she said, she is a resident of Mizoram, she couldn’t show any document to prove it. We are interrogating these people and trying to find out the reason for their arrival.”Officials from Cachar police opined that Mizos allow few tribes of Myanmar to enter into Indian territory because of a sense of brotherhood between them. “People residing in Myanmar’s Chin district use a route through Tiau River to enter Mizoram. A large border is left open for the Myanmarese refugees who are troubled by the country’s military. The Mizos consider them Raltlan (brothers) and they say that they belong to the same tribe, so there is free entry to the country. But this is not applicable for Rohingyas residing in Myanmar,” an official said. India’s Ministry of Home Affairs recently asked the Mizoram state to seal the border and prevent any attempt of migration from Myanmar. But few Mizo villages along the international border have refused to obey. They are welcoming refugees migrating from Chin province, a Cachar police official said. After a firing between the police of Assam and Mizoram at Lailapur inter-state border on July 26 this year, where six Assam police officials died, Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sharma claimed that thousands of illegally migrated Myanmar nationals entered into Mizoram and are involved in encroaching Assam’s land. He also claimed that these Myanmar nationals are involved in illegal activities and are trained in using guns and other weapons. Mizoram government recently allowed the children of Myanmar refugees to get education in the state-run government schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-illegally-migrated-myanmar-nationals-arrested-in-assam-s-cachar-101634985650119.html
23-10-2021||India||3 dead, 1 injured in Jammu and Kashmir after tent comes under landslide debris||Three persons died and one was left injured after their tent in South Kashmir’s Awantipora came under the debris due to a rain-triggered landslide in the region, Pulwama deputy commissioner Baseer Ul Haq Choudhary said.Initially, all four persons were taken to a hospital after which three people succumbed to their injuries. “The administration has shifted some more families to safer locations. A bund had collapsed due to rainfall,” Choudhary added.He informed that the three deceased hail from Kalakote in Jammu and Kashmir’s (J&K) Rajouri district, but belong to different families. All four persons were part of a nomad group.Heavy rain accompanied by untimely snowfall has been occurring in J&K since early this week. Earlier in the day, the traffic police of the Union Territory (UT) said that the Jammu-Srinagar National Highway (NH-44), which connects the region with the rest of India, has been shut owing to landslides in Ramban and Udhampur.“The incessant rains are hampering the restoration work on the highway…It will take at least five hours to clear the landslide in Cafeteria Morh area after the rain stops,” news agency PTI reported quoting senior superintendent of police (national highway) Shabir Malik.Besides landslides, heavy rainfall has triggered shooting stones. Malik further told PTI that authorities have kept their machines and men ready to clear roads if the need occurs.Watch here | Fresh snowfall in parts of Kashmir and Ladakh; heavy rains in plainsMeanwhile, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecasted the current extreme weather conditions to continue for the next 12 hours. Heavy rain is expected over south Kashmir, Chenab Valley, Reasi, Poonch, Rajouri and Pirpanjal, among other regions.In its latest bulletin, the IMD has also predicted “thunderstorm accompanied with lightning, hail and gusty winds (40-50 km/h)” at isolated areas of J&K for today. Similar weather barring the gusty wind has been forecasted over the UT for tomorrow as well.The J&K Traffic Police has also issued an advisory for today, urging people to confirm the status of all landslide or mudslide prone roads, including the Jammu-Srinagar National Highway, before undertaking journeys. It has also asked people to avoid venturing out in avalanche-prone regions.(With inputs from Ashiq Hussain)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-dead-1-injured-in-jammu-and-kashmir-after-tent-comes-under-landslide-debris-101634984734495.html
23-10-2021||India||‘Phase 2 trials almost completed’: Dr Krishna Ella on nasal Covid-19 vaccine||The phase 2 trials of Bharat Biotech International Limited’s nasal vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are almost over, Dr Krishna Ella, the Hyderabad-based firm’s chairman and MD, said on Saturday, as he congratulated the country on achieving the feat of administering more than 1 billion or 100 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines. “We’ve almost completed the phase 2 trials for the nasal vaccine, and it has shown good results. It will help in controlling the transmission of the infection,” Dr Ella said, according to news agency ANI. We've almost completed phase 2 trials for the nasal vaccine and it has shown good results. This vaccine will help in controlling the transmission of Covid-19 infection: Dr Krishna Ella, Chairman & MD, Bharat BiotechThe vaccine, BBV154, received regulatory approvals for phase 2/3 trials in August, thus becoming the first-of-its-kind Covid-19 jab to undergo human testing in the country. The internasal jab, the development of which was supported by the Department of Biotechnology (DBT) and Biotechnology Industrial Research Assistance Council (BIRAC), underwent phase 1 testing on volunteers in the age group of 18-60, and was “well tolerated.”Also Read | First nasal vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech gets nod for Phase 2/3 trialLast month, Dr VK Paul, Niti Aayog member (Health), said that the findings from the vaccine’s first phase trials had been “promising.”Also Read | Initial findings from Biotech's nasal vaccine show 'promising results': GovtMeanwhile, speaking on Covaxin for kids, Dr Ella said that the company was still waiting for a license from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) in this regard. Covaxin, the country’s first indigenously developed anti-Covid shot, which is being used in the nationwide inoculation drive, was, earlier this month, recommended by the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) for the age group of 2-18.Also Read | DCGI yet to approve Covaxin’s emergency use in childrenBefore Covaxin, Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadilla’s ZyCoV-2 received emergency use authorisation (EUA) for an age group below 18, being approved for everyone aged 12 and above. The nationwide vaccination drive, which began on January 16, is currently open only for citizens who are 18-years-old and above.Also Read | Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin gets emergency approval for kids aged 2-18 yearsOn Thursday, India crossed the milestone of administering more than a billion doses of Covid-19 jabs. The figure includes both single and fully (double) vaccinated beneficiaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/phase-2-trials-of-nasal-covid-19-vaccine-almost-completed-says-dr-krishna-ella-101634983294676.html
23-10-2021||India||CJI says judicial infrastructure improvement being done in ‘ad-hoc’ manner||Chief Justice of India NV Ramana on Saturday said that judicial infrastructure is important for improving access to justice but noted that it was baffling to see that the efforts to improve it are being carried out in an ad-hoc and unplanned manner in the country, news agency PTI reported.The CJI also said that an effective judiciary can aid in economic growth and courts are essential for any society which is governed by the rule of law. CJI Ramana was addressing the inauguration of two wings of the annexe building at the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court.“We are faced with certain hard facts like several courts do not have proper facilities. Some courts function out of dilapidated buildings. Judicial infrastructure is important for improving access to justice. It is baffling to note that the improvement and maintenance of judicial infrastructure is still being carried out in an ad-hoc and unplanned manner,” CJI Ramana was quoted as saying by the news agency.The CJI said that the building which was being inaugurated was envisioned in 2011 adding that the ‘success of today should not blind us to the issues that exist.’ “That it has taken 10 years for this vision to be implemented is extremely worrisome. This is a deeper problem that has plugged our judicial infrastructure planning in our country since Independence,” the CJI said.NV Ramana also highlighted that he sent a proposal to the Union law minister for establishing the National Judicial Infrastructure Authority. He said that he is hoping for a positive response and also hoped that the issue will be discussed during the upcoming winter session.He said that the prevalent mentality among the masses, which takes pride in saying that they have not visited a courthouse even once in their entire lifetime, needs to change. He said that it is a common notion that only criminals and victims approach the court.“It is high time we take the efforts to remove this taboo for the affirmation of a citizen's rights. The common man deals with multiple legal issues during his lifetime. One must never hesitate to approach the courts. After all, people's faith in the judiciary is one the biggest strength of democracy," the CJI said.CJI Ramana said that courts in India have always stood up whenever an individual or society is at the receiving end of executive excess. "It is an assurance that an individual, however weak, need not worry about the might of a state," he said.Meanwhile, Kiren Rijiju, the Union law minister, said that every effort is being made to ensure that the judiciary is given space to become more robust. “Judiciary isn't only being given full support but also they're being given space to become robust. To make our democracy successful, a robust judiciary is of utmost importance,” Rijiju was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Justice Chandrachud highlights pending casesSupreme Court judge Justice DY Chandrachud, who was also present at the function, said that the judiciary is confronted with the issue of addressing the issue of pending cases in the state and country.He pointed out that there are over 48 lakh cases pending in Maharashtra with around 21,000 cases being more than three decades old. “ These are some of the problems we have to face. This calls for some introspection,” he said.He also spoke about the importance of virtual courts which can help citizens across the nation gain access to court proceedings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cji-says-judicial-infrastructure-improvement-being-done-in-ad-hoc-manner-101634985052574.html
23-10-2021||India||Why Ananya Panday got an earful from NCB's Sameer Wankhede during interrogation||Bollywood actor Ananya Panday reportedly was pulled up bt Narcotics Control Bureau Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede on Friday, the second day of her questioning in connection with the Aryan Khan drugs case. An ANI report said that Wankhede gave the actor an earful for arriving late at the NCB office on both days. "You were asked to come at 11.00 am and you are arriving now. Officers are not sitting here, waiting for just you..... This is not your production house, this is the office of a central agency. Come at the time you are called at," sources quoted Wankhede as saying, the news agency reported. Ananya Panday says she never consumed drugs, chat with Aryan was joke: ReportsThe central agency summoned the actor on October 21 as it raided the actor's house and seized her laptop and mobile. The actor was asked to report at the NCB office at around 2pm. Accompanied by father, actor Chunky Panday, Ananya reached the NCB office at around 4 pm. The interrogation went on for two hours. According to reports, the questioning was not completed as there was a shortage of time and generally the central agency does not question a woman beyond 6pm. Ananya was asked to be present on Friday as well. While the central agency asked her to be present at 11am, the actor managed to reach the NCB office at around 2pm. On the second day, Ananya was questioned for four hours and was asked to be present again on Monday.Reports said Sameer Wankhede who has the reputation of being a taskmaster did not overlook the actor's lack of punctuality and told her off that she kept central government officials waiting for hours. NCB is not a production house, Wankhede reportedly told Ananya. Ananya's name has come up in the case as the NCB claimed that the actor might have arranged drugs for Aryan Khan on three occasions. The agency only has Aryan Khan's WhatsApp chats as evidence and no other proof against Ananya that she actually knows any dealer or consumes drugs. Ananya has reportedly refuted the allegation and told NCB that the chat was meant as a joke. She has never consumed drugs in her life, she reportedly said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-ananya-panday-got-an-earful-from-ncb-s-sameer-wankhede-during-interrogation-101634984539876.html
23-10-2021||India||PM Modi to call on Pope Francis at Vatican before attending G-20 summit||In a significant development, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to meet Pope Francis, Head of Catholic Church, at the Vatican next Friday before he attends the two-day G20 summit in Rome.While the government is tight-lipped about PM Modi’s travel itinerary, it is understood that he will leave India a day early on October 28 night to meet the 84-year-old sovereign of Vatican City State as a courtesy call.It is understood that PM Modi will attend the G-20 summit on October 30-31 before flying off to Glasgow in Scotland to attend the COP26 summit for strategizing on how to deal with challenges arising from climate change.It is learnt that PM Modi is also expected to attend key events on the sidelines of the climate change summit with UK PM Boris Johnson.UK Foreign Secretary Elizabeth Truss, who is currently on a visit to India, may be expected to convey the message from PM Johnson to PM Modi to stay beyond his speech at COP26 on November 1.At the G-20 meeting, stabilization of Taliban-ruled Afghanistan will be on top of the agenda apart from the aggressive Chinese moves against Taiwan in the Indo-Pacific.The present situation in Afghanistan, which is already facing drought-like conditions, is said to be in a mess with Taliban leadership fighting amongst themselves at the cost of governance.The rapid rise of Islamic State of Khorasan Province (ISKP), which has been linked with Pakistani deep state in the past, in Afghanistan and the attack on Shia mosques is a matter of serious concern.Another area of concern is the treatment of women at the hands of medieval Sunni Pashtun forces apart from Tajiks, Uzbeks and Hazara communities in Afghanistan.It is only a matter of time that already debt-ridden Afghanistan and its mentor Pakistan cry out for help from the world in the name of humanitarian assistance.The aggressive moves of China, which is a member of G-20, against Taiwan, Japan and in the South China Sea will also find a voice at the Rome summit. While US president Joe Biden has openly acknowledged the American commitment to defend Taiwan against China, the new Japanese prime minister Fumio Kishida is also considering upgrading the security alliance with Washington.While PM Modi has been holding meetings on COP26 with concerned senior ministry officials, India is expected to push for climate finance, carbon trading mechanisms as well as pitch for compensation for developing nations including India which is also impacted by climate change.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-call-on-pope-francis-at-vatican-before-attending-g-20-summit-101634983689001.html
23-10-2021||India||‘Child must be first priority for maintenance’: High Court||For a person, his own child must be the first priority when it comes to maintenance, said Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court on Wednesday while rejecting the appeal filed by a Nagpur-based school teacher questioning local family court’s order directing him to pay Rs. 5,000 per month to his son towards maintenance. The school teacher moved the high court challenging the family court order of January 9, 2019, directing him to pay ₹5,000 per month to his son, a student of IIT Dhanbad. His son also moved HC for enhancement in the maintenance awarded by the family court, claiming that it was too meagre to meet even his basic requirements. The school teacher challenged the maintenance order primarily contending that the family court did not take the factual aspects into consideration. Maintaining that he was sharing his son’s educational expenses although he was not granted access to him, the father contended that while his son was fully supported by his mother, also a school teacher, his aged mother, divorcee sister and her daughter were completely dependent on him. The HC, however, refused to accept the contention and held that the son must be the first priority for the father when it comes to maintenance. “Even if it is assumed for the sake of argument that there are some other persons dependent on him (father), the petitioner (son) must be the first priority of the respondent in the matter of maintenance,” said the division bench of justice AS Chandurkar and justice GA Sanap. The bench accepted the son’s argument that the amount of ₹5,000 per month was meagre and was required to be enhanced considering the fact that the son was studying in a different city and enhanced the maintenance amount to Rs. 7,500 per month. The court has directed the father to pay the enhanced amount from October 27, 2015 – the day the son filed a plea for the maintenance of ₹15,000 per month before the family court at Nagpur - and clear the arrears in three months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/child-must-be-first-priority-for-maintenance-high-court-101634983250220.html
23-10-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra launches ‘Pratigya Yatra’, reveals 7 promises for Uttar Pradesh elections||Kicking off the ‘Pratigya Yatra' in Uttar Pradesh’s Barabanki, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday announced seven key promises of her party for the upcoming Uttar Pradesh Assembly election 2022. Apart from revealing 40% tickets for women candidates, the promises included free e-Scooty and mobile phones for school girls, farm loan waiver, financial relief to poor families and relief on electricity bills.“Some key promises of our manifesto are free e-Scooty & mobile phones for school girls, farm loan waiver, ₹25,000 per year to poor families, electricity bill half for all and full waiver of pending electricity bills of Covid period,” Priyanka Gandhi Vadra announced, as quoted by news agency ANI.Vadra, who is the face of the UP elections next year, said that the party also aims to provide 20 lakh government jobs, minimum support price of ₹2500 for rice and wheat per quintal, as well as ₹400 for sugarcane per quintal to the families affected by the Covid-19 pandemic.Ahead of the announcement, the Congress leader interacted with women farmers at an agricultural farm in Barabanki and spoke to them. “I want to understand their (women farmers') working conditions, how they are raising their daughters and if they are able to educate them,” she said.The 'Pratigya Yatra' is a part of Congress’ poll campaign for the 2022 UP elections to be held from October 23 to November 1. The yatra will cover 12,000 kilometres across the state. Various press conferences, 'nukkad sabhas', temple visits, roadshows, Jan Sabhas etc will be held during these rallies.The 'Pratigya Yatra' will be held in three phases. It will commence from Barabanki in the Bundelkhand region and will end at Jhansi via Lucknow, Unnao, Fatehpur, Chitrakoot, Banda, Hamirpur, Jalaun.In the western UP region, it will begin from Saharanpur, and cover Muzaffarnagar, Bijnor, Moradabad, Rampur, Bareilly, Badaun, Aligarh, Hathras, Agra, Mathura. Similarly, in Awadh region, the yatra will start from Varanasi and move towards Chandauli, Sonbhadra, Mirzapur, Prayagraj, Pratapgarh and Amethi to end at Rae Bareli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-gandhi-vadra-launches-pratigya-yatra-reveals-7-promises-for-uttar-pradesh-elections-101634981556048.html
23-10-2021||India||Varun Gandhi again criticises govt. This time over crop burning||BJP MP Varun Gandhi on Saturday posted a video of an Uttar Pradesh farmer setting his crop on fire after failing to get it sold and wrote the need of the hour is to rethink agriculture policy. "Where has the system brought the farmers!" he said. In the video, a person can be seen setting the crop on fire despite people trying to stop him. Varun Gandhi said the farmer is Samodh Singh who has been going from mandi to mandi for the last 15 days to sell his crop, but he has not been successful.Varun Gandhi has been critical of the BJP government's policies regarding farmers' issues of late and was dropped from the BJP's national executive after he voiced his opinion about the Lakhimpur Kheri violence on social media. उत्तर प्रदेश के किसान श्री समोध सिंह पिछले 15 दिनों से अपनी धान की फसल को बेचने के लिए मंडियों में मारे-मारे फिर रहे थे, जब धान बिका नहीं तो निराश होकर इसमें स्वयं आग लगा दी।इस व्यवस्था ने किसानों को कहाँ लाकर खड़ा कर दिया है? कृषि नीति पर पुनर्चिंतन आज की सबसे बड़ी ज़रूरत है। pic.twitter.com/z3EjYw9rIzAfter the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, the BJP MP warned against the attempts to turn the Lakhimpur Kheri incident into a 'Hindu vs Sikh battle'. "To use the word 'Khalistani' liberally to describe the protesting farmers is not only an insult to the generations of these proud sons of the Tarai who have fought and shed blood on our borders, it is also extremely dangerous for our national unity if this provokes the wrong kind of reaction," he said."An attempt to turn Lakhimpur Kheri into a Hindu vs Sikh battle is being made. Not only is this an immoral & false narrative, it is dangerous to create these fault-lines & reopen wounds that have taken a generation to heal. We must not put petty political gains above national unity," Varun Gandhi tweeted.Varun Gandhi had also shared a video of the Lakhimpur Kheri violence and said, "The video is crystal clear. Protestors cannot be silenced through murder. There has to be accountability for the innocent blood of farmers that has been spilled and justice must be delivered before a message of arrogance and cruelty enters the minds of every farmer."Two days ago, Varun Gandhi shared photos of Terai flood and questioned the meaning of governance if "every response in individual-led".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rethinking-farm-policy-need-of-hour-varun-gandhi-s-comment-on-crop-burning-101634979636689.html
23-10-2021||India||‘Feels like winning war,’ says one of 39 women Army officers who got permanent commission||The apex court on Friday ordered the Central government to ensure 39 out of 71 women Army officers got the permanent commission within seven working days. The 71 officers challenged the central government in the Supreme Court demanding a permanent commission. Though they don’t know the names of the 39 lucky women officers, they are happy to have created history. “It feels like winning a war,” said a woman Army officer. It has been a physically and emotionally exhausting fight for dignity, respect, acceptance and, most importantly, equality for these women officers, who dared take the government and the organisation (Indian Army), which they dreamt of serving as young girls, head-on. “Soldiers don’t quit. This is what we are taught during our training. And I’m happy that we all didn’t quit despite the humiliation, step-motherly treatment and challenges we had to face. This will make the journey easier for younger women officers,” said the officer who has served for over two decades. For many women officers, who have put in over 25 years of service, it is about “graceful exit”. It was in 2009 when a group of five women officers first challenged the service provisions and demanded permanent commission. A second woman officer, requesting anonymity, said that she opted for the Indian Army despite clearing the civil services exam. “It was the love for the uniform and the passion to serve the country just like my father who was also in the Army. I joined the Army against his wishes, he didn’t speak to me during my training period,” she said. But she never thought that she would one day challenge the organisation and the government for her rights. She said, “Some of us have 25 years of service, but there has always been a question mark over our status in the forces as the matter was in the court. It has been a difficult journey. We have lost seniority and have served under officers who were much junior to us. We have never been considered for the board (for rank). Today, as we have very few years of service left, this fight is about a graceful exit.” From Short Service Commission to now winning the battle for permanent commission, women officers say it has been a three-decade-long journey of changing people’s mindset, proving to the world that they are no less than their male counterparts and fighting disparity in service rules. Lt Col Ankita Srivastava (retd), who was among the five women who filed the case in 2009, said, “These women have created history. It will only make it easier for future generations of women officers. Women officers didn’t get their due as policies were not in place. In 2004, I had to pursue seniors to get an extension of four years, which was already given to women officers in the Indian Air Force and Navy. It has taken us three decades to get here (from short service commission to permanent commission.” She said that it was the television serial Udaan which inspired her to join the forces. It was about breaking the stereotype. “That series inspired me a lot. I knew this was my calling, as I wanted to command men as we were brought up in that time thinking that we (as women) have to take care of men in our society. I wanted to make people believe that I was worthy of commanding men and get their salute and salute them back when I’m in the profession,” she said. With this court order, they hope that things will change. “We don’t know who all are there in the list of 39 officers. But I hope that those who get permanent commission are roped in to formulate policies to give women equal opportunities and considered for promotions,” said another officer, who has put in 25 years of service. They say that their families, who too had to suffer a lot, have stood by them and are the reason why they all continue to fight for their rights. Some of them were inspired by their fathers who were in the armed forces. A women officer, who has put in over two decades of service, said, “It was my father (who was in the Army) and the husband who were instrumental in my decision to continue the service after the court order. But today my father said that I shouldn’t continue in service if I’m among the 39 women officers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/feels-like-winning-war-says-one-of-39-women-army-officers-who-got-permanent-commission-101634977790652.html
23-10-2021||India||Security meeting headed by Amit Shah begins in Srinagar||A Security review meeting, chaired by Union home minister Amit Shah began in Srinagar at Raj Bhawan on Friday.The meeting is held in the backdrop of a spate of killings in the Valley in the month of October. Eleven civilians, including five non-locals, were killed in the attacks.The meeting is attended by senior army, police, BSF and intelligence officers. The senior officers will brief Shah about the latest situation in Jammu and Kashmir, especially on the LoC and steps being taken to prevent the killings of civilians by militants.Police have already killed 17 terrorists in different operations in Kashmir in the first three weeks of October.Earlier in the day, Union minister Amit Shah visited the house of Inspector Pervaz who was killed by terrorists in June.Home minister Amit Shah was accompanied by J&K Lt Governor Manoj Sinha, MoS in PMO Jitendra Singh, DGP Dilbag Singh and J&K chief secretary, Arun Mehta.Amit Shah was earlier received by Lt Governor Sinha and senior officers at the airport. He visited the house of inspector Pervaz at Nowgam and interacted with the wife and children of the police officer. He also handed over a job letter to the wife of the officer.Inspector Parvez Ahmad was shot dead by terrorists when he was on his way to the mosque to offer prayers in Nowgam on the outskirts of the city on June 22 this year. Police have already claimed to have arrested a person who was involved in the killing of the police officer....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/security-meeting-headed-by-amit-shah-begins-in-srinagar-101634977190774.html
23-10-2021||India||Jammu-Srinagar National Highway shut due to heavy rains||The Jammu and Kashmir traffic police on Saturday informed that Jammu-Srinagar national highway, the key all-weather road linking Kashmir with the rest of the country, has been closed due to landslides in Ramban and Udhampur areas. These landslides have been triggered by heavy rain.Senior Superintendent of Police (national highway) Shabir Malik said falling of stones from a hillock overlooking the highway was also reported from several places between the Ramban-Banihal sector, including Kela Morh and Moumpassi, reported news agency PTI."The incessant rains are hampering the restoration work on the highway…It will take at least five hours to clear the landslide in Cafeteria Morh area after the rain stops," PTI quoted Malik as saying further. Meanwhile, the agencies concerned have kept their men and machines ready to carry out the road clearance operation, he added.Many parts of Kashmir and Ladakh received fresh snowfall on Saturday while the plains of the valley were lashed by heavy rains, leading to early onset of winter-like conditions, officials said. Areas that witnessed snowfall include Gulmarg, Sonamarg, Pahalgam, Shopian and Gurez areas of the valley. In Ladakh, Minamarg and Drass witnessed snowfall, the officials said.Srinagar has been witnessing heavy rains since Friday night. According to the weather department, the rains are in forecast for the next 24 hours.Timely trimming of tree branches by the Power Development department has resulted in minimal disruption of electricity supply, PTI reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammusrinagar-national-highway-shut-due-to-heavy-rains-101634974154158.html
23-10-2021||India||Amit Shah meets family of slain J-K cop Parvez Ahmad, gives govt job to wife||Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday visited the family of Jammu and Kashmir Police inspector Parvez Ahmad, who was shot dead by terrorists in June this year. Shah was accompanied by J-K’s lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha, Union minister Dr Jitendra Singh and J-K Police DGP Dilbag Singh along with other officials.“Visited the house of martyred Parvez Ahmad and paid tributes to him. The whole country and I are proud of his bravery. I met his family members,” Shah, who is on a three-day visit to J-K, tweeted. The Union home minister added that Ahmad’s wife has been provided with a government job.On June 22, inspector Parvez Ahmad was shot dead by four terrorists when he was on his way to a mosque in the Menganwaji Nowgam area of Srinagar. CCTV footage showed the terrorists ‘firing indiscriminately’ upon Ahmad. The police inspector succumbed to his injuries at a nearby hospital..@JmuKmrPolice के शहीद जवान परवेज अहमद दार के घर जाकर उन्हें श्रद्धांजलि दी। मुझे व पूरे देश को उनकी बहादुरी पर गर्व है। उनके परिजनों से भेंट की और उनकी पत्नी को सरकारी नौकरी दी।मोदी जी ने जो नए J&K की कल्पना की है, उसको साकार करने के लिए J&K पुलिस पूरी तन्मयता से प्रयासरत है। pic.twitter.com/Krv6CNfdJuOn October 1, police said that they arrested a terrorist who was involved in the murder. Speaking to news agency ANI, Kashmir IG Vijay Kumar said that Muheeb Bashir Dar was arrested by the police and he confessed his crime. Bashir Dar, who was a neighbour of inspector Ahmad, has also been involved in several other terror-related incidents, Kumar said.Two other terrorists in the murder, Saqiq Manzoor and Rameez were recently killed in Srinagar and Sopore encounters, Kumar added. The fourth terrorist, Basit Kamran, is still on the run, the Kashmir IG further told the news agency on October 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-proud-of-his-bravery-shah-pays-tributes-to-slain-j-k-cop-parvez-ahmad-101634973581884.html
23-10-2021||India||'India won't see a new devastating wave of Covid-19 unless…': Experts||Experts have said that it is unlikely that India will witness a new devastating wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic like the second one unless there is a new immune escaping variant, news agency PTI reported on Friday. However, the experts said that the lower number of infections in the country doesn't exactly mean that Covid-19 is reaching the endemic stage.Till now, India has reported 34,159,562 cases, 453,708 deaths and 33,532,126 due to Covid-19. On Saturday, the daily tally saw a marginal increase with 16,326 new cases. For the last 29 days, the new cases have been below the 30,000-mark.Also Read| Severity of future Covid-19 waves on kids speculatory, says top paediatricianCautioning about the festive season with just a few days left for Diwali, the experts said a downward Covid-19 graph is only part of the picture and pointed towards other factors including the mortality rate, larger vaccination coverage and worsening pandemic situation in countries like the United Kingdom (UK).In the UK, infections are constantly rising, prompting a need to bring back restrictions. However, the Boris Johnson government has said that it is keeping a close check on the crisis and no restrictions will be imposed as of now.Speaking to PTI, one of India's prominent virologists Shahid Jameel, said that the rate of vaccination has improved but needs to be done. He lauded the landmark achievement of the administration of over a billion vaccine doses in the country on October 21.Also Read| India reports 16,326 fresh Covid-19 cases, daily fatalities rise to 666“I am not sure we are in an endemic state yet… As we celebrate this (100 crore) landmark, there is still some distance to go. We are going towards endemicity, but are not there yet,” Jameel, who is also a visiting professor at Ashoka University, added.He highlighted that daily infections in India have been slowly declining over the last three months from about 40,000 per day to about 15,000 per day, adding the mortality rate continues to remain at 1.2%.Another expert, Murad Banaji, who has been closely monitoring India's Covid graph told the news agency that a lower number of cases for some time “does not necessarily mean endemicity.” "It is possible that endemicity is close in some parts of the country, but the data needed to confirm this is not easily available,” Banaji, who is a senior lecturer in mathematics at UK’s Middlesex University, said.Also Read| Covid-19: UK's daily count crosses 50,000 again, Boris govt says no to curbsEpidemiologist Ramanan Laxminaryan, director of the Center for Disease Dynamics, Economics & Policy in Washington, said that there can be periodic flare-ups even with an endemic disease as it is being seen in the UK.Laxminarayan told the news agency that one should wait for another two months before determining whether the virus poses a significant threat to India.The above experts have said that India will still see local surges in infections, but it is unlikely that there will be a massive surge in infections like the second wave in April this year. However, new variants can pose a challenge, they added.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-won-t-see-a-new-devastating-wave-of-covid-19-unless-experts-101634970707633.html
23-10-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: PM Modi calls Goa 'new model of development' and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday held a virtual interaction with beneficiaries of the “Aatmanirbhar Bharat Swayampurna Goa” programme. Speaking on the occasion, PM Modi described Goa as a new model of development, adding that under chief minister Pramod Sawant, the state played a leading role in implementing schemes of the central government. Read moreAs actor Shahrukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan heads to the High Court for bail, we spoke to one of India’s best criminal defense lawyers, Rebecca John, about the intricacies of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985. Khan was arrested during the Narcotics bureau’s raid on a cruise ship party on October 3, along with several others. Read moreFormer left-arm quick Mohammad Amir has made his prediction for the upcoming blockbuster T20 World Cup match between India and Pakistan on Sunday.Amir, 29, mentioned that even though it is hard to predict results in T20 cricket, he would believe that India hold a slight advantage over Pakistan due to the fact that they are coming into the ICC event having played the Indian Premier League which took place in the UAE. Read moreTVS Motor Company has announced the launch of its Radeon commuter in two new paint schemes in India. The company has rolled out two new dual-tone colour scheme options in the form of Red and Black option as well as a Blue and Black option. Save for the different paint scheme, there is no other change on the commuter motorcycle. Read moreThe Internet is filled with videos showcasing varied artworks by talented artists. Just like this clip featuring such an artist and her ‘trippy’ work. There is a chance that the video will make your jaw drop in surprise. Read moreShruti Seth is a fitness enthusiast. The actor, when not playing characters for the screen, is usually spotted in the quaint corners of her living room, engrossed in a yoga position. Shruti swears by yoga and high intensity workouts and it shows on her. Read moreUttarakhand govt started a free air ambulance service to rescue people from remote villages. CM Pushkar Dhami had earlier directed officials to start the service following incessant rains. In a tweet, Dhami also ordered the airlifting of three people who have been injured in Chamoli's Maithana. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-pm-modi-calls-goa-new-model-of-development-and-all-the-latest-news-101634972775977.html
23-10-2021||India||‘Goa is new model of development’: PM Modi at Aatmanirbhar Bharat Swayampurna programme||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday held a virtual interaction with beneficiaries of the “Aatmanirbhar Bharat Swayampurna Goa” programme. Speaking on the occasion, PM Modi described Goa as a new model of development, adding that under chief minister Pramod Sawant, the state played a leading role in implementing schemes of the central government.Also Read | PM to interact with beneficiaries of 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat Swayampurna Goa' todaySpeaking about the scheme, he said that Goa has everything that is required for Aatmanirbhar Bharat. This, PM Modi said, was possible due to “double-engine” government, referring to his Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) being in power both at the Centre and the coastal state. Prime Minister Modi further said that in the coming years, food processing industry will be the one of the biggest strengths of the Swayampurna programme. “Especially in the field of fish processing, Goa can become the country's strength. India's fish reaches global markets after being processed in east Asian countries. To change this, the fisheries sector, for the first time, is being provided assistance at a large scale,” he added.PM Modi also noted that the infrastructure being developed in the state will help in increasing the income of farmers, livestock farmers and fishermen. “This year, the fund to modernise rural infrastructre in Goa has been hiked by five times compared to that under previous governments,” he said.About Swayampurna Goa programme:Under this scheme, which was launched on October 1, 2020, an officer of the state government as “Swayampurna Mitra.” This “Mitra” (friend) visits a designated panchayat or municipality to ensure that various government schemes and benefits are available to the eligible beneficiaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-is-new-model-of-development-pm-modi-at-aatmanirbhar-bharat-swayampurna-programme-101634967279040.html
23-10-2021||India||Kerala newborn kidnapping case: Mother of missing baby goes on fast||Anupama S Chandran (23), former leader of the Students Federation of India (SFI), who accused her parents of kidnapping her newborn three days after delivery, began a fast before the state secretariat on Saturday seeking the return of her baby. “It is a shame on Kerala. I need my baby,” holding a black placard she and her husband began their fast even as the ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) tried its best to wean her away promising action. State health minister Veena George made a last-ditch effort after talking to her but Anupama said there is no going back. “I am forced to the street. It is not a struggle against the party or government. It is a fight of a mother to get her baby back. No mother should undergo my plight,” she said just before the fast began. The poignant issue also triggered a division in the party. “No doubt, Anupama faced inhuman treatment. I wish authorities should have taken action by now,” said CPI(M) politburo member Brinda Karat in Delhi. Another member MA Baby also said there will be strict action against those who perpetrated this “inhuman act” and government agencies which supported them. “We agree there are serious lapses. We are with the mother,” said Baby. Later, party acting secretary A Vijayaraghavan also said the party will support her. Though police registered a case on Tuesday under non-bailable provisions, no arrest has been made so far. Anupama lodged a complaint with the police on April 19 and approached the CM and state police chief alleging that her relatives forcibly took away her baby and they feign ignorance now. She said police failed to take any action due to political pressure and she was forced to come out on media after all her attempts failed. She said since she went public, she even feared a threat to the baby’s life. After the issue turned into a raging controversy, her father S Jayachandran, a senior leader of the CPI(M) trade union wing CITU, said since the baby was born out of wedlock they decided to shift to the government-run children’s home in the state capital with the consent of his daughter. He said she signed on stamp paper but Anupama later said she signed under duress. She said her parents opposed her relations with her husband Ajith since he belonged to a Dalit family. What is shocking is that the baby could not be traced and there are reports that it was given for adoption without meeting prescribed rules and regulations for adoption. And the father reiterated that the party was aware of his decision and he consulted district leaders. The opposition Congress and BJP have asked the government to constitute a probe and restore the baby to the mother. “It really shocked the conscience of the state but the party is still clinging on technicalities, dismissing it as a mere family issue,” said opposition leader VD Satheessan. “The party always don the role of a self-styled champion of rights. How can it deny the right of a mother? Left intellectuals who sign joint statements at a drop of a hat are silent now,” said BJP state president K Surendran.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-newborn-kidnapping-case-mother-of-missing-baby-goes-on-fast-outside-secretariat-101634969628269.html
23-10-2021||India||PM Modi to meet 7 vaccine manufacturers as India crosses 1 billion doses mark||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Saturday meet Indian manufacturers of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine, news agency PTI reported. Representatives from seven vaccine makers - Serum Institute of India, Bharat Biotech, Dr Reddy's Laboratories, Zydus Cadila, Biological E, Gennova Biopharma and Panacea Biotech - will be participating in the meeting, it further said.The meeting will take place for 4pm today. It comes days after India administered one billion vaccine doses, crossing a major milestone in the fight against Covid-19.Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya and Union minister of state for health Bharati Pravin Pawar are expected to be present in the meeting.The Prime Minister will take stock of their experiences as well as discuss various issues like furthering research with the vaccine makers. He is also expected to emphasise on ways to vaccinate eligible people in India as quickly as possible, PTI reported. In the 1 billion doses, the highest - 75 per cent - have received at least one dose while 31 per cent of the adults have been administered both the doses, according to Union health ministry.PM Modi addressed the nation on Friday, in which he asked those yet to be vaccinated to make it a priority, and those who have been jabbed to inspire the others to follow suit.The Prime Minister also cautioned that people still needed to be careful.“We cannot drop the ball, no matter how modern the shield. Till the war is on, weapons are not laid down. We need to celebrate our festivals with great care and masks have to be on. Just as we wear shoes, we must make wearing a mask a habit,” said the Prime Minister.Hailing the milestone, he said that the given the numbers of those vaccinated, the world will now consider India safe.The billionth shot was administered on Thursday, nine months and five days after the country’s Covid-19 immunisation programme kicked off on January 16. Only China has been able to administer more doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-meet-7-vaccine-manufacturers-after-india-crosses-1-billion-doses-mark-101634968091693.html
23-10-2021||India||‘NCB wants to make this an extraordinary case...’: Top defense lawyer on Aryan Khan case||As actor Shahrukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan heads to the High Court for bail, we spoke to one of India’s best criminal defense lawyers, Rebecca John, about the intricacies of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985. Khan was arrested during the Narcotics bureau’s raid on a cruise ship party on October 3, along with several others. Here are the excerpts from the interview. Q: We’ve seen that Aryan Khan has been in custody for 20 days. Although, he wasn’t really caught in possession of any drugs. Now, is this unusual or under the NDPS Act this is expected? A: Ordinarily, I would say that bail should have been granted at the very first instance because Aryan Khan, as per media reports, was not found in possession of any drugs. At the most, it could be said that one or two persons accompanying him had some small quantity in their possession and that was not a sufficient ground to deny him bail. The NCB wants to make this into an extraordinary case. That is the reason why, despite the fact that this young man had no drugs in his possession, there is no evidence to suggest that he was consuming drugs at the time of his arrest and there doesn’t seem to be any apparent nexus of a larger kind from the facts and circumstances which are available in the public domain, bail should have been granted to him as a matter of right. Its denial, therefore, is a matter of concern because India’s criminal jurisprudence says that “bail is the rule, jail is the exception”. So even within a strict liability law like the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, where there are stringent provisions for bail for certain offences, in small quantity offences, there is never any jail term in the first instance unless, of course, you are convicted. So to that extent, this case has thrown up a lot of legal issues and as practitioners, we are concerned about some of the violations that are taking place. Q: Can you please explain to us in general terms what does the term conscious possession mean?A: Conscious possession has not been defined under the NDPS Act and maybe that is the reason why there is a little difficulty in grappling with what this term means but it has been the subject matter of several decisions of the Supreme Court and several High Courts as well. But it comes into play largely when large commercial quantities are recovered. For example, if you’re travelling in a car and a recovery is made from three of the occupants, which recovery will quantify as a commercial quantity? The driver is well within his rights to say, “look, I was just driving them, I didn’t have any idea that they were carrying drugs or something illegal was happening,” then it is for the court to determine whether the driver knew the facts and circumstances of the case and that the other three occupants of the car had large quantities of drugs on them. This is called conscious possession. On many occasions, courts turn down the plea of the prosecution and say that from the facts and circumstances of the case, we are not able to determine the conscious possession of an individual from whom nothing was recovered. At the same time, there have been cases where the Supreme Court has said that from the facts and circumstances of the case, they can determine that although the driver of the car or whoever else did not have anything on him, there is enough conscious possession, enough to connect him with the term conscious possession. So, this really depends on the individual facts and circumstances of a case, whether there is evidence to suggest that person A knew that person B was carrying drugs, which he should not have carried. And if A knew it and A was party to, and by A I mean the accused, the fact that person B had the drugs in his possession, then the terminology is extended and the offence extends on the basis of conscious possession.Q: There was no medical test done on Aryan Khan. Do you think that’s okay?A: These are protocols that a prosecuting agency must follow. So, I will look at it as a very shoddy prosecution or a prosecution that was aware of the fact that he did not have drugs in his possession or was not consuming drugs.But either way, if the prosecution wants to establish that although we did not find drugs on this person, he had been consuming drugs just before we arrived, then it was for them to collect the evidence. So, the fact that they did not get a medical test done works against the prosecution. Q: Anything else that stands out to you? A: I don’t know whether that’s true or false, some of the persons who acted as a testing witness in this case were really not independent witnesses but stock witnesses of the NCB. They were given powers far in excess of what they should have been given, some of them were seen holding and handling these young men, a power which only the NCB should exercise. It was almost as though they were affecting the arrest, at least that is what the videos suggested, if the NCB has a better explanation for that then I’ll stand corrected. All of this makes it a little suspicious. You see a prosecuting agency - it doesn’t really matter who the actors in this case are, it doesn’t matter who is the accused, it doesn’t matter whether the accused is the son of a famous actor - must conduct itself in a manner which is credible, trustworthy and with the highest degree of Integrity. Of course, an accused person has the right to say that this and that was not done, but a prosecuting agency must follow the law and if they are seen violating the law then I have a problem with it because it is the very bedrock of our criminal jurisprudence. The prosecution must always put forward its case in the most credible, trustworthy manner with legal evidence. So, it doesn’t matter what gossip columns may say about this case, at the end of the day you must have legal evidence to prosecute a person and that is not confined to the NDPS Act, that is applicable to any case or any person, rich or poor, famous or not famous. So, the least expectation that we, as citizens, have from the system is that the prosecuting agency is conducting itself in a manner that is credible and trustworthy. Once that is established, then they have every right to say in court that we will be able to prove the charge against the accused person but once serious doubts have been raised on the credibility of the prosecuting agency and it is for them to respond to these charges, then, of course, it becomes a problem. So, this case stands out largely because something has been made out of a much smaller event. The way I look at it - these people were arrested with no drugs or very small quantities of drugs, which the act does not treat as serious, it is otherwise a very stringent act. It now appears that after effecting the arrest, you are making theories and coming up with largely unsubstantiated allegations. Now, this is a problem I’ve had with the prosecuting agencies of late. You first have a story, immediately affect an arrest, and then go around looking for evidence to match the story that you have in your mind. I’m afraid that’s not how intelligent prosecutors must conduct themselves. You arrest only when there is sufficient material to justify the arrest. You can conduct a fishing and rowing inquiry after the arrest is effective, of saying, “oh we are looking into this we’re looking to that”, that was your job before you affect an arrest. So particularly, since the young man did not have drugs in his possession, since they did not conduct any tests which would suggest that he consumed drugs, it was necessary for the prosecuting agency to wait and not press the button as fast as they did. They should have waited, some of what we are saying may be true. And if indeed there is a larger conspiracy, if indeed there is evidence to show that he was regularly peddling with drugs, then you should have collected verifiable material, placed it before a court and then simultaneously arrested the person. But you haven’t done any of that. You are still saying after 20 days you are investigating the various angles to this case, then what necessitated the arrest? This is what surprises me. I would not for a minute be critical if the reverse had been followed, where you collected the material and then justified your arrest. At the moment, you’re open to the charge that this is a witch hunt, you have no material with you and you’ve arrested the person who you should not have erased. Q: And the fact that various politicians, for instance, the Nationalist Congress Party’s Nawab Malik, have weighed in, do you think that the politics of it all can influence a case? A: I would ideally expect politicians to stay away from cases. I think this is part of the legal system and it’s really entirely between prosecuting agencies, defense counsels and the court and the minute it gets entangled with politics, you begin to see a very muddy picture and it can lead to the travesty of justice, it can lead to a situation where a person escapes the provisions of the law, where an innocent person is implicated. Either way, it is bad for the system. So typically, I would expect this to be free from politics. Unfortunately in India, everything now is connected with politics. Transcribed by Amitoj Singh Kalsi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncb-wants-to-make-this-an-extraordinary-case-top-defense-lawyer-on-aryan-khan-case-101634967769331.html
23-10-2021||India||India seeks compensation for climate damages caused by developed nations||India is seeking payment for the losses caused by climate disasters, its environment ministry said while laying out the country’s positions on critical issues that will be negotiated at the United Nations’ COP26 climate summit in the coming weeks.  “Our ask is this: there should be a compensation for expenses incurred, and it should be borne by developed nations,” Rameshwar Prasad Gupta, the ministry’s senior-most civil servant, said on Friday. He added that India stands with other low-income and developing countries on the matter. Leaders and diplomats from across the globe are set to gather in Glasgow, Scotland, for the annual COP summit, which is seen as a make-or-break meeting to stave off the worsening effects of climate change. Compensation for climate disasters is expected to be a major sticking point at the talks, and the subject is something that India has already raised with U.S. climate envoy John Kerry, according to Gupta. Rich countries have added the majority of greenhouse gases causing the planet to warm above pre-industrial levels. The 2015 Paris climate agreement included language to address “loss and damage,” but it left questions about liability and redress unanswered. Discussions began as early as 2013 at a previous summit in Warsaw, but the technical details of how such money transfers occur still hasn’t been thrashed out.The broad idea is that, based on historical contributions to global greenhouse gases, countries will provide compensation for the damages that pollution will one day cause. Countries that suffer climate impacts can then lay claim to money for repairs after a climate-fueled hurricane or flood. But not all disasters are caused by climate change, and scientists have only recently begun the hard work of being able to calculate how much a warmer planet contributed to an extreme weather event.India is the world’s third-largest emitter on an annual basis today and among the top ten historical emitters, which means it too will have to contribute money into the pot. Even if India’s pay-in for damages were roughly 4%, the country would stand to get a larger pay-out for the losses it will incur, Gupta said. “If they want India to be a part, we may be willing,” he added.Net ZeroThe country is the only economy among the world’s 10 largest not to have set a goal to zero out its emissions. Even its neighbor China has one for 2060, slightly later than the 2050 target that the U.S., the U.K. and the EU are aiming for. Earlier this year, India considered setting a net-zero goal, but it has since backed out. Not all nations need to announce a net-zero target before Glasgow, according to environment minister Bhupender Yadav. “Climate finance hasn’t come in,” said Gupta. “For more ambitious climate goals, let there be more finance’’ first. This issue is set to be another talking point at the summit. Developed countries were supposed to provide $100 billion in climate finance to developing countries annually, starting in 2020. The money would be used for projects that reduce emissions and help countries adapt to warming. The latest figure stands at about $90 billion, and the hopes for the full commitment are dimming as the Glasgow conference approaches. As with past COP meetings, India’s delegation also plans to bring up the point of fairness. The country’s annual per capita emissions stand at about two tons of carbon dioxide, compared to more than 16 tons for the U.S. and less than half of the global per capita average. The recent energy crunch — marked by soaring natural gas prices — has also given India ammunition to continue using coal, the only fossil fuel which it has in abundance. That’s going to be a problem for the U.K.,  the host country, with COP26 President Alok Sharma having said that the Glasgow talks could “consign coal to history.”India Prime Minister Narendra Modi has confirmed that he will join the COP26 summit along with 120 other heads of state. The conference runs from Oct. 31-Nov. 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-seeks-compensation-for-climate-damages-caused-by-developed-nations-101634967031349.html
23-10-2021||India||India reports 16,326 fresh Covid-19 cases, daily fatalities rise to 666||India witnessed a marginal rise in its fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), as 16,326 people tested positive for the viral illness, taking the cumulative Covid-19 infection tally to 34,159,562, the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) data showed on Saturday. Daily fatalities, however, witnessed a massive jump, rising to 666 from 231 a day ago, taking the total death count to 453,708, or 1.33 per cent of the total cases, the data showed.Also Read | Covid-19: September saw weekly cases go down by 20%, here's the situation in OctThis huge jump in deaths is due to Kerala adding 563 fatalities to its overall toll: 99 from Friday along with 464 from the backlog, a bulletin from the state health department showed. The state also saw 9361 fresh infections.Meanwhile, Saturday's Union health ministry bulletin also showed that 17,677 patients were cured from the disease, taking the number of such cases to 33,532,126, accounting for 98.16 per cent of the national caseload. The number of active patients, meanwhile, declined further to 173,728, dropping by 2017 cases, and comprise 0.51 per cent of the cumulative tally.On the vaccination front, as many as 6,848,417 doses were administered, with the total number of jabs administered till now rising to more than 1.01 billion. On Thursday, the country crossed the milestone of 1 billion or 100 crore doses, reaching the mark a little over nine months after the nationwide inoculation drive commenced on January 16.These latest numbers come at a time when restrictions across the country have been eased as the number of daily cases continue to be low. On Friday, cinema halls, auditoriums, theatres and multiplexes opened across Maharashtra, albeit at a maximum seating capacity of 50 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-16-326-fresh-covid-19-cases-daily-fatalities-jump-to-666-101634964299164.html
23-10-2021||India||Covid-19: September saw weekly cases go down by 20%, here's the situation in Oct||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in India has significantly improved in the last few months, riding on the back of the increasing vaccination coverage, which has given hope to experts that the third wave won't have the devastating effect like the second one. Still, the government health experts have been cautioning people to not let their guards down ahead of the festival season.From a peak of 4.14 lakh cases in 24 hours on May 7, during the peak of the second wave, the daily caseload has come down to less than 20,000 in India. Barring a few, the situation is largely under control in the majority of states.A comparison of the data from September and October shows the declining trajectory of daily Covid-19 cases. It is based on releases by the central government, as carried by the World Health Organization (WHO).In the first week of September, India was recording 30,000 to 40,000 cases every day, according to the WHO. On September 7, the daily caseload stood at 31,222, it said, citing figures from the Union home ministry. In the following week (September 9-15), the cases went down further; on September 14, the number stood at 25,404. By October 20, this came down to 14,623.In the two weeks - September 1 to 7 and September 9 to 14 - a notable decline of 20 per cent in the total number of cases was reported across India, said the WHO. And that trend has continued till date.Still, the situation in Kerala is particularly worrying, as reflected in the WHO report. The report said that 30% of districts showed an increase in new cases for the week (13-19 October), in comparison to the previous week (6-12 October). Most of these districts are in Kerala. However, the top 10 districts reporting the highest number of cases have shown a decrease during the last week.It also said that Maharashtra, Kerala, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh are the top five states which are contributing 56 per cent of total cases.In the first week of September (1-7), 14 states recorded an increase in cases when  compared to previous week (August 25-31). In the latest report, the WHO said that in the October 13-19 week, four states recorded an increase in cases while 31 states have shown a decline in cases when compared to data from the previous week (October 6-12).The report further said that Kerala has reported more than four million cases, followed by Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh (more than two million cases each).India crossed a major milestone on October 21, when the country recorded one billion (100 crore) vaccination doses. The nationwide vaccination drive was launched on January 16, and the first 50 crore vaccinations were reported in 202 days. The next 50 crore came in just 76 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-september-saw-weekly-cases-go-down-by-20-here-s-the-situation-in-oct-101634962855633.html
23-10-2021||India||Amid tight security, Amit Shah begins his 3 day J&K visit today||Amid tight security arrangements, Union home minister Amit Shah begins his three day J&K visit today. Besides holding security review meetings, the minister will also address panchayat members and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers and a big rally in Jammu during his visit. Shah is scheduled to lay the foundation stone of two new medical colleges in the Union Territory, officials said.Soon after his arrival in Srinagar, the Union home minister will chair a high-security review meeting at Raj Bhavan in the afternoon. This meeting, besides Lt Governor Manoj Sinha, will be attended by top security, army and intelligence officials. The review of the security situation will be done amid a wave of targeted terrorist attacks that left 11 civilians dead in the region this month.Shah will also hold an interaction with young members of J&K’s Youth Clubs at Raj Bhavan, Srinagar. In the evening, he will also inaugurate the Srinagar-Sharjah International flight.The home minister will also address panchayat members and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers, people familiar with the matter said.This will be Shah’s first visit to the Union territory ever since the revocation of Article 370, which bestowed special status to the erstwhile state, in August 2019. He last visited J&K in June 2019 after the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance swept to power at the Centre for a second term.The Union minister, whose visit is part of the Centre’s continuing outreach campaign, is also expected to review the implementation of development schemes in the region. Last month, he held a review meeting on J&K with lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha and senior security officials in the national capital.In view of Shah’s visit, security measures have been tightened across the Valley, especially in Srinagar city as forces stepped up checking and frisking activities, especially in Srinagar from the last many days.The road leading towards Raj Bhavan and its adjoining areas have been closed for traffic for the next three days due to the presence of top dignitaries there. Three-tier security is in place across the city. Additional mobile bunkers along with surveillance cameras have been deployed across the city especially at the sensitive spots and in the parts of the old city. Even at places, drone cameras have been deployed for the vigil on the sensitive spots.After the spate of killings, the security forces stepped up operations across the Valley. J&K Police said 17 terrorists have been “neutralised” in various encounters in the Valley in the last 22 days amid a spate of attacks on civilians. Five migrant workers were among the 11 civilians killed in the region this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-tight-security-amit-shah-begins-his-3-day-j-k-visit-today-101634961349175.html
23-10-2021||India||Ahead of maiden Goa visit, Mamata Banerjee urges people to join forces against 'divisive' BJP||Ahead of her maiden, 2-day visit to poll-bound Goa, which she will embark on next week, Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief Mamata Banerjee on Saturday urged people of the state to join forces against the “divisive” agenda of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). “As I prepare for my maiden visit to Goa on the 28th, I call upon all individuals, organisations and political parties to defeat the BJP and their divisive agenda. The people have suffered enough over the last 10 years,” Banerjee tweeted.Also Read | Goa CM welcomes potential TMC re-entry into Goa“Together, we will usher a new dawn in Goa by forming a new government that will truly be a government of the people and committed to realising their aspirations!” the West Bengal chief minister added, using the hashtag "GoenchiNaviSakal," which, when translated from the coastal state's Konkani language to English, means “Goa's new dawn.”Together, we will usher in a new dawn for Goa by forming a new govt that will truly be a govt of the people of Goa and committed to realising their aspirations! #GoenchiNaviSakal (2/2)The TMC's foray into the state comes on the back of its victory in the West Bengal assembly elections earlier this year, which saw Banerjee win a third consecutive term. Since then, the party has tried to expand itself nationally, particularly in the neighbouring Tripura, as well as Goa. The two states have a BJP government; the Trinamool and the BJP engaged in a bitter electoral faceoff in Bengal, with the former coming out on top.To consolidate itself in Goa, the Banerjee-headed party, last month, inducted former chief minister and 7-time MLA Luizinho Faleiro from the Congress, the main opposition party in the state. On Friday, it appointed Faleiro as a national vice president.I’m humbled by your faith in me @MamataOfficial & party. All that I had expected was to fight the divisive forces of BJP alongside you.Thank you for giving Goans a voice at the national stage! This appointment has reaffirmed your affection, love & concern for Goa and Goans alike. https://t.co/6QX4rz4GE8Assembly elections in Goa, for all 40 assembly constituencies, are expected to take place early next year. Besides the TMC, another new entrant here is the Arvind Kejriwal-headed Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which has already announced that it will contest the 2022 polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-maiden-goa-visit-mamata-banerjee-urges-people-to-join-forces-against-divisive-bjp-101634958392881.html
23-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi to interact with beneficiaries of Swayampurna Goa today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM to interact with beneficiaries of 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat Swayampurna Goa' todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with beneficiaries and stakeholders of the ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat Swayampurna Goa' programme on Saturday. The interaction will take place at 11am via video conferencing. Read moreFarmers' huts removed from UP Gate but Delhi-Ghaziabad traffic still affectedThe farmers protesting at Uttar Pradesh border said they have cleared the UP Gate protest site, but Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan reported on Saturday that people coming to the national capital from Ghaziabad are still facing traffic snarls and delays. Read moreVaishno Devi Yatra: Jammu and Kashmir issues fresh guidelines. Check detailsThe Jammu and Kashmir administration on Friday issued fresh guidelines to regulate pilgrims visiting the cave shrine of Shri Mata Vaishno Devi in Trikuta Hills of Katra. Read moreQantas to begin Sydney-Delhi flights from December 6. Check details hereIn what will be its first commercial service between Australia and India in almost a decade, Qantas, Australia's national carrier, has announced it will start operating flights between Sydney and Delhi from December 6. Read more'He came to meet us in Dubai': Ganguly gives update on Rahul Dravid's chances of becoming India head coach after ShastriFormer India captain and current BCCI president Sourav Ganguly reacted to reports of Rahul Dravid taking over as India head coach from Ravi Shastri after the T20 World Cup 2021. Read moreSamantha Ruth Prabhu concludes Himalayan vacay with trip to Badrinath Temple, pens a noteSamantha Ruth Prabhu has completed her Char Dham Yatra in the last leg of her trip to the Himalayas. The actor has been sharing regular updates from her spiritual holiday and has penned a note to express her experience. Read moreSamantha Ruth Prabhu reveals she regrets wearing rip-off of a designer early in her careerActor Samantha Ruth Prabhu is a style icon beyond compare. Her eclectic and elegant choices make her one of the best-dressed celebrities in town. However, even the style icon often makes mistakes that may result in a fashion faux pas. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-to-interact-with-beneficiaries-of-swayampurna-goa-today-101634957907088.html
23-10-2021||India||Amit Shah to inaugurate Srinagar-Sharjah international flight today||Union home minister Amit Shah, who is reaching Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday, will inaugurate the first direct international flight between Srinagar and Sharjah and United Arab Emirates (UAE. This is Shah's first visit to the union territory since the abrogation of Article 370 in August 2019.International flights will begin in Srinagar from today, following a meeting between top officials involved in the union territory's administration.This comes nearly a month after Union civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia said that efforts are on to start international services in Srinagar, adding that it will give a boost to the development of the union territory. He had also said on September 25 that the terminal at the Srinagar airport will be expanded from 25,000 square metre to 63,000 square metre.There will be an investment of ₹1,500 crore at the Srinagar airport, while ₹600 crore will be spent on the Jammu airport.Meanwhile, in a meeting on Monday, Divisional Commissioner of Kashmir, Pandurang K Pole discussed necessary arrangements needed to put in place and management of passengers at Srinagar airport in view of Covid pandemic.Arrangements for immigration and customs were also discussed, a government spokesman said.Pole directed officers to execute arrangements meticulously, including the management and regulation of passengers, segregation of domestic and international passengers, conduct Rapid PCR at airport for international passengers besides mandatory RT-PCR test for Covid before 48 hours.The meeting also discussed the issue of brick kilns within the eight kilometer radius of the Srinagar International Airport and alternative approach road besides other issues, the spokesman added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-to-inaugurate-srinagar-sharjah-international-flight-today-101634957795334.html
23-10-2021||India||Farmers' huts removed from UP Gate but Delhi-Ghaziabad traffic still affected||The farmers protesting at Uttar Pradesh border said they have cleared the UP Gate protest site, but Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan reported on Saturday that people coming to the national capital from Ghaziabad are still facing traffic snarls and delays. The reason for this is the police barricades, which have still not been removed from the service lanes.The commuters have to take detours, which are often longer and witness traffic jams, according to the Livehindustan report. UP Gate still has three-tier barricades and some huts of the farmers, which is affecting traffic movement at the border.Due to the close proximity of the Delhi-NCR region, several people from Noida and Ghaziabad travel to the national capital. Earlier, the journey from Delhi to Noida used to take hardly 20 minutes. However, due to the farmers' protest, the journey now takes hours.Also Read| Farmers dismantle structure at UP Gate, say stir against agri laws to continueOn Thursday, protesting farmers dismantled a temporary structure at the UP Gate underpass after the Supreme Court said that farmers have the right to protest but roads cannot be blocked indefinitely. Leaders of the farmer Unions clarified that the temporary structure was dismantled to show the barricades put up the police are blocking the highway. The structure, which is an old tent, was used as an area to address the press and for holding farmer meetings.Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait, who has been spearheading the farmers' agitation, also said that the farmers have not blocked the highway and traffic is being affected because of the police barricade."The protesters have removed their tents but barricades have been put by the government and the Delhi Police which are still there. The road is otherwise open. If you see, there are only barricades which have been put by the police," Tikait told reporters on Thursday.On October 4, the Ghaziabad Police had closed the UP gate as a precautionary measure in the aftermath of the Lakhimpur Kheri incident in Uttar Pradesh. Movement of traffic on the Delhi-Ghaziabad carriageway was stopped and barricades were put up on the Delhi Meerut Expressway to maintain law and order, the police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-huts-removed-from-up-gate-but-delhi-ghaziabad-traffic-still-affected-101634953677577.html
23-10-2021||India||Centre issues selection process of pilgrims for Haj 2022. Check full details||The government has said that amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the selection process of Haj pilgrims will be done according to complete vaccination with both the doses and guidelines and the criteria for the same shall be decided by the Indian and Saudi Arabia governments, keeping in view coronavirus protocols during the time of Haj 2022.Chairing the Haj review meeting in Delhi on Friday, Union minister for minority affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said that Digital Health Card, "E-MASIHA" health facility and "E-luggage pre-tagging", providing all information regarding accommodation/transportation in Makkah-Madinah, will be provided to all the Haj pilgrims.He said that preparations for Haj 2022 have been started keeping in mind the health and Covid-19 protocol of the Saudi Arabia government and Government of India.Naqvi said that arrangements for special training for Haj 2022 regarding Covid-19 protocols and health and hygiene are being made in India and Saudi Arabia for the Haj pilgrims. National-International protocol guidelines due to the pandemic position will be implemented and followed strictly during Haj 2022.He further said that the entire travel process for Haj 2022 is being done with significant and important changes in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and its effect. These include accommodation, period of stay of pilgrims, transportation, health and other facilities both in India and Saudi Arabia.Naqvi said that more than 3,000 women had applied for Haj 2020 and 2021 under without "Mehram" (male companion) category. Their applications will be eligible for Haj 2022 also if they want to go to perform Haj 2022. Other women can also apply for Haj 2022 under without "Mehram" category. All the women under without "Mehram" category will be exempted from the lottery system.The official announcement of Haj 2022 will be made in the first week of November and along with that, the process of online application for Haj will also be started. The entire Haj 2022 process in India will be 100 per cent digital. India sends the second largest number of Haj pilgrims after Indonesia.Haj 2022 process is being chalked out after deliberations among the Ministry of minority affairs, Ministry of health, Ministry of external affairs, Ministry of civil aviation, Haj Committee of India, Indian Embassy in Saudi Arabia and India's Consul General in Jeddah and other agencies keeping in view all aspects of the Covid-19 pandemic challenges.The arrangements for Haj 2022 are being made under special circumstances with special norms, rules and regulations, eligibility criteria, age restrictions, health and fitness requirements and other relevant conditions of the Saudi Arabia government amid the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-issues-selection-process-of-pilgrims-for-haj-2022-check-full-details-101634955726838.html
23-10-2021||India||Srinagar: Direct international flights to begin from today||International flights directly linking Jammu and Kashmir's Srinagar with the rest of the world will begin from Saturday. The decision was taken in a meeting on Monday chaired by divisional commissioner of Kashmir Pandurang K Pole."Pole held a meeting regarding the operation of international flights from Srinagar international airport and necessary arrangements needed to put in place and management of passengers in view of Covid pandemic," a government spokesperson told news agency PTI.The meeting, which was attended by top officials including Regional Director Bureau of Civil Aviation, Srinagar; Deputy Commissioner Budgam, Director Airport Authority Srinagar; Commandant CISF, Airport Srinagar, also saw a discussion on necessary arrangements to put in place and management of passengers in view of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, according to an official statement.Divisional commissioner Pole instructed the above officials to “execute arrangements meticulously including the management and regulation of passengers, segregation of domestic and international passengers, conduct Rapid PCR at Airport for international passengers besides mandatory RT-PCR test before 48 hours,” the statement added.Apart from making arrangements for immigration and customs at the Srinagar international airport, a discussion was also held on Monday regarding the management of passengers during the arrival and departure of domestic and international flights keeping the Covid-19 pandemic in view.The divisional commissioner has, meanwhile, told CMO Srinagar to come up with an RT-PCR testing facility at the Tourist Reception Centre with a dedicated team.Jammu and Kashmir has so far recorded 331,494 cases, 4,429 deaths and 326,195 recoveries and 870 active cases due to the coronavirus disease. On Friday, 108 fresh cases were recorded in the Union Territory while no death was reported for the second consecutive day. Of Friday's infection count, Srinagar contributed the maximum at 47 followed by 14 in Budgam.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/srinagar-direct-international-flights-to-begin-from-today-101634950362876.html
23-10-2021||India||Vaishno Devi Yatra: Jammu and Kashmir issues fresh guidelines. Check details||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Friday issued fresh guidelines to regulate pilgrims visiting the cave shrine of Shri Mata Vaishno Devi in Trikuta Hills of Katra. The decision was taken by the state executive committee during a detailed review of the current Covid-19 situation in the union territory.“Only those yatris shall be allowed to visit Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Ji shrine, who do not show any Covid related symptoms and premises of the shrine should be properly sanitized as per the Covid SoPs,” read the order.At the review meet it was observed that Covid-19 containment measures remain crucial to curb spread even now. As per the new rules, pilgrims must carry a valid and verifiable RT-PCR or Rapid Antigen Test not older than 72 hours.Jammu and Kashmir on Friday recorded 108 fresh Covid-19 cases that pushed its tally to 3,31,494, officials said. The death toll remained unchanged at 4,429, they said. Of the fresh cases, 21 were reported from the Jammu division and 87 from the Kashmir division of the union territory, the officials said, reported news agency PTI.Check full guidelines here:1. Strict adherence to the Standard Operating Procedure (SOPs) issued, and to a Covid-appropriate behaviour.2. RT-PCR or Rapid antigen tests not older than 72 hours are mandatory.3. Only those pilgrims will be allowed who do not show any Covid-related symptoms.4. The premises of the shrine will have to be properly sanitised, as per the SOPs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaishno-devi-yatra-jammu-and-kashmir-issues-fresh-guidelines-check-details-101634951367824.html
23-10-2021||India||Ghaziabad Police bust sextortion racket, say victims blackmailed via 'Stripchat'||The police in Uttar Pradesh's Ghaziabad have arrested members of a sextortion racket who were blackmailing people via 'Stripchat', news agency ANI reported on Saturday.The arrests were made on Friday, Superintendent of Police (City) Nipun Agarwal was quoted as saying by ANI. He added that a few suspects were blackmailing people through nude video clips.Eight bank accounts of the accused have also been seized, the police official said.A few days ago, the police in Mumbai busted sex tourism racket and arrested two people. They also rescued two victims.The police laid a trap at Mumbai airport with police officials acting as customers after being tipped off about a woman running the sex tourism racket with a partner. The woman, according to the police, was arrested in the year 2020 under The Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act.A trip to Goa was organised and two girls were finalised by the accused, as per the release."Trap was laid at the airport where the three girls met an officer and others who acted as decoy customers. Money and air ticket were exchanged, on a signal received from them, the team apprehended the three women," the police said in a press note.The main accused was apprehended with the help of CISF and airport police. She was taken into custody for enquiry, where she confessed her crime. Later, she was presented before a court that granted one day of police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ghaziabad-police-bust-sextortion-racket-say-victims-blackmailed-via-stripchat-101634951995078.html
23-10-2021||India||Second phase of local body elections in Alwar, Dholpur today||The second phase of polling for Zila Parishad and Panchayat Samiti members in Alwar and Dholpur districts of Rajasthan will be held on Saturday, news agency PTI reported. The polling will take place from 8am to 5pm.State election commissioner PS Mehra had on Friday said that 9.73 lakh voters would be able to exercise their franchise in both the districts in the second phase of polls. A total of 1,312 polling stations have been set up for voting in this phase, he added.The elections for Alwar and Dholpur Zila Parishad and Panchayat Samiti members are being conducted in three phases. The first phase of polling was held on October 20 and the third phase will be conducted on October 26.Counting of votes will be done at the district headquarters on October 29 after all three phases of polling.A total of 64.24 per cent voters turned out to exercise their franchise in the first phase of the polling for the Panchayat Samiti and Zila Parishad elections in Dholpur and Alwar districts of Rajasthan on Wednesday. The maximum voting to the tune of 72.16 per cent was recorded in Behror Panchayat.Mehra said in the first phase, polling was conducted for 153 wards of seven panchayat samitis of Alwar and Dholpur districts. Out of 9.41 lakh voters, 6.04 lakh exercised their franchise, he added. In the first phase, 683 candidates have tried their luck for 153 wards of seven panchayat samitis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/second-phase-of-local-body-elections-in-alwar-dholpur-today-101634947302068.html
23-10-2021||NA||Delhi AQI improves to ‘moderate’ category, say authorities||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:Delhi air quality improves to ‘moderate’ category, say authoritiesThe air quality index (AQI) in Delhi was recorded in 'moderate' category with negligible impact of stubble burning, authorities told news agency PTI.Amit Shah meets families of those killed in recent terrorist attacks in J&KUnion Home Minister Amit Shah met the families of martyrs and civilians killed this month in spate of terrorist attacks in Jammu and Kashmir.Amit Shah inaugurates Srinagar-Sharjah international flightUnion home minister Amit Shah inaugurated Srinagar-Sharjah international flight. "We declare it open from today. This will help in boosting tourism and bring more investment in the Union Territory," Shah said.Serum Institute's Cyrus Poonawalla praises PM Modi for going ‘out of his way’ to aid vaccination process“...PM went out of his way, made everyone move very fast... Had it not been for him... and driving the health ministry, today India would not have been able to make a billion doses....” said Cyrus Poonawalla, Serum Institute of India (SII), after meeting with PM Modi. Read moreAmit Shah says J-K statehood will be restored after delimitation and pollsUnion home minister Amit Shah, who's on a three-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir, said delimitation exercise will be carried out in J&K, and polls will also be organised following which J&K's statehood will be restored, reported ANI. The union territory lost its statehood after Article 370 was abrogated by the Parliament in August 5, 2019. PM Modi meets Covid-19 vaccine makers after nation's 'Vaccine Century' featPrime Minister Narendra Modi interacts with coronavirus vaccine manufacturers on the occasion of India crossing 100 crore vaccine doses. Serum Institute's Adar Poonawalla, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya and MoS Health Bharati Pravin Pawar, among others were present at the meeting. Read moreFaizabad railway station to be renamed as Ayodhya Cantt: UP govtUttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has decided to rename Faizabad railway junction as Ayodhya Cantt railway station. Faizabad was renamed as Ayodhya by the UP government in 2018.Three dead due to landslide in Kashmir's Awantipora Three persons have died and one person was injured after a landslide due to heavy rains in Awantipora district of South Kashmir. The deceased persons were from Kalakote. The injured is out of danger and the administration has shifted other families in the region to safer locations. “A nomad family, putting in a tent in South Kashmir's Awantipora, has come under debris after landslide due to heavy rains. We have managed to pull out four persons who have been taken to hospital,” said DC Pulwama Baseer ul Haq choudhary. A bund had collapsed due to rainfall. Read moreNCB raids underway at 3 places in Mumbai's BandraThe Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) is conducting raids at three places in Mumbai's Bandra.Earthquake of magnitude 4.0 strikes Karimnagar, TelanganaEarthquake of magnitude 4.0 on the Richter scale occurred 45 km north-east of Karimnagar, Telangana at 1403 hours, according to the National Center for Seismology.Union home minister Amit Shah reviews security situation in J-KUnion home minister Amit Shah on Saturday reviewed the security situation in Jammu and Kashmir and steps taken to combat terrorism in the Union Territory (UT), after recent attacks on civilians. Uttar Pradesh CM Adityanath to rename Faizabad railway junction as Ayodhya CanttUP CM Yogi Adityanath has taken the decision to rename Faizabad railway junction as Ayodhya Cantt.: Chief Minister's office pic.twitter.com/94f2yckY0WUttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced on Saturday that the Faizabad railway junction will now be renamed as  Ayodhya Cantt. Read moreAmit Shah meets family of slain J-K cop Parvez Ahmad, gives govt job to wifeUnion home minister Amit Shah on Saturday visited the family of Jammu and Kashmir Police inspector Parvez Ahmad, who was shot dead by terrorists in June this year. Shah was accompanied by J-K’s lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha, Union minister Dr Jitendra Singh and J-K Police Dilbag Singh along with other officials. Read moreJammu-Srinagar National Highway closed due to heavy rainsJammu-Srinagar National Highway closed as heavy rains trigger shooting stones and landslides at Ramban and Udhampur: J&K Traffic PoliceUnion home minister Shah arrives in J-K's Srinagar; to chair security review meeting soonUnion Home Minister Amit Shah arrives in Srinagar on a three-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir to review security situation in the Union Territory pic.twitter.com/wlE7XzXoyoUnion home minister Amit Shah, who began his three-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir, arrived in Srinagar on Saturday and was welcomed by lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha. In almost an hour, Shah will chair a meeting to review the security situation in the Union Territory (UT). Russia authorises simultaneous vaccination against Covid-19, influenzaRussia, which is currently facing an increased spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), authorised simultaneous vaccination against Covid-19 and influenza. Read moreExplosion rocks chemical plant in North China; 4 killed, 3 injuredFour people died while three others were injured after an explosion was reported at a chemical plant in North China's Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region, local authorities told news agency Xinhua on Saturday. The explosion was reported at 11pm on Friday at a workshop of a chemical plant in Bayan Obo industrial park in Alxa League (prefecture). The fire was doused by early Saturday. Have enough Covid-19 vaccines available in Tamil Nadu, says state health secyWe've set up 50,000 mega camps in addn to daily camps. Our focus is to cover those who are yet to be vaccinated with either dose 1 or 2. We've enough stock available & appeal ppl to take jab without any doubt, especially elderly ppl: J Radhakrishnan, Tamil Nadu Health Secretary pic.twitter.com/w9Z8AImQwlTamil Nadu health secretary J Radhakrishnan said on Saturday that there are sufficient vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) available in the state and urged people to get inoculated without any doubt. India among 11 'countries of concern': US intel report on climate changeIndia is among the 11 countries which have been identified by United States intelligence agencies as ‘countries of concern’ with regard to climate change. Read moreIndia adds 16,326 Covid cases, sharp spike in new deaths at 666India's daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) again surged on Saturday after 16,326 new cases were recorded in the last 24 hours, pushing the caseload to 34,159,562, according to the Union health ministry's dashboard. The deaths on Friday saw a sharp surge at 666 while 17,677 more patients recovered from the viral disease.  Farmers' huts removed from UP Gate but Delhi-Ghaziabad traffic still affectedThe farmers protesting at Uttar Pradesh border said they have cleared the UP Gate protest site, but Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan reported on Saturday that people coming to the national capital from Ghaziabad are still facing traffic snarls and delays. Read moreBengal CM Banerjee to visit Goa on Oct 28 ahead of 2022 pollsTogether, we will usher in a new dawn for Goa by forming a new govt that will truly be a govt of the people of Goa and committed to realising their aspirations! #GoenchiNaviSakal (2/2)West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo Mamata Banerjee announced on Saturday that she will visit Goa on October 28.  “I call upon all individuals, organisations and political parties to join forces to defeat the BJP and their divisive agenda. The people of Goa have suffered enough over the last 10 years,” Banerjee tweeted. Srinagar: Direct international flights to begin from todayInternational flights directly linking Jammu and Kashmir's Srinagar with the rest of the world will begin from Saturday. The decision was taken in a meeting on Monday chaired by divisional commissioner of Kashmir Pandurang K Pole. Read more Tripura civic polls to be held on Nov 25; counting on Nov 28Tripura State Election Commission (SEC) said that the election to 20 urban local bodies, including Agartala Municipal Corporation in all the eight districts in the state on November 25.AAP to celebrate ‘Valmiki Jayanti’ on grand scale at Thyagaraj Stadium todayThe Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will celebrate ‘Valmiki Jayanti’ on a grand scale at Delhi's Thyagaraj stadium on Saturday. Read moreSenior al-Qaeda leader killed in US drone strike in Syria: PentagonThe Pentagon said that a senior leader of the terrorist group al-Qaeda was killed in a United States drone strike in Syria.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-october-23-2021-101634948249681.html
23-10-2021||India||UP assembly polls: Congress central election committee expected to meet today||The Congress party's Central Election Committee (CEC) will meet on Saturday to discuss the names the probable candidates for Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls scheduled next year. The meeting will be held at party president Sonia Gandhi's house in New Delhi.According to news agency ANI, Congress has scrutinised the probable candidates for 150 assembly seats.Congress has started preparations for the assembly election at various levels. A training campaign is on with the slogan "Prashikshan se Parakram Tak", where party workers at the district and block level are being trained, according to ANI. The programme has already completed two stages.Further, party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is scheduled to visit Uttar Pradesh capital Lucknow early next week where she will hold meetings with members of the party's state election committee members and other office-bearers.She will also launch three pratigya yatras in the state on Saturday. The Congress has already promised 40 per cent reservation for women in the allocation of tickets for UP assembly election and smartphones to class 12 pass girls and electric scooties for graduating women students. Priyanka Gandhi is expected to make more such announcements today.In all, the Congress proposes to make seven pratigyas (promises) to the people of the state ahead of the polls. Its election manifesto is also expected to be released in a few days.The Congress has constituted a screening committee for UP assembly polls under the chairmanship of party leader Bhanwar Jitendra Singh. Congress leaders Deepender Hooda, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Varsha Gaikwad, Ajay Singh Lallu are the members of the committee which has met twice.A lot of churning is also going on within the Congress. The party has called a meeting of all the general secretaries, state in-charges and state presidents on October 26 to strategise the membership drive for internal organisational polls at various levels next year.Uttar Pradesh assembly elections are scheduled to take place early next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-assembly-polls-congress-central-election-committee-expected-to-meet-today-101634947870972.html
23-10-2021||India||PM to interact with beneficiaries of 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat Swayampurna Goa' today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with beneficiaries and stakeholders of the ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat Swayampurna Goa' programme on Saturday. The interaction will take place at 11am via video conferencing. He will also deliver an address after the interaction. Goa chief minister Promod Sawant will be present on the occasion, according to the Prime Minister's Office (PMO).About the programmeThe initiative of Swayampurna Goa was launched on October 1, 2020. Under this programme, a state government officer is appointed as 'Swayampurna Mitra'. The 'Mitra' (friend) visits a designated panchayat or municipality, interacts with people, coordinates with multiple government departments and ensures that various government schemes and benefits are available to the eligible beneficiaries.Objective of the programmeThe major objective of the programme is to ensure that every village in the state becomes self-reliant (aatmanirbhar) by harnessing resources available within the area where it is located.As a part of the Aatmanirbhar Bharat Swayampoorna Goa initiative, government officers, teachers and students reach out to each and every village panchayat.Addressing the people through a video conference earlier, chief minister Sawant had said that no state could flourish if the villages were not self sufficient and hence village panchayat should adopt various sustainable measures to gain economic empowerment for its village.Action plan of the programmeUnder the 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat Swayampurna Goa', a study of the economic revival for village panchayats was undertaken by Directorate of Higher Education and GIPARD. 25 colleges were involved in the process of data collection, preparation of individual reports of 191 village panchayats, reports news agency PTI.The action plan for Aatmanirbhar Bharat Swayampurna Goa consist various aspects of agriculture, animal husbandry, youth and adolescent, senior citizens, women and self-help groups, tourism, fisheries, natural resources, various schemes and their convergence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-to-interact-with-beneficiaries-of-aatmanirbhar-bharat-swayampurna-goa-today-101634945654556.html
23-10-2021||India||‘Free speech not at cost of communal harmony’: Imam’s bail plea dismissed||The “fundamental right of freedom of speech and expression cannot be exercised at cost of communal peace and harmony of society,” said a Delhi court on Friday as it denied bail to Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student Sharjeel Imam for allegedly making a seditious speech at Jamia Nagar in 2019 during a protest against the amended citizenship law.Imam on December 13, 2019, allegedly delivered a provocative speech, which, according to the police, resulted in riots two days later when a mob of over 3,000 people attacked police personnel and torched several vehicles in south Delhi’s Jamia Nagar area.The prosecution argued that Imam allegedly delivered provocative speeches on December 13 and 15 in 2019 and January 16, 2020, resulting in riots at several places.The case in which his bail plea was dismissed on Friday pertained to the December 13 speech, which allegedly instigated a religious community against the government by creating unfounded fears in their minds regarding the Citizenship (Amendment) Act or CAA and the National Register of Citizens (NRC).In a 10-page order, additional sessions judge Anuj Aggarwal said a “cursory” and “plain reading” of the speech revealed that it was “clearly” on communal and divisive lines.“In my view, the tone and tenor of the incendiary speech tend to have a debilitating effect upon public tranquility, peace and harmony of the society... considering the contents of the speech dated December 13, 2019 which tend to have a debilitating effect on communal peace and harmony, I am not inclined to grant bail to applicant/accused Sharjeel Imam at this stage. The accused cannot claim any parity with co-accused as his role is entirely different from other co-accused. Accordingly, the instant application moved on behalf of applicant/accused Sharjeel Imam for grant of regular bail stands dismissed,” the judge said in its order.Quoting a line from 17th century British poet John Milton, the court said the fundamental right of ‘freedom of speech and expression’ has been placed on a very high pedestal in the Indian Constitution. It, however, added that the Constitution also places reasonable restrictions upon exercise of the said right inter alia on the grounds of public order and incitement to offence.The court, however, noted that the prosecution has given scanty and sketchy evidence in support of the allegations that the rioters got instigated by Imam’s speech and thereafter indulged in the acts of rioting, mischief, and attacking the police party.The judge said the prosecution did not cite an eyewitness account, nor was there any evidence on record to suggest that the co-accused were “instigated” and rioted after hearing Imam’s speech.The court also said that the investigating agency’s theory leaves “gaping holes”, which presents an incomplete picture, unless the gaps are filled by “resorting to conjecture” or by relying upon the disclosure statements by Imam and the co-accused.While denying Imam bail, the court also quoted Indian spiritual leader Swami Vivekananda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/free-speech-not-at-cost-of-communal-harmony-imam-s-bail-plea-dismissed-101634945393521.html
23-10-2021||India||Odisha school official accused of murder also got govt funds for his institutions||BHUBANESWAR: While the Odisha police continue to interrogate Gobind Sahu, president of a school managing committee for the second day on charges of killing Mamita Meher, a teacher at his school in Kalahandi district, official documents suggest that Sahu was a steady beneficiary of government largesse despite running a private school in the sleepy village of Mahaling.The 52-year-old civil contractor-turned-education entrepreneur was arrested from a sugarcane field in Bolangir district on Tuesday. On Wednesday, police claimed that he confessed to having strangled 26-year-old woman teacher Mamita Meher in his car on October 8 after she allegedly threatened to expose his “extramarital” affairs. Meher worked as the principal in charge of Sunshine English medium school in Mahaling village, one of the three educational institutes started by Sahu in the region.Buried teacher’s remains in school stadium“It was a premeditated murder and Sahu had a pit dug in an under-construction stadium in the school two days before killing Meher. He burnt the body with petrol and wood and then buried it in the pit. Later, he went with Mehr’s family members to lodge a complaint with local police station about the woman going missing,” said deputy inspector general of police Dipak Kumar. Police are yet to find out the teacher’s mobile phone, considered vital evidence in the case.On Thursday, police arrested Sahu’s associate Radhe who allegedly dug the pit before the murder. While the horrific details of the murder are gradually emerging, the Opposition has amped up pressure on the ruling Biju Janata Dal and the state’s minister of state for home Dibya Shankar Mishra over his close links to Govind Sahu who reinvented himself as an educationist in recent years.Government records indicate that Sahu’s institutions were also major beneficiaries of government funds, often in violation of government guidelines.A report by the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) in 2014 said a cement concrete road was built under PMGSY to the science college run by him at Mahaling from the ₹4 lakh sanctioned by Western Odisha Development Council (WODC), the government body started in 2000 for creation of community-based projects in 10 western Odisha districts infamous for starvation, child sale and labour migration. The CAG audit found that in 2012-13, WODC sanctioned another ₹6 lakh cement concrete road under PMGSY to the women’s hostel as well construction of sidewall of the hostel.The CAG report said the two projects were inadmissible as they were executed depriving needy sectors.WODC records show it sanctioned ₹5 lakh in 2015-16 for the construction of a library hall of the science college though it was an unaided college. In 2020-21, WODC sanctioned ₹10 lakh for building a cement concrete road to the college campus while another ₹5 lakh was given for the construction of an additional classroom at the science degree college.Since 2010-11 when Gobind Sahu first set up the higher secondary school in Mahaling with the help of local politicians, he has been getting steady government funds including MPLAD and MLALAD funds.‘He got preferential treatment’“Though the three educational institutes run by Sahu are not eligible for any government grants, he has been getting government help from different sources including WODC due to his proximity with leaders cutting across party lines. Ministers visit the college regularly and the college has no problem in adding more and more seats, while we are running from pillar to post,” said Kishore Satpathy, who runs a higher secondary school and one of Kalahandi district’s 21 unaided colleges.Satpathy said of the 2,320 science seats in higher secondary streams on offer in Kalahandi district, Sahu’s school alone cornered 488 seats, a little more than 20% of the total seats. “In terms of science seats, his college has the second-highest number of seats in the entire KBK region,” he said, alleging that “this would not have been possible without political patronage”.WODC chairman Asit Tripathy and chief executive officer Prem Chandra Chaudhury did not respond to calls to respond to allegations that Sahu’s institutions received preferential treatment.Started as a contractorSahu started out as a civil contractor and ventured into the education sector in 2010 when he set up the Mahalinga Anchalika Mahavidyalaya, a higher secondary school near the Kalahandi-Bolangir border, with help from local politicians. Those who know him said he liked the respectability that came with the enterprise. He couldn’t hold on to it for too long.Role in paper leakIn 2013, he was accused of leaking chemistry question papers in the annual higher secondary examination, has been charge sheeted in the case and faces trial. For Gobind Sahu who was known to have friends in the right places, this was just a temporary setback. In 2016, he started the Sunshine English medium school which was considered among the most sought-after place for students in the area.Flaunted political linksA Kalahandi politician said for someone who could pass his matriculation exam with great efforts, Sahu came to be known as an educationist who was able to access funds from WODC, and funds available with MLAs and MPs due to his links with politicians.In a YouTube video posted by Sahu’s higher secondary school last year, Sahu flaunts his contacts in In this context, he names minister of state for home and energy, DS Mishra, the BJD politician who the opposition is demanding should be sacked.“He (DS Mishra) has been visiting the college regularly after becoming an MLA in 2014 and almost every month after he became a minister in 2018. He treats any problem of the college as his own. He visits our college for cultural functions and encourages the students,” Sahu is seen claiming in the video.Calls and messages to Mishra seeking his reaction about his alleged proximity to Sahu did not get any response.Opposition protestsMeanwhile, in Kalahandi and Bolangir districts, political protests raged on demanding Mishra’s sacking from the Naveen Patnaik government on grounds that the minister provided the political clout to Sahu. On Wednesday, National Commission for Women chairperson Rekha Sharma wrote to Naveen Patnaik demanding that Mishra and law minister Pratap Jena be sacked from the ministry as a proper police probe was not possible if they continued.In Bolangir district, BJP activists enforced a bandh on Thursday a day after they held a similar bandh in Bhawanipatna town. Kalahandi Zilla Parishad chairperson Namita Rani Sahu alleged that Mishra often spent nights in the college run by Sahu instead of his constituents in Junagarh assembly constituency.The deceased woman teacher’s uncle Kaushik Meher alleged that she may have been killed over not just Sahu’s extramarital affairs but a flesh trade racket.“Mamita confronted Gobinda Sahu, who is the president of Sunshine School’s managing committee and one of the founders of Anchalika Mahavidyalaya about the sex racket running in the hostel. She had a heated altercation with Sahu a year ago over the activities in the hostel,” said Kaushik Meher, her uncle.The ruling BJD said the mere association with Sahu did not prove DS Mishra’s complicity in the crime. “Leaders of all political parties attend functions organised by educational and other institutions. But a wrong committed by a person of an institution cannot be linked to a person who attended a function in that institution as a guest,” said Pramila Mallick, BJD leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-school-official-accused-of-murder-also-got-govt-funds-for-his-institutions-101634933623751.html
23-10-2021||India||Drugs-on-cruise case: Is Aryan Khan's bail plea dismissal normal? Top defence lawyer answers||Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan was denied bail for the second time earlier this week, prompting his lawyers to move Bombay high court. The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) had arrested Aryan Khan and several others after raiding a rave party on a cruise ship off Mumbai on October 2. While the agency admitted that Aryan Khan wasn’t found in possession of drugs, it argued against the bail petition saying the ongoing investigation related to the arrest could lead them to an international racket.Top defence lawyer Rebecca John said that bail should have been granted at the very first instance because Aryan Khan was not found in possession of any drugs, but the NCB apparently wants to make it into an extraordinary case. Appearing on the latest episode of On the Record, John told Hindustan Times' Sunetra Choudhury that a person accompanying Aryan Khan on the cruise was found in possession of a small amount of drug, which was not sufficient ground to deny bail to the actor’s son.“And there doesn't seem to be any apparent nexus of a larger kind, from the facts and circumstances which are available in the public domain, bail should have been granted to him as a matter of right,” the lawyer said.“Its denial, therefore, is a matter of concern because India's criminal jurisprudence says that bail is a rule, jail is the exception,” she added.NCB argued in the court that Aryan Khan was in “conscious possession” of illegal drugs as the agency found 6 grams of charas from his friend, Arbaaz Merchant, who allegedly admitted to the investigators that they intended to use it for “consumption and enjoyment.”“Although no possession is found from the accused number 1, 6gm of charas was found from accused number 2 (Merchant) of which Aryan had the knowledge and thus it can be said that it was in conscious possession of both the accused,” the special NDPS court said in the order denying bail to all the accused.Aryan Khan Case: Why is he in jail without drug possession?Rebecca John said the term "conscious possession" has not been defined under the Narcotic Drug and Psychotropic Substances Act, and courts, on many occasions, turn down the prosecution’s plea saying they aren’t able to determine conscious possession from the facts and circumstances.From effecting arrest to making theories to coming up with allegations that are largely unsubstantiated, John also criticised the way the agency has conducted itself so far. She said that the prosecuting agencies, of late, have a story, then immediately effect an arrest and go around looking for evidence to match the story.Pointing to the fact that some of the persons who acted as attesting witnesses were not independent witnesses, she said that “every prosecuting agency must conduct itself in a manner that is credible, which is trustworthy, and with the highest degree of integrity.”“The least expectation we as citizens have from the system is that the prosecuting agency is conducting itself manner which is credible and trustworthy,” John added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drugsoncruise-case-is-aryan-khan-s-bail-plea-dismissal-normal-top-defence-lawyer-answers-101634929203073.html
23-10-2021||India||Woman IPS officer sexual harassment case: HC orders status quo on ICC proceedings||ChennaiThe Madras high court on Friday ordered maintaining status quo vis-a-vis the proceedings initiated against a suspended special DGP in a sexual harassment case before the Internal Complaints Committee set up by the Tamil Nadu government earlier.The state government alleged before the court that the official concerned was adopting tactics to drag the case.Justice C Saravanan granted the temporary relief for four weeks while passing interim orders on a writ petition from the accused challenging the reports of the panel. Also, the judge directed the government to file its reply by then.Following a complaint from a woman IPS officer on February 22 this year, who was allegedly sexually harassed by the suspended special DGP, the ICC was formed to inquire into the allegations. The second accused was D Kannan, then SP of Chengalpattu, who had allegedly prevented the woman officer from going to Chennai to lodge a complaint with the DGP on that day. Kannan was also placed under suspension.In his writ petition, the official alleged that two members of the ICC were biased towards him. It had submitted its report to the government on April 8 without holding enquiry in a proper and unbiased manner.He prayed the court to quash the proceedings that had been conducted so far by the ICC and order a proper inquiry after following due process of law and in accordance with the provisions of the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act.He claimed most of the witnesses were subordinates to the complainant and they could not depose freely. Hence, he prayed for the transfer of the complainant to some other place. But, this request was also not considered.Based on the ICC’s report, a charge-memo was issued to him on May 31. But, even a copy of the report was not furnished to him. “As such the entire proceedings are vitiated and liable to be struck down,” he claimed.Advocate-General R Shanmugasundaram submitted that the charge-sheet in the case had already been filed. The Supreme Court had also rejected the accused official’s plea to transfer the case to some other neighbouring State. Following an objection from him, one member of the ICC had been shifted out from the panel, he said, adding that the officer was adopting tactics to drag the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-ips-officer-sexual-harassment-case-hc-orders-status-quo-on-icc-proceedings-101634929362475.html
23-10-2021||India||Kerala high court raises questions over virtual queue system at Sabarimala||Kochi The Kerala high court has questioned the state government and the Kerala police whether they have the power to manage the virtual queue at Sabarimala Temple. The court asked if the government is authorised to set up a virtual queue and what is its role in temple affairs.Hearing a PIL challenging the legality of the ‘Sabarimala Pilgrim Management System’ (SPMS) implemented by the Kerala police, a division bench of Justices Anil K Narendran and PG Ajithkumar asked on Thursday, “What is the power of the government to set up a virtual queue in Sabarimala? What is the role of government in temple affairs?”The PIL alleged that the SPMS is restricting darshan at Sabarimala to only those who have availed the virtual queue services.The bench said, “The regulation is to be exercised by the Travancore Devaswom Board as the temple trustee. The government says the virtual queue is for a smoother darshan in the temple. Can this be decided between the government and the police without obtaining orders from the necessary authority? At any point in time, did you obtain any necessary permission from the Devaswom Board?”The government informed the court that the state implemented the virtual queue system to solve the issue of the crowd and that was implemented after the consultation with the Devaswom Board.The court asked the state that if there were specific orders that permitted it to place such a system and to proceed with it. On this, the state replied, “The virtual queue system was not a new scheme and that it had been implemented since 2011. Over 75 lakh pilgrims have already utilised the facility over the years. Its sole purpose was to facilitate smooth darshan without having to make the devotees wait in queue for long hours. The Kerala Police only handles the matter of virtual queues and that every other activity of the Sabarimala temple is handled by the Board itself.”The court directed the state government to file a reply on November 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-high-court-raises-questions-over-virtual-queue-system-at-sabarimala-101634929183119.html
23-10-2021||India||Hindus alone entitled for recruitment in HR&CE institutions: Tamil Nadu advocate general to high court||ChennaiHindus alone are entitled for appointment in teaching and non-teaching posts in educational institutions run and funded by the state Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) department, the Tamil Nadu government informed the Madras high court on Friday.Advocate General R Shunmugasundaram said this when Justice C Saravanan was hearing a writ petition from a Muslim youth challenging the relevant provision.The petition from Suhail sought to quash an employment advertisement in a Tamil daily dated October 13, which invited applications only from Hindus for appointment for teaching and non-teaching posts in the newly started Shri Kapaleeswarar Arts and Science College in Kolathur and consequently direct the authorities to permit him to compete for the post of office assistant.The petitioner contended that the HR&CE has no authority to impose the condition that other religious persons are not eligible to be appointed. Being an Indian citizen and native of Tamil Nadu, he claimed he is entitled for the protection provided under Articles 16(1) and 16(2) of the Constitution, which provide equal opportunity in matters of public employment.Advocate-general R Shunmugasundaram informed the court there is a provision in the HR&CE Act stipulating that only Hindus must be appointed in the educational institutions run and funded by the department. Moreover, the appointment process has already begun, he added.Directing the AG to file a detailed counter, the judge posted the matter after two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hindus-alone-entitled-for-recruitment-in-hr-ce-institutions-tamil-nadu-advocate-general-to-high-court-101634929003138.html
23-10-2021||India||Minister C N Ashwath Narayan inaugurates Hyperscale data centre in Bengaluru||Bengaluru Teleindia Networks unveiled its greenfield hyperscale data centre-- DataSamudra-- in Bengaluru on Friday in line with the growing market demand and to offer value differentiation in data centre market.Minister for Higher Education, IT-BT, Science and Technology, C N Ashwath Narayan, and Chief Executive Officer of Lightstorm Telecom Connectivity Amajit Gupta were present at the launch of DataSamudra, an official press release said.It claimed that DataSamudra will be India’s first ‘on-demand on-requirement data centre’.Speaking on the occasion, Narayan explained the opportunities these projects bring to the state and add value to its IT industry.“Employment generation, global focus and creating new avenues for emerging businesses are some of the immediate outcomes such projects bring about. DataSamudra will be a key contributor for such growth,” the minister was quoted as saying.DataSamudra is located in the new KIADB IT Park in Bengaluru with state-of-the-art facilities in one lakh sq ft built-up area. It will provide 500 high density rack, IT power load of 3 MW, with futuristic IT and core infrastructure, the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minister-c-n-ashwath-narayan-inaugurates-hyperscale-data-centre-in-bengaluru-101634928952674.html
23-10-2021||India||Stalin urges Centre for additional stock of fertilisers||ChennaiWith a shortfall in the supply of nutrients, particularly Urea, di-ammonium phosphate (DAP) and muriate of potash (MOP) to Tamil Nadu, Chief Minister M K Stalin on Friday urged the Centre to provide additional 25,000 metric tonnes of DAP and 10,000 MT of MOP to the State to save the farm sector from a crisis.He said already the State did not get the entire quantum of fertilisers allocated to it from April to September this year and also for October.“Samba crop cultivation is a very important season in Tamil Nadu. This year, the State government has fixed a target of 125 lakh MT of food grains production including rice and pulses and initiated measures in this direction,” the Chief Minister said in a letter to Union Chemicals and Fertilisers Minister Mansukh Mandaviya.The shortage in the supply of urea and DAP will not only severely affect the food grains production but also corrode the farmers’ revenue, he reasoned.An official release said the Chief Minister pointed out that Tamil Nadu received widespread rains during the current Southwest Monsoon season and the Mettur dam was opened as scheduled on June 12 to facilitate the agriculture activities in the Delta districts.“As a result, the area under paddy cultivation exceeded 4.9 lakh acres. Also, all the major dams in the State were opened after many years to facilitate farming operations, resulting in increasing the prospects of raising the paddy in over 10 lakh acres,” he said.Further, with the Northeast Monsoon expected to commence on October 26, this year’s prospects of raising the Samba crop is very bright. So, the demand for fertilisers has increased this year.Though, the Centre ought to have supplied 4.911 lakh MT urea to meet its demand from April to September 2021, the fertiliser companies have supplied 3.852 lakh MT urea to Tamil Nadu, leading to a shortfall of 1.059 lakh MT. Similarly, of the 1.47 lakh MT DAP to be supplied during this period, only 1.15 lakh MT DAP was supplied, leading to a shortfall of 32,000 MT.During October, as against the requirement of 1,66,700 MT urea, 45,150 MT DAP, 31,750 MT MOP, the firms supplied 1,43,500 MT urea, 4,480 MT DAP and 8,140 MT of MOP. “Hence, appropriate orders should be issued to the officials concerned to disburse the total quantity of urea as planned and an additional 25,000 MT of DAP and 10,000 MT of MOP,” the Chief Minister urged in the letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stalin-urges-centre-for-additional-stock-of-fertilisers-101634928882384.html
23-10-2021||India||Karnataka logs 378 Covid cases in single-day spike||Bengaluru Karnataka on Friday logged 378 new cases of COVID-19 and 11 deaths, taking the total number of infections to 29,85,227 and death toll to 37,995, the health department said.The day also saw 464 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries to 29,38,312.Bengaluru Urban accounted for 195 new cases, as the city saw 239 discharges and 7 deaths.Active cases in the state stood at 8,891.While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.36 per cent, case fatality rate (CFR) was at 2.91 per cent.Apart from Bengaluru Urban, one death each was reported from from Davangere, Dharwad, Kolar and Tumakuru.After Bengaluru Urban, Dakshina Kannada recorded the highest of 24 new cases, Mysuru and Tumakuru 23 each and Hassan 21.Bengaluru Urban district now has a total of 12,50,320 positive cases, followed by Mysuru 1,78,885 and Tumakuru 1,20,640.Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 12,27,388, followed by Mysuru 1,76,128 and Tumakuru 1,19,279.Cumulatively a total of 4,99,10,988 samples have been tested in the state, of which 1,03,121 were tested on Friday alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-logs-378-covid-cases-in-single-day-101634928704165.html
23-10-2021||India||Harish Chaudhary appointed new Congress committee in-charge for Punjab||The Congress on Friday appointed Rajasthan revenue minister Harish Chaudhary the new All India Congress Committee (AICC) in-charge for party affairs in the poll-bound Punjab, relieving Harish Rawat on his request. Chaudhary, who was the AICC secretary for Punjab till now, has also been made the in-charge for Chandigarh.The decision follows Rawat’s request to the party high-command to relieve him as general secretary in-charge for Punjab affairs in view of the upcoming assembly elections his home state of Uttarakhand.Rawat, a former chief minister, is spearheading the Congress’ bid to regain power in Uttarakhand by ousting the BJP. Assembly elections are due early next year in Uttarakhand.“Congress president has appointed Harish Chaudhary as AICC in-charge of Punjab and Chandigarh with immediate effect. Harish Rawat is being relieved from his current responsibility as AICC general secretary in-charge of Punjab and Chandigarh,” an official party statement said.Rawat will, however, continue to be a member of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), the highest-decision making body of the party.“The party appreciates his contribution as general secretary,” the statement further said.Rawat played a key role in bringing in Navjot Singh Sidhu as the Punjab Congress chief despite strong opposition from then chief minister Amarinder Singh, who subsequently resigned alleging humiliation by the party.Rawat’s role was crucial also in Amarinder Singh being replaced by Charanjit Singh Channi as the chief minister of Punjab.Rawat expressed gratitude to party chief Sonia Gandhi and former president Rahul Gandhi for relieving him of the charge of Punjab on his request. He also thanked all his party colleagues in Punjab and hoped he would participate in campaign for the assembly elections there.He also expressed hope that the Punjab chief minister and other ministers would campaign along with him in Uttarakhand.Chaudhary thanked the Congress president and former president Rahul Gandhi for entrusting the responsibility to him.“Together with all colleagues in the organisation, will work strongly for the party,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/harish-chaudhary-appointed-new-congress-committee-in-charge-for-punjab-101634928702943.html
23-10-2021||India||Disproportionate assets case: Vigilance crackdown on AIADMK leader||Chennai: Officials of the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) on Friday conducted searches at 36 locations linked to R Elangovan, the chairman of the Tamil Nadu State Apex Cooperative Bank, and his son.Elangovan is said to be an aide of former chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami as they both hail from Tamil Nadu’s Salem district. They were booked under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 and Indian Penal Code. Following search operations, officials seized cash of ₹29.77 lakh, 10 luxury cars including a Cooper and an Audi, two Volvo buses, 21 kgs of gold jewellery and other incriminating documents, said an official. The FIR says that Elangovan acquired assets worth ₹3.78 crore, which is 131% in excess of his known sources of income, by allegedly using his political connections. Simultaneously, the second round of raids against former health minister C Vijayabhaskar was also going on in four places. “A search warrant was obtained from (the) Special Judge, Pudukottai and searches are being conducted in three places in Chennai and one place in Salem,” said a senior DVAC official not wishing to be quoted. On Monday, officials had raided 43 locations linked to Vijayabaskar on charges of disproportionate assets he allegedly amassed during his tenure as minister. The FIR filed against Vijayabhaskar stated that he had created a trust, named ‘Mother Terasa Educational and Charitable Trust’, in his native place Pudukottai and alleged black money channelled through this trust was being probed. Previously, three other powerful former AIADMK ministers -- S P Velumani, M R Vijayabhakasr and K C Veeramani -- were searched on charges of corruption. All of them are known to be close to Palaniswami. The DMK which came to power in May had promised in its election manifesto that they will establish a special court to try AIADMK ministers on charges of graft. The DVAC registered a disproportionate assets case against Elangovan, 57, and his son E Praveen Kumar, 27. The check period for the searches is from April 1, 2014 till March 31, 2020. The FIR stated that the likely savings of Elangovan and his family should have not exceeded ₹1,52,65,540 during the period. However, the family had acquired assets worth ₹3,78,31,755, which is 131% of their total income. Furthermore, the officials suspect that the accused father-son duo have assets in the names of benamis even outside Tamil Nadu. The DVAC began searches in as many as 26 locations including 17 in Salem and in other districts of Namakkal, Karur, Trichy and Chennai. Elangovan was elected as the chairman of the Tamil Nadu State Apex Cooperative Bank and president of Salem District Central Cooperative Bank twice in 2013 and in 2018. Praveen is a vice-chairman of Swamy Ayyappan Educational Trust in Salem district. “During the check period (April 2014 to March 2020) by virtue of his official position and his close association with top politicians, Elangovan enriched himself illicitly and was in a possession of pecuniary resources and assets disproportionate to the known sources of income,” the FIR stated. His Twitter bio says that he is AIADMK’s Salem rural district Amma wing secretary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disproportionate-assets-case-vigilance-crackdown-on-aiadmk-leader-101634928643345.html
23-10-2021||India||Three-day RSS meet in Karnataka from October 28||Meeting of the All India Executive Council of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) known as Akhil Bharatiya Karyakari Mandal (ABKM) will be held from October 28-30 in Karnataka’s Dharwad district, said RSS sources on Friday.The meeting which will take place at Rashtrotthana Vidya Kendra in the Dharwad district of Karnataka comes ahead of the 2023 Assembly polls.According to sources, the organisational activities of the party shall be discussed in the meeting which will be chaired by RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat and general secretary GS Dattatreya Hosabale.“Organisational activities like plans of expansion and training of party workers will be discussed in the meeting. In addition, the party may discuss the upcoming Vidhan Sabha elections and the present situation of the country,” said sources.According to RSS sources, a total of 350 delegates across the nation will participate in the meeting along with state office bearers, for valuable discussions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/threeday-rss-meet-in-karnataka-from-october-28-101634928462896.html
23-10-2021||India||Odisha teen sold wife to Rajasthan man month after wedding, bought a smartphone||BHUBANESWAR: A 17-year-old has been held by the Odisha Police on charges of selling his wife a month after their wedding to a 55-year-old man in Rajasthan where he had gone to work in a brick kiln.The woman, a 26-year-old, has been rescued by the police from the south-eastern Rajasthan district of Baran which borders Madhya Pradesh, with “great difficulty” as local villagers refused to let the police team take her away, emphasising that they had paid for her.The two were married in July this year.“In August, the couple went to Rajasthan via Raipur and Jhansi to work in a brick kiln. However a few days after his new job, the 17-year-old sold off his wife to a 55-year-old man from Baran district for ₹1.8 lakh,” said Bulu Munda, inspector in charge of Belpada police station in Balangir district.The teenager splurged the money on dining and bought himself a smartphone. He later returned to his village and when his wife’s family asked him about her, he claimed that she deserted him.The woman’s family didn’t buy his story and lodged a police complaint with the police. They checked his call records and spotted gaps in his story.“We interrogated him and found out that he sold his wife. A team from Balangir went to Rajasthan to trace the woman. However, the locals there did not allow our team to take her back insisting that the woman has been bought for ₹1.8 lakh. We could get her back home with great difficulty,” said the police officer.The 17-year-old was produced before a juvenile court on Friday and sent to a correctional home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-teen-sold-wife-to-rajasthan-man-month-after-wedding-bought-a-smartphone-101634928402926.html
23-10-2021||India||Karnataka HC to hear plea against arrests in online gambling ban on October 27||The Karnataka high court on Friday formally observed that the government can accede to requests that no arrests be made under the new law that bans online gambling. However, there was no order to this effect, people aware of the developments said. “There is no order or any direction. The case has been posted for Wednesday (October 27) for considering whether an interim order can be granted,” Prabhuling K Navadgi, the advocate general of Karnataka told Hindustan Times on Friday. The observation came while the court was hearing a case filed by the All India Gaming Federation (AIGF) and Mobile Premiere League (MPL) who challenged the new legislation in Karnataka that bans any sort of online gambling that has raised apprehensions among companies operating in India’s IT capital. AIGF, in its petition, also said that the state government is introducing vagueness and morality to exercise ‘social control’. “It is submitted that acts such as playing of games of skill, which is accepted by the society standards, cannot be forced upon the society as immoral by the respondent state, with its own notion of morality and thereby exercise ‘social control’. In any event, it is submitted that it the intention of the respondent state is irrelevant, and what has to be considered is whether the effect or operation of the law infringes fundamental rights (which is the case in the present instance),” the petition stated. Companies have also asked the court to restrain the state government and the police from directly or indirectly ‘preventing, interfering, disturbing and/or obstructing the members of the petitioner society (as per Annexure D) from carrying on their business’.The developments come even as police in Bengaluru and other parts of Karnataka continue to crack down on gambling activities. The Central Crime Branch (CCB) in Bengaluru on Wednesday said that it has so far registered 20 cases of betting during the recently concluded Indian Premier League (IPL). “In the recently concluded IPL, CCB registered (a) total of 20 cricket betting cases and seized ₹78 lakh and arrested 27 accused,” Sandeep Patil, Joint Commissioner of Police (CCB) had said in a statement on October 20. Patil told Hindustan Times that these cases were registered over the last 2 to 3 weeks or during the IPL season in which the Chennai Super Kings won the tournament. “All this (cases) has happened before the ban,” Patil clarified, stating that gambling in itself is an offence under the Karnataka Police Act. The amendments were tabled and passed in the recently concluded monsoon session of the state legislature which was held between September 13 to 24. The Karnataka Police (Amendment) Bill, 2021 which among other changes, has banned ‘any act or risking money, or otherwise on the unknown result of an event including on a game of skill,’ which has added to apprehensions as it proposes to include skill in what was earlier only on a game of chance. The online gaming industry, which gained significant traction during the Covid-19 pandemic-induced lockdown, is slated to grow from 360 million gamers to 510 million by 2022, according to a 2021 report by All India Gaming Federation (AIGF) and EY. The report adds that 85% of these are mobile gamers. It also estimates that online real money game players are expected to grow from 80 million in 2020 to 150 million by 2023.Estimates indicate that Karnataka, known for its prowess in technology, accounts for around 15% of the country’s market. In its petition, the AIGF said that there were over 400 start-ups in India, valued at $885 million in the online gaming space, and out of this around 71 online gaming start-ups are registered in Bengaluru, which is estimated to create 40,000 new jobs in the sector by 2022. Karnataka has attracted over ₹3,000 crore of investments and employs over 1200 people. The petition added that by virtue of the amending Act, gaming companies will not even be permitted to carry on their operations from Bengaluru to provide a platform for playing of games of skill in other states where the same is permitted under law.To be sure, most online gaming and gambling apps have disabled their services in Karnataka after the notification of the law on October 5. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-hc-to-hear-plea-against-arrests-in-online-gambling-ban-on-october-27-101634928224320.html
23-10-2021||India||Imran Khan in rare face-off with Pakistan army over naming new ISI chief||Pakistan’s political circles were abuzz with speculation on Friday following a further delay in the formal appointment of the next chief of the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) agency by Prime Minister Imran Khan.Khan has been locked in an unprecedented face-off with the powerful army, which issued a statement to the media on October 6 naming Lt Gen Nadeem Anjum as the next ISI chief, replacing incumbent Lt Gen Faiz Hameed.According to convention, the Pakistan Army forwards the names of three lieutenant generals to the prime minister, who picks one as the ISI director general. Though the formal announcement about the choice is made by the premier, it is widely understood that the army chief conveys which of the three officers should be picked for the post.As part of a reshuffle announced by the army on October 6, Hameed was to be moved out of the ISI to head the Peshawar-based XI Corps. A stint in an operational command is needed to put Hameed in contention for becoming army chief after the current chief, Gen Qamar Bajwa, completes his extended term in November 2022.However, people familiar with the matter said Khan has been dragging his feet on making a formal announcement about the next ISI chief. Various theories have done the round in Pakistan in this connection. Some have said Khan believes Hameed should remain in his current post because of the role he has been playing in shaping developments in Afghanistan. After differences emerged among the Taliban over forming a setup in Kabul, Hameed rushed to the Afghan capital to cobble together a setup that put hardliners and members of the Haqqani Network in the driving seat.Others have contended that Khan’s wife, a pirni or spiritual guide, had suggested that the time was not auspicious to make a change in the ISI. There were even reports that Khan’s camp had made an unprecedented suggestion that Hameed should serve as both ISI chief and XI Corps commander.Khan’s stance has aggravated relations between the civilian government and the army. The people cited above said the army is expected to move forward with a planned reshuffle of top generals by October 25.Adding to the speculation in political circles was the fact that Hameed has accompanied foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi on his first visit to Kabul since the Taliban assumed power in mid-August. Hameed has been seen publicly with Qureshi in meetings with the top Taliban leadership.There was an expectation that Khan would issue a notification on Anjum’s appointment on Friday as he met the general this view to sound him about the ISI chief’s post. Bajwa and Khan have also met to resolve the issue.The imbroglio has also led to speculation about the future of Khan’s government, which has depended on the army to prop it up since it came to power in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imran-khan-in-rare-face-off-with-pakistan-army-over-naming-new-isi-chief-101634928112019.html
23-10-2021||India||CBI arrests six people for making derogatory social media posts against Andhra Pradesh judges||New Delhi The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) arrested six people for allegedly making derogatory posts on social media against the Andhra Pradesh high court’s judges and the judiciary, CBI officials said on Friday.According to the statement from officials, the arrested people were identified as Sridhar Reddy Avuthu, Jalagam Venkata Satyanarayana, Guda Sridhar Reddy, Sreenath Suswaram, Kishore Kumar Darisa and Sudduluri Ajay Amruth. The arrested accused will be produced before the competent court.CBI said the case was registered on November 11, 2020, against 16 accused and it took over the investigation of 12 FIRs from the state Crime Investigation Department (CID) in pursuance of the orders of the Andhra Pradesh high court.It was alleged that the accused were intentionally targeting the judiciary and made derogatory posts on social media platforms against judges following some Court verdicts delivered by the Judges of the High Court.Objectionable posts were removed from the social media platforms, public domains and a lot of such posts/accounts were removed from the internet, CBI added,During the investigation, CBI had earlier arrested five accused and also filed five separate charge sheets against them.The investigation is continuing including through the channels of MLAT, Interpol to collect evidence from abroad, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-arrests-six-people-for-making-derogatory-social-media-posts-against-andhra-pradesh-judges-101634927983011.html
23-10-2021||India||‘Salute every soldier’: Ashoka flags off NSG rally in Bengaluru||Bengaluru The National Security Guard’s (NSG) Black Cat rally, ‘Sudarshan Bharat Parikrama,’ was accorded a rousing welcome here with many cultural events marking their arrival on Friday.Karnataka Revenue Minister R Ashoka, who flagged off the car rally, said if people feel safe in the country, it is because of the soldiers.“I want to salute every soldier of our country. If we are safe today it is because of the sacrifices made by our soldiers, who are braving extreme weather and standing 24x7 to safeguard our country. I am happy to be part of the Sudarshan Bharat Parikrama Rally, conducted as part of the ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’, the 75th anniversary of Indian Independence,” Ashoka said.He said the rally will help understand the unity in diversity as the participants will come across different culture, religion and languages in different regions of the country.Arjuna Awardee and Olympian in shooting P N Prakash, wildlife photographer Giri Cavale and on behalf of late Ashoka Chakra awardee Major Sandeep Unnikrishnan, his parents, were felicitated on the occasion. The NSG Car Rally was flagged of by Union Home Minister Amit Shah from the Red Fort in New Delhi on October 2 as part of nationwide celebration of ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’.According to the Director General of NSG, M A Ganapathi, the rally will cover a distance of 7,500 kilometres covering various states and important cities of India.So far the rally has covered 4,705 km and reached Bengaluru, Ganapathi said adding, in Karnataka it has covered about 700 km.“The rally has paid homage to many known and unknown martyrs, who sacrificed their valuable lives for the freedom of the country.Surely, this rally will play an important role in awakening the spirit of patriotism in the next generation and the youth of the country,” the IPS officer said.The participants paid tribute at the Kakoki Memorial in Lucknow, Mangal Pandey Memorial in Barrackpore, Netaji Bhavan in Kolkata, Gandhi Hill in Vijayawada and many other places, Ganapathi informed the audience.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/salute-every-soldier-ashoka-flags-off-nsg-rally-in-bengaluru-101634927923276.html
23-10-2021||India||Top court serves notice to former Twitter India MD on U.P. government’s plea||New Delhi: The Supreme Court on Friday agreed to examine the appeal filed by the Uttar Pradesh government against a Karnataka high court order, which had quashed a police notice seeking personal appearance of then Twitter India managing director Manish Maheshwari for a probe into a communally sensitive video uploaded by a user on the micro-blogging website. A bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana, issued a notice to Maheshwari, who was moved to the US by Twitter in August as senior director, revenue strategy and operations. “We issue notice. We will hear the matter in detail,” observed the bench, which also comprised justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli. Earlier, solicitor general Tushar Mehta, representing the Uttar Pradesh police, told the bench that he is raising a question of law on the territorial jurisdiction of the Karnataka high court in entertaining a petition against proceedings pending in Uttar Pradesh. Appearing for the Twitter official, senior advocates Abhishek Manu Singhvi and Sidharth Luthra sought time to file a response to the state’s appeal. The court gave them four weeks to do so. The Ghaziabad police had lodged a first information report (FIR) in June over a video purportedly showing an attack on a Muslim man. The Uttar Pradesh police claimed the video was manipulated to present a skewed communal narrative, and it was amplified by its spread on Twitter. Subsequently, Ghaziabad police issued to Bengaluru-based Maheshwari a notice under Section 41A of the Code of Criminal Procedure, demanding his personal presence before them. The Uttar Pradesh police also rejected Maheshwari’s request to let him appear through video-conferencing. Maheshwari then approached the Karnataka high court, which held in July that the petition challenging the notice was maintainable. Justice G Narendar of the high court also noted that Section 41A notice was resorted to as an arm-twisting method after Maheshwari did not respond to the initial notice sent to him. “Provisions of the statute cannot be permitted to become tools of harassment. Respondent (UP Police) has not placed even an iota of material to demonstrate even prima facie involvement of the petitioner (Maheshwari),” the HC order had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-court-serves-notice-to-former-twitter-india-md-on-u-p-government-s-plea-101634927867419.html
23-10-2021||India||Karnataka bypolls: BJP, Congress spar over welfare schemes||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday lashed out at the Congress over its popular ‘Anna Bhagya’ (free rice) scheme launched during Siddaramaiah’s tenure between 2013-18. “He (Siddaramaiah) says it in a way that Anna Bhagya came only after him. Wasn’t rice being distributed in ration shops before that,” chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said in Hanagal constituency. The constituency is part of Bommai’s home district of Haveri and the CM is leaving no stones unturned to secure his first electoral victory since he took over the top chair in July this year. He was joined by his predecessor and mentor, BS Yediyurappa during his campaign trail on Friday. Bommai also alleged that Siddaramaiah had misled people by stating that 1.7 million homes were being built for economically weaker sections (EWS). “Siddaramaiah has given a statement that he gave away 1.7 million houses when he was the chief minister. The fact is that he had only sanctioned 1.5 million houses on paper whereas he should have allocated funds too,” Bommai told reporters in Hanagal. The campaign for the October 30 bypolls has picked up pace with all three.political parties roping in their senior leadership to mobilize support. Hitting back at Bommai and Yediyurappa, Siddaramaiah challenged both the leaders to come for a debate in public on contributions made by their respective governments. Comparing the schemes announced by BJP and Congress governments, the senior Congress leader said, “We were giving 7kg rice to 12 million families. It was going to nearly 40 million people. Yediyurappa said that the Centre is giving this rice. If this is the case why is it not being given in Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and other places.” He said that he had met Yediyurappa during the peak of the Covid- 19 pandemic and urged him to distribute 10kgs of rice and give ₹10,000 per person to alleviate the suffering of the people but to no avail. Leaders of all the three political parties are also rushing to meet influential and prominent seers of various communities in the hope to get some support and increase their chances of winning.The Panchamasali, the biggest sub-sect within the dominant Lingayats, on Wednesday had made a veiled threat to the government to get the report from the backward classes commission over the community’s reservation demands.Mathas (Mutt) or monasteries play a big role in elections with seers often appearing apolitical but are believed to use support as a bargaining chip.Janata Dal (Secular) leader and former chief minister HD Kumaraswamy also challenged Siddaramaiah on the latters contribution to the constituency.Though the Congress has tried to paint the JD(S) as the “B-team” of the BJP, the former prime minister HD Deve Gowda-led regional outfit are trying to shrug this reputation by attacking both national parties in its bypoll campaign.“How many years will you peddle the same lies? For the last 20 years, the people of Sindgi constituency have supported our (JD(S)) party. What is their contribution? What is our contribution? Let Siddaramaiah come for an open discussion,” Kumaraswamy said in Sindgi, the other constituency headed to the bypolls.Kumaraswamy will take part in a campaign activities in Hanagal constituency on Saturday.The JD(S) has fielded Muslim candidates in both constituencies which the Congress has alleged is to split the minority vote and indirectly help the BJP--an allegation vehemently denied by the regional outfit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-bypolls-bjp-congress-spar-over-welfare-schemes-101634927683837.html
23-10-2021||India||Siddaramaiah slams BJP for celebrating billion doses||Senior Congress leader Siddaramaiah on Friday lashed out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for celebrating the administration of 1 billion vaccine doses but failing to notice that only 290 million Indians have received both doses.“’1 billion doses’ sounds fancy number but the devil is in the details. Only 290 million people out of 1.39 billion are fully vaccinated, which means only about 21% are fully vaccinated. What are @BJP4India leaders celebrating for? For vaccinating just 21% of the population?” Siddaramaiah said in a post on Twitter.The post comes a day after the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led BJP government celebrated the achievement calling it a “historic” and “world record” feat.“In US, 56% population are fully vaccinated, in China it is 70%, in Canada it is 71%. But India’s fully vaccinated coverage is just 21%. Mr. @narendramodi, let us raise the bar before celebrating!!” Siddaramaiah added.Since breaching the 1 billion mark, BJP ministers and those inclined to support the party have stirred a storm on social media, hailing Modi for his leadership in helping achieving this feat while pulling up critics and the Opposition for doubting the former’s abilities.“There may be a need for booster dose too & with even 1st doses & 2nd doses pending for large population, can we even think of booster dose? Mr PM @narendramodi, Let us put a hold to the celebrations & concentrate on vaccinating everyone,” Siddaramaiah said.Several other leaders, academics and experts have questioned the celebrations even as hundreds and thousands continue to lose their life due to the virus.Karnataka accounts for around 6% of the country’s vaccination coverage, data shows.“We have given 1 billion (doses) and will those people who got it stand up and show. The Centre knew that they would ask. So one has to first register then it has to be linked with Aadhar. After all this is done scientifically, only then vaccinations are done,” Basavaraj Bommai, Karnataka’s chief minister said on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/siddaramaiah-slams-bjp-for-celebrating-billion-doses-101634927443053.html
23-10-2021||India||Farmer dies waiting in queue for fertiliser in Uttar Pradesh||A 58-year-old farmer died in a queue outside a fertiliser shop on Friday in Uttar Pradesh’s Lalitpur district, where he was allegedly waiting for his turn for the last two days, said his son, Kripal.“Bhogilal Pal of Nayagaon died due to cardiac arrest at a fertiliser shop around 9.30 am. He was standing in a queue for the past two days,” Superintendent of Police Nikhil Pathak was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Kripal said his father had slept outside Rajput Khaad Bhandar in Jugpura area on Thursday night. “Today, he was waiting for his turn in the queue but fell unconscious and was taken to a hospital, where he was declared brought dead,” he said. The deceased farmer was waiting to get fertiliser for their two-acre land.Soon after the incident, Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav sought compensation for the farmer’s family and attacked the Uttar Pradesh government in a tweet, saying never in the “history of independent India has the farmer been so harassed and humiliated”.Later in the day, district magistrate A Dinesh Kumar met the deceased farmer’s family and assured a compensation of ₹5 lakh from the chief minister relief fund. “We have written to the government for the release of compensation money,” he said.Meanwhile, Bharatiya Kisan Union president Lakhan Pal demanded a compensation of ₹50 lakh for the family. The Congress threatened to protest in case higher compensation was not paid to the deceased farmer’s family.Lalitpur has been witnessing a massive surge in the demand for fertiliser over the last one week. The DM said the seasonal rain that lashed the district has increased the demand manifold. The sowing, which was supposed to be done in 30-40 days, will now have to be completed within 10 days. “As a result, the farmers are turning up at the fertiliser shops in large number,” the DM added.Earlier, farmers struggling to get fertilisers had blocked the traffic on Lalitpur-Madavara and Galla Mandi roads on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmer-dies-waiting-in-queue-for-fertiliser-in-uttar-pradesh-101634926842908.html
23-10-2021||India||Congress calls for meeting on October 26 to plan internal polls||The Congress party has called a meeting of all general secretaries, state in-charges and state presidents, on October 26, to strategise the membership drive for internal organisational polls at various levels next year, besides protests against the Centre over price rise.In a letter to all state Congress chiefs, All India Congress Committee general secretary (organization) KC Venugopal also asked them to turn the membership drive for organisational polls into a “mass campaign process”. The letter, accessed by HT, also stated that “social media/digital platforms should be widely used” and senior leaders should be actively involved in the membership drive. Each state unit has been asked to appoint one general secretary as in charge of the enrolment.The party has formed a panel to strategise agitations and protest programmes across states. “The Congress Working Committee (CWC), in its last meeting on October 15, had decided to launch a massive people’s protest against the price rise of essential commodities and the spiraling fuel prices. This meeting on October 26 will decide how to take this forward,” a senior leader aware of the developments said, seeking anonymity.The emphasis of a proper strategy and synergy in highlighting key issues among the people assumes significance in view of elections in crucial states such as Uttar Pradesh and Punjab, which are due next year, besides the larger goal of 2024 general elections.Meanwhile, the central election committee (CEC) or apex body of the party is slated to meet at party chief Sonia Gandhi’s residence on Saturday to discuss the ‘probable candidates’ for the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections. The meeting indicates that the party is proactively aiming at selecting candidates to give them maximum time for campaign.The party has already identified possible candidates in at least 150 seats of the states, party leaders familiar with the matter said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-calls-for-meeting-on-october-26-to-plan-internal-polls-101634926784156.html
23-10-2021||India||Kerala customs department submits charge sheet in gold smuggling case||The Kerala customs department on Friday filed a charge sheet in the gold smuggling case, stating that 169 kg of precious metal was smuggled into the country on multiple occasions with the connivance of some officials of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) consulate in the state capital, a senior customs official familiar with the developments said on condition of anonymity.The official said the customs department has named 29 people in the charge sheet, including the former principal secretary of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, M Sivasankaran, who is named as the 29th accused in the case. According to the charge sheet, Sivasankaran was aware of the smuggling activities of other accused and failed to report them.The 3,000-page charge sheet — submitted before the special court dealing with economic offences in Ernakulam —stated that most of the smuggled gold was converted into ornaments and it was difficult to trace them. It also named former employee of the UAE consulate, PS Sarith, as the first accused and accused KT Rameez as the mastermind of the smuggling racket, the official said.The customs official cited above said on condition of anonymity that the accused would regularly smuggle yellow metal by misusing the diplomatic immunity of the consulate and diverted it to the gold market. They would share the proceeds and smuggled gold would then be dispatched to jewellers in Hyderabad, Mumbai and Kozhikode, the official added.The sensational gold smuggling case came to light in July 2020 after the seizure of 30 kg gold hidden in bathroom fittings in one of the consignments camouflaged as diplomatic baggage of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) consulate in state capital. The case was later handed over to the National Investigation Agency and it arrested Swapna Suresh and her accomplice Sandeep Nair from their hideout in Bengaluru.Now a multi-agency team headed by NIA is probing the case and 34 people have been arrested so far. One of the alleged key funders of the smuggling racket, Rabins Hameed, was extradited from the UAE and another key suspect Faizal Fareed is still at large.The customs department, however, did not mention terror angle in its charge sheet.The case invited enough embarrassment to the Left front government after the CM’s principal secretary M Sivasankar, a senior IAS officer, was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate. Later he was suspended and he secured bail from the High Court later.Though four central agencies (NIA, ED, DRI and Income Tax) are probing the case, other than initial arrests, investigation failed to make much headway, officials of the central agencies admit. Main beneficiaries and dispatchers are still at large and some politicians whose names cropped up in the course of investigation also remain untouched.The Union and state governments locked horns several times over the case and the latter even constituted a judicial commission against the Enforcement Directorate (ED), a first of its sort, alleging bid to implicate many senior leaders including CM Pinarayi Vijayan in the case. But later the HC had squashed the judicial commission.During investigation, former minister KT Jaleel’s phone number figured prominently in the call list of accused Swapna Suresh. Subsequently, the minister admitted that he had called Suresh as a consular employee in connection with Ramzan kits offered by the UAE consulate in 2020. But the minister’s clarification landed him in trouble as he was not supposed to accept any funds or freebies without the consent of the MEA. The customs department also found that a big consignment, weighing over 4,000 kg in 31 bags, landed in the state on March 4, 2020 and were taken to Malappuram. Jaleel said he took those packets, carrying religious books, to his constituency. He was questioned by the customs department and ED. Though customs officers said the minister violated the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA), the department is yet to book him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-customs-department-submits-charge-sheet-in-gold-smuggling-case-101634926543893.html
23-10-2021||India||Ananya Panday quizzed by NCB for four hours in drugs case||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Friday questioned actor Ananya Panday for nearly four hours in connection with purported WhatsApp chats between her and Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan, who is among 20 people arrested after a cruise ship drug raid earlier this month. Panday has been summoned again to the NCB’s South Mumbai office on October 25.An official speaking on condition of anonymity said Ananya maintained that she has never used any narcotics and the chats with Aryan were in a light vein.This was the second day in a row that Ananya was summoned to the NCB’s South Mumbai office. On Thursday morning, a five-member NCB team searched her Bandra home and seized her phone and laptop. Later in the evening, Ananya visited the NCB office in Ballard Estate where she recorded her statement.Ananya reached the NCB office at 2.30pm on Friday accompanied by her actor father Chunky Panday, and left at 6.30pm.NCB’s zonal director Sameer Wankhede said the seized handset and laptop would be sent for forensic examination.NCB officials on Thursday evening conducted searches at five more places, including one in south Mumbai, and three in other western suburbs, and apprehended a drug peddler for questioning. Nothing has been found in searches till now, Wankhede said.Aryan was arrested following a raid on a cruise ship anchored at the International Cruise Terminal in Mumbai on October 2. The cruise was set to go to Goa when NCB searched the guests and arrested Aryan along with his friend Arbaaz Merchant. The agency claimed that 6 grams of charas in a plastic pouch concealed in Merchant’s shoe was seized and the contraband material was purportedly meant for consumption by both of them.Earlier, on Wednesday, Aryan moved the Bombay high court after a special Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act court denied him bail, saying there was prima facie evidence that the 23-year-old was indulging in “illicit drug activities” on a regular basis. The court also rejected the bail pleas of Merchant, 26, and model Munmum Dhamecha, 28, who were arrested along with Aryan on October 3. His bail plea hearing is scheduled for October 26.Aryan and Merchant are lodged in Mumbai’s Arthur Road central prison. On Thursday, Shah Rukh Khan met Aryan at the prison during the family meeting hour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ananya-panday-quizzed-by-ncb-for-four-hours-in-drugs-case-101634926424040.html
23-10-2021||India||SC paves way for 39 women officers to get permanent commission by Nov 1||The Supreme Court told the Centre on Friday to grant permanent commission to 39 of 72 women officers before November 1 after a nudge by the court on October 1 led the Army to reconsider its earlier decision.The court also directed the Army to file an affidavit giving reasons weighed by the Army and the Centre to examine the cases of 72 officers while making it clear that rejections will be reviewed in the light of a March 25 judgment where the top court held that PC (permanent commission) will be granted to all women officers who cleared the 60% benchmark based on their track record decided by a selection board, medical fitness, disciplinary and vigilance clearance.The court was dealing with a bunch of contempt petitions filed by women short service commission officers (WSSCOs) denied PC following the March 25 judgment. In all, 514 WSSCOs fulfilled the 60% benchmark. Of those, 72 officers were denied PC citing serous disciplinary and vigilance grounds.A note was presented to the court on Friday by additional solicitor general (ASG) Sanjay Jain and senior advocate R Balasubramanian appearing for the Centre and the Army to show that a comprehensive review of the 72 names found 39 to be eligible. Of the remaining, 25 were declared ineligible as the charges against them were serious, seven were found medically unfit, while one applied for release.The bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and BV Nagarathna appreciated the Army for being fair and proceeded to direct the Centre to issue necessary PC orders to the 39 officers by November 1. The court was conscious that 36 officers were before the court in contempt petitions and it could not be known how many among them were part of the list of 39.The court said, “If any of the officers forming part of the group of thirty six WSSCOs in the present batch of contempt petitions are not found eligible for the grant of PC, a statement shall be tendered before this court in a tabulated form indicating the reasons why each of the officers who are not found eligible are being denied PC.”In addition, the court wished to examine the criteria adopted during the comprehensive review undertaken by the Army to select or reject the 72 officers. Posting the contempt petitions for hearing on November 12, the bench held, “An affidavit shall be filed on behalf of the respondents expressly stating that no reasons independent of the directions which have been issued by this court (on March 25) have weighed in the grant or, as the case may be, refusal of PC to the 72 officers concerned.”The court made it clear no ground of rejection independent of those laid down in its judgment will be accepted. If the rejection was within the parameters fixed by the court, the bench said that the contempt petitioners could be asked to pursue their case before the Armed Forces Tribunal.ASG Jain told the court that the officers who were rejected during the review exercise had disciplinary issues and, in certain cases, had other grounds of integrity or disobedience of lawful orders and “operational weak reports” against them. He denied any discrimination as the male SSCO officers in the Army have been denied PC on similar grounds.The bench said, “It would be necessary to apprise the court of the grounds which have resulted in the denial of PC to the remaining officers in the contempt proceedings.” Jain said he was willing to share a tabulated chart indicating the position with regard to each officer initially with the court. Thereafter, he added, if the court so considers it appropriate, the chart may be shared with the lawyers appearing for the contempt petitioners.In its March 25 judgment, the court criticised the Army for its “systemic discrimination” against WSSCOs and set the benchmark on merit and medical fitness to be considered for all WSSCOs who obtained 60% marks in assessment by the Special 5 Selection Board (SB-5), subject to receiving disciplinary and vigilance clearance.In June, the Centre filed an application seeking clarification on whether the 72 officers who qualified on merit (60% benchmark) could be rejected on other grounds and listed out a list of deficiencies such as discipline, disobedience of orders, lapses in government procurement, forging medical documents, poor work ethics, lack of professionalism, un-officer like conduct, poor performance in courses, among others.This application was heard by the court in August when it refused to be again drawn into reviewing its judgment and said that any clarification could be addressed to the Armed Forces Tribunal. The court observed, “The Centre must implement the judgment as it stands. There is an attempt on your part to go around our judgment.”The WSSCOs have been waging a legal battle since 2003 to get PC. They had first approached the Delhi high court to seek equality with male officers to get permanent commission. The high court on March 12, 2010 held the WSSCOs to be eligible for PC on a par with men in the Army’s non-combat streams. This judgment was confirmed by the top court on February 17, 2020.The women officers were back in court to complain against the criteria followed by the selection board to deny them PC. Of 615 WSSCOs who applied for PC, 422 were selected, of which 277 cleared the medical fitness eligibility. It was on this set of petitions that the court delivered its March 25 judgment.Soon after the court order, a woman officer said, “It feels like winning a war.”“Soldiers don’t quit. This is what we are taught during our training. I’m happy that we all didn’t quit despite the humiliation and challenges we faced. This will make the journey easier for younger women officers,” said the officer, who has served for over two decades.A second woman officer, requesting anonymity, said that she opted for the Indian Army despite clearing the civil services exam. “It was the love for the uniform and the passion to serve the country just like my father, who was in the Army. I joined the Army against his wishes; he didn’t speak to me during my training period,” she said.But she never thought that she would one day challenge the organisation and the government for her rights.She said, “Some of us have 25 years of service, but there has always been a question mark over our status in the forces as the matter was in the court. It has been a difficult journey. We have lost seniority and have served under officers who were much junior to us. We have never been considered to board (for rank). Today, as we have very few years of service left, this fight is about graceful exit.”(Inputs from Risha Chitlangia)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-paves-way-for-39-women-army-officers-to-get-permanent-commission-by-november-1-101634926422795.html
23-10-2021||India||Provide vaccination status of students, staff, central universities told||On the day India achieved its landmark 1 billion vaccine doses, the union ministry of education sought a tentative timeline from central universities on achieving 100% vaccination coverage of their students and staff. This is the first time that the union government has sought details on the proportion of students vaccinated from its 43 central universities. In July, the universities were asked to submit details of the vaccination status of their teaching and non-teaching staff. The communication has significant public health implications as several universities, including Delhi University (DU), Banaras Hindu University (BHU) and Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), have started reopening campuses in a phased manner. In a communication sent to all central universities on Thursday, October 21, the department of higher education of the ministry asked them to provide the status of vaccination among students, and teaching and non-teaching staff. It also asked for a date “by when the 100% vaccination is expected to be done” in the case of students and staff members. Central Universities have also been asked whether they have resumed offline classes. “If still online, (provide) date by when the central university proposes to start physically,” the communication added. According to data from the health ministry, in the 18-44 years age group, 402.2 million people have received at least one dose of the vaccine and 119.9 million of this number are fully vaccinated. Once the universities respond to Thursday’s message from the ministry, the latter will have the exact number of (central) university students who have been vaccinated. Fully vaccinated people have significant protection against severe infection and hospitalisation. Vaccinating all students is an important step in universities returning to normalcy.It wasn’t immediately clear whether the ministry will make vaccines mandatory for students who are eligible for them (some freshmen and women are still 17 when they enter college, and India is yet to open up the vaccine drive for them, although this is expected to happen shortly, maybe within weeks).  “At a time when the government of India is making all possible efforts to achieve 100% vaccination coverage of the eligible population; it is crucial to compile a database of teachers and students vaccination coverage from the central universities. It will help universities in the strategic reopening of their campuses,” said an education ministry official who asked not to be named. Officials at several central universities said while they already have some vaccination data of the staff, but not of students . “We could not compile any such data as of now since the university campus and college is still closed for students. We will now figure out how to compile data virtually; 98% of our staff members are already vaccinated,” said Nazim Hussain Jafri, Registrar, Jamia Millia Islamia. The university will reopen for final year students in November. DU’s Dean of Colleges Balaram Pani said that the university will now ask all its colleges to collect data from students using Google forms. “The university is currently allowing only vaccinated final year students to attend labs and practical classes physically. We can only ensure 100% vaccination among eligible students once the university re-opens completely. Meanwhile, more than 95% of our staff members are fully vaccinated.”Dr Chandrakant Lahariya, an epidemiologist and renowned public health expert, said that collecting data on the vaccination of college students aged is a welcoming step. “It is desirable that every eligible person is fully vaccinated against Covid-19 to stop the transmission. Specifically in university campuses and schools, the students are not only limited to the classrooms. They meet, engage and interact and therefore, the risk of transmission is there. However, one should not be deprived of their right to education due to the same,” he said.Lahariya said that the data will also help the government to further strategise the reopening of education institutions. “It will help them make a differential strategy. For example, in case it’s found that in some university, there is lower coverage of vaccination then the government can help them strategise how to improve it,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/provide-vaccination-status-of-students-staff-central-universities-told-101634926242927.html
23-10-2021||India||Twitter says its algorithm amplifies right wing political content||Twitter’s algorithm disproportionately amplifies right wing political content and news sources, the company has found in an analysis involving millions of its users across seven countries, and its researchers are unsure why that is happening. India was not among the seven countries studied.The analysis, carried out between April 1 and August 15, 2020 covered 5% of the company’s active users and could be one of the largest such studies by any of the major social media companies on how their products influence what people read and interact with online, and thus its societal impact.It comes a week after a whistle-blower singled out Facebook’s engagement-based algorithm as a crucial source of hate speech and fake news.Twitter’s new study, released by the company on Thursday, found that its algorithm amplifies right wing political narratives.“Our results reveal a remarkably consistent trend: In 6 out of 7 countries studied, the mainstream political right enjoys higher algorithmic amplification than the mainstream political left. Consistent with this overall trend, our second set of findings studying the US media landscape revealed that algorithmic amplification favours right-leaning news sources,” said the study, involving academics from University of Cambridge, UC Berkley and University College London.In a series of tweets detailing the findings, Rumman Chowdhury, Twitter’s director of software engineering, added that “...establishing *why* these observed patterns occur is a significantly more difficult question”.“Twitter is a sociotechnical system -- our algos are responsive to what’s happening. What’s next is a root cause analysis — is this unintended model bias? Or is this a function of what & how people tweet, and things that are happening in the world? Or both?” the Twitter staffer added in another tweet.Ferenc Huszár, senior lecturer in Machine Learning at the University of Cambridge and one of the authors of the study, said there could be a number of reasons. “The patterns we observe can be a result of several contributing factors, and there are probably too many explanations to enumerate,” he said in an email to HT.“Differences may arise, for example, from people with different political interests simply using Twitter differently: some communities might use the retweet, like or reply functions more, or attach a slightly different relevance to each of these actions,” he added.Experts have recently called on companies such as Twitter and Facebook to share access with academic researchers to get to the bottom of harms their technologies may be causing. These concerns have stemmed from a series of controversies that have involved almost all major social media companies – most prominently, Facebook.Huszár identified the potential in this area as one of the most significant takeaways from Twitter’s new study. “Companies such as Twitter can use the same tools they typically use to improve products and drive profits (experimentation and data science) to study the societal impacts their products have. We are only scratching the surface here, I am hoping to see more of this kind of work in the future,” he said.A second researcher agreed. “Academic research needs to engage with the analysis of the ways in which information is aggregated, organised and accessed - Twitter research is a positive and much needed step in that direction. It is commendable that Twitter is investing time and resources in understanding its content feeds and is making data set available for other researchers to verify, which is more than what you can say about other platforms. First step to fixing a problem is admitting you have a problem,” said Jyoti Panday, researcher, Internet Governance Project, Georgia Tech.Panday added it is significant that Twitter appears to admit that it does not understand its algorithms and the “complex communication infrastructure may be beyond the comprehension of the owners of the infrastructure, with the effects of algorithms unclear even to those writing them”.‘TOP TWEETS’ IN FOCUSThe algorithm studied here is the code that determines how people see posts when they view their Twitter feed in the default “top tweets” setting, as opposed to the “latest” mode that orders tweets chronologically. The study picked a control group that was never offered the ‘top tweets’ feature since its roll-out in 2016 and compared what they would have seen with other users who had the feature.To fetch the “top tweets”, the study explains in its appendix, Twitter uses a machine learning (ML) model to predict posts a person is likely to engage with (read, comment on or retweet). These predictions are based on factors such as “inferred topic of the tweet” and past behaviour of a user such as “engagement history between the user and the author of the tweet”.The researchers picked elected officials from seven countries – Canada, France, Germany, Japan, Spain, United States and United Kingdom. Except for in Germany, tweets by political leaders from the right “receive more algorithmic amplification than the political left when studied as a group”, said Chowdhury, and ML researcher Luca Belli in a blog post.The lopsided amplification was strongest in Canada (Liberals 43% vs Conservatives 167%) and the UK (Labour 112% vs Conservatives 176%).A second part of the study, which analysed how posts by US media outlets were amplified, found that right-leaning news outlets, such as New York Post and Brietbart, were more amplified than neutral sources like Reuters and left-leaning news outlets like the LA Times.Twitter’s ML Ethics, Transparency and Accountability (META) team will now carry out a root-cause analysis and determine “what, if any, changes are required to reduce adverse impacts by our Home timeline algorithm,” the two staffers said in the blog post.In the past, a similar analysis of its ML technologies led Twitter to abandon its photo-cropping feature after it found that the algorithm that decided how to crop images to a uniform square “had potential for harm”. This came after a controversy when users discovered the auto-cropping code would focus only on the face of a Caucasian US politician while leaving out that of an African-American.As a result, the company changed its system to allow users to upload photos of any cropping.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-says-its-algorithm-amplifies-right-wing-political-content-101634926182240.html
23-10-2021||India||If left unchecked, crude oil prices will hit global economic recovery: Puri||Crude oil prices, if not maintained at sustainable levels, will severely impact the green shoots of global economic recovery, Union petroleum minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Friday.It’s a win-win only if the price matrix takes care of the requirement of consumers and producers, he added.The minister was speaking at the Fifth India Energy Forum by CERAWeek when he made the remark.“Union minister for petroleum and natural gas Hardeep Singh Puri today said that unless the prices of crude oil are maintained at sustainable levels, it will severely impact the green shoots of global economic recovery. In his closing remarks at India Energy Forum by CERAweek, referring to the latest commodity markets outlook by World Bank, the minister said that the cost of energy should not be allowed to outstrip the paying capacity of consuming nations. This imperative needs to be configured by the consuming countries in planning their production profiles for future,” a statement by the ministry said.The minister’s remark came at a time the producers’ cartel – the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and its allies (together known as OPEC+) – have been resorting to supply squeeze for keeping oil prices artificially high.International crude prices are at multi-year high as producers have restricted supply even amid an increased demand due to rapid economic recoveries from the Covid-19 pandemic. Other immediate factors include low US inventories and shortage of coal in major economies such as China and India.Benchmark Brent crude, which soared to a three-year high at $86.1 a barrel during the trading session on Thursday, continued to remain firm, hovering above $85 on Friday.India, which imports 85% of crude oil it processes, has been witnessing an unprecedented spike in petrol and diesel rates. Currently, petrol is sold at ₹106.89 and diesel at ₹95.62 in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-left-unchecked-crude-oil-prices-will-hit-global-economic-recovery-hardeep-singh-puri-101634926002797.html
23-10-2021||India||Hindutva is neither Left nor Right: RSS general secretary Hosabale||The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh has never termed itself rightist, Dattatreya Hosabale, said on Friday. “Many of our ideas are like leftist ideas,” the RSS general secretary added.Hosabale was speaking at the launch of RSS leader Ram Madhav’s book ‘The Hindutva Paradigm: Integral humanism and the quest for the non western world’. “The world had gone to the left, or was forced to go left and now the situation is such that world is moving towards the right, so that it’s at the centre. That is what Hindutva is all about, neither left, nor right,” he said.The essence of Hindutva is to take the best from every corner and mould it to suit your needs, surroundings and life, Hosabale added. And there is space for ideas of both sides, the left and the right, since these are “human experience”.He also spoke about colonial remnants that continue to persist despite their irrelevance. To buttress his argument, he quoted the Chief Justice of India’s recent comment about the Indian judicial system not being fit for the country.CJI NV Ramana said last month: “Very often our justice delivery poses multiple barriers for the common people. The working and the style of courts do not sit well with the complexities of India. Our systems practise rules being colonial in origin may not be best suited to the needs of Indian population. The need of the hour is the Indianisation of our legal system.”Hosabale also underlined the importance of cultural cohesion for longevity of nations. He cited the examples of how Germany reunited with the fall of the Berlin Wall and how the USSR disintegrated. “Any forceful division or unification does not sustain, culture is the basis for that,” he said.Speaking on his book, Madhav said it is not anti-West world view, but an Indian one. “A post-Covid world order, based on new principles, is going to take shape in the next decade or so. In this new period of transition, we should we able to transfer our wisdom.”Making a case for being open to new ideas, he added: “We should continue to accept and implement the ideas we got from outside, but there are some ideas that this land can also contribute and we must turn to them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hindutva-is-neither-left-nor-right-rss-general-secretary-hosabale-101634925706163.html
23-10-2021||India||Jharkhand HC pulls up CBI over probe into judge’s death||The Jharkhand high court on Friday reprimanded the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) over its probe into the death of Dhanbad additional district judge Uttam Anand, saying the agency “did not inform the high court before filing the charge sheet despite the bench comprising the chief justice monitoring the process”.Expressing displeasure over the status report and the charge sheet filed on Wednesday, a division bench comprising chief justice Dr Ravi Ranjan and justice Sujeet Narayan Prasad observed that the CBI had failed to produce any evidence to back the murder charge against two persons arrested in the case. “The bench observed that neither the agency took the court into confidence nor did it attach a copy of the charge sheet along with the status report. It said that such a thing was not expected from a professional agency like the CBI,” a lawyer who attended the hearing said on condition of anonymity.“The bench also said that the agency has been filing a stereotyped report every week. The agency has failed to provide any evidence to establish the motive behind the alleged murder. This could ultimately help the two accused,” the lawyer said. Judge Uttam Anand was mowed down by an autorickshaw on July 28, an incident which sparked off security concerns in the entire judiciary. The vehicle, which was stolen from Dhanbad, was recovered from neighbouring Giridih district that night. Two persons — auto driver Lakhan Verma, 22, and his accomplice Rahul Verma, 21 — were arrested two days later. On Wednesday, the central agency filed the chargesheet against the duo under sections 302 (murder), 201 (destruction of evidence) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code.During the hearing on Friday, the CBI said they filed the chargesheet after consultation with officials in the headquarters, and efforts are underway to establish the motive and the conspiracy behind the alleged killing.The probe agency said it would submit a detailed report in this regard during the next hearing on October 29. To this, the bench replied that if the headquarters was consulted, then it is likely that the court will summon the CBI director NAME for clarifications after reviewing the detailed report next week. The Supreme Court and the Jharkhand high court took suo motu cognisance of the hit-and-run incident after CCTV footage showed the three-wheeler swerving on an empty road to knock him down. The CBI took over the probe on July 31 after the top court said the incident had larger ramifications for the independence of the judiciary. The state government had also recommended an investigation by the central agency into the case.In September, the central agency informed the high court that the judge’s death was not an accident and it was investigating all angles to unravel the conspiracy.Several people have been interrogated in the last three months and lie-detector and psychoanalysis tests were also conducted on them, officials said. Need CBI response||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dhanbad-judge-death-case-jharkhand-hc-reprimands-cbi-questions-failure-in-making-any-headway-101634925702973.html
23-10-2021||India||Centre writes to states over delay in giving second dose of Covid-19 vaccine||The union health ministry has written to several states that have emerged laggards in administering the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, asking them to address the issue on priority, people familiar with the matter said, adding that around 90 million partially vaccinated people across the country are long-overdue for their second dose.Among the recipients of the letters are Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Rajasthan, and Odisha, which together account for around 27% of the 90 million. HT has seen a copy of some of the letters, written by union health secretary, Rajesh Bhushan. The gap between the first and second dose of the vaccine is 12 weeks in the case of Covishield and four weeks in the case of Covaxin. Almost 90% of doses administered so far in the country are of the first. Two doses of a vaccine are required for adequate protection against severe infection and hospitalisation, especially those caused by mutant strains of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. Uttar Pradesh’s share of the 90 million was 15.6 million. “As per the data available on Co-WIN portal as on 20th October 2021, a total of 1,24, 82, 090 and 31,60, 423 beneficiaries are due for 2nd dose of Covishield and Covaxin respectively in your state. This is a significant number and requires to be addressed on priority basis… as on 20th October, a total of 87,57,640 doses of Covishield and 28,10,780 doses of Covaxin are available with your state…” read Bhushan’s letter to Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary (heath and family welfare), UP government. In West Bengal, the second shots of around 3 million (30,66,431) people were overdue. “As per the data… a total of 26,46,896 and 6,19,535 beneficiaries are due for 2nd dose of Covishield and Covaxin respectively in your state… as on 20th October, 2021, a total of 33,13,700 doses of Covishield and 6,85,510 doses of Covaxin are available with your state…,” Bhushan wrote to secretary (health and family welfare), Narayan Swaroop Nigam.In Rajasthan too, the number was around 3 million. In a letter to Vaibhav Galriya, secretary (medical, health and family welfare), Rajasthan, Bhushan said,”… a total of 65,68,461 and 15, 70,652 beneficiaries are due for 2nd dose of Covishield and Covaxin respectively in your state… as on 20th October 2021, a total of 38, 57,450 doses of Covishield and 4,44,530 doses of Covaxin are available with your state…” Odisha’s tally is also around 3 million (31,17,720).“As per the data available…a total of 27,21,966 and 3,95,754 beneficiaries are due for 2nd dose of Covishield and Covaxin respectively in your state… as on 20th October, 2021, a total of 21,61,310 doses of Covishield and 2,39, 735 doses of Covaxin are available with your state..,” said Bhushan. Among the other regions to which Bhushan wrote is Delhi, where around 1.6 million people were overdue for their second doses. The health ministry has asked the states to identify those overdue for their shots using the CoWIN database, and initiate the process as soon as possible.“The district wise numbers and names of such due benefiacries for the 2nd dose can be accessed on CoWIN portal, which should be utilized for preparing a district-wise 2nd dose administration plan and executing such plan in a time-bound manner”. The ministry has also assured that availability of vaccine doses is not an issue and the stocks will be replenished as per the state requirement.“…I would like to assure you that availability of vaccine would not be constraint for accelerating the pace of vaccination within the state… kindly direct the concerned officials to initiate the process of planning for timely completion of full vaccination of all adults citizens and implement it at the earliest. I would also expect that the progress of 2nd dose administration is reviewed on a daily basis…,” Bhushan’s letter read. The Union government has decided to focus on those overdue for their second dose in the wake of its billion doses celebration. “It is important to cover those who haven’t received their second vaccine shot even though it being due. For maximum protection, two doses should be taken. It is important to take the vaccine even if you have had the infection,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head, department of pulmonology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-writes-to-states-over-delay-in-giving-second-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-101634925644500.html
23-10-2021||India||After eviction violence, fear of unknown in Assam village||As the rain poured down in Dholpur 3 village on Thursday evening, Ainuddin and his family huddled together inside their makeshift shelter, doing what they could to keep dry. It was difficult. There were 26 of them — Ainuddin and his parents; his four brothers and two sisters, and their families; the wife of his elder brother, and their three children, aged between 3 and 14. There was one person missing. His elder brother, Moinul Haque. On September 23, Moinul became the face of a controversial eviction drive in Dholpur by the Assam government when a video of him charging a police posse with a stick, falling backwards ostensibly due to a gunshot, and a government photographer repeatedly stomping his prone body went viral. Within hours, Moinul was dead. A month has passed, but Ainuddin says they have received no succour. “We are yet to get any support from the government or district administration.”All 26 of the extended family live in four makeshift structures — constructed of tin sheets, completely open from one side, with bamboo and wood holding the roof up precariously. All the material has come from salvage runs to the wreckage of their once semi-pukka homes. Like the others evicted in Dholpur, Moinul’s family once farmed on seven bighas (roughly 2.3 acres)of land on the Dholpur sandbar. “Now everything is gone. Moinul’s three minor children and our entire family live like this, completely vulnerable to the wind and the rain. We survive on food provided by others,” Ainuddin said.Four weeks ago, less than half a kilometre away, their homes were turned to rubble. Clashes between police personnel involved in the eviction drive, and thousands of residents opposed to the action, led to the deaths of two civilians on September 23, and left nearly 20 others, including 11 policemen, injured. It set off a cycle of allegations and counter allegations, with the Darrang district administration claiming that while the eviction drive started peacefully a day earlier, nearly 20,000 people, “mostly outsiders” gathered at the site and started attacking police personnel with stones and sticks, leading to retaliatory action. Local residents maintain that they were served eviction notices just a day ahead of the drive, and that they agreed to relocate to a new site with their belongings after the administration said it would provide them alternative plots. However, they allege, police started attacking residents without provocation, which led to the deaths and the injuries. Following the eviction, the Darrang Police arrested three people — Sarifuddin, Chand Mahmud, and Asmat Ali Ahmed — for allegedly instigating the violence, booking them under sections of attempt to murder and criminal conspiracy. Sarifuddin is a daily wage labourer who lived in Dholpur 1, and Mahmud and Ahmed are members of local panchayat bodies in Dholpur. Darrang superintendent of police Sushanta Biswa Sarma told HT that the case has been forwarded to the Criminal Investigation Department (CID), which is probing the incident. Sarma, who was the SP in charge of the eviction drive, is Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma’s brother. Four decades in the makingSpread over 77,420 bighas (25,595 acre), the entire Dholpur area where the eviction drive took place is a giant sandbar with the Brahmaputra on one side and several of its small distributaries crisscrossing the area. It doesn’t have a proper road, and doesn’t get electricity. The residents, around 1,500 families, are engaged in agriculture on the fertile soil, and use motorcycles, horse-drawn carts and bullock carts to move around or ferry produce. They farm seasonal vegetables, pulses and rice, and these are transported to the nearest distributary, and from there on dinghies to the closest markets. With people gradually settling on government land over four decades, there are no clear records on the exact number of residents in Dholpur. In August, around 200 families from Dholpur 3 moved Gauhati high court seeking a stay in the proposed eviction drive. “In response to the petition, the government filed an affidavit stating that the petitioners had settled on government land. But before the petitioners could file a reply, the state government carried out the eviction,” said advocate Santanu Borthakur, who represented the residents. The argument that the residents made in court was not a challenge to the status of the land as government land but that the state revenue board previously agreed on settling these residents somewhere else, and that no eviction should be carried out before that. Two kilometres away from the site of the eviction drive, the family of 12-year-old Shaikh Farid, the second person to die in the clashes, lives in a rare cluster of permanent huts. They have not been served a notice to move so far, but that is no solace. Farid, a Class 7 student, had gone to collect his Aadhaar card from the local post office. He got caught in the violence, and died from a bullet wound from police firing. His new glossy Aadhaar card peeked out from his pocket as he lay prone on the ground.“Not a single person from the local administration has approached us till date. We are yet to get my brother’s death certificate,” said Amir Hussain, Farid’s elder brother. His mother, Gol Banu, lives in a permanent state of shock, even as his father Khalek Ali seems to be coming to terms with his son’s death. “My mother has been unwell since the incident. She can’t even move without support,” Hussain said. The Darrang district administration, however, rejected allegations of lack of support to those evicted in Dholpur and said that medical aid and other basic facilities are being provided. “Those evicted from the government land have been relocated at Dholpur 1 and Dholpur 3 villages which have been earmarked for them. We are also looking at providing plots of land to deserving residents,” said Prabhati Thaosen, deputy commissioner of Darrang. The administration did not give any details of how many would get the rehabilitation package or alternative plots of land. None of them, it turns out, may be “deserving”.“But we need to understand that these people are encroachers and when it comes to rehabilitation, it has to be done under provisions of Assam Land and Revenue Regulation, 1886. And according to it, encroachers are not eligible. On humanitarian grounds, we are providing those evicted with medical and other facilities,” Thaosen added. The administration has set up a health centre for evicted residents, and tube wells in the area.The families of Moinul and Farid are, for now, surviving on the monetary relief provided by some of the state’s opposition parties such as the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) and the Congress. While the AIUDF has given both families ₹2 lakh each, the Congress has given them ₹1 lakh each. In the absence of regular government aid, organisations such as the All Assam Minority Students Union (AAMSU) have stepped in. “The state government has done nothing in the past one month. On the other hand, we have been helping the displaced residents with ration, and have set up tube wells so they can have some water,” said Ainuddin Ahmed, adviser of AAMSU.While some leaders tried to portray those evicted in the drive as illegal migrants with doubtful citizenship, the families of Moinul and Farid said they were Indians, and had government documents to back their claim. “Our family came and settled in Dholpur nearly 45 years ago when our house in Barpeta district was destroyed during floods. Names of all our family members are included in the National Register of Citizens (NRC) and we possess Aadhaar cards,” said Farid’s elder brother Amir Hussain. “Our parents came to Dholpur in the early 1980s from Hajo in Kamrup (Rural) district at a time when the Assam agitation was at its peak. All of our brothers and sisters were born in Dholpur. Except our youngest brothers, all our family members’ names are included in NRC, and have Aadhaar cards,” said Ainuddin.HT could not independently verify this.Garukhuti ProjectMeanwhile, work on the state government’s Garukhuti Project, which aims to remove alleged encroachers from the Dholpur land and start agricultural and other allied activities for indigenous people in the area, is going ahead. In Dholpur, apart from the families living under tin sheets, the expanse is dotted by tractors and other agricultural equipment. The 2021 Assam state budget said that the government plans to “develop this cluster as a beacon of resurgent Assam” and earmarked ₹9.6 crore for the project. “Nearly 500 local youth are currently engaged in tilling around 6,000 bighas of land from which encroachments have been removed. We are planning to cultivate mustard there soon,” said ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator Padma Hazarika, who is also chairman of the Garukhuti Project.“Most of the illegal settlers have already been removed from the area. Eviction of the rest will take place after hearing on a petition on the issue in Gauhati high court, which is scheduled for November 3. As for rehabilitation of those evicted, the district administration will look into it,” he added. Following the incident, Congress legislature party leader Debabrata Saikia filed a PIL in the Gauhati high court seeking compensation for those evicted and also an inquiry into the killing of two civilians by the police. The petition alleged that on September 23 there was use of “excessive, illegal and disproportionate force and firearms by police officials, allegedly in response to the protests against the eviction drive”. Advocate general Debajit Saikia responded in court that, on September 23, the plan was to evict 125 families, but nearly 20,000 people including outsiders and those with doubtful credentials gathered at the site and attacked the policemen, which in turn led to retaliatory action. Earlier this month, the high court directed the Assam government to file a detailed affidavit on the clashes during the eviction drive within three weeks. The next date of hearing on the petition is November 3.The Assam government also ordered a judicial inquiry in the aftermath of the incident, and its report is awaited. The state government notification said that the inquiry would be conducted under the chairmanship of a retired judge of the Gauhati high court. Details of who will head the inquiry, and its timeline and mandate, have not been released. “Following the eviction drive, chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said that if those evicted were Indian citizens they would be rehabilitated. He even promised them alternative plots within a week. But nothing has happened in the past one month,” said Mohammad Aminul Islam, legislator and organising secretary of AIUDF.“The evicted children are bereft of education, there’s no proper food, health care, shelter, water supply or sanitation facility for those evicted till now. We condemn the government’s attitude towards those displaced,” he added. Despite Sarma’s initial response that the eviction drive will continue even after the September 23 violence, it hasn’t resumed thus far. Officials maintain that more than 90% of the residents earmarked for eviction have already relocated themselves or have been evicted. “With most already removed from the area, we do not expect large scale protests or violence like September 23, when it does resume,” a district official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-eviction-violence-fear-of-unknown-in-assam-town-101634925168624.html
23-10-2021||India||SDRF rescues one survivor, retrieves 5 bodies in Uttarakhand||The Uttarakhand state disaster response force (SDRF) on Friday rescued one survivor and airlifted bodies of five trekkers spotted on Thursday near Lamkhaga Pass, which connects Kinnaur in Himachal Pradesh with Harsil in Uttarakhand’s Uttarkashi district.On October 14, a 17-member team went for trekking to Chitkul in Himachal via Harsil in Uttarkashi district.However, due to heavy snowfall on October 18, 11 of them went missing near Lamkhaga Pass. Six of them, all porters, managed to reach the ITBP camp in Chitkul village in Kinnaur and informed them about the incident on October 19.“The bodies of the five deceased were retrieved by the rescue team of SDRF and then airlifted to Harsil in an air force chopper... They were among the seven dead spotted on Thursday. Two of the bodies are yet to retrieved,” Devendra Patwal, district disaster management officer Uttarkashi, said. The bodies have been sent to district hospital for post-mortem examination.“The survivor Mithun Dari, 31, from Kolkata after being airlifted to Harsil, was sent to hospital for treatment. He is in a stable condition,” said Patwal.“The SDRF personnel brought the bodies and the survivor to their camp near Lamkhaga Pass. The survivor was taken care of by rescue workers...,” SDRF media in-charge Lalita Negi said.“The deceased were identified as Anita Rawat, 38, Delhi, Tanmay Tiwari, 30, Saurav Ghosh, 34, Savian Das, 28, Vikas Maikal, 33, all residents of Kolkata,” said Patwal said.Meanwhile, the death toll in various flood-related incidents across the state touched 65 on Friday.According to data shared by the state government, of the total 65 deaths, 35 were reported from Nainital district, one of the worst affected. At least 22 people are still missing in the state.Earlier in the day, chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami conducted a ground survey of the affected areas in Chamoli and Pauri Garhwal districts of Garhwal division along with minister for disaster management Dhan Singh Rawat. He also met families of the deceased and missing people and assured “all possible help”.“It is very unfortunate that some people lost their lives in this tragedy. But I want to ensure the affected people that the government is standing with them in this hour of need and will provide them every possible help,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-survivor-rescued-5-bodies-retrieved-in-uttarakhand-101634925167719.html
23-10-2021||India||Rajnath Singh hails 1971 war as a ‘glorious chapter’||Bengaluru Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on Friday termed the 1971 war with Pakistan a glorious chapter in India’s military history, asserting that the synergy and cooperation between the tri-services and the government led to its success.“The 1971 war and India’s victory in it are special,....as the main intention behind it was humanity and protection of democracy,” he said after inaugurating the Indian Air Force Conclave at Bengaluru’s Yelahanka Air Force Station, to commemorate the 50th anniversary of India’s victory over Pakistan.“The congruence of our politico-military thought and actions led to the birth of a new nation (Bangladesh) in Asia, ending injustice and atrocities,” he added.The 1971 war recorded the largest surrender of soldiers in the world, after the second world war, with more than 93,000 Pakistani soldiers surrendering before the Indian forces.Singh further highlighted the Centre’s efforts to ensure further integration of India’s armed forces and related establishments at all levels, aimed at readying the country’s military forces for any circumstances in the future.“As you are aware, we are taking the initiatives for further integration of our armed forces and Defence Ministry, towards a logical end. In the days to come, as the follow-up process, the integration will be ensured in the theatre and in all the levels below it,” Singh said. “The government’s intention is to ready our armed forces to any circumstances and is moving in this direction with speed,” he added.Also present at the event, Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), General Bipin Rawat, raised concerns over a myriad of external security challenges facing India, especially China’s technological advances in the cyber and space domains.“India faces a myriad of external security challenges with deep regional interlinkages, marred by the legacy of unresolved boundary disputes, the culture of competition, and challenge to undermining India’s strategic space,” he said.Talking about bolstering the security forces, Rawat said: “And gradually we’ll look at the future requirements of whether we look at only the military aspect of cyber or for the country as a whole. Because it threatens everybody. If the banking, railway, power grids, any of the systems fail it will affect our warfighting ability,” he said.Mirroring General Rawat’s sentiments, Defence Secretary Ajay Kumar said that India should work towards strengthening its capabilities in the cyber and space domains, but stressed on the “disruptive effect” of artificial intelligence, robotics and information warfare on any country’s existing doctrines and policies.Kumar further pointed to China’s rapidly increasing capabilities in the cyber and space sectors. “In December 2015, China set up the PLA strategic force which has the capabilities to influence electromagnetic spectrum, cyber and space. All this is changing the way war was fought 50 years ago. Today we go non-conventional ways,” he said, adding that China has prioritised intelligence in digitised war.“Dominance in electromagnetic spectrum, cyber, space, autonomy, drones and unmanned aerial vehicles are its priorities. Specifically, on cyber, it already is determining influence on warfare,” he said.Others present at the event including Chief of the Air Staff (CAS) Air Chief Marshal V R Chaudhari and Karnataka Revenue Minister R Ashoka.WIth PTI inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-hails-1971-india-pakistan-war-as-a-glorious-chapter-in-india-a-history-101634925167176.html
23-10-2021||India||Shut tribunals if you cannot staff them: SC||The Union government should abolish all tribunals if the judiciary is compelled to make appointments in these bodies to keep them alive, the Supreme Court said on Friday as it reproached the Union government for creating an “imbroglio” over functioning of the tribunals and making “citizens suffer in the bargain”.A bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and MM Sundresh called it “very unfortunate” that the Supreme Court is being called on to fill vacancies in tribunals, which is the primary job of the government that has framed legislations and rules for these forums.“The very purpose of setting up these fora is defeated by not having people to man them. Abolish the act if the government doesn’t want them. We are stretching our jurisdiction to ensure they are filled. They are supposed to be filled in routine course but here is a situation where this court has to step in,” the bench told additional solicitor general (ASG) Aman Lekhi.Lekhi was representing the Centre in a suo motu (in its own motion) case registered by the top court on account of “inaction of the government” in appointing members of the consumer courts and providing adequate infrastructure.The bench further remarked: “It is unfortunate that the judiciary has been called upon to do this. When you have the law, forum and rules, they should be naturally filled up. It is not a very happy situation... The very intent of the law is defeated in this process.”During the hearing, senior counsel Gopal Sankaranarayanan, assisting the bench as amicus curiae, further drew the attention of the bench on the government’s enactment of the Tribunal Reforms Act, 2021, in violation of the Supreme Court judgment in the Madras Bar Association case in July.The court took note that the challenge to the 2021 law is pending before a different bench in the top court, but not before expressing its displeasure with regard to how the government brought back the very same provisions for administration of tribunals in the new law that were struck down by the Supreme Court merely a few months ago.“The judiciary says something; you bring back the same rule. The judiciary says it again, but you do the same thing again. You have created an imbroglio. And in the bargain, citizens are suffering. These are fora for remedies for a common man. Take consumer courts for example...the disputes there are not of very high magnitude but you have rendered them remedy-less,” the bench told ASG Lekhi.Lekhi replied that the government, in the consumer court matters, is not looking at taking up cudgels by making it an issue of ego or delay the appointments.But the bench retorted: “We cannot really say...There is a judgement rendered but again the act brings back the same provisions. The net result is that we are not happy with such a situation.”The court also clarified that the process of appointing members in the consumer courts for all other states but Maharashtra will go on in terms of its previous order in August, and will not be impacted by a recent judgment of the Bombay high court. The high court judgment on September 14 struck down certain provisions of the Consumer Protection Rules, 2020 governing appointment of president and members to state and district consumer disputes redressal commissions.The bench added that the Supreme Court’s August order on laying down a timeline of eight weeks for filling up around 800 vacancies in consumer courts across the country shall also be strictly adhered to by the Centre and states.Adjourning the case to November 10 to take stock of the process of appointments and the upgradation of infrastructure of consumer courts, justice Kaul also asked Lekhi to ponder over how far the tribunals have worked, and whether strengthening the judicial system is a better idea than having these bodies with ad hoc appointments.Justice Sundresh, on his part, called for a debate whether a structure such as the judiciary should replace the consumer forums, or appointing young judicial officers to man them to decide the cases given the fact that consumerism as a concept has developed so much.“The system has to be developed in that direction now. Should we go on with this ad hoc arrangement or should we have a permanent set up? We need to think aloud,” said the judge.A tussle has been brewing between the judiciary and the government over the 2021 law on tribunals.In September, a bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana, issued strictures against the Centre for re-enacting the same provisions relating to tenure and some other service conditions that were struck down by the court in July on the ground of tinkering with independence of judiciary and violating basic structure of the Constitution.Examining a clutch of petitions against the validity of the 2021 Act, the bench observed then that it is “very upset” by the government, which, it added, is “bent upon not honouring” the orders of the court and has rather sought to overrule a judgment by enacting a “replica” of the old law.Responding to the criticism, the government said in its affidavit on October 18that any attempt by the Supreme Court to strike down the new law on administration of tribunals will violate the constitutionally mandated separation of powers between different organs of the State.Asserting its authority to enact laws and policies, the Centre also registered its strong objection against invocation of the principles of independence of judiciary by the Supreme Court to annul laws and rules which, it said, are otherwise valid.“The Government of India is distressed by the fact that both laws and statutory rules made by parliament and executive in areas of pure policy are being held to be void by invoking independence of judiciary when such laws and rules do not violate fundamental rights or any provision of the Constitution, and is wholly within competency,” stated the affidavit filed through the department of revenue.A bunch of petitions, filed by the Madras Bar Association, Congress leader Jairam Ramesh, and others, have requested the top court to quash the new law, which was passed by both the houses in the monsoon session of parliament. The petitions argue that the Centre has re-enacted the same provisions relating to tenure and some other service conditions that were struck down in July on the ground of tinkering with independence of judiciary and violating the basic structure of the Constitution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shut-tribunals-if-you-cannot-staff-them-sc-101634925162140.html
23-10-2021||India||WhatsApp, FB must abide by law: Centre tells HC in affidavit||The Union government on Friday told the Delhi high court that it is the legal obligation of social media intermediaries Facebook and WhatsApp to evolve a mechanism to identify who first sent a message that may have been forwarded to others, and they could not claim technical difficulties to deny legal compliances. WhatsApp was among the first big companies to challenge Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 saying its section 4(2), which makes it mandatory for companies to trace which user first sent a forwarded message, would amount to a “dangerous invasion of privacy” and defeat a concept known as end-to-end encryption.The government rejected the position. “…it is submitted that the petitioners (Facebook & WhatsApp) being platforms with high technical infrastructure, user base, and revenue base, need to create appropriate mechanism to identify the unlawful information’s origin and the first Indian originator of such information without compromising end-to-end encryption,” it said in an affidavit filed before Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh. “It is submitted that reasons regarding “technical difficulties” cannot be an excuse to refuse compliance to the law of the land,” the government added. The IT Rules have already been stayed by multiple high courts after petitioners challenged other sections, some of which pertain to social media companies and streaming content service providers like Netflix, for executive overreach and other violations of Constitutional provisions. The Centre, reacting to WhatsApp’s position, said that it expects platforms to either prevent online illegal content themselves or assist law enforcement agencies to identify the originator of such unlawful content. “It is submitted that if the intermediary is not able to prevent or detect the criminal activities happening on its platform, then the problem lies in the platform’s architecture and the platform must rectify their architecture and not expect the change of legislation,” it said.The government also appeared to invoke issues unrelated to WhatsApp’s technical design. “It is well clear that WhatsApp collects users’ personal information and shares it with Facebook and third party entities for business/commercial purposes (WhatsApp’s privacy policy of 2016 and its 2021 update). Hence WhatsApp and Facebook which monetizes users’ information for business/commercial purposes are not legally entitled to claim that it protects privacy...” said the document filed by ministry of electronics and information technology. The Centre said this sharing of information is in addition to the fact that under their mandatory privacy policy, personal data of users would be shared with Facebook which can, it said, be used for profiling. The Centre said companies like WhatsApp, which are foreign commercial entities, do not have a place of business in India and are engaged in the business of propagating information created by its platform users. They, the government claimed, cannot challenge the validity of Indian laws. “The instant writ petition challenging the Constitutionality of any Indian law is hence not, maintainable at the instance of a foreign commercial entity,” the Centre said, adding that the rights to challenge are exclusively available to Indian citizens and natural persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/whatsapp-fb-must-abide-by-law-centre-tells-hc-in-affidavit-101634924510494.html
23-10-2021||India||Gunfight resumes as Poonch counterterror operation enters Day 12||Heavy firing resumed in Jammu & Kashmir’s Nar Khas forest area of Poonch district on Friday, as security forces intensified the operation to nab terrorists hiding in the dense forest the past 12 days, officials familiar with the matter said. The army also destroyed two IEDs allegedly planted to target soldiers in the nearby Bhata Durian Forest of the district, they added.The encounter, which is one of the longest anti-terrorist operations in recent times, has seen fierce fighting between the security forces and terrorists, who have been intermittently firing and withdrawing back into the densely forested area. Nine soldiers, including two army officers, have died in action since the encounter started nearly two weeks ago.“Counterterror operation is on but there is no further headway,” defence spokesperson Lt Col Devender Anand said.According to army officials, heavy gunfire and loud explosions were heard early on Friday, after a lull of over 36 hours. “On Friday morning, an intense gunfight took place in the jungle. Army’s para commandos are also part of the operation. The army on Friday again used medium calibre weapons. The UBGLs were also used to blow up suspected hideouts of the terrorists,” an official said, requesting anonymity.Forces have also recovered two small boxes in the Bhata Durian Forest, which is nearly 4 kms away from the Nar Khas forest area.“Today (Friday), during the search operation in Bhata Durian forest by Indian Army and police, two small boxes were seen. The boxes were suspected to be the IEDs and therefore they were destroyed safely,” Col Anand said.An official familiar with the matter said that the IEDs were planted by the terrorists to attack security forces.This is the third instance of IEDs being detected by troops in J&K since Thursday.On Thursday, an army patrol detected and defused an IED fitted in the branch of a tree in the forest area of Sawalkot in Ratangir ridge and later defused it. Earlier that day, security forces defused an IED in the Baramulla district of Jammu & Kashmir.In the encounter that began on October 11 in the Poonch sector, the Army has lost nine soldiers, including two Junior Commissioned Officers (JCOs), within four days. Five Army personnel were killed in Chamrer area of Surankote forest on October 11, while four soldiers died in another encounter in the Nar Khas forest in the Mendhar area of Poonch on October 14. Security forces on October 17 detained three people for allegedly providing logistical support to the terrorists.On Tuesday, Army chief General MM Naravane visited Poonch and reviewed the security situation. This was for the first time the army chief visited an encounter site in Jammu & Kashmir.Last week, the Jammu & Kashmir Police said the terrorists were believed to be hiding in the jungles since August this year. A senior police officer said that the terrorists are believed to have sneaked in the Nar Khas forests and Chamrer from Balakot.Meanwhile, local police have issued a travel advisory for the residents and civil services aspirants in the Poonch district.“Aspirants of district Poonch, who have to appear for civil services examination on Sunday to adopt the route DKG or Mendhar as the road between Jaran wali Gali (JWG) to Bhmiber Gali (BG) is closed as of now due to ongoing cordon and search operation (CASO) at Bhata Durian area,” Poonch police posted on its Twitter handle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gunfight-resumes-as-poonch-counterterror-operation-enters-day-12-101634924506748.html
23-10-2021||India||Will probe if Amarinder Singh’s friend has linkswith ISI: Punjab deputy CM||Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Randhawa on Friday said the government will probe whether Aroosa Alam, a defence journalist from Pakistan and former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s companion, has any links with the Inter Services Intelligence (ISI), that country’s spy agency.Randhawa, who also holds charge of home department, announced this on Twitter.“Have given directions to DGP Punjab to probe Aroosa Alam’s alleged links with ISI. Aroosa was given shelter at Chief Minister’s government residence by Captain saab even as he was repeatedly alerted throughout four and half years against it,” said Randhawa in the tweet.Singh hit back immediately, saying Randhawa was now resorting to personal attacks.“You were a minister in my cabinet@Sukhjinder_INC. Never heard you complain about Aroosa Alam. And she’d been coming for 16 years with due GoI clearances. Or are you alleging that both NDA and @INC India led UPA govts in this period connived with Pak ISI?” the former chief minister’s media adviser quoted him as saying on Twitter.The Congress has stepped up its attack on Singh after his announcement that he would leave the party, form a new one, contest the coming state elections, and have an understanding with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The Congress first appointed Navjot Singh Sidhu as the president of its Punjab unit against Singh’s wishes, and subsequently forced him to resign as chief minister.Randhawa was not available for comment to clarify his tweet, although he also made a reference to Alam on Thursday in an interaction with the press, and pointedly said Singh has been raising concerns about drones from Pakistan dropping weapons and drugs across the border in Punjab.On Friday, Singh added, “So now you’re resorting to personal attacks @Sukhjinder_INC. One month after taking over this is all you have to show to the people. What happened to your tall promises on Bargari & drugs cases? Punjab is still waiting for your promised action.” He said instead of focussing on maintaining law and order, the deputy chief minister has put the DGP on a “baseless investigation”.Singh has repeatedly raised the security issue and said that Sidhu is a threat to the country’s security because of his close relationship with the ISI and Pakistan.This is not the first time that Alam’s name has been dragged into Punjab politics. In August this year, Sidhu’s then advisor Malvinder Singh Mali , too, did so in a Facebook post. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-probe-if-amarinder-singh-s-friend-has-linkswith-isi-punjab-deputy-cm-101634924384106.html
23-10-2021||India||Cabinet may discuss India’s stance at COP26 next week||The Union Cabinet is likely to discuss India’s position at the Glasgow Climate Change Conference (COP 26) and country’s contribution to climate crisis mitigation next week, a Union environment ministry official said on Friday. The COP 26 climate meet is scheduled to be held from October 31 to November 12 “These decisions (India’s submission and stance at COP 26 ) are taken at the highest level and have to be passed by the Cabinet before they are announced,” the official said at an informal briefing with journalists.A 14 to 15-member delegation including officials from ministries of power, finance, earth sciences, agriculture, new and renewable energy, environment, water will represent India at COP 26. Union environment minister Bhupender Yadav will lead the delegation. India’s lead climate negotiator is joint secretary Richa Sharma.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to be in Glasgow for the first couple of days when he and his British counterpart, Boris Johnson, are expected to make a joint statement on Green Grids Initiative – One Sun One World One Grid (GG-IOSOWOG) at COP 26. GGI-OSOWOG will bring technical, financial, and research cooperation to help facilitate cross-border renewable energy transfer projects according to the International Solar Alliance.Yadav is expected to lead India during the negotiations in the second week of the conference when several issues related to the Paris Rulebook are likely to be debated. The rulebook is a set of guidelines for implementing the 2015 Paris Agreement, the legally binding international treaty on the climate crisis.The official cited above did not comment on whether India will present an updated Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC) ahead of COP 26. “It is not mandatory for India to update its NDC. We can update it during the global stocktake in 2023. Whatever India announces will be on a voluntary basis,” the official said. NDCs are pledges by countries on what action they will take to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions under the Paris Agreement of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC).“Developed countries have been pushing India to announce a net-zero emissions target. But for us, our position is clear, action has to be taken based on historical responsibility which means they (developed countries) transition to net-zero emissions first leaving carbon space for us to grow.”India is expected to push for climate justice and equity and contribution based on historical responsibility during negotiations with a similar stand as 24 other like-minded developing countries (LMDCs) including China.The LMDCs issued a statement on October 18 calling a net-zero goal for all countries by mid-century “anti-equity” and against “climate justice.”“Despite their lack of ambition shown in the pre-2020 period, as well as in their Paris Agreement NDCs, major developed countries are now pushing to shift the goalposts of the Paris Agreement from what has already been agreed by calling for all countries to adopt net zero emissions targets by 2050,” the statement said. It added net-zero emissions for all countries by 2050 will exacerbate existing inequities between developed and developing countries.Carbon markets, Loss and Damage, and a transparency mechanism, which will be part of the rulebook, are the major issues likely to be discussed at COP 26. India is expected to push for its carbon credits from the clean development mechanism era pre-2020 to be recognised and allowed to be traded.“There can be multilateral and bilateral trade in carbon credits. We are also saying that whatever the value of each carbon credit in bilateral trading, 2% of that amount should go into the global adaptation fund which can be distributed as climate finance. Most of the money from carbon markets will otherwise be circulating in bilateral trading. The developed countries are not agreeing to this and they are also against trading of CDM era credits. This will have to be resolved,” the official cited above said.India is expected to support the stand of least developed countries and those most vulnerable to climate change impacts on Loss and Damage or a mechanism by which vulnerable nations will be compensated for irreversible impacts of climate crisis such as sea-level rise, biodiversity loss, or extreme weather events. The draft text on the mechanism was weak and could not be finalised during COP 25 in Madrid.“The floods, unseasonal rains, severe cyclones have increased in frequency and severity. There is a 1.2-degree rise in global temperature and we are already seeing this. Island countries and all vulnerable nations need to be compensated for such events. We will support the least developed countries on Loss and Damage because we are also suffering. It needs to be resolved how this money will come through insurance or trust fund, etc,” the official said.India is also willing to contribute to compensation based on its share but also expects to be compensated for the damage. “Our main ask at COP 26 will be climate finance. The developed countries are trying to show somehow that the 100-billion-dollar commitment will be fulfilled. They are also counting commercial investment as climate finance. That is not acceptable,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-likely-to-discuss-india-s-stance-at-cop-26-next-week-101634901702609.html
23-10-2021||India||Amit Shah to review security situation in 3-day J-K visit starting today||Srinagar Union home minister Amit Shah will arrive in Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday, for a three-day visit, to review the security situation amid a wave of targeted terrorist attacks that left 11 civilians dead in the region this month.Besides holding security review meetings, the minister will also address panchayat members and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers, people familiar with the matter said. BJP leader in J&K, Sunil Sharma, said the party has been told that Shah will arrive in Srinagar on Saturday and first travel to Jammu. “He will visit Kashmir before leaving for New Delhi,” he said. The BJP leader added that they have also invited district presidents to one of Shah’s events. “(The) home minister will also attend a rally in Jammu,” he said, after attending a party meeting on Shah’s visit on Thursday.This will be Shah’s first visit to the Union territory ever since the revocation of Article 370, which bestowed special status to the erstwhile state, in August 2019. He had last visited J&K in June 2019 after the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance swept to power at the Centre for a second term. The Union minister, whose visit is part of the Centre’s continuing outreach campaign, is also expected to review the implementation of development schemes in the region. Last month, he held a review meeting on J&K with lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha and senior security officials in the national capital. In view of Shah’s visit, security measures have been tightened across the Valley as forces stepped up checking and frisking activities, especially in Srinagar. J&K Police said 17 terrorists have been “neutralised” in various encounters in the Valley since October 1 amid a spate of attacks on civilians. Five migrant workers were among the 11 civilians killed in the region this month. A soldier was also killed in an anti-insurgency operation in the Valley on Wednesday. The Indian Army has been conducting operations in the dense forests of the Rajouri-Poonch sector for the past 12 days, trying to track down terrorists believed to belong to Pakistan-based terror group Lashkar-e-Taiba who have gone to ground in the area.The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has arrested 13 terror associates, so far, during raids across the Union territory, in connection with a case to unearth a conspiracy hatched by various terrorist groups to carry out attacks in and outside the Union territory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-to-arrive-in-kashmir-for-3-day-visit-on-saturday-amid-spike-in-violence-101634809585773.html
