24-10-2021||India||Senior advocates must render pro bono legal aid to poor: SC judge||Supreme Court judge justice U U Lalit Sunday called upon senior advocates to render pro bono legal aid to the poor and marginalised sections to ensure that they get quality access to justice.Justice Lalit, who is the Executive Chairman of the National Legal Services Authority, was speaking at a function organised by Karnataka State Legal Services Authority in association with the District Legal Services Authority, Kalaburagi on ‘Actualisation of Rights and Entitlements in Achieving Sustainable Development Goals –2020’.“Merely training the panel lawyers will not be sufficient. The solution to the problem is that some of the senior advocates must take legal aid as a matter of choice and keep on appearing for matters pro bono so that the man who comes through the door of legal aid service clinic is assured that it is not going to be a matter which is botched up and a quality legal aid will be extended to him,” Justice Lalit said.Stressing the importance of empowering the poor and downtrodden, he said legal aid to the poor does not mean it is of poor level and it has to be of better quality and standard.Stressing the need to empower women, the judge said women should be empowered to such an extent that she may run shoulder to shoulder with everyone of us.Justice Lalit commended the efforts of the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority with respect to the establishment of the off-campus legal services clinics and release of a graphic novel to spread legal literacy in the state. The National Legal Services Authority (NALSA) and the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority (KSLSA) have been performing instrumental role in bringing justice to the doorstep of citizens by creating legal awareness amongst the common citizens. As part of NALSA Pan India Awareness and Outreach Campaign and on the occasion of UN Day which is celebrated globally to mark the anniversary of the UN charter coming into force on 24 October in 1945, the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority in association with the District Legal Services Authority, Kalaburagi organised the programme.The programme was attended by judicial officers, members of the local bar, law students, teachers and around 300 members of the Banjara Community (known colloquially as Lambanis).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/senior-advocates-must-render-pro-bono-legal-aid-to-poor-sc-judge-101635100084470.html
24-10-2021||India||Air Force officer tests positive for Zika virus in Kanpur, UP’s first case this year||KanpurAn Indian Air Force officer has tested positive for the Zika virus in Uttar Pradesh’s Kanpur, health officials said Sunday, documenting the state’s first case of the viral disease this year.Samples of 22 people the infected officer came in contact with have tested negative, an official said, asking not to be named. Chief medical officer Nepal Singh said that the IAF (warrant) officer showed symptoms of the virus, including fever, over the last few days and was admitted to the Air Force Hospital in the district.His blood samples were sent to the National Institute of Virology, Pune, on Wednesday, Singh said. The officer’s test returned positive on Saturday, he said.The health department has isolated the officer’s contacts, he added. “All the 22 samples of his family members, relatives and friends sent to King George’s Medical University (KGMU), Lucknow, have tested negative,” Singh said.“No new case is a big relief for all of us,” Singh said, adding that the health department is yet to trace the source of the officer’s infection.Health and civic bodies’ officials have been put on alert to deal with the situation. Besides, several teams have also been tasked to check the spread of the virus in the district, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-force-officer-tests-positive-for-zika-virus-in-kanpur-up-s-first-case-this-year-101635100083093.html
24-10-2021||India||EAM Jaishankar reaffirms India’s support to UN||External Affairs Minister Dr S Jaishankar on Sunday reaffirmed India’s commitment to the United Nations on the 76th anniversary of UN Day.He reiterate the importance of reformed multilateralism that reflects rebalancing, fairness and multipolarity and said that it will always be a constructive force in enhancing UN’s effectiveness and reliability.“On #UNDay, as a founding member, reaffirm India’s commitment to @UN. Reiterate importance of reformed multilateralism that reflects rebalancing, fairness and multipolarity. As non-permanent member of UNSC, will take a principled approach towards contemporary challenges,” Jaishankar tweeted.“India will always be a constructive force in enhancing UN’s effectiveness and reliability,” he added.October 24 is celebrated as UN Day every year. It offers the opportunity to amplify our common agenda and reaffirm the purposes and principles of the UN Charter that have guided us for the past 76 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eam-jaishankar-reaffirms-india-s-support-to-un-101635099784191.html
24-10-2021||India||IMD alerts: Heavy rain with hailstorm and snowfall in 9 states, UTs till Oct 29||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecasted in its latest bulletin that the southwest monsoon will withdraw from the entire country in the next 48 hours (by October 26). This prediction has arrived at a time when several northern hill states and Union territories (UTs) of India such as Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, and Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) have been witnessing extreme rain and snowfall conditions triggering landslides, among other incidents.More than 60 people, including many trekkers, have lost their lives in Uttarakhand due to floods, landslides and building collapses – all triggered by incessant rain. Meanwhile, in Himachal Pradesh, bad weather resulted in as many as 80 people getting stranded in Lahaul-Spiti, a district management official told news agency PTI on Thursday.Also Read | At least 13 people, including 10 trekkers, dead due to snowfall in UttarakhandThe IMD has said that in the next 48 hours with the complete withdrawal of southwest monsoon, northeast monsoon rains are expected to commence over southeast peninsular region. Besides this, there is also a western disturbance that lies over north Pakistan and its neighbourhood.Here are the key IMD alerts for nine states, UTs for the next five days:1.     Light to moderate, fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls accompanied by thunderstorm and lightning are very likely over Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, and south interior Karnataka till October 29. A similar weather alert has been issued for coastal Karnataka for the next three to four days, and over coastal Andhra Pradesh for the next 24 hours.2.     The IMD has forecasted isolated very heavy falls over Tamil Nadu and Puducherry between October 25 and 26, and over Kerala and Puducherry’s Mahe on October 26.3.     In Himachal Pradesh and north Haryana, isolated hailstorms are very likely. Meanwhile, according to the IMD bulletin, isolated heavy rainfall or snowfall is very likely over eastern parts of Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh and Himachal Pradesh in the next 24 hours – and will reduce thereafter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-alerts-heavy-rain-with-hailstorm-and-snowfall-in-9-states-uts-till-oct-29-101635098808295.html
24-10-2021||India||Jammu-Srinagar highway reopens after more than 30 hours, over 500 stranded vehicles cleared off||The Jammu-Srinagar National Highway (NH-44) that connects the Union territory (UT) with the rest of India reopened on Sunday after being shut for more than 30 hours, senior superintendent of Police (SSP), Traffic, Shabir Ahmad Malik told news agency PTI. The highway has been closed since Saturday owing to landslides and shooting stones in Ramban and Udhampur triggered by incessant rain and untimely snowfall.Malik told PTI that more than 500 vehicles, mostly trucks, which were stuck on the 270-km stretch due to the closure, have been cleared from Jammu to Srinagar. “Dozens of stranded trucks were also allowed to move from Kashmir to Jammu,” he was quoted as saying by PTI.He further noted that the debris clearance work was sped up early Sunday morning following improvement in weather in the UT. By afternoon, the NH-44 was back to normal operations for one-way traffic.However, Malik clarified that after the opening of the highway, no fresh traffic was allowed “either from Jammu or Srinagar,” adding that depending on the weather conditions, light motor vehicles would be permitted on both sides of the NH-44.Three persons belonging to a nomad group died on Saturday and one was left injured after their tent came under landslide debris in south Kashmir’s Awantipora, Pulwama deputy commissioner Baseer Ul Haq Choudhary said. Jammu and Kashmir has been witnessing extreme weather conditions comprising heavy snowfall and rain since early last week, which has caused many rain-triggered incidents in the UT, including landslides.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammusrinagar-national-highway-reopens-after-more-than-30-hours-101635098210054.html
24-10-2021||India||The Week Ahead: Cong embarks on nationwide outreach; UP government report on Lakhimpur killings likely on Wednesday||Mumbai Following Sunday’s India-Pakistan clash at the T20 World Cup in Dubai, India gets a longish breather before their next match against New Zealand on October 31. That one’s going to be another exciting face-off between Virat Kohli and Kane Williamson, two of the best contemporary batters across all formats, and may prove crucial for the tournament’s eventual outcome. Both India and New Zealand were pre-tournament frontrunners, if not outright favourites. In other important matches, Pakistan play New Zealand and South Africa play West Indies on Tuesday, while England have their big match against Australia on Saturday. While the T20 World Cup might dominate the sports page headlines this week and the next, the next six days are going to be blazing hot for Indian politics. Monday will see a nationwide outreach drive by the Congress on the same day that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to address a big rally in his constituency of Varanasi. A status report by the Uttar Pradesh government on the Lakhimpur Kheri killings is expected this Wednesday. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is likely to visit Goa this week around the same time that the RSS is holding its All India Executive meeting in Karnataka for three days. This is her maiden visit to the western state where the TMC is making inroads. TMC general secretary Abhishek Banerjee has already announced that the party will make an electoral foray into 15 states in the coming years. Now wonder then, that, the big daddy of all political developments in India is still elections. Voting for by-polls in about 30 assembly constituencies and some Lok Sabha segments across India will be held on October 30. This is the biggest chunk of by-polls to be held this year and could be seen as getting the pulse of the people before the 2022 assembly polls in four states. In Chhattisgarh, a meeting of state Congress party office bearers is scheduled on October 26 in which decisions on restructuring of the party unit is likely to be taken. This comes at the time when there is speculation on chief minister Bhupesh Baghel being replaced by health minister TS Singhdeo, who might return to the state this week after a long stay in Delhi where he said to have met senior party leaders. Today will also see the introduction of new guidelines for international passengers, according to which all international passengers will have to produce a negative RT-PCR report for Coronavirus disease on arrival. Airlines will have to ensure availability of negative RT-PCR report before allowing the travellers to board. Fully vaccinated travellers coming from a country with which India has reciprocal arrangements for mutual acceptance of World Health Organisation approved Covid-19 vaccines will be allowed to enter the country without having to undergo the mandatory seven-day home quarantine and test on arrival. India has signed agreements for mutual recognition of nationally or WHO recognised COVID-19 vaccines with 11 countries - the UK, France, Germany, Nepal, Belarus, Lebanon, Armenia, Ukraine, Belgium, Hungary and Serbia.In the national Capital, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) will decide on regulations for Chhat Puja celebrations. Chhat Puja this year will be celebrated on November 10 – six days after Diwali. On September 29, DDMA had prohibited Chhat Puja celebrations at riverbanks, near water bodies, grounds, parks, temples and public spaces in Delhi citing Covid-19 transmission related risks, even though community celebrations of other festivals such as Durga Puja, Ramleela, and Dussehra (with a set of limited restrictions) were allowed. This led to protests by the Bharatiya Janata Party which claimed that the prohibition on community celebration of Chhat Puja would hurt people of Poorvanchal who reside in Delhi. Poorvanchal is a popular term referring to the region that covers Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand. Chhat Puja is a popular festival among people belonging to these states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-week-ahead-cong-embarks-on-nationwide-outreach-up-government-report-on-lakhimpur-killings-likely-on-wednesday-101635096901581.html
24-10-2021||India||'Ashram 3' sets in Bhopal vandalised by Bajrang Dal, ink thrown at Prakash Jha||Bajrang Dal workers on Sunday vandalised the shooting sets of Prakash Jha's upcoming web series Ashram 3 in Bhopal and threw ink at the director, news agency ANI reported. Bajrang Dal workers demanded that the name of the show has to be changed from Ashram. Otherwise, the shooting will not be allowed to go on in the state, Bajrang Dal Bhopal leader Sushil Sudele said.“We want the film industry to be promoted here in Madhya Pradesh. People should get employment, but this land should not be used to humiliate Hindu samaj. In the earlier instalment of the series, it was shown that women are exploited inside Ashram, is it so? Stop defaming Hindus and if he wants to gain popularity then why not name any other religion and see the number of protests that happen,” the Bajrang Dal leader said.Reports said as the workers went on a rampage on the sets, they shouted "Prakash Jha Murdabad", "Bobby Deol Murdabad" and "Jai Shri Ram". They also said that they were looking for Bobby Deol, the main character of the series. Bobby Deol should learn something from his brother Sunny Deol, they said. Vehicles of the shooting party were stopped and the Bajrang Dal workers pelted stones at them, leaving some crew members injured. Police said no one was fatally injured and appropriate action will be taken against those responsible for Sunday's vandalism. Irshad Wali, DIG Bhopal, clarified, "All the miscreants have been shunned from the premises and no one has been fatally injured, though some vehicles have been damaged. Further action will be taken against those responsible."“I want to assure everyone that a similar situation will not be repeated again,” he said to ANI. "We have given only a warning for now and Prakash Raj has said that he is in talks to change the show's title," Sushil Sudele said, adding "I repeat the show's name will have to be changed from 'Ashram' or won't be filmed here in Bhopal."Bobby Deol plays the role of Baba Nirala who is a godman and also a conman. The first season of the web series was released in August 2020 on theOTT platform MX player.  This is not Ashram's first brush with controversy as a Jodhpur court in 2020 issued notice to Bobby Deol and Prakash Jha after an advocate moved the court claiming that the series hurts religious sentiments. Rajasthan Police earlier booked the makers of the series for allegedly promoting discrimination against SC/STs.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ashram-3-sets-in-bhopal-vandalised-by-bajrang-dal-ink-thrown-at-prakash-jha-101635094894695.html
24-10-2021||India||Kisan Morcha says ‘Kalash Yatras’ for Lakhimpur Kheri deceased drawing crowd||Kisan Morcha says ‘Kalash Yatras’ for Lakhimpur Kheri deceased drawing mass support -- for long headlineThe Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmer unions leading the agitating against the three central farm laws, said rallies aimed at paying homage to five of their compatriots who lost their lives during violence clashes in Lakhimpur Kheri earlier this month were drawing large crowds.The farmers body had said the 'Shahid Kisan Asthi Kalash Yatras' would be taken out in several districts across the country to distribute the ashes of the deceased farmers. “In Tamil Nadu, the yatra passed through Ulludurpet in Kallakurichi district and then entered Perambalur," a representative of SKM said."In Himachal Pradesh, ashes of the martyrs were immersed in Poanta Sahib at Yamuna Ghat. Yatras are going through various places in Punjab in all three regions of Malwa, Majha and Doaba," they added.SKM, who took the decision to organise a ‘Kalash Yatra' at the Singhu Morcha in Delhi on October 21, said the march was mobilising people to demand the arrest of Union minister Ajay Mishra, whose son Ashish is behind bars for allegedly driving one of the cars that had ran over protesting farmers on the fateful day.On October 3, farmers were protesting the official visit of deputy chief minister of Uttar Pradesh Keshav Prasad Maurya when the violence broke out leading to at least eight deaths, including that of farmers and a local journalist.“The response has been huge, and the demand for justice is growing louder,” the morcha said.SKM has also urged its constituents to organise dharnas at tehsils and district headquarters across India between 11am and 2pm on October 26 to demand the sacking of Mishra, who holds the post of junior minister in the Union home department.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kisan-morcha-says-kalash-yatras-for-lakhimpur-kheri-deceased-drawing-crowd-101635094253683.html
24-10-2021||India||‘How could PM Modi visit US where Covaxin is not approved?’ Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday wondered how could Prime Minister Narendra Modi visit America in September after taking the indigenously developed Covaxin which is not yet approved by the US health regulator against the coronavirus disease.On a five-day tour to the north Bengal districts, Banerjee, while addressing a post-Durga puja cultural event held by the police in Siliguri town, said, “How could Modi visit America if he took Covaxin? America has not given recognition to Covaxin. Thousands of students and businessmen cannot enter America because of that. In Bengal, many people received Covishied which has been approved by foreign countries. I have even written to the Prime Minister to take steps so that Covaxin gets the approval.” The chief minister attacked the Centre on several issues, ranging from price rise to the Covid pandemic, claiming that Bengal stands third in the country in vaccination despite the Centre allotting lesser vials for her state which has a high population of 101.9 million. “Those who played gongs and utensils should look at Bengal. We were the first to start mass vaccination. We have administered 70 million vaccines so far. However, only 40 million people have received the second dose,” said Banerjee indirectly taking a swipe at Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders who asked people to play the gongs and light candles outside their homes last year to muster solidarity in the fight against Covid-19. “In a country of 1300 million, only 295.1 million have received the second dose till today, says the government. This is jumla (propaganda). Bengal stands third in vaccination because we received fewer vaccines, although our population is high. We bought vaccines with state funds. They (Centre) is giving certificates to vaccinated people. Will the death certificates carry Narendra Modi’s photograph as well? A few million have died so far,” said Banerjee. Covaxin, made by Bharat Biotech, was not approved for emergency use by USA’s top public health regulator, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Rejecting Covaxin’s application for emergency use in the US, the FDA sought more data on clinical trials. Modi received his first dose of Covaxin at Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) on March 1. “Took my first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine at AIIMS. Remarkable how our doctors and scientists have worked in quick time to strengthen the global fight against COVID-19. I appeal to all those who are eligible to take the vaccine. Together, let us make India COVID-19 free!” he tweeted with a photograph of him receiving the shot. The Prime Minister received his second dose at AIIMS on April 8. He announced this in a tweet and urged citizens to get their names registered on the government’s Cowin website. The Bengal chief minister also targeted the Centre for the steep rise in petrol and diesel prices. “Prices of diesel and petrol are shooting up every day. This is hurting common people. Very soon you will have to cook with coal. Strangely, nobody is bothered. Nobody is saying a word. But we will protest,” she said. Though the Bengal BJP has targeted Banerjee for not taking a strong stand on the attack on Hindus during Durga puja in Bangladesh, the chief minister skipped the issue. Instead, she said the festival took place peacefully in Bengal. “The BJP alleged that I do not allow Durga puja in Bengal. Such a big festival took place and not a single untoward incident took place. This is not Tripura where even Santosh Mohan’s Deb’s daughter (TMC leader Sushmita Deb) was assaulted recently. How many assaults took place in north Bengal after the assembly polls? The BJP is campaigning all day. Why don’t you (BJP) look at Tripura? People cannot enter Uttar Pradesh. In Delhi, power cuts have affected life,” said Banerjee. She even questioned the Centre’s decision to extend the area of jurisdiction of the Border Security Force in Bengal, Assam and Punjab from 15 km of the international border to 50 km. “What does this mean? We do not want this. Our relations with Bhutan, Nepal and Bangladesh are very good. They (BJP government) are doing this to capture more power. How much more power do you want? Your demands seem to have no end,” she said. Reacting to Banerjee’s statement on Modi visiting the USA after taking Covaxin, Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said the chief minister failed to see the paradigm shift in India’s position before the world after the rule of the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) came to an end. “Modi visited America because the vaccine represents the success of India’s scientific community. Covaxin has not been approved yet because there is pressure from international pharmaceutical companies. These issues will be sorted out in no time. Banerjee needs to understand that all nations respect India. There has been a paradigm shift in their position since the Congress-led UPA era,” said Bhattacharya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-could-pm-modi-visit-us-where-covaxin-is-not-approved-mamata-banerjee-101635093003598.html
24-10-2021||India||As Lalu Prasad returns home amid fanfare, son Tej Pratap fumes over ‘humiliation’||As ailing Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) patriarch Lalu Prasad returned home after years on Sunday amid much fanfare, his mercurial elder son Tej Pratap made as much news alleging humiliation at the hands of the party’s state unit chief Jagadanand Singh and MLC Sunil Singh. He later staged a protest outside his parents' residence claiming that he was stopped from meeting his father by “ agents of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS)”. Earlier in the day, Tej Pratap was seen at the airport with his younger brother Tejashwi, whom the RJD patriarch seems to have passed on the reins of the party. It appeared the duo had buried their hatchet while receiving their father at the airport, but it all got lost when Tej Pratap was seen furiously leaving mother Rabri Devi’s house and telling reporters that henceforth, he would have nothing to do with the RJD.At the airport, Tej Pratap remained by his father side all along, but later accused the state RJD chief and MLC Sunil Singh of preventing him from spending some time with his father. #WATCH | Patna: RJD leader Tej Pratap Yadav met his father Lalu Prasad Yadav at the latter's residence.Tej Pratap was protesting outside Lalu Prasad's residence alleging that he was stopped by "RSS agents" from meeting his father. pic.twitter.com/eXGbyJvNTOHe had been reportedly fuming since morning when posters that were put up at some places welcoming Prasad did not feature him, but Tejashwi, Rabri Devi and Misa, among others.“I have nothing to do with the RJD henceforth. I am, though, a devoted son and will continue to dote on my father,” he said, “It was such a happy day, but I was humiliated even today.”Hitting out at Jagadanand Singh, the maverick MLA whose run-ins with functionaries of his party keep making headlines, said, “Until I am able to throw him out of the RJD, I would have nothing to do with the party. I would take a major step in the coming days,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Meanwhile, Prasad returned to his home turf of Bihar from where imprisonment in fodder scam cases had kept him away for three years. Prasad, who was released from jail a few months ago, arrived here accompanied by wife Rabri Devi and eldest daughter Misa Bharti, at whose Delhi residence he had been putting up for medical help he needs for the multiple ailments he suffers from.Chants in praise of the “messiah of the poor” rent the air as the haggard-looking septuagenarian walked out of the airport, with a shuffling gait, tiredly waving at the huge crowd.Prasad was last seen here in September 2018, after which he returned to Ranchi to serve his sentences upon expiry of the period of his bail, granted to attend elder son’s wedding and extended a number of times to help him avail medical treatment.The former Bihar chief minister drove straight to Rabri Devi’s 10, Circular Road bungalow where a large number of supporters was seen waiting outside with police and security personnel sweating it out to keep their enthusiasm under check.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-lalu-prasad-returns-home-amid-loud-cheer-son-tej-pratap-says-humiliated-101635091889300.html
24-10-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: October 25, 1954 — Political crisis in Pakistan; governor-general proclaims state of emergency||Karachi: The Pakistan Prime Minister, Mr Mohammed Ali, reconstituted his Cabinet this evening as the whole country lay under a state of emergency proclaimed by the Governor-General, Mr Ghulam Mohammed, because the constitutional machinery had broken down.Within hours of Mr Mohammed Ali’s arrival home by a specially-chartered plane, the Governor-General discussed with him the most serious political crisis in the country’s history and dissolved the Constituent Assembly, called for fresh elections “ as early as possible” and ordered a new Cabinet to be ushered in. The Pakistan Prime Minister, who named his new eight-man Cabinet to ensure “a vigorous and stable Government” in the country, himself came to power on the crest of a crisis 19 months ago when the Governor-General dismissed the Khwaja Nazimuddin Ministry. Since Mr Mohammed Ali landed at midnight last night events moved rapidly and the crisis, the existence of which was denied by him at the airport, became a reality. He conferred with Mr Ghulam Mohammed for three hours early in the morning before the Governor-General announced his momentous order to the people who were anticipating some such action. At least four hours before the communiqué was issued by Mr Ghulam Mohammed, leading East Pakistan members of the now dissolved Constituent Assembly openly said that “another coup is coming.” The crisis was precipitated by sharp differences among sections of the Muslim League Party over the provisions of the new constitution which the Prime Minister, before his departure to the U.S.A., had promised the country before the end of the year. ZONAL FEDERATION DEMAND The “rebels” from West Pakistan, including Mr Feroz Khan Noon, Chief Minister of West Punjab, Mr Daultana, Mr M. A. Khuhro, Mr Abdul Rashid, Frontier Chief Minister, and the Pakistan Interior Minister, Mr M. A. Gurmani, wanted a zonal federation for fear that East Bengal with more than half the population of the country would dominate. At a meeting at Lahore on Friday, the Punjab Muslim League Assembly Party gave a mandate to members of the Constituent Assembly from West Punjab that they should demand that in the future constitution of Pakistan only five subjects-defence, foreign affairs, currency and exchange, foreign trade and interzonal communications-should be administered by the Central Government of Pakistan. This mandate was stated to have reflected the unanimous decisions reached by senior Muslim League leaders on Thursday at the conclusion of a week’s talks between Mr Feroz Khan Noon and Mr Daulatana. SIND PARTY’S STAND Members of the Sind Assembly Party, on the other hand, considered that with the passage of the report of the Basic Principles Committee the constitution had been adopted. They demanded passage of the draft constitution by December 25. A majority of the Muslim League members of the Sind Assembly, in a statement issued yesterday, strongly opposed moves for forming a zonal federation for West Pakistan.Another additional factor in the crisis was the removal last Wednesday by the Governor-General of the disqualifications imposed under P.R.O.D.A. on four Provincial Ministers, including Mr M. A. Khuhro and Mr Faziullah, enabling them to stage a come-back in the political life of the country. The storm that had been brewing was expected to burst at the Muslim League convention fixed for October 31 but the Working Committee of the Muslim League on Friday made a dramatic eleventh-hour postponement of the convention to January “ in view of the strained political atmosphere in the country.” The decision came in for sharp criticism from Muslim League leaders from West Pakistan. They described it as a “vicious move” and “a stab in the back of the Muslim League organization.” PROCLAMATION A communiqué issued by the Cabinet secretariat said: “ The Governor-General, having considered the political crisis with which the country is faced, has with deep regret come to the conclusion that the constitutional machinery has broken down. He has, therefore, decided to declare a state of emergency throughout Pakistan. The Constituent Assembly, as at present constituted, has lost the confidence of the people and can no longer function. The ultimate authority vests in the people who will decide all issues, including constitutional issues, through representatives to be elected. “Elections will be held as early as possible. Until such time as elections are held the administration of the country will be carried on by a reconstituted Cabinet. He has called upon the Prime Minister to reform the Cabinet with a view to giving the country a vigorous and stable administration. The invitation has been accepted. “Security and stability of the country are of paramount importance and all sectional and provincial interests must be subordinated to the supreme national interest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-october-25-1954-political-crisis-in-pakistan-governor-general-proclaims-state-of-emergency-101635089641963.html
24-10-2021||India||‘Look at your state’: Mamata Banerjee blames BJP for attack on TMC workers in Tripura, says no violence in Bengal||Merely two days after the members of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) were assaulted during a rally in Agartala, Tripura, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) attacked opposition parties if they organise a rally in Tripura.The chief minister’s remarks came after the TMC earlier on Friday said that its party members along with Sushmita Dev were assaulted by BJP workers in Tripura while they were campaigning for the local body elections there. The party had described the attack as “barbaric” and also said that the people of the state would give a “befitting response” to the BJP.Further, the TMC chief also denied the BJP’s claims about violence in her state Bengal and asked the party to look at Tripura ruled by them. “There is peace in West Bengal,” she said. “In contrast, look at the happenings in your state (Tripura). Whoever dares to take out rallies opposing the BJP is hit with sticks,” news agency PTI quoted the CM as saying.Also read | ‘Barbaric attack’: TMC says Sushmita Dev, party workers assaulted in Tripura, alleges collapse of law and orderShe also claimed that the BJP did not allow the injured TMC members to receive medical care in hospitals following the attack. Also, she said that one of the party workers, who was assaulted, had to be rushed back to a hospital in Kolkata.“They don't even allow the injured TMC workers to be treated at a hospital. A young party worker was thrashed and he had to be rushed to the SSKM Hospital (in Kolkata),” she said. Banerjee’s remarks came during a rally in Siliguri in Bengal.The TMC is trying to expand its national footprint by announcing to contest elections in Goa and Tripura among other states. Goa is scheduled to go to polls early next year while in Tripura the elections are slated for 2023.Earlier on Friday, the party had shared videos of the alleged attack on its delegation in Tripura in which two to three men could be seen thrashing another man. Also, it shared pictures of a damaged campaign vehicle used by Dev and other party workers. Party leader Abhishek Banerjee had also condemned the attack and blamed Tripura CM Biplab Kumar Deb’s men for the assault, which he described was “beyond shameful” and “political terrorism.”(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/look-at-your-state-mamata-banerjee-blames-bjp-for-attack-on-tmc-workers-in-tripura-says-no-violence-in-bengal-101635088189920.html
24-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: UP reports first case of Zika virus and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Uttar Pradesh reports first case of Zika virus, Air Force officer in Kanpur tests positiveUttar Pradesh on Sunday reported the first case of Zika virus, a health official told news agency PTI. Read MoreSameer Wankhede writes to Mumbai top cop seeking protection from legal action amid fresh row over Aryan Khan caseSameer Wankhede, the zonal director of the Narcotics Control Bureau Mumbai, has written to the Mumbai Police commissioner seeking protection from precipitate legal action against him. Read MoreWe're a great loser, J&K better off when governed by CMs: Ghulam Nabi AzadSenior Congress leader and former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Ghulam Nabi Azad said on Sunday the erstwhile state was a great loser as it got divided into parts and its Assembly dissolved. Read MoreIndia vs Pakistan: Virat Kohli & co. bend the knee to support 'Black Lives Matter' movement before start of matchIndia team led by Virat Kohli on Sunday showcased their support to the 'Black Lives Matter' movement before the start of the T20 World Cup match against Pakistan. Read MoreArbaaz Merchant’s father reveals son’s conversation with Aryan Khan that ‘surprised’ him: ‘They are both taken aback’Aslam Merchant is concerned about his son, Arbaaz Merchant, who is currently lodged at the Arthur Road jail in a drug-related case. Read MoreDisha Parmar and Rahul Vaidya celebrate first Karva Chauth in traditional ensembles, don't miss his noteTelevision actor Disha Parmar is celebrating her first Karva Chauth with her husband and singer Rahul Vaidya. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-up-reports-first-case-of-zika-virus-and-all-the-latest-news-101635087851073.html
24-10-2021||India||Sameer Wankhede writes to Mumbai top cop seeking protection from legal action amid fresh row over Aryan Khan case||Sameer Wankhede, the zonal director of the Narcotics Control Bureau Mumbai, has written to the Mumbai Police commissioner seeking protection from precipitate legal action against him, framing him falsely. The letter comes on a day when a witness in the Aryan Khan case has filed an affidavit levelling several allegations against Wankhede and NCB, including getting his signature on blank papers.The arrest of Aryan Khan in connection with a cruise rave party early this month has become a politically sensitive issue with the Maharashtra government questioning NCB's actions against Bollywood personalities while drugs of much more quantity are being recovered from elsewhere in the country. The affidavit of Prabhakar Rohoji Sail, the former driver and bodyguard of private investigator KP Gosavi, brings forth gravest charges against Sameer Wankhede as Prabhakar indicated that "NCB official demanded ₹25 crore from Shah Rukh Khan to release his son Aryan Khan". Sail claimed he heard KP Gosavi telling some D'Souza over the phone about a demand of ₹25 crore and to settle at ₹18 crore as they "have to give ₹eight crore to Sameer Wankhede".Aryan Khan case: NCB replies to 'extortion' allegation, Nawab Malik says SIT should probeWhile Sameer Wankhede has refuted these allegations, the central agency has issued a statement saying that the witness needs to submit his prayer to the court instead of social media as the matter is subjudice. "...there are certain vigilance-related allegations against certain persons in the affidavit which are based on overhearing," the NCB said referring to the purported ₹25 crore conversation.Sameer Wankhede writes to Mumbai top cop seeking protection from legal actionSameer Wankhede, the zonal director of the Narcotics Control Bureau Mumbai, has written to the Mumbai Police commissioner seeking protection from precipitate legal action against him, framing him falsely.As part of his continuous jibe at the NCB, Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik recently threatened Nawab Malik in a public address and said that Wankhede will be put behind the bars. Without naming the minister, Wankhede wrote in his letter that the threat of jail and dismissal have been issued against him on public media by highly respectable public functionaries."Hence, you are requested to kindly ensure that no such precipitate legal action is carried out to frame the undersigned falsely with ulterior motives," Wankhede wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sameer-wankhede-writes-to-mumbai-top-cop-seeking-protection-from-legal-action-amid-fresh-row-over-aryan-khan-case-101635085979346.html
24-10-2021||India||Kerala newborn kidnapping case: Anupama’s parents file anticipatory bail||Six days after police filed a case in connection with the alleged kidnapping of a newborn baby last year, parents and four relatives of former leader of the Students Federation of India (SFI) Anupama S Chandran (23) moved the district court in Thiruvananthapuram for anticipatory bail.The court will take up their pleas on October 28 and directed the police to file a reply. Though they were booked under non-bailable sections of the Indian Penal Code, including 367 (removing baby from lawful guardian), they were not arrested by police. Complainant Anupama said she lost faith in the police and will move the court soon. In her complaint, Anupama alleged that her father PS Jayachandran, a CPI(M) leader, took away her newborn three days after she gave birth last October and abandoned the baby in an orphanage run by the Kerala State Council for Child Welfare. Later, the baby was reportedly given to a family from Andhra Pradesh for adoption, allegedly flouting all rules and regulations. She alleged that her parents opposed her relation with husband K Ajith since he belonged to a Dalit family. Her one-day fast before the state secretariat on Saturday attracted national attention and many senior leaders of the party, including politburo members Brinda Karat and MA Baby, decried inaction on her complaint. “The party and the government say they are with me but it should reflect in their actions as well. I never thought my father is so powerful, nobody dares touch him. I have lost faith in the police and I will move the high court soon,” she said. She reiterated that the party was aware of the whole issue and it was shedding tears now after it hit national headlines. The 23-year-old has been knocking on many doors for the last six months to locate her child who was forcibly separated by her parents. She formally lodged a complaint with the police on April 19 and approached the CM and then police chief Loknath Behra. She said police failed to take any action due to political pressure and she was forced to come out on media after all attempts failed. Former minister PK Sreemathi, also a party central committee member, said two days ago that she tried her best to help Anupama and even approached the CM’s political secretary Puthalath Dinesan but failed. “In fact, Brinda Karat told me about her case and I immediately called the CM’s political secretary. He promised action but nothing happened,” said Sreemathi.Many leaders like her have expressed regret over the way the government and the party have handled the sensitive issue. After the issue snowballed into a big controversy her father said since the baby was born out of wedlock they decided to shift to the government-run children’s home in the state capital with the consent of his daughter. He said she signed on stamp paper but Anupama later said she signed under duress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-newborn-kidnapping-case-anupama-s-parents-file-anticipatory-bail-101635085383233.html
24-10-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh reports first case of Zika virus, Air Force officer in Kanpur tests positive||Uttar Pradesh on Sunday reported the first case of Zika virus, a health official told news agency PTI. The case has been reported from Kanpur after a warrant officer in the Indian Air Force (IAF) was diagnosed with it.The officer, Kanpur chief medical officer (CMO) Nepal Singh said, has been suffering from fever for the past many days and was also admitted to the Air Force Hospital in the city. He added that the officer’s blood sample was collected and was sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune after the latter began showing some mysterious symptoms.The PTI report further quoted Singh as saying that the Zika virus positive report of the warrant officer was received by Kanpur authorities on Saturday.Subsequently, as many as 22 samples of people the patient came in contact with have been sent to NIV for examination, Singh told PTI.Also Read | Zika virus transmission, symptoms, prevention explainedOfficials of health and civic bodies have also been put on alert in order to contain the situation. Furthermore, several teams have also been appointed to stop the spread of the virus in the state.Kerala was the first state to have reported a case of Zika virus in a pregnant woman on July 8, following which a high alert was issued in the state. In August, Maharashtra reported its first case after a 50-year-old woman from Pune’s Purandar tehsil tested positive for the infection. So far, Kerala has reported more than 60 Zika virus cases, state health minister Veena George said in an official statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-reports-first-zika-virus-case-iaf-officer-tests-positive-in-kanpur-101635084463395.html
24-10-2021||India||We're a great loser, J&K better off when governed by CMs: Ghulam Nabi Azad||Senior Congress leader and former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Ghulam Nabi Azad said on Sunday the erstwhile state was a great loser as it got divided into parts and its Assembly dissolved. He further said J&K was better off when governed by chief ministers before being turned into a Union territory.Azad’s comments came hours after Union home minister Amit Shah spoke about how Jammu & Kashmir has been developed over the years under the Narendra Modi government and how changes were visible since the abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution that granted special status to the now-divided Union territory.“So, we are a great loser. We are a great loser after the state has been divided into two. We have been a great loser ever since the Assembly has been dissolved,” the former Rajya Sabha MP was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also read | Delimitation will happen, J&K statehood to be restored: Amit Shah in Srinagar“We were told the scenario in J&K will change after the abrogation of Article 370. Growth, hospitals, unemployment will be taken care of. But that has not happened at all. As a matter of fact, we were far better when it was being ruled by various CMs,” Azad said.Addressing a rally earlier in the day, Shah had hit out former chief ministers for not doing enough for the erstwhile state.Speaking about delimitation and statehood, “They would like to have delimitation first. I think they would like to have the election first and then statehood. Our demand still today is that first statehood should be granted and that should be followed by elections,” the former chief minister said.“I had requested both PM (Narendra Modi) and HM (Shah) that we're thankful to them that statehood is being granted and the state should not have been divided into two. But having been divided, now you've agreed to give statehood, but don't make the mistake of doing delimitation first and then going ahead with statehood.”He said he had demanded the same even during the meeting of political leaders from Kashmir with the PM at his residence. “Other parties also demanded. The home minister had assured us that statehood will be granted and delimitation commission will give a report,” Azad said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/were-a-great-loser-j-k-better-off-when-governed-by-cms-ghulam-nabi-azad-101635083685894.html
24-10-2021||India||Don't imprison small-time drug offenders, ministry suggests change in NDPS Act||At a time the NDPS Act and its stringent provision are in the limelight over the ongoing case of Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan, it has been reported that the social justice and empowerment ministry wants a review of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act and has recommended that possession small quantities of drugs for personal consumption can be decriminalised. The recommendation has been submitted to the department of revenue, which is the nodal authority of the NDPS act. The department had asked several ministries to suggest changes to the law if any.Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan has been charged under the sections of this Act and his bail plea has been rejected by an NDPS court. Section 27 of the Act has been imposed on Aryan Khan, which prescribes imprisonment of up to a year or a penalty of up to ₹20,000 or both for consumption of any narcotic drug or psychotropic substance. The section does not make any distinction between an addict, a recreational user or a first-time user.‘NCB wants to make this an extraordinary case...’: Top defense lawyer on Aryan Khan caseAn accused can avail immunity of this penalty or prison term only if he or she volunteers for rehabilitation. Apart from this, there is no provision for relief or exemption under the NDPS Act. The social justice and empowerment ministry suggested that this rehabilitation should be given to those who are caught with a small quantity of drugs instead of a jail term, PTI reported quoting an official.Aryan Khan was arrested on October 3 and was sent to judicial custody on October 7. All his bail pleas have been rejected though he was not found with any drugs. The NCB has brought the charge of ‘conscious possession’ against him claiming that he was aware that his friend Arbaaz Merchant was carrying 6 gram charas. The agency has also linked him with a drug network based on his WhatsApp chats. Several experts have pointed out that it is difficult to get bail under the NDPS Act.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-imprison-small-time-drug-offenders-ministry-suggests-change-in-ndps-act-101635082361679.html
24-10-2021||India||‘Never seen such chaos’: Cong’s Manish Tewari on crisis in party’s Punjab unit, calls out infighting||Senior Congress leader Manish Tewari on Sunday took to Twitter, expressing his displeasure over the crisis within the party’s Punjab unit. Tewari, one of the group of 23 Congress leaders who had called for a reorganisation of the party, quoted a recent interview by another senior leader Harish Rawat to a business newspaper and said that he had “never seen such chaos and anarchy” in the Congress.“However in my 40 years plus in @INCIndia I have never seen such chaos and anarchy as what is playing out in @INCPunjab today,” Tewari said, referring to the recent events surrounding the party’s state unit.Respected @harishrawatcmuk ji Since you referred to me in this interview👇🏾I also have great regard & respect for you going back to days when I headed @nsui & you @CongressSevadal.However in my 40 years plus in @INCIndia I have never seen such chaos 1/2https://t.co/GcE6Mw0niK“Repeated open defiance of AICC by a PCC President, colleagues squabbling publicly with each other like children. Guttural language against each other that even fish wives would not use,” Tewari further said.Rawat, in his interview to the Financial Express, said that former CM Amarinder Singh had failed to address the issues raised by the Punjab MLAs. Further, Rawat also said that Tewari should understand the “ground situation” in Punjab and noted that the government’s stability was at stake amid the revolts by MLAs, during the interview.Also read | Congress’ Manish Tewari ties attacks in J&K to rise of Taliban, says ’should've anticipated blowback’Responding to this, Tewari asked where was the progress on issues that had initially agitated the MLAs. In addition, he also called the Mallikarjun Kharge-led panel set by party’s interim president Sonia Gandhi “a serious error of judgement.” Earlier in May this year, Gandhi had set up a three-member committee led by Kharge in view of the infighting in the party’s Punjab camp. The panel had suggested a revamp of the organisation to accommodate all sections, castes and regions, HT had previously reported.“Where is progress on the issues that agitated these MLA’s & other eminences- Bargari,Drugs, Power PPA’s, illegal sand mining. Has there been any movement forward,” Tewari said. “History would record that the appointment of the Committee that ostensibly heard perceived & real grievances was a serious error of judgement,” he added.Taking a swipe at the Punjab Congress Committee (PCC) chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, Tewari said that Sidhu has openly defied the All India Congress Committee (AICC) repeatedly. He also called out the war of words between the leaders of the party and former CM Singh, however without the mention of any names. “Repeated open defiance of AICC by a PCC President, colleagues squabbling publicly with each other like children. Guttural language against each other that even fish wives would not use,” he said.“For the past 5 months it is @INCPunjab vs @INCPunjab. Do we think that people of Punjab are not disgusted by this daily soap opera?Irony is that those who complained loudest of transgressions & aberrations were unfortunately & continue to be worst offenders themselves,” he added.Meanwhile, Sidhu too had earlier in the day tweeted that Punjab must focus on “real issues” that concerned the state. “Punjab must come back to its real issues that concern every punjabi and our future generations … How will we counter the financial emergency that stares upon us ? I will stick to the real issues and not let them take a backseat,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/never-seen-such-chaos-cong-s-manish-tewari-on-crisis-in-party-s-punjab-unit-calls-out-infighting-101635080623157.html
24-10-2021||India||Around 100 Indians, including their children and spouses, yet to be evacuated from Afghanistan: NGOs write to PMO, MEA||Nearly 100 Indian nationals, including their children and spouses, and more than 200 Afghans are yet to be evacuated from Afghanistan – which fell back in the hands of Islamist militant group Taliban two months ago. In a letter addressed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Office and senior officials of the Union external affairs ministry (MEA), the India world forum (IWF) and many other humanitarian NGOs sought evacuation of stranded Hindu and Sikh citizens from Afghanistan’s capital Kabul, news agency ANI reported.“Sikh leaders and NGOs including Gurudwara are receiving multiple distressed calls from Kabul from Indian nationals and Afghan nationals of India origin,” former president of Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGPC) Manjit Singh wrote in the letter dated October 20.A majority of these people await e-visas despite having valid visas in the past, and travel history in India, the letter further stated.Notably, the MEA in August, amid the turmoil of US and foreign forces pulling out of Afghanistan, had cancelled all previously issued visas to Afghans who were not in India and announced that they can travel to the country only on e-visas. Additionally, the ministry had introduced a new category called “e-Emergency X-Misc Visa” of electronic/e-visa in order to fast track applications of Afghan citizens wanting to enter India."This is in regard to our earlier requests addressed to the Government of India for issuance of visas to Afghan nationals belonging to Hindu and Sikh community i.e., minorities,” a letter of president of Guru Singh Sabha Karte Parwan, Kabul, read.The ANI report added that as many as 208 applications submitted by the Hindu and Sikh community members of Afghanistan are yet to be processed by the Indian government. Furthermore, details of charter flights for the evacuation of these minorities from Kabul, submitted by an Iran-based private travel and logistics company to the MEA, are also under review.Last month, Hindustan Times reported citing people familiar with the development that the Taliban have been urging India to resume commercial flights. The Afghanistan Civil Aviation Authority, which is now controlled by the interim Taliban government, had sent a formal letter to India’s Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on September 7 regarding the matter. The formal communication was signed by Taliban acting aviation and transport minister Hameedullah Akhunzada.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/around-100-indians-yet-to-be-evacuated-from-afghanistan-ngos-write-to-pmo-mea-101635078915046.html
24-10-2021||India||Adhir Ranjan says Mamata becoming 'middleman of PM Modi'||Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Sunday launched a scathing attack on Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief Mamata Banerjee, alleging she is becoming a “middleman of Prime Minister Narendra Modi”. In a no-holds-barred attack, Ranjan claimed Mamata's party TMC and the BJP seem to have settled on an agreement called ‘Delhi yours, Kolkata ours’.“Mamata Banerjee is helping BJP by opposing Congress. She is becoming a middleman of PM Modi. Looks like they had an agreement that 'Delhi yours, Kolkata ours' otherwise she wouldn't have spoken useless things about Congress,” news agency ANI quoted Ranjan, who is also the president of the West Bengal Congress, as saying.The two parties have been at loggerheads ever since the TMC in its mouthpiece ‘Jago Bangla’ said that its party chief Mamata Banerjee should be the face of the opposition against PM Modi, and not Congress's Rahul Gandhi. The editorial claimed Congress has become irrelevant, branding the TMC as the “real Congress”.The relationship between the Congress and the TMC were further strained after Mamata Banerjee's party took a dig at Rahul Gandhi's defeat in Amethi in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, wondering whether the Congress can erase the loss through a Twitter trend.On Wednesday, TMC mocked the Congress over its decision to field 40 per cent women candidates in the upcoming Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections, and hoped that the move to “emulate” the ruling party in West Bengal is not mere “tokenism”. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had on Tuesday announced that the party will give 40 per cent tickets to women, who constitute roughly half of the electorate, for the UP Assembly polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/adhir-ranjan-says-mamata-becoming-middleman-of-pm-modi-101635076613042.html
24-10-2021||India||Uzbekistan to push ahead with joint efforts with India to promote connectivity via Chabahar port||Uzbekistan will push ahead with a joint plan with India and Iran to promote connectivity through the Chabahar port as part of the country’s efforts to improve and diversify access to sea routes for trade, senior Uzbek officials have said. The three countries intend to hold the second meeting of a trilateral working group to discuss the joint use of Chabahar port on Iran’s Makran coast for trade and transit, Uzbekistan’s deputy foreign minister Furkat Sidikov said on the sidelines of a roundtable here on foreign policy issues. He indicated that the recent developments in Afghanistan would not have any impact on the plans of the three countries. “India is one of our strategic partners and this is an important project,” Sidikov said. The first virtual meeting of the trilateral working group on the joint use of Chabahar port was held last December, and the three sides will set the date for the second meeting, he said. Bakhtiyor Mustafayev, deputy director of the state-backed International Institute for Central Asia, said the government of landlocked Uzbekistan believes it is strategically important to diversify efforts to enhance access to the oceans. Almost 80% of Uzbekistan’s exports and imports move through northern routes passing through Central Asian states and Russia and it would be beneficial for the country to gain access to the Persian Gulf, Mustafayev said. At the same time, the countries in South Asia are developing fast, and represent a huge market with a population of about two billion, he said. “It would be more beneficial to try to combine South Asia and Central Asia,” Mustafayev said. Enhanced connectivity, he said, would also “open new doors to improve the security situation and deal with terrorism and extremism” across the region. The takeover of Afghanistan by the Taliban in mid-August has triggered speculation about the viability of Chabahar port. India developed the Shahid Beheshti terminal of Chabahar as part of its efforts to access Afghanistan while bypassing the territory of Pakistan. The US granted the port a special waiver from sanctions imposed on Iran in view of its strategic importance in shipping supplies to Afghanistan. During a virtual summit with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on December 11 last year, Uzbek President Shavkat Mirziyoyev – who is widely anticipated to retain his position in presidential elections held on Sunday – first proposed a trilateral dialogue between India, Iran and Uzbekistan to promote connectivity through Chabahar port. The Indian side welcomed the proposal and responded with alacrity. The first meeting of the trilateral working group on the joint use of Chabahar was held just three days later on December 14, 2020. During the virtual summit last year, India and Uzbekistan also reiterated their commitment to enhancing connectivity between the two countries and in the larger Central Asian region to bolster trade and investment. The Indian side had said at the time that Chabahar port could be “a fulcrum of connectivity to Central Asia”. Speaking at the roundtable of foreign policy issues that was held on Saturday as part of the campaign for the presidential elections, Sidikov described the situation in Afghanistan as “difficult” but said that the country could not be isolated. Uzbek foreign minister Abdulaziz Kamilov visited Kabul on October 7 for talks with the Taliban leadership, and Uzbek officials and Taliban representatives held a working meeting in the border city of Termez on October 16 to improve cross-border connectivity, especially for shipping humanitarian aid. The Uzbek side is also interested in moving forward with a project to extend the existing railway line connecting Termez and Hairatan in Uzbekistan to Peshawar in Pakistan. The line currently terminates at Mazar-e-Sharif in northern Afghanistan. “This railway project is not related to governments and is for the benefit of the people… We have discussed the project with the provisional government of Afghanistan… We are ready to support such projects,” Sidikov told the roundtable. People familiar with the matter said the thinking on the Uzbek side is that any isolation of Afghanistan could lead to an economic collapse and more chaos across the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uzbekistan-to-push-ahead-with-joint-efforts-with-india-to-promote-connectivity-via-chabahar-port-101635078961422.html
24-10-2021||India||Breast cancer awareness month: All about breast cancer||October is observed as Breast Cancer Awareness Month across the globe. Breast cancer, one of the most prevalent forms of cancer, is characterised by uncontrolled growth of cells, which results in formation of lumps within the breast. It is one of the treatable forms of cancer. But it can be a life-threatening disease, if not detected early, as it can spread to other parts of the body. Read on to learn more about the disease and how you can prevent it from affecting you and your loved ones. Breast cancer is the most prevalent form of cancer. It is characterized by uncontrolled growth of cells, which results in formation of lumps within the breast. It is one of the treatable forms of cancers. If not detected early, it can be a life threatening disease as it can also spread to other parts of the body.Risk factorsWhile there are some risk factors that you can’t change such as your age and genes, a rise in the number of breast cancer cases also points towards some lifestyle related factors. “There are a number of reasons, starting from late marriages to birthing children late. Also, not breastfeeding one’s newborn. In some cases, it’s also attributed to hormonal replacement therapy,” says Dr Shelly Singh, a senior gynaecologist at Delhi’s Rosewalk Hospital. Breast cancer is caused when the DNA in breast cells mutate or change, disabling specific functions that control cell growth and division. In many cases, these mutated cells die or are attacked by the immune system. But some cells escape the immune system and grow unchecked, forming a tumour in the breast.“Lack of exercise, obesity, alcohol consumption and smoking greatly adds to the rise in the number of cases,” opines Dr Deepak Kr Jain, who with wife Dr Shraddha Jain through Umeed NGO has established C4U (Comprehensive Cancer Care & cure) Cancer Centre at Vaishali , Ghaziabad that provides free OPD consultation, low cost diagnostic facilities and rehabilitation services by a team of highly qualified oncologists.“We provide chemotherapy treatment to all patients at around 70-80% cheaper than any private hospital. We don’t want an economically weaker section of the population to die standing in government hospital queues,” Jain adds.Excess body fat increases the estrogen levels in a woman’s body and hence increases the risk of getting breast cancer. “Estrogen makes hormone receptor positive that in turn helps breast cancers to develop and grow. Even increased insulin levels in obese women have been linked to breast cancer . Moreover, increased plasma cholesterol in obese women leads to accelerated tumor formation. Obesity also leads to chronic low-level inflammation - a process by which the body’s immune function malfunctions and causes DNA damage and leads to breast cancer,” elaborates By Dr Neha Khandelwal, senior gynaecologist, Madhukar Rainbow Hospital. SymptomsDifferent people have different symptoms of breast cancer. Some people do not have any signs or symptoms at all. Dr Jain points out the warning signs, “The usual first sign is a painless lump/mass in the breast. Also, changes in the size or shape of a breast. A dimpling or thickening of some of the skin on a part of a breast is a sign too.”A swelling or lump in an armpit is also experienced by people who have battled the dreaded disease. “Inverted nipple and scaling of the breast, it starts to get an appearance like an orange peel. Also, a nipple discharge other than breast milk, including blood are other symptoms,” says Dr Singh.MYTHS Myth: Finding a lump in your breast means you have breast cancer“Every lump is not cancer. Get yourself seen by oncologist for correct opinion,” says Dr Jain.Myth: Breast Cancer is contagious“None of the cancer is contagious, it does not spread by touching , eating food or sharing things” says Dr Jain.Myth: Antiperspirants and deodorants cause breast cancer“Some people believe it is because perspirants, that hasn’t been proved,” says Dr Singh.Prevention is better than cureEat healthyBeing overweight can increase the risk of many different cancers, including breast cancer, especially after menopause. “Eating healthy and eating mindfully helps in controlling weight and reducing the risk in turn. Obesity is an important but completely preventable cause of not only breast cancer, but a variety of other diseases,” says Dr Khandelwal. A healthy diet can help lower the risk of breast cancer. Try to eat a lot of fruits and vegetables and keep alcohol at moderate levels or lower (a drink a day or under)Avoid too much alcoholWhile moderate drinking can be good for the heart in older adults, even low levels of intake can increase the risk of breast cancer. If you don’t drink, don’t feel you need to start. If you drink moderately, there’s likely no reason to stop. But, if you drink more, you should cut down or quit.Being awareFor most women, regular mammograms can begin at age 40, but specific recommendations vary by age and risk. “Self-examination is required for all girls in the age group of 25-39 years. Preventive mammograms should be encouraged in women in the age group of 40- 55 years once in every 2 years,” Dr Singh.Breastfeed, if possibleBreastfeeding for a total of one year or more (combined for all children) lowers the risk of breast cancer. It also has great health benefits for the child.Don’t smokeSmokers and non-smokers alike know how unhealthy smoking is. On top of lowering quality of life and increasing the risk of heart disease, stroke, and at least 15 cancers – including breast cancer – it also causes smelly breath, bad teeth, and wrinkles. Now that’s motivation to stay smoke-free or work to get smoke-free.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breast-cancer-awareness-month-all-about-breast-cancer-101635078301613.html
24-10-2021||India||Chhattisgarh Cong leader tries to make a case for TS Singh Deo, stopped midway||A clash among local party workers in Chhattisgarh has brought to fore the power tussle within the grand old party in the one of the last remaining Congress-ruled states.A clipping shared by news agency ANI showed Congress leaders and workers engaging in a brawl at a party conference in Jashpur after a former district unit president, Pawan Agarwal, reportedly started speaking about state health minister TS Singh Deo. Agarwal was seen being pushed away from the podium and barred from going ahead with his speech with a large number of party workers jumping on the platform.#WATCH | Chhattisgarh: Local Congress leaders & workers enter into a brawl at party workers conference in Jashpur after party's ex-dist pres Pawan Agarwal was pushed away from podium & stopped from speaking. He had started speaking on Min TS Singh Deo when the incident took place pic.twitter.com/7joKTUlYgELater, Agarwal was quoted as saying chief minister Bhupesh Baghel must vacate his seat and let Deo, who waited for two-and-a-half years, take over the reins.Also read | ‘Decision soon’, says TS Singh Deo on Chhattisgarh power-sharing formula"When there was no Congress government in Chhattisgarh, Deo and Baghel had worked together. It is due to them that the Congress came to power. When I was saying this, people of Kunkuri MLA (UD Minj) attacked me,” Agarwal was quoted as saying by ANI.The power-sharing crisis between Baghel and Deo has been going on for months now with both leaders and their loyalists making frequent visits to the national capital to press for their cause.Also read | Congress appoints Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel as UP poll observerEven last week, Deo flew down to Delhi for a meeting with central leaders, while Baghel reportedly spoke to Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. However, those close to the CM denied that the meeting had anything to do with a possible change in guard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-cong-leader-tries-to-make-a-case-for-ts-singh-deo-stopped-midway-101635077248663.html
24-10-2021||India||‘India aims at $101 billion capital goods manufacturing by 2025’: Piyush Goyal||The national capital goods policy aims to increase domestic capital goods manufacturing output to $101 billion by 2025, a 225% jump from $31 billion in 2014-15, which will also help the Indian textiles machinery sector to become a global player, commerce and industry and textiles minister Piyush Goyal said on Sunday while interacting with textile machinery manufacturers in a video conference. The minister asked various arms of the government – textiles, heavy industries and digital innovation – to synergize and help the sector gain technical efficiency and become cost-competitive across the manufacturing value chain. The National Capital Goods Policy was approved by the cabinet in May 2016. The policy plans to ramp up capital goods production capacity from ₹2.3 lakh crore in 2014-15 to ₹7.5 lakh crore in 2025 and raise employment in the sector from 84 lakh to 3 crores. It addresses issues such as availability of finance, raw material, innovation and technology, productivity, quality and environment-friendly manufacturing practices, promoting exports and creating domestic demand.“The objectives of the policy will be met by the Department of Heavy Industry in a time-bound manner through obtaining approval for schemes as per the roadmap of policy interventions,” a government statement issued in May 2016 after the cabinet meeting said.Goyal urged the textile industry to focus on “speed, skill and scale” and set a target for developing 100 textile machinery champions. Textile machinery manufacturers should get out of a “command-and-control mindset” and work through “plug and play” to make the textile sector vibrant, a textile ministry statement said on Sunday quoting Goyal. “India should be looking to become a global player in producing textiles machinery, producing at scale, producing with quality and quantity the machinery of choice that the world requires,” it said quoting the minister.Goyal said India is “not averse to imports” but it must reduce import dependency of the textile machinery by concerted effort between the textile engineering industry and government. Focus on quality will help capture bigger markets and higher productivity, he added. A modern and upgraded textile machinery ecosystem would have a cascading impact on the unorganised Indian textile industry. This would set the momentum for continuous advancement and innovation resulting in ever-evolving and enhancing competitive capabilities along the value chain, he said.Referring to India’s recent achievement of 100 crore vaccines, the minister said that the historic achievement was the result of a collective effort of 130 crore Indians and a proof of India’s ‘Atmanirbharta’. He also cited the example of Mission Chandrayan, a breakthrough in India’s space programme and asked textile machinery manufacturers to make similar efforts. Goyal said India is on a mission of transformational change and the government has set a target of $100 billion for textiles and garment exports over the next five years. Indian Textile Engineering Industry (TEI) is at the cornerstone of moving up the manufacturing excellence wherein the domestic R&D, entrepreneurial spirit and exploration of Joint Ventures have ushered in new opportunities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-aims-at-101-billion-capital-goods-manufacturing-by-2025-piyush-goyal-101635077042085.html
24-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan case: NCB replies to 'extortion' allegation, Nawab Malik says SIT should probe||Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik on Sunday said he will meet chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and Union home minister Amit Shah and demand an SIT probe against the Narcotics Control Bureau Mumbai zonal chief Sameer Wankhede. The NCB, on the other hand, issued a statement and said Prabhakar Sail whose video has created a stir in the Aryan Khan case should submit his prayer to the court.As reported by news agency ANI, Nawab Malik in Aurangabad said crores of rupees have been collected and an organised crime was executed for a year in Mumbai. "Two cases are open and not even one arrest has been made in a year. People were being called and money was being collected from them. False cases were being raised. If probed, there will be more revelations. We will demand CM for an SIT probe," Nawab Malik said.'Put a bomb of ₹25 crore': What KP Gosavi's ex-aide 'exposed' on Aryan Khan caseAs the NCB is probing the cruise rave party case in which Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan was arrested on October 3, a shocking allegation was levelled against Sameer Wankhede. A 40-year-old man, who claimed to be private investigator KP Gosavi's driver/bodyguard, said he was signed on blank papers by Wankhede when he went to the NCB office after Aryan Khan's detention. Wankhede said he will give a 'befitting' reply. Affidavit by Prabhakar Sail, witness in a crime case of NCB has come to my notice. As he's witness & case is sub-judice, he needs to submit his prayer to Court rather than social media. Our Zonal Director, Sameer Wankhede has denied the allegations: DDG, South-Western Region, NCB pic.twitter.com/GwdU7AyGCYNCB Mumbai DDG Mutha Ashok Jain issued a statement in which he said through social media Prabhakar Sail's account has come to his notice. "As he is a witness in the case and as the case is before the honourable court and subjudice, he needs to submit his prayer to the honourable court rather than through social media if he has anything to say. In addition, there are certain vigilance-related allegations against certain persons in the affidavit which are based on overhearing by Mr Prabhakar," he said.Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday shared a purported video showing Aryan Khan with KP Gosavi inside the NCB office where Aryan Khan can be seen saying something on KP Gosavi's phone. "Witness in Aryan Khan case made to sign on blank paper by NCB is shocking," Raut said.5 allegations that Nawab Malik brought against NCB and Sameer Wankhede and what NCB said1. NCB involved outsiders during the raid of the cruise rave party, Malik alleged. NCB said independent witnesses are part of all their operations.2. NCB released three people with a connection with a BJP leader, Malik said. The agency said NCB released six people, not three as there was not enough evidence to arrest them.3. Nawab Malik accused Sameer Wankhede of extortion. Wankhede slammed such personal attacks and said he has nothing to hide.4. Nawab Malik issues a threat to Sameer Wankhede and said he will be put behind the bars. Wankhede said he is just a central government officer while Malik is a minister.5. Nawab Malik also raised questions about Sameer Wankhede's apparent visits to Dubai and the Maldives. The NCB issued a statement saying Wankhede never visited Dubai, while Wankhede himself clarified that he went to the Maldives with his family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minister-says-sit-should-probe-allegation-against-wankhede-ncb-issues-statement-101635075094622.html
24-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi to visit Italy, UK to attend G-20 Summit, COP-26 from Oct 29 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Rome in Italy and Glasgow in the UK between October 29 and November 2 to attend the G-20 summit and the world leaders’ summit of the COP-26 conference respectively, the ministry of external affairs said on Sunday. Read moreIn the backdrop of state energy minster and Congress leader Nitin Raut and Union defence minister Rajnath Singh's recent statements over Vinayak Damodar Savarkar, Shiv Sena has contended that there has been a deliberate attempt to malign Savarkar’s name and portray him as a villain. The party has also stated that Savarkar’s mercy plea was a tactical move so that he could continue his freedom fight further. Read moreAs India gear up for their opening contest of the T20 World Cup against arch-rivals Pakistan, there is one question in everyone's minds - who will open the batting for Virat Kohli's team. While Kohli batted brilliantly as an opener in the Indian Premier League UAE leg, Rohit Sharma and KL Rahul also proved their mettle in the IPL in the same role, and in the warm-up games. Read moreFilmmaker Hansal Mehta has shared his thoughts on the latest allegations against the Narcotics Control Bureau and its zonal director, Sameer Wankhede. Hansal has demanded that Wankhede should resign until the allegations against him are proven wrong. Read moreWhatsApp chats deleted by you? And you want them back? You have a problem on your hands. However, even if you accidentally deleted an important WhatsApp chat thread or message, there is a way to retrieve them, but there is a catch. So, you need to be careful. If you want to get your messages back after deleting them, check these steps to recover deleted messages on your smartphone. Read moreIf you follow the official Twitter handle of Indian Railways, chances are you have seen the different posts that warn people to not board or de-board a moving train. Still, contrary to the caution, there are people who try to do just that and often end up risking their lives. Just like this incident involving an elderly woman that took place at a station in Mumbai. A video of the incident shows how the woman slipped while trying to board a moving train but thankfully was rescued by a constable present at the platform. Read moreBollywood actor Mrunal Thakur's sartorial sense has evolved with time, and each look manages to floor the fashion police. The star turned muse for designer Anamika Khanna recently and shared several pictures of herself dressed in one of Khanna's creations on Instagram. She chose a grey printed crop top and skirt set in the photos, giving fans a contemporary party look for Diwali 2021. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-pm-modi-to-visit-italy-uk-to-attend-g-20-cop-26-from-oct-29-and-all-the-latest-news-101635073348449.html
24-10-2021||India||After solar, Cochin international airport taps hydropower||The country’s first fully solar-powered airport, Cochin International Airport Ltd (CIAL), is venturing into hydropower production and its first plant will be commissioned by Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan in Kozhikode district on November 6,the airport management said.The CIAL said it was expecting an annual power generation of 14 million units at the Arippara plant near Kozhikode which will be fed to the state electricity board grid from November first week.The project was awarded to CIAL by the state power department as per the small hydropower policy under build, own, operate & transfer model for a period of 30 years. The project was developed on Iruvazhinji river without disturbing the fragile eco-system, the CIAL said in a statement.The CIAL said it purchased five acres of land from 32 residents after giving them enough compensation and total project cost was ₹52 crore. The powerhouse will generate around 1.08 lakhs unit a day during peak flow days and it is estimated that the plant can operate at full capacity for 130 days a year and generate 14 million units annually, said CIAL, adding it was its largest project after achieving power neutrality in 2015.“Despite the pandemic threat we completed the project in estimated time. We are sure that this will impart further momentum to projects across the state which has 44 rivers and numerous streams, ”said CIAL managing director S Suhas.Also Read: Kerala graduate level common preliminary exam dates changed, check new schedule“The potential of renewable energy is immense. If we use our technological expertise we can set up joint ventures to harness the light of the Sun, the power of the wind, and the strength of rushing streams to create a better future’’ he said.Being a run of the river project that doesn’t affect the natural downward flow of the river, it works on limited storage of water, causing no adverse effect on the environment, CIAL said.CIAL received the United Nation’s prestigious Champion of the Earth Prize for going carbon neutral three years back. In January this year, it also commissioned its biggest floating solar power plant with a capacity of 452 KWh. The installed capacity of the world’s first airport, which is fully powered by solar energy, stands at 40 MWp producing 160,000 units a day as against its requirement of 130,000 units.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-solar-cochin-international-airport-taps-hydropower-101635074100503.html
24-10-2021||India||Shiv Sena rues ‘attempts’ to malign Savarkar, BJP accuses it of hypocrisy||In the backdrop of state energy minster and Congress leader Nitin Raut and Union defence minister Rajnath Singh's recent statements over Vinayak Damodar Savarkar, Shiv Sena has contended that there has been a deliberate attempt to malign Savarkar’s name and portray him as a villain. The party has also stated that Savarkar’s mercy plea was a tactical move so that he could continue his freedom fight further.Shiv Sena’s member of parliament (MP) in Rajya Sabha Sanjay Raut, contended in his weekly column ‘Rokthok’ in party mouthpiece Saamana on Sunday that the impression that Savarkar filed a mercy plea during the British rule to secure his freedom was totally wrong as he fought against the British rule his entire life.During a book launch on Savarkar,Union minister Rajnath Singh had recently said that Mahatma Gandhi persuaded Savarkar to file a mercy plea.“Lies are spread about Savarkar repeatedly. It was spread that he filed many mercy petitions seeking his release from jail. It was Mahatma Gandhi who asked him to file the mercy petitions...” the defence minister had said. More recently, Maharashtra’s energy minister Nitin Raut, a Congress leader, deleted his tweet on Savarkar that was considered offensive.Raut said it was a conspiracy to focus on Savarkar’s clemency petition while overlooking his contribution in the freedom struggle and the long time he spent in prison for it. “A French intellectual told our delegation that had a person like Savarkar been born in France and struggled for their independence, they would have made him the Head of state of France after independence,” Raut said, recounting his visit to France as part of a delegation in the ‘80s .Raut cited historian Y D Phadke’s research on Savarkar to say that the clemency plea was a tactical move by Savarkar to come out of the prison and continue with his revolutionary activities. “Y D Phadke has stated that we cannot take the language used in the clemency petition as true. The political conditions prevailing in India at that time along with the British ruler’s reaction to his plea all point to how Savarkar planned to get out of the prison. There was no point in rotting for 50 years in the Andaman jail (where Savarkar was kept between July 4, 1911 and May 2, 1921). Savarkar played the British till 1937 assuring them he was cooperating while continuing with his activities,” said Raut.Also Read: Hindutva faces threat from ‘neo-Hindus’, says UddhavRaut said that Savarkar had spent 10 years in jail and there was an overwhelming concern about his condition. Barrister Jamnadas Madhavji Mehta had formed an outfit to secure his release and the Congress party too had passed a resolution demanding his release. “The then Home Department official J A Shilidi was OK with Savarkar’s release but warned that Savarkar was a revolutionary and he was unlikely to cooperate with the British government. He will not change and will continue with his revolutionary activity,” Raut said about Shilidi’s opinion of Savarkar’s clemency.Savarkar was linked to the murder of AMT Jackson, the district magistrate of Nashik. He was extradited from England to India and for his alleged role in the assassination of Jackson and for waging war against the King, sentenced to two terms of 50 years to the Andamans, infamous as Kala Pani. He arrived in Port Blair on July 4, 1911. Here he was subjected to horrific conditions like being yoked to the oil mill.Raut rued that during the freedom struggle Savarkar was a hero but after independence, consistent attempts were made to malign him.The BJP has criticised the Shiv Sena accusing it of having double standards on Savarkar. “When Congress leader Rahul Gandhi made objectionable remarks on Savarkar two years back, the Sena kept mum, and now with elections approaching, the Sena wakes up to Hindutva and [expresses] love for Savarkar,” said BJP legislator Ram Kadam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-rues-attempts-to-malign-savarkar-bjp-accuses-it-of-hypocrisy-101635072480501.html
24-10-2021||India||‘9 new medical colleges, new pan-India health scheme’: Here’s what PM Modi will launch in UP on Oct 25||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate as many as nine medical colleges in Uttar Pradesh on Monday during his visit to Siddharthnagar district in the state, a statement from the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said. Besides, he will launch the Pradhan Mantri Atmanirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojana (PMASBY) – a pan-India health scheme to boost the healthcare infrastructure of the country.On October 16, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath mentioned PM Modi inaugurating multiple medical colleges in the northern state, including the newly constructed Siddharthanagar Medical College named after Jan Sangh founder leader Madhav Prasad Tripathi.According to the PMO release, apart from Siddharthanagar, the remaining eight medical colleges will be inaugurated in Hardoi, Pratapgarh, Fatehpur, Ghazipur, Mirzapur, Jaunpur, Etah and Deoria districts on Monday.The Centre said that eight medical institutions have been sanctioned under the centrally sponsored scheme, which aims to set up colleges attached with district or referral hospitals, while one institution to be inaugurated in Jaunpur on Monday has been made operational by the Adityanath-led state government using its own resources.Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel and Union minister of health and family welfare Mansukh Mandaviya will also be present at the event. Furthermore, PM Modi will also inaugurate many development projects worth more than ₹5, 200 crore in Varanasi.For institutions established under the centrally sponsored scheme, preference is generally given to “underserved, backward and aspirational districts.” Its agenda is to increase the availability of health professionals in these regions, rectify the “geographical imbalance” in the distribution of medical institutes, and effectively utilise the existing infrastructure of district hospitals.“Under three phases of the Scheme, 157 new medical colleges have been approved across the nation, out of which 63 medical colleges are already functional,” the PMO statement read.As far as PMASBY is concerned, the statement explained that it aims to fill “critical gaps in public health infrastructure, especially in critical care facilities and primary care in both the urban and rural areas.”Notably, the nationwide health scheme, which is an additional benefit available for Indian citizens to avail of, was first announced in Union Budget 2021-22 on February 1. An outlay of about ₹64,180 crore over six years (till financial year of 2025-26) has been sanctioned for the scheme.Here are some of the key objectives of PMASBY:1.     To provide support to a total of 17,788 rural health and wellness centres in 10 high focus states of India.2.     Setting up of integrated public health laboratories in all districts of 11 high focus states along with 3,382 block public health units.3.     Establishing critical care hospital blocks in more than 600 districts and 12 central institutions.4.     Strengthening the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), its five regional branches and as many as 20 metropolitan health surveillance units.5.     Establishing up to 15 health emergency operation centres and two mobile hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-nine-new-medical-colleges-during-visit-to-up-on-monday-101635071350682.html
24-10-2021||India||PM Modi to visit Italy, UK to attend G-20, COP-26 conference, to hold bilateral meetings on sidelines: MEA||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Rome in Italy and Glasgow in the UK between October 29 and November 2 to attend the G-20 summit and the world leaders’ summit of the COP-26 conference respectively, the ministry of external affairs said on Sunday.The meeting would be the eighth G20 summit that would be attended by the PM. Modi has been invited by Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi and will participate in the 16th G-20 summit in Rome from October 30 to 31, the MEA said. The meeting will also be attended by the heads of states of the member nations of the group of 20 countries.PM @narendramodi will be travelling to Rome, Italy and Glasgow, United Kingdom from 29 October 2021 to 2 November 2021 to attend the 16th G20 Summit and the World Leaders’ Summit of COP26 respectively.Press Release ➡️ https://t.co/6eFx7p88il“The G-20 has emerged as the premier global forum for international economic cooperation. India is scheduled to host the G-20 Summit in 2023 for the first time. The forthcoming Summit under the Italian Presidency is centred around the theme ‘People, Planet, Prosperity’, focussing on the areas of (i) Recovery from the Pandemic and Strengthening of Global Health Governance, (ii) Economic Recovery and Resilience, (iii) Climate Change and Energy Transition, and (iv) Sustainable Development and Food Security,” the MEA said in a press release on the day.Also read | India’s women played 'big role' in enhancing influence and power of UN: PM ModiFurther, Modi is also slated to attend the World Leaders’ Summit of the 26th Conference of Parties (COP-26) at the invitation of the UK PM Boris Johnson. “COP-26 is being held from 31 October 2021 to 12 November 2021 under the Presidency of the UK partnering with Italy. The high-level segment of COP-26, titled the World Leaders’ Summit (WLS), will be held on 1-2 November 2021. The Summit will be attended by Heads of State/Government of more than 120 countries,” the MEA said. The COP-26 was initially scheduled to be held in 2020, however, was delayed due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.During both meetings, Modi is also scheduled to hold several bilateral meetings on the sidelines, notably with Italy’s Draghi and the UK’s Johnson.Meanwhile, Modi is expected to touch upon several key issues of the day such as a global approach in dealing with the developments in Afghanistan, tackling climate change and also the Covid-19 pandemic during the two-day G20 summit in Italy, news agency PTI reported citing people familiar with the developments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-visit-italy-uk-to-attend-g-20-cop-26-conference-to-hold-bilateral-meetings-on-sidelines-mea-101635071522649.html
24-10-2021||India||'Put a bomb of ₹25 crore': What KP Gosavi's ex-aide 'exposed' on Aryan Khan case||Prabhakar Rohoji Sail, who claimed to be the former driver/body guard of private detective KP Gosavi, a witness in the Aryan Khan case, on Sunday alleged that Gosavi took ₹50 lakh from an individual after the raid at the cruise on October 2, news agency ANI reported. A video of Prabhakar has come to the surface while he has filed an affidavit on the same issue, according to reports.Here is what Prabhakar Sail said in his affidavit:1. On October 1, Gosavi called Sail and asked him to be ready by 7.30am the next day. Gosavi apparently left for Ahmedabad. On October 2, Sail was sent a location in the evening which was the NCB office and was asked to come the next day. On October 3 (after the raid), Sail reached the NCB office when Gosavi was inside with an NCB officer. Both of them left and instructed him to wait.2. After some time, Gosavi came back and met one person named Sam d'souza 500 metre away from the NCB office. They spoke for five minutes, Prabhakar said.Sanjay Raut shares a video of Aryan Khan, Nawab Malik says 'Satyamev Jayate'3. After the 5-minute meeting Gosavi was back with Prabhakar and they were on the way to someplace. Gosavi was talking to Sam over the phone. "...you put a bomb of 25 crore and let's settle at 18 final because we have to give 8 crore to Sameer Wankhede," Gosavi said, as claimed by his driver.Watch: Aryan Khan's new video, claim by witness Gosavi's 'ex-aide' spark new storm4. Shah Rukh Khan's manager Pooja Dadlani came and met Sam, Gosavi and the three talked inside a car.5. Gosavi apparently asked Sail to collect 50 lakh cash from a spot which he did and handed over the money to Gosavi, Sail said. Then the driver was asked to give the money to Sam. When he delivered the bags and Sam counted, there were 38 lakhs in the bag, teh driver said.6. "KP Gosavi is missing now and I now fear that NCB officials and other persons involved may kill me or abduct me," Sail wrote in his affidavit.7. Sail was called at the NCB office as a witness too where he saw Aryan Khan. "When I reached inside the NCB office Sameer Wankhede instructed the staff to take my signature and one, Salekar from NCB told me to sign on 10 blank papers. NCB officer asked me for Aadhaar details but I was not carrying an Adhar card so I told him to send a soft copy on WhatsApp," he said.The revelations have created a stir in the ongoing case of Aryan Khan as Maharashtra ministers have been alleging that the NCB is only after the celebrities. Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut shared a video of Aryan Khan at the NCB custody and raised questions over NCB's functioning. 'NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede said, “We will give a fitting reply”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/put-a-bomb-of-rs-25-crore-what-kp-gosavi-s-ex-aide-exposed-on-aryan-khan-case-101635070286114.html
24-10-2021||India||Youth killed in ‘crossfire’ between CRPF and terrorists in south Kashmir||A 20-year-old youth was reportedly killed in a crossfire between security forces and suspected terrorists near a Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) camp in south Kashmir’s Shopian district on Sunday, police said .The youth’s death comes at a time when Union home minister Amit Shah is on a three-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir following a series of civilian killings this month by suspected terrorists.Officials said 20 year old Shahid Aijaz Rather was hit by bullets at Babapora, Zainapora in Shopian distrcit just outside the camp of CRPF’s 178 battalion.Block medical officer of Zainapora, Dr Khalid Abbas said the young man was brought dead to the hospital. “We are conducting his post mortem,” he said.Locals said Shahid, a resident of neighbouring Anantnag district, was a milkman by profession and drove a vehicle with milk cans. CRPF said an area domination party of the force was targeted by suspected terrorists just outside the 178 battalion camp.“Preliminary information is that a camp party outside the 178 battalion camp was fired upon and they retaliated. We are ascertaining the details,” said CRPF spokesperson, Junaid Khan.Police said Rather was killed in cross firing. Shopian superintendent of police Amritpal Singh said around 10:30am unidentified militants attacked a checkpoint search party of CRPF’s 178 Battalion at Babapora in Shopian.“CRPF retaliated and one unidentified person was killed in the cross firing. Further details are being ascertained,” Singh said.This is the second such death in Kashmir this month. On October 7, Parvaiz Ahmad Bokad, a tribal, was killed when CRPF opened fire on a vehicle, allegedly charging at a checkpoint at Monghal Bridge in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district.Also Read: Mehbooba Mufti hits out at CDS Rawat’s warning of further curbs in KashmirPolice then said that the vehicle without number plate was signalled to stop by CRPF’s Naka-party, however, it instead sped towards the CRPF party, prompting the troops to open fire.Bokad’s family had protested his death and said he didn’t deserve to be killed irrespective of whether he jumped a naka (barricade) or not.Sunday’s incident comes amid a heightened security environment in Jammu and Kashmir following suspected terrorists killing 11 civilians including non-locals and minorities this month. Home minister Amit Shah has been reviewing the security situation during his first visit to the Union Territory (UT) since the abrogation of Article 370 in August 2019 and splitting of the region into two UTs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/youth-killed-in-crossfire-between-crpf-and-terrorists-in-south-kashmir-101635068819965.html
24-10-2021||India||‘We are celebrating 100 crore vaccination but..’: Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Raut says claim about vaccinations ‘false’||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Sunday said that the claim about the administration of a billion (100 crore) Covid-19 vaccine doses was “false”. Addressing a meeting of party workers at Nashik in Maharashtra, Raut also alleged that not more than 23 crore doses were given to eligible beneficiaries so far, news agency PTI reported.Further, the Shiv Sena leader also claimed that he would provide proof that the ‘billion doses administered’ claim was wrong, the PTI report further showed.“How much will you lie?” Raut asked without specifying any names. “In the last fortnight, 20 Hindus and Sikhs have been killed, 17 to 18 soldiers have been martyred, China is creating problems in Arunachal Pradesh and Ladakh, but we are celebrating 100 crore vaccination, which is not true,” PTI quoted him as saying during the meeting. “Who has counted these numbers?,” he further asked.Meanwhile, reacting to the claims by Raut, Maharashtra BJP spokesperson Keshav Upadhye said that the Shiv Sena leader’s comments were “laughable.” He also said that the party leaders are used to making baseless claims.“Raut's comment on 100 crore vaccination, when the figures are clearly seen, is nothing but laughable,” PTI quoted Upadhye as saying.Earlier this week, on October 21 the cumulative doses administered under the Covid-19 vaccination drive in the country achieved a major milestone by crossing the one-billion mark. The Centre celebrated the achievement through several events, especially by illuminating 100 landmarks across the country in the Tricolour.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya and several political leaders conveyed their wishes on the occasion. In addition, countries like the US, Israel and global bodies like the World Health Organisation (WHO) also lauded the achievement.From the opposition, the Congress party has also criticised the government for the celebrations and the party’s national spokesperson Pawan Khera said that it was an “insult” to the people and families that are suffering from the effects of the pandemic to credit the government for the vaccination record. Karnataka Congress leader Siddaramaiah also questioned the celebrations and said that the percentage of people fully immunised in the country was still low.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-are-celebrating-100-crore-vaccination-but-shiv-sena-s-sanjay-raut-says-claim-about-vaccinations-false-101635066985300.html
24-10-2021||India||Won't let anyone derail development, says Amit Shah in Jammu||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday said a new era of development was being ushered in Jammu under the leadership of the Lieutenant Governor of the Union territory and Union minister Jitendra Singh. Stating that Jammu was earlier facing much discrimination, Shah said the administration was now ensuring there was equitable development of the Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh.The Union home minister is on a three-day visit to the Union territory, his first since the abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution on August 5, 2019 that granted special status to the erstwhile state. He said justice was done to all, including the Valmikis, Paharis, Gujjars, Bakerwals, refugees of West Pakistan and women.Shah inaugurated a new campus of the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) in Jammu earlier in the day, following which he headed to address a public rally at the Bhagwati Nagar ground.Also read | Delimitation will happen, J&K statehood to be restored: Amit Shah in SrinagarHe said that while some wanted to derail the era of development in the region, the government had ensured that did not happen. Several laws were introduced, including the Forest Rights Act, to ensure justice for all sections of society.“It is the land of temples, of Mata Vaishno Devi, of Prem Nath Dogra, the land of sacrifice of Syama Prasad Mukherjee. We will not allow anyone to sabotage and scuttle this journey of development."“I came to Jammu today to say that the time of injustice to the people of Jammu is over, now no one can do injustice to you,” Shah said.“Some people are raising questions about security. Between 2004 and 2014, 2,081 people lost their lives -- 208 people were killed every year. From 2014 to September 2021, 239 people lost their lives. But we are not satisfied. We want to create an atmosphere where no one loses life to terrorism,” Shah said, adding those living along the International Border were given reservations. "Gujjars will also get it shortly,” he added.Also read | Amit Shah says August 5 for J&K will be written in 'golden letters'Hitting out at the former rulers of the erstwhile state, Shah said, “Three families that have ruined J&K were questioning our agenda. May I ask them that you ruled for so long, what have you done? People of J&K want you to explain what did you do for them for all these years?”“Today is the birth anniversary of Prem Nath Dogra. People of India can't forget him. He along with Shyama Prasad Mukherjee gave the slogan that in a country two ‘vidhan’, two ‘nishan’, two ‘pradhan' will not work,” he said."Earlier, there were four to five medical colleges. Now, plenty are being opened. Earlier, there were 500 doctors. That has now gone up to 5,000. Today, we saw the most advanced IIT in Jammu. Talked to IIT, IIM directors to explore satellite campuses in J&K for admissions of the UT’s youth.”Shah said 25,000 jobs were given to the UT’s youth recently. “Today alone 7,000 people got jobs. Our new industrial policy was mocked by the three families, but already there is investment worth ₹12,000 crore. As many as five lakh youth will get jobs out of investment worth ₹51,000 crore by 2022,” the home minister said, adding the administration would ensure nobody remained without LPG, electricity and water.The home minister further said a metro network would come up after two years in Jammu and Srinagar, while airports were being upgraded at the moment.He said the coronavirus pandemic wreaked havoc across the world, but Prime Minister Narendra Modi did everything possible to contain its spread and kept the number of deaths to minimal. “J&K Was the first UT to have achieved 100 per cent vaccination in the country,” he added.(With inputs from bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wont-let-anyone-derail-development-amit-shah-says-in-jammu-101635066351186.html
24-10-2021||India||'Will stick to real issues': Navjot Sidhu amid Aroosa Alam row with Congress||Amid the ongoing row over Pakistani journalist Aroosa Alam, Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday attacked his own party, reminding them to come back to its "real issues" that concern every Punjabi and future generations. Refraining from mentioning the issue directly, Sidhu said he will not let the "real issues" take a backseat.Sidhu's remarks come in the backdrop of the ongoing war of words and personal attacks on former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh over his friendship with Pakistani journalist Aroosa Alam. Deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa has questioned Alam's apparent links with Pakistan ISI, adding a probe will be carried to ascertain the same. Reacting to it, Captain called the speculations “baseless" and accused the deputy CM of resorting to personal attacks.“Punjab must come back to its real issues that concern every punjabi and our future generations...How will we counter the financial emergency that stares upon us? I will stick to the real issues and not let them take a backseat!,” Sidhu said in a series of tweets.In another tweet, Sidhu said the choice was clear between irreparable damage and the last chance for damage control. He further asked, “Who will bring back state’s resources to the state’s coffers, instead of letting them go to private pockets”."Who will lead the initiative for the resurrection of our great state to prosperity!,” he added, in what could be a reference to illegal mining of sand and its transport in Punjab."Let the mist clear, reality shine like the sun upon the roadmap for revival of Punjab, shunning those who protect the selfish vested interests and focus only on the path that will lead to Jittega Punjab, Jittegi Punjabiyat and Jittega Har Punjabi (triumph of Punjab, Punjabiyat and Punjabis)!” read his third tweet on Sunday.On Saturday, Amarinder Singh released purported photos of former Punjab DGP Mohammad Mustafa's wife and daughter-in-law with Aroosa Alam through his media adviser Raveen Thukral. "Mixing politics with friendship! Aroosa Alam personally cherishes these and many more such memories with your family," Captain tweeted. The former DGP replied on Twitter and said even during bitter fights “we draw a line”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-stick-to-real-issues-navjot-sidhu-amid-aroosa-alam-row-with-congress-101635062246763.html
24-10-2021||India||'Repression is govt's only method to deal with the situation in J&K': Mufti hits out at Rawat's warning of further curbs||Jammu & Kashmir People Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti on Sunday hit out at the remarks of Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, where he warned of further curbs in the Union territory to tackle the recent incidents of violence.At an event in Assam's Guwahati on Saturday, General Rawat said that Pakistan is trying to disturb the peace, tranquillity in Jammu & Kashmir. “Our western adversary (Pakistan) is indulging in a proxy war with us. They will do anything to disturb peace in Jammu and Kashmir," Rawat said. He added that whenever Pakistan finds a semblance of peace happening here, it will create a situation that creates fear-mongering among people.Mufti, who is the former chief minister of Jammu & Kashmir, tweeted on Sunday that 'repression' is the Centre's only method to deal with the situation in the Valley. “It also contradicts their official narrative that all is well here,” Mufti said.The PDP president also questioned what more was left to do in Kashmir after ‘stringent and harsh measures’ like mass arrest, suspending internet services at will and setting up new security bunkers etc were already implemented.After taking such stringent, harsh & repressive measures like mass arrests, suspension of internet at will, frisking people (not sparing even kids), seizing bikes plus two wheelers & setting up new security bunkers all over what is left to do? pic.twitter.com/qMlCV8pDixIn October, terrorists killed 11 civilians in Jammu and Kashmir and most of these were from other states. Security has been further tightened in the valley, especially in Srinagar and the police detained and questioned hundreds of people as a part of their investigation in these targeted killings. Two weeks back, the police said that 13 terrorists had been killed.Meanwhile, Rawat assured on Saturday that there is nothing to fear and the security forces are capable of dealing with such situations."There is a proxy war. They will try and perpetrate an action that causes fear amongst the people. Our thing is to bring back confidence in the people that you should not get worried about, your security forces, police forces, anybody who's operating the civil administration, are capable of dealing with the situation. And, therefore, they should not get worried. We will ensure that these are not allowed to happen continuously and that your safety and security is our prime concern," he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mehbooba-mufti-hits-out-at-cds-rawat-s-warning-of-further-curbs-in-kashmir-101635062376133.html
24-10-2021||India||PM Modi stresses on unity while lauding India’s capability in Mann ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday credited healthcare workers for making India’s Covid vaccination programme a success and crossing the milestone of administering one billion vaccine doses earlier this week.Addressing the 82nd edition of his monthly radio programme ‘Mann Ki Baat’, the PM said the success of the vaccination drive demonstrated India’s capability and the power of joint effort.“Our healthcare workers through their hard work and determination have set a new example. I knew that they would leave no stone unturned in vaccinating people…After administering 100 crore vaccine doses, the country is moving ahead with a new energy and vigour,” Modi said. He made special mention of the Uttarakhand government and its healthcare workers for inoculating 100% of the adult population with the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine despite the challenges due to difficult terrain in the hilly state.PM also cited Manipur’s example where vaccines were delivered via drone to an island and said that Telangana had held trials for vaccine delivery using drones.Talking about the government’s new drone policy, the PM said, “Earlier, there were so many rules, laws and restrictions in this sector that it was not possible to unlock the real potential of a drone. The technology that should have been seen as an opportunity was seen as a crisis.”With the introduction of the new drone policy, the PM said, the foreign and domestic investors have invested in many drone start-ups. “We have to become a leading country in drone technology…Many companies are also setting up manufacturing units. The army, navy and the air force have also placed orders worth more than ₹500 crores with Indian drone companies.”As the country gears up to celebrate 75 years of independence next year, the PM paid tribute to Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel.“Sardar Patel used to say that we can take the nation to new heights if we are united. With national unity, the nation gets stature and development,” said the PM.On Patel’s birth anniversary on October 31, also celebrated as the National Unity Day, the PM said the Union ministry of culture will launch three competitions for writing patriotic songs, rangoli design and lullabies.“It is essential that these creations reflect the thought of new India, inspired by the current success of the country, it should be such that it fuels the country’s resolve for the future… In lullabies, there should be a reference to modern India, the vision of 21st century India and its dreams,” he said.Also Read: PM Modi highlights ‘big role’ of Indian women in UN during 82nd Mann Ki BaatHe also remembered iconic tribal leader and freedom fighter Birsa Munda, whose birth anniversary is on November 15. On the occasion of the United Nations Day on Sunday, Prime Minister Modi said India’s women played a big role in enhancing UN’s power and influence.“In 1947-48, when the universal declaration of UN human rights was being prepared, it was initially written that ‘All men are created equal’. But a delegate from India, Hansa Mehta objected to this and it then got changed in the declaration to ‘All human beings are created equal’ . This was in line with India’s old-age tradition of gender equality,” the PM said. Citing the Bureau of Police Research and Development, the PM said that women representation in police forces has more than doubled between 2014 and 2020 from 1.05 lakh to 2.15 lakh. He said women were now getting trained as specialised jungle warfare commandos.“They will be a part of our Cobra Battalion. Friends, today when we go to airports, metro stations or see government offices, brave CISF women personnel are seen guarding every sensitive place,” he said.The PM, once again, urged people to promote locally manufactured items during the festive season. “If you buy local, then your festival will also be illuminated and the house of a poor brother or sister, an artisan, or a weaver will also lit up. I am sure that the campaign which we all have started together will be stronger this time during the festivals,” said Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-stresses-on-unity-while-lauding-india-s-capability-in-mann-ki-baat-101635066059848.html
24-10-2021||India||Sanjay Raut shares a video of Aryan Khan, Nawab Malik says 'Satyamev Jayate'||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut of Sunday shared a purported video of Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan apparently at NCB custody and said the allegations that a witness in the Aryan Khan case was made to sign on blank paper by the Narcotics Control Bureau is shocking. "Also there are reports that there was demand of huge money. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said that these cases are made to defame Maharashtra. This seems to be coming true. The police should take suo moto cognisance," Raut wrote sharing the video. Witnes in #AryanKhan case made to sign on blank paper by NCB is shocking. Also thr r reports that thr ws demnd of huge money .CM UddhavThackeray said tht ths cases r made 2 defame Mah'shtra.Ths seems 2b comng tru @Dwalsepatil Police shd tk suo moto cognizance@CMOMaharashtra pic.twitter.com/zipBcZiRSmIn the video, Aryan Khan can be seen with KP Gosavi, a witness in the cruise rave party case. The small clip shows Aryan Khan saying something being recorded in what seems like KP Gosavi's phone.NCB says Gosavi, Bhanushali were independent witnesses in Aryan Khan case; not known to agencyThe video comes amid allegations against the central agency which raided the Goa-bound cruise on October 2 and arrested eight persons, including Aryan Khan. There have been claims of collusion between Sameer Wankhede and KP Gosavi, the person seen in the video shared by Sanjay Raut. सत्य ही जीतेगा सत्यमेव जयतेMaharashtra minister Nawab Malik who has been accusing the central agency of irregularities tweeted 'Satyamev Jayate' on Sunday, as the allegations came to surface.What are the allegations against NCB?A video of some Prabhakar Sail has come to the surface on Sunday where he said he was the driver of KP Gosavi. Gosavi is the same person whose selfie with Aryan Khan went viral after Aryan Khan was detained by the NCB. Prabhakar Sail has claimed that he is 'scared of Wankhede'. He also claimed in the video that he was there with KP Gosavi on the night the raid took place and his signatures were taken on blank papers by the NCB officials. "There was discussion of bribe to Sameer Wankhede," he said in Marathi in the now-viral video. He also said he collected ₹50 lakh in cash.Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik earlier brought allegations of extortion against the central agency. He asked Sameer Wankhede, the NCB zonal director heading the investigation of Bollywood-related drug cases, why he went to the Maldives when the entire Bollywood was there during the Covid-19 pandemic. Slamming the personal attack, Wankhede said he went to the Maldives with his family taking permission from his department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sanjay-raut-shares-a-video-of-aryan-khan-nawab-malik-says-satyamev-jayate-101635065524127.html
24-10-2021||India||United Nations celebrates climate action in India on founding day||The United Nations (UN) in India commemorated the 76th year of its founding with a celebration of climate action in India, highlighting its enduring partnership with the government and the people of India. The commemoration also showcased the incremental role young people are playing in India achieving its climate ambition.Speaking at the in-person commemoration, Union minister of state for new and renewable energy, Bhagwanth Khuba, said, “Over the years, India and the UN have cooperated closely on our shared objectives of world peace and the guarantee of sustainable development. The Decade of Action for the Sustainable Development Goals is upon us. And unprecedented actions are needed to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees. I believe the UN Day theme of climate action is timely.”The first-ever solar-powered UN Day, organised in partnership with the International Solar Alliance, highlighted India’s pioneering leadership on climate action. Surya Bhavan – which hosts the ISA secretariat – was illuminated in the colours of the Sustainable Development Goals to underscore India’s ambition on renewables and commitment to the Agenda 2030.“India has already scripted history by halving poverty and by rapidly bringing lighted homes, safe sanitation, and clean fuel to millions. India has made tremendous gains in accelerating progress towards the SDGs. Now, India is about to script history on climate action. And we look forward to its contribution,” said Yasmin Ali Haque, on behalf of the UN in India.India’s partnership with the UN spans all seven decades of its life. India signed the founding Charter of the United Nations in San Francisco on June 26, 1945. The Charter came into force on October 24 of the same year, an anniversary commemorated worldwide as UN Day.“The values that have powered the UN Charter for the last 76 years — peace, development, human rights, and opportunity for all — have no expiry date. As we mark UN Day, let’s unite behind these ideals, and live up to the full promise, potential and hope of the United Nations,” said the UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres in his video message on UN Day.India has taken a global leadership position in combating climate change with its strategic and timely climate policies. Currently, India is on track to meet its climate goals. India stands fifth in overall renewable energy installed capacity, which stands at more than 141 gigawatts, about 37 per cent of the country’s total capacity.Ajay Mathur, director-general, International Solar Alliance, said, “Solar already provides the cheapest electricity in many parts of the world, but only when the sun is shining. At the upcoming CoP, we need to create international collaboration that enables cost-effective round-the-clock solar electricity. And collaboration to enable the ideas of young people to take root into concrete products and processes.”The UN Day event also marks the culmination of the UN in India’s #WeTheChangeNow campaign, which showcases innovative and equitable climate solutions pioneered by young Indians. On the occasion, the UN in India organised a dialogue between some of India’s climate trailblazers — Garvita Gulhati, Nidhi Pant and Sanju Soman and policymakers Khuba and Mathur — on the role of young people in advancing climate action in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/united-nations-celebrates-climate-action-in-india-on-founding-day-101635065100759.html
24-10-2021||India||Down with dengue, Minister’s son’s sugar level critical, shifted to hospital||Union minister Ajay Kumar Mishra’s son Ashish Mishra, an accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case, was shifted to district hospital on Sunday after tests carried out on Saturday evening revealed his blood sugar had reached “critical level” and “some changes” were seen in his electrocardiogram (ECG) after he was found infected with dengue while in two-day police custody, a senior medical officer said on Sunday.A panel of senior most physicians from district hospital led by chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Shailendra Bhatnagar examined Ashish Mishra at the jail on Sunday morning and referred him to district hospital for treatment “under observation”, the officer said.Mishra was moved in an ambulance to the Lakhimpur Kheri district hospital and kept at a “safe room” in the emergency OPD ward amid tight security, he said.The CMO said “Ashish Mishra’s fresh samples have been sent to Lucknow for confirmation.”After he was first diagnosed with dengue, Ashish Mishra, who had been taken in police remand for two days along with three others including Ankit Das, Latif alias Kale and Shekhar Bharti on Friday, was sent back to the district jail on Saturday evening for treatment at its healthcare facility, additional superintendent of police (ASP) Arun Kumar Singh was quoted as saying by PTI.Also Read: 200 farmers booked for obstructing path of BJP leaders in EllenabadAshish Mishra, alias Monu, is an accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case in which eight persons including four farmers, a local journalist, a driver and two Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers were killed on October 3 after a convoy of vehicles allegedly led by Ashish Mishra rammed into a group of farmers returning from a protest against the three Central farm laws. Four farmers and the local scribe were crushed to death, while one of the drivers in the convoy and the two BJP workers were lynched by angry farmers in retaliation. A total of 13 arrests have been made in the case so far.Mishra was tested again on Saturday after he returned to the district jail. The CMO said Mishra’s body temperature was normal but his “critical sugar level of 9.1 HbA1c and changes in the ECG required better care and treatment” by experts at the district hospital and that it was not possible at the jail hospital.“At the district hospital, a panel of doctors will attend to him [Ashish Mishra] under six-hourly observation and subsequent follow up will be made thereafter,” the CMO said..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/diagnosed-with-dengue-minister-s-son-s-sugar-level-critical-shifted-to-hospital-101635063719664.html
24-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: Maoist killed in encounter with Bihar STF, AK 47 recovered and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Maoist killed in encounter with Bihar STF, AK 47 recoveredA Maoist was killed in an encounter with the special task force (STF) in Bihar’s Lakhisaari district, located around 147 km from the state capital Patna, late on Saturday evening, police officials said on Sunday. Read moreIndia vs Pakistan, T20 World Cup: IND vs PAK head-to-head battle, form guideIn less than a few hours time, the two Asian giants will lock horns at the Dubai International Stadium to begin their Super 12 campaigns. Virat Kohli will marshal the Indian troops while Pakistan will be led by Babar Azam. Read moreKatrina Kaif records a sleepy Akshay Kumar, he runs away to save his 'reputation'. WatchKatrina Kaif and Akshay Kumar have finally come together for the promotions of their upcoming film, Sooryavanshi. On Sunday, Katrina shared a video to show how Akshay Kumar was all sleepy ahead of the promotions but didn't want her to record him in order to save his ‘reputation’. Read moreOla Electric launches its first Hypercharger ahead of test rides. Details hereOla Electric has announced the launch of its first Hypercharger for charging its electric S1 scooter ahead of the beginning of test rides on November 10. Read moreDrink cashew milk for a good night's sleep. Know its recipe from Rujuta DiwekarCashews with their creamy and slightly sweet taste is a perfect snack for your mid-day cravings. Cashews are also a popular addition in Indian curries to make them richer as they add to their consistency and thickness. Read moreKid’s scary Halloween costume may act as an inspiration for yours. WatchHalloween is just a few days away. As people wait for the big day, many are taking to social media to share various kinds of videos. Case in point, this video showcasing a kid’s scary costume. There is a possibility that the clip will make you go wow. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-maoist-killed-in-encounter-with-bihar-stf-ak-47-recovered-101635059705179.html
24-10-2021||India||More Myanmar refugees entering Mizoram due to clashes, say police||More refugees from Myanmar's Chin state are entering the southern and eastern border districts of Mizoram due to continuing clashes between the neighbouring country's army and rebels, a senior police officer said on Sunday.At least 12,939 Myanmarese, including women and children, are currently taking shelter in different parts of Mizoram, he said.Of them, the detailed information of 1,518 Myanmarese is yet to be recorded, the officer said.The numbers keep changing as there are new entrants almost every day, while some who live near the international border enter and exit India on a regular basis, he said.The police officer said that Myanmar nationals are being provided with shelter and food by locals, community leaders, NGOs and churches.As per Mizoram Police data accessed by PTI, six border districts Champhai, Lawngtlai, Siaha, Serchhip, Hnahthial and Saitual together housed 9,411 refugees.The Myanmar nationals are taking shelter in all the 11 districts, with Champhai housing the highest number at 5,998, while there are 1,622 people in state capital Aizawl, as per the data.Young Mizo Association's Tuipuiral unit president M C Lalramenga said that around 2,690 Myanmar nationals are currently taking shelter in Tuipuiral area comprising 21 villages in Champhai district.He said that refugees from Myanmar's Chin state are continuously pouring in and more influx is expected after their harvest season.Lalramenga said that relief camps and temporary shelters have been set up by locals in 14 villages in the area.Besides several NGOs, Presbyterian, Baptist and Roman Catholic churches are proving food and clothing along with monetary assistance to the refugees.Central Young Mizo Association vice president Lalhmachhuana said that the organisation has recently disbursed ₹15 lakh, collected from people as donation, as assistance among the Myanmar refugees.He said the outfit will send two truckloads of cloth to two southern districts next week.Mizoram shares a 510-km-long international boundary with Myanmar.Among six border districts, Champhai, Siaha, Lawngtlai and Hnahthial have witnessed more influx from Myanmar since September 7, officials said.The northeastern state has been facing a steady influx from Myanmar since the military junta seized power through a coup in February.The Myanmar nationals, who have taken refuge in Mizoram, are mostly from the Chin communities, who share ethnic ties with the Mizos.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-myanmar-refugees-entering-mizoram-due-to-clashes-say-police-101635058796253.html
24-10-2021||India||Congress to launch 15 day agitation over fuel price rise||The Congress will launch a massive agitation against the continuous hike in fuel prices from November 14 till 29, party general secretary KC Venugopal announced on Saturday.“We’re going to have a continuous agitation against rise in petrol and diesel prices, massive campaigns from November 14 till November 29,” he said, elaborating that the protests will also include ‘Padayatras’ (foot march). “For a week during these 15 days, entire Congress committees will also do ‘Padayatras’ throughout the country in their respective areas,” the general secretary added.As of Sunday, both petrol and diesel prices have risen by 35 paise a litre in the National Capital Region, where, following the hike, Petrol is now available at ₹107.59 per litre and diesel at ₹96.32 per litre. Similarly, price of a litre of petrol has reached ₹113.46 in Mumbai and diesel has reached ₹104.38 a litre. This is the fifth consecutive day the prices have risen. Prices differ from state to state, depending on the incidence of local taxes. The total increase in petrol prices since May 5, 2020, adds up to ₹35.98 per litre for petrol and ₹26.58 per litre for diesel.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi was among the Congress leaders who took a dig at the Central government over rising fuel prices on Sunday. “Modi ji’s government has made big records in giving trouble to the public. Highest unemployment: in Modi government. Government properties being sold: in Modi government. Petrol rates increased the most in a year: in Modi government,” Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi.Also Read | Fuel prices increased for 5th straight day: Check latest rates hereSenior Congress leader P Chidambaram said the taxes on fuel should be reduced based on suggestions by the Reserve Bank of India. “It’s only the greed of the government which has given rise to petrol and diesel prices. That is why the RBI says pump prices deserve lower taxation. RBI is repeatedly telling the government that pump prices must be reduced,” ANI quoted Chidambaram as saying.Earlier, ANI quoted an unnamed official to say the ministry of petroleum and natural gas had recently raised concerns about pricing, supply and demand of oils with the major oil-producing countries.“As crude oil prices rise internationally, the petroleum ministry has called on the energy ministries of many countries such as Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, UAE, Russia and others,” ANI quoted the official as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-to-launch-15-day-agitation-over-fuel-price-rise-101635060119561.html
24-10-2021||India||Amrit Mahotsav: National-level Rangoli competition to be held this year, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday addressed the 82nd edition of his monthly ‘Mann Ki Baat’ radio broadcast, where he mentioned that the Union ministry of culture will be hosting a national-level competition this year on rangolis, lullabies, and songs that connect India to mark ‘Amrit Mahotsav’ – the completion of 75 years of Independence. “Amrit Mahotsav this year should also feature a ‘Rangoli Mahotsav,’” Prime Minister Modi said in his radio address to the citizens of the nation. “The ministry of culture has incorporated this suggestion to celebrate India's Independence through a Rangoli competition.”Also Read | Mann Ki Baat highlights: Make optimal use of new drone policy, PM tells youthPrime Minister Modi said it was a listener of ‘Mann Ki Baat’ who suggested that Amrit Mahotsav be connected to the art of Rangoli as well. While it is true that India has had a long tradition of lending colours to festivals through Rangoli, it is drawn in different states with different names and on different themes. Noting that this represents the diversity visible in our country, the Prime Minister announced the national-level competition this year on Rangoli.“Just imagine, when a Rangoli related to the freedom movement will be created, people will draw a picture of a hero of the freedom struggle at their door, on their walls and depict an event of our independence movement,” Modi said, adding, “With all the new colours, the hues of the ‘Amrit Mahotsav’ festival will also increase manifold.”Also Read | 'I bow to Iron Man': PM Modi pays tributes to Sardar Patel on 'Mann ki Baat'Prime Minister Narendra Modi's radio programme ‘Mann Ki Baat’ is usually held on the last Sunday of every month, but the 82nd edition was broadcast on October 24, the second-last Sunday of the current month.The address was aired at 11am on the entire network of the All India Radio (AIR), Doordarshan, and as well on the AIR News and mobile applications. It was also live-streamed on the Bharatiya Janata Party’s YouTube channel and the official website of the Prime Minister's Office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amrit-mahotsav-national-level-rangoli-competition-to-be-held-this-year-says-modi-101635055713856.html
24-10-2021||India||India’s women played 'big role' in enhancing influence and power of UN: PM Modi||On the occasion of the United Nations Day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday that India's women played a big role in enhancing the influence and power of the UN.The United Nations Day marks the anniversary of the day in 1945 when the UN Charter came into force.Addressing the 82nd edition of his monthly radio address ‘Mann Ki Baat’, Prime Minister Modi said that India has been associated with the United Nations since its establishment. Before Independence, India signed the charter of the UN in 1945, he added. Also Read| Modi highlights vaccination milestone during 82nd Mann Ki Baat broadcastHighlighting the role of India's women in the UN, Modi said “In 1947-48, when the universal declaration of UN human rights was being prepared, it was initially written in the declaration that ‘All men are created equal'. But a delegate from India, Hansa Mehta objected to this and it then got changed to ‘All human beings are created equal' in the declaration. This was in line with India's old-age tradition of gender equality."Born in 1897, Hansa Jivraj Mehta was a reformist, social activist, writer and feminist who had also India represented on the Nuclear Sub-Committee on the status of women in 1946.“At the same time, another delegate Lakshmi Menon spoke vigorously on the issue of gender equality,” Modi said during his Mann Ki Baat.Also Read| 'I bow to Iron Man': PM Modi pays tributes to Sardar Patel on 'Mann ki Baat'The Prime Minister threw light on Indian diplomat and politician Vijaya Lakshmi Pandit, who became the first female president of the UN general assembly in 1953. Pandit had also served as the governor of Maharashtra from 1962 to 1964.Modi said that India has been a part of the UN peacekeeping missions since 1950, and is also playing a leading role in issues such as climate change, poverty alleviation.“Apart from the above, India is working with the World Health Organization (WHO) to popularise Yoga and Ayush,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-highlights-big-role-of-indian-women-in-un-during-82nd-mann-ki-baat-101635055654500.html
24-10-2021||India||PM Modi highlights women's contribution in armed forces||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday hailed the contribution of women in Armed Forces and said that the strength of women joining the police force has more than doubled including that of security forces. “Today, Indian women have shown their calibre across all verticals,” he said during his 82nd edition of ‘Mann Ki Baat’.Praising the rise in the number of women police personnel, Modi said it has jumped to over 2.15 lakh from 1.05 lakh in 2014.He also shared data from the Bureau of Police Research & Development (BPRD) to highlight the increasing participation of women in the police forces.“Friends, today when we go to airports, metro stations or see government offices, brave women of @CISFHQrs are seen guarding every sensitive place. The most positive effect of this is on the morale of our police force as well as society,” PM Modi said.Modi's praise comes days after Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday said women have always been and will always remain equal contributors within the Armed Forces in India. Singh said that terrorism is a common threat to the countries under the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) that “challenges us in equal measure” and it reinforced the role of all citizens in the fight against it.“And this fight cannot be won by half the population of our region or of a country. Women have and will remain equal contributors in this fight, both within the armed forces and beyond them,” Singh during his address at the SCO international webinar on the role of women in the armed forces.The defence minister also said that the nation was among the oldest to induct women into its armed forces and highlighted the role of women in the Indian Military Nursing Service for more than 100 years now. He also said that the army had begun commissioning women in 1992 and they are now present within most branches.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-highlights-women-s-contribution-in-armed-forces-101635055005664.html
24-10-2021||India||MP woman kills infant daughter after searching ways of drowning online||A woman here in Madhya Pradesh allegedly killed her three-month-old daughter after searching online for ways to kill a person by drowning, police said on Sunday. The incident took place in Khachrod town, about 75 km from the Ujjain district headquarters on October 12, but the woman was arrested on Friday after a probe into the case, they said. Before the incident, she had searched online using her mobile phone how to kill someone by drowning, Khachrod police station in-charge Ravindra Yadav said. On October 12 afternoon, the woman raised an alarm at home that her infant daughter was missing. The family members searched for the child and then complained to police. The child's body was later found floating in a water tank located on the roof of the house, the official said. After an investigation into the case, police detained the woman and her husband on October 21. It was found that her husband was taking online classes at home when the incident took place, the official said. The police also found that since 2018, the woman was forcing her husband to live separately from his family, he said. After questioning, the woman was arrested on Friday, he said, adding that further investigation into the case was on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-woman-kills-infant-daughter-after-searching-ways-of-drowning-online-101635057931666.html
24-10-2021||India||Modi highlights vaccination milestone during 82nd Mann Ki Baat broadcast||Prime Minister Narenrda Modi on Sunday addressed the people of the country during the 82nd edition of his monthly radio broadcast Mann Ki Baat.Even though Mann Ki Baat is broadcast on the last Sunday of every month, October saw a break in the tradition when Modi decided to broadcast a week earlier.Addressing the listeners, Modi hailed the people of the country for achieving 100 crore vaccinations against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Thursday, nine months after India launched it inoculation drive against the deadly virus.“Today, after 100 crore Covid-19 vaccinations, the country is moving ahead with new energy. The success of our vaccination programme shows the capability of India to the world,” Modi said during the broadcast.“I am well aware of the capabilities of my country, the people of my country. I knew that our healthcare workers would leave no stone unturned to vaccinate countrymen,” Modi said.Speaking on the occasion, Modi mentioned the effort of a healthcare worker from Uttarakhand's Bageshwar, Poonam Nautiyal, in strengthening the Covid-19 vaccination drive. The Prime Minister also interacted with her about her work during the broadcast.Modi highlighted that the hilly region of Bageshwar achieved 100% vaccination with the help of heathcare workers like Nautiyal and her team.The Prime Minister also paid tribute to Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel whose birth anniversary in on October 31. India celebrates Patel's birth anniversary as the National Unity Day.“Next Sunday, October 31, is the birth anniversary of Sardar Patel. On behalf of every listener of 'Mann Ki Baat', and on my behalf, I bow to the Iron Man,” Modi said, adding, “It is our duty that we must associate ourselves with some activity that conveys the message of national unity.”Quoting Patel, the Prime Minister said, “Sardar Patel used to say ‘We can take our country to loftier heights only through our united efforts. If we don’t have unity amongst ourselves, we will get entangled in ever new calamities’.”Modi urged the people of the country to keep Patel's thoughts alive by bringing unity in the society. The Prime Minister also praised the induction of growing number of women in central security forces across the country. “When we visit airports, metro stations or see government offices, brave women of CISF are seen guarding every sensitive place. The most positive effect of this is on the morale of our police force as well as society,” Modi said. Citing statistics from the Bureau of Police Research and Development, Modi said the strength of women joining the police force has more than doubled including that of security forces, from 1.05 lakh in 2014 to 2.15 lakh by 2020. “Today, Indian women have shown their calibre across all sector,” he added.The Prime Minister then recalled India's efforts towards world peacer and global wellness while highlighting the country's contributions to the UN Peacekeeping Forces. #PMonAIR: Friends, today while talking about UN I’m also remembering the words of Atal ji. In 1977, he made history by addressing United Nations in Hindi. Today I want to play excerpt of Atal ji's address for the listeners of 'Mann Ki Baat'. Listen to Atal ji's resounding voice – pic.twitter.com/JhmcaPmRuJ“India has always strove for world peace. We are proud of the fact that India has been a part of UN peacekeeping missions continuously since the 50s,” Modi said, before broadcasting an excerpt from former Prime Minister Atal Nihari Vajpayee's Hindi speech at the UN in 1977.Modi also narrated the landmark move by India's delegates to the UN, Hansa Jivraj Mehta and Lakshmi Menon, towards gender equality while the Universal Declaration of UN Human Rights was being drafted. Born in 1897, Hansa Jivraj Mehta was a reformist, social activist, writer and feminist who had also represented India on the nuclear sub-committee on the status of women in 1946.“India had signed the Charter of the United Nations in 1945 prior to Independence. A unique feature related to the United Nations is that the woman power of India has played a large role in increasing the influence and strength of the United Nations,” Modi said, and refreshed the memory of the listeners that Vijaya Lakshmi Pandit became the first woman President of the UN General Assembly in 1953.Modi also mentioned about India's revised drone policy during the broadcast and urged the youth of the country to make use of the new rules."India is one of the first countries in the world, which is preparing digital records of land in its villages with the help of drones. Along with infrastructure, we are now utilising this technology for agriculture and Covid-19 vaccination supply," Modi said.“We are working extensively on using drones for transportation. Whether for farming in the village, delivery of goods at home, delivering assistance during an emergency or monitoring law and order, soon we will deploy drones for all these need,” the Prime Minister added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mann-ki-baat-narendra-modi-covid-19-vaccine-vallabhbhai-patel-drone-tech-101635056154929.html
24-10-2021||India||India moving ahead with new energy after 1 billion Covid vaccinations: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said the nation is moving ahead with new vigour after achieving one billion Covid-19 vaccinations. “Today, after 100 crore Covid-19 vaccinations, the country is moving ahead with new energy. The success of our vaccination programme shows the capability of India to the world,” he said during the 82nd edition of his monthly radio broadcast 'Mann Ki Baat'.Stating that he is aware of the capabilities of the people of the nation, Modi said he knows that the healthcare workers would leave no stone unturned to vaccinate the people.“Friends, the figure of 100 crore vaccine doses might be enormous, but there are lakhs of tiny inspirational and pride-evoking experiences, numerous examples that are associated with it. Many people are asking in their letters to me how, with the commencement itself of the vaccine, I had developed the belief that this campaign would achieve such a huge success,” he said.Modi in his radio broadcast introduced a healthcare worker from Uttarakhand who helped in the Covid-19 vaccination process in remote hilly areas. “Today, I want to introduce to the listeners, one such healthcare worker, Poonam Nautiyal ji from Bageshwar in Uttarakhand. Friends, she is from Bageshwar, part of the very land of Uttarakhand which accomplished the task of administering cent percent of first dose,” he added.Modi noted that the government of Uttarakhand rightfully deserves accolades since it’s a remote area with difficult terrain. “Similarly, Himachal too has completed the task of cent-percent doses amid such difficulties,” he added.India on Thursday crossed a major milestone when the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine doses administered in the country crossed the 100 crore-mark (1 billion) within nine months of launching the vaccination drive.After the billionth dose was administered, the Centre recounted the journey to 100 crore vaccine doses in the presentation, which listed the milestones crossed by the nationwide vaccination programme since its launch on January 16 this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-moving-ahead-with-new-energy-after-1-billion-covid-vaccinations-pm-modi-101635053899593.html
24-10-2021||India||Poonch encounter: 3 security personnel, Pak terrorist injured||Three security personnel and an arrested Pakistani terrorist were injured on Sunday when terrorists opened fire on a joint search party of the Indian Army and police inside a forest in Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir on the 14th day of a massive operation against militants hiding in the area, a police officer said.The arrested Pakistani terrorist, Zia Mustafa, who got injured at the encounter site where he had been taken by the security forces to identify a hideout in Bhata Durian forest, couldn’t be retrieved because of the heavy volume of fire, said the officer. “During the search when the team approached the hideout, militants opened fire in which two policemen and an army jawan sustained injuries. Mustafa also sustained injuries and he could not be extracted from the site due to heavy fire,” the police said. Mustafa is a Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorist. Mustafa, a resident of Rawalakot in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir, was lodged in Kot Bhalwal jail in Jammu for the last 14 years and was shifted to Mendhar on police remand after investigation revealed his link with the hiding terrorists. Mustafa had sneaked into the Jammu and Kashmir using the same route before he was arrested from south Kashmir, news agency PTI said, quoting officials.“Injured personnel are under treatment at the nearby health facility. A fresh attempt will be made with reinforcements. Operation at the site is still going on,” said police.Also Read: Amit Shah to participate in various events at IIT Jammu todayIn Bhata Durian, hiding militants had killed a junior commissioned officer (JCO) and three army soldiers on October 14. Three days before that on October 11, five army men including a JCO were killed in another encounter in nearby forest area adjoining Surankote at Chamrer, resulting in the loss of nine soldiers in the protracted encounter, which began on October 11. On Tuesday, army chief general MM Naravane visited Poonch and reviewed the security situation. This was the first instance of an army chief visiting an encounter site in Jammu & Kashmir.Last week, the Jammu & Kashmir Police said the terrorists were believed to be hiding in the jungles since August this year. A senior police officer said the terrorists were believed to have sneaked in the Nar Khas forests and Chamrer from Balakot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/poonch-encounter-3-security-personnel-pak-terrorist-injured-101635055738891.html
24-10-2021||India||Watch LIVE: PM Modi addresses nation on 82nd edition of Mann Ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is addressing the nation on Sunday, October 24, through his Mann Ki Baat radio programme. This is the 82nd edition of the monthly broadcast, which is usually held on the last Sunday of every month but in October, it is being broadcast on the second-last Sunday. The Prime Minister recently hailed the “collective spirit” of 13-crore Indians upon the country completing the memorable milestone of one billion or 100 crore coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine doses. After the billionth dose of the vaccine was administered in India, the Prime Minister pointed out that the free vaccine drive in this country shows that ‘no VIP culture’ exists here. In his Sunday address, Modi is expected to address to talk more about India's fight against the pandemic.The 82nd episode of the Mann Ki Baat programme is being live-streamed on the Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) YouTube channel and the official website of the Prime Minister's Office. It is also being broadcast on the network of All India Radio, Doordarshan, and the AIR News website www.newsonair.com and Newsonair mobile app.In the last edition of the Mann Ki Baat programme, the Prime Minister urged people to follow the principles of Mahatma Gandhi, who, he said worked towards making cleanliness a mass movement, and urged the people to keep the rivers in our country clean. Modi also said that proceeds from the ongoing special e-auction of the gifts he receives will be dedicated to the government’s flagship project ‘Namami Gange’, which is the Centre's integrated conservation and rejuvenation programme launched in June 2014.Watch the 82nd edition of PM Modi's Mann Ki Baat LIVE here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-live-pm-modi-addresses-nation-on-82nd-edition-of-mann-ki-baat-101635052431719.html
24-10-2021||India||Amit Shah’s rally moved back to Bhagwati Nagar ground in Jammu||Union home minister Amit Shah’s public rally on Sunday will now be held at Jammu’s Bhagwati Nagar, where it was scheduled to take place as per the original programme before it was decided to hold a smaller programme at an indoor venue at Jammu University due to water logging on the rally ground and the fear of inclement weather playing spoilsport, a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson confirmed. The rally will begin around 12.15 pm, he said.“Following some improvement in the weather, it was decided late Saturday night to hold the rally at Bhagwat Nagar ground,” he informed.Following heavy rains and hailstorm on Saturday, the rally venue was inundated with rain water and the administration had decided to cancel the rally in favour or a much smaller programme at Jammu University’s auditorium.Also Read: Amit Shah to inaugurate research centre at IIT Jammu, address rally todayOn the second day of his three-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir which began on Saturday, Shah will also attend a convocation of Kashmiri Pandits and also meet with a delegation from the community, besides the rally at Bhagwati Nagar,On the first day of his visit, Shah met families of soldiers and civilians killed this month in a spate of terrorist attacks in Jammu and Kashmir and held a security review meeting in Srinagar, followed by an interactive session with the members of Jammu and Kashmir’s youth club. He said that the statehood of Jammu and Kashmir will be restored after the delimitation of constituencies and assembly elections. This is Shah’s first visit to J&K following abrogation of Article 370 and 35-A on August 5, 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-s-rally-moved-back-to-bhagwati-nagar-ground-in-jammu-101635053278861.html
24-10-2021||India||Congress to hold 15-day agitation against rising fuel prices from November 14||Congress has called a massive agitation in protest against the rising fuel prices in the country. "We're going to have continuous agitation against the rise in petrol and diesel prices, massive campaigns from November 14 till November 29," news agency ANI quoted Congress general secretary KC Venugopal as saying on Saturday.According to the ANI report, the protest will witness events like 'Padayatra' being taken out by the Congress leaders in their respective areas.Also Read: Fuel prices increased for 5th straight day: Check latest rates herePetrol and diesel prices on Sunday were hiked for the fifth consecutive day across the country. With a hike of ₹0.35, the price of petrol in the national capital increased to ₹107.59 per litre. The price of diesel also saw a hike of ₹0.35 in Delhi, thereby amounting to ₹96.32 per litre on Sunday. In Mumbai, petrol and diesel prices per litre stood at ₹113.12 and ₹104, respectively.Senior Congress leader P. Chidambaram also hit out at the Centre over the hike in fuel prices and said the taxes should be reduced based on suggestions by the Reserve Bank of India. “It's only the greed of the government which has given rise to petrol and diesel prices. That is why the RBI says pump prices deserve lower taxation. RBI is repeatedly telling the government that pump prices must be reduced,” ANI quoted Chidambaram as saying.Earlier, officials familiar with the development told news agency ANI that the ministry of petroleum and natural gas recently raised concerns about the matter of pricing, supply and demand of oils to the major oil-producing countries."As crude oil prices rise internationally, the petroleum ministry has called on the energy ministries of many countries such as Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, UAE, Russia and others," ANI quoted the source as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-to-hold-15-day-agitation-against-rising-fuel-prices-from-november-14-101635051983817.html
24-10-2021||NA||Mann Ki Baat highlights: Make optimal use of new drone policy, PM tells youth||Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the 82nd edition of his monthly radio address "Mann Ki Baat" on Sunday. During his address, Modi spoke on a range of issues such as the vaccination drive against Covid-19, the United Nations Day, Centre's new drone policy etc. Prime Minister Modi lauded India's vaccination drive and said that healthcare workers left no stone unturned to inoculate citizens. Also Read| Modi highlights vaccination milestone during 82nd Mann Ki Baat broadcastOn the occasion of the United Nations Day, Modi said that India's women played a big role in enhancing influence and power of the UN. The Prime Minister also pointed out that the strength of women joining the police force has more than doubled.As the Centre came out with a new drone policy this year, the Prime Minister urged the country's youth to make optimal use of it In his previous Mann Ki Baat, PM Modi urged the citizens to celebrate rivers and he lauded the country's fight against the Covid-19 pandemic.Follow all the updates here:India's redefined drone tech being used in vaccine supply, agriculture: PMModi said during his Mann Ki Baat address that India's redefined drone technology is now being used in supply of Covid-19 vaccines and agriculture. The Prime Minister also urged the country's youth to make optimal use of Centre's new drone policy. Strength of women joining the police force has more than doubled: PM ModiPM @narendramodi highlights the contribution of police personnel. He also shares an interesting data point from the @BPRDIndia which highlights the increasing participation of women in the police forces. pic.twitter.com/vgSTOPgupvPrime Minister Narendra Modi said that the strength of women joining the country's police force has more than doubled including that of central armed forces. Today, Indian women have shown their calibre across all verticals, Modi added. India's women played a big role in enhancing influence and power of the United Nations: PM ModiOn the occasion of United Nations Day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that India's women played a big role in enhancing influence and power of the United Nations.“In 1947-48, when universal declaration of UN human rights was being prepared, it was initially written in the declaration that ‘All men are created equal'. But a delegate from India, Hansa Mehta objected to this and it changed to ‘All human beings are created equal' in the declaration. This was in line with India's old-age tradition of gender equality,"  Modi added. Centre to host national-level competition on rangoli, says PM ModiPrime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday that the Union ministry of culture will host a national-level competition on rangoli, lullabies and songs that connect India. PM Modi remembers ‘Iron Man of India’ Sardar PatelRemembering the wise words of Sardar Patel. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/Ls4xlP7TcL“Next Sunday, 31st October, is the birth anniversary of Sardar Patel. On behalf of every listener of 'Mann Ki Baat', and on my behalf, I pay respects to the Iron Man of India,” Prime Minister Modi said. Citizens must do something for unity of India, says PM ModiPrime Minister Modi urged the citizens of India to do something for the country's unity and greatness. “You will see how much satisfaction it will give you,” Modi added. PM Narendra Modi lauds India's Covid vaccination drive; salutes healthcare workersPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday lauded the country's vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and said that healthcare workers left no stone un-turned to inoculate citizens. PM Narendra Modi addresses 82nd edition of Mann Ki BaatPrime Minister Modi is currently addressing the 82nd edition of his monthly radio address Mann Ki Baat. Shortly: PM Modi to address 82nd Mann Ki BaatDo hear today’s #MannKiBaat at 11 AM. pic.twitter.com/wwF2GsYBNuIn moments from now, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the 82nd edition of his monthly radio address Mann Ki Baat. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-mann-ki-baat-today-live-updates-101635050733373.html
24-10-2021||India||‘Must prepare’: Defence chief says Afghanistan crisis can ‘overflow’ into Kashmir||Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat said on Sunday that an “overflow” of the Afghanistan situation can happen in Jammu & Kashmir and that India must “prepare for it.”Speaking on the sidelines of an event in Guwahati, the four-star general of the Indian Army said after the Taliban takeover of the war-torn land of Afghanistan, it becomes especially important for India to keep an eye out on Kashmir's borders. “What is happening in Afghanistan, we know its overflow can happen in Jammu and Kashmir,” CDS Gen Rawat was quoted as saying. “We have to prepare for it, seal our borders, monitoring has become very important. We have to keep an eye on who's coming from outside, checking should be done.”Also Read | China’s foray into South Asia, Indian Ocean not in India’s interest: General Bipin RawatGeneral Bipin Rawat said that while it is true that the locals and tourists in Jammu & Kashmir may have to face the burden of heavy checking as a result of the high level of alert, they should understand that it is for their own safety and security. In a similar vein, the defence chief said that every citizen in India should get themselves educated about internal security.“Nobody will come to our defence, we have to defend ourselves, defend our people, and defend our property,” he said. “Internal security is very much a concern for us and in order to defend, I think we must actually educate our people about internal security.”Not only must citizens get themselves educated on the subject, but also fulfil their duties towards internal security, General Rawat posited.“If every citizen plays his and her part, you can deal with the situation,” he said, adding, “People come and live in your neighbourhood; you must know who lives in your neighbourhood. No terrorist can stay in our neighbourhood if we are agile. Every citizen should question if they feel suspicious about anyone and inform the local police about it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/must-prepare-defence-chief-gen-bipin-rawat-says-afghanistan-crisis-can-overflow-into-kashmir-101635048427255.html
24-10-2021||India||'Criminal act in broad daylight': TMC demands arrest of those behind attack on Sushmita Dev's car||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Saturday demanded the arrest of people who attacked party leader Sushmita Dev's car in Tripura on Friday. The cars of Dev and her supporters were allegedly vandalised by unknown people in Amtali near Agartala.The TMC has accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government in Tripura of plotting the attack.A five-member delegation of the TMC, comprising Dev herself, along with West Bengal law minister Moloy Ghatak and other local leaders, met Tripura's DIG L Darlong on Saturday and submitted a memorandum, demanding the arrest the culprits who were allegedly "getting support from the party in power and a section of the police".Speaking to news agency ANI, Sushmita Dev, who quit the Congress and joined the Trinamool in August, said on Saturday that the attack was hooliganism and a criminal act in broad daylight.Also Read| ‘Barbaric attack’: TMC says Sushmita Dev, party workers assaulted in Tripura“Earlier, our leader and general secretary Abhishek Banerjee also visited the state about a month ago. He was attacked, we filed a police complaint, but no one has been arrested yet. This is not how democracy works,” she added.The TMC MP also warned of a greater agitation in Tripura to seek justice. “Tripura is not a state outside the country where different laws are applicable. We want justice and arrest of the culprits. If there is no action taken by the state government as per law, then we will show our strength democratically and protest to demand justice. We will stand tall and fight back," Dev also told the news agency.On Friday, hours after her car was vandalised, Sushmita Dev called Tripura chief minister Biplab Deb Kumar a 'useless fellow' and alleged that the state government is protecting the culprits. The TMC, meanwhile, claimed that Dev and other workers of the party were also physically assaulted by the culprits.The Amtali Police has already lodged a complaint and an investigation into the alleged attack is underway.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-delegation-meets-tripura-dig-demands-arrest-of-those-who-attacked-dev-s-car-101635046508564.html
24-10-2021||India||India's single-day Covid-19 cases see marginal decrease to 15,906 infections||India's single-day Covid-19 cases on Sunday saw a marginal decrease to 15,906 infections. The nationwide deaths also saw a further fall with 561 fatalities, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare.Active cases fell by 1,134 and stood at 172,594 in the same period, according to data released by the health ministry at 8am. Active cases constitute 0.51% of total cases while the national Covid-19 recovery rate stood at 98.17%, the Union health ministry said.As many as 13,40,158 Covid-19 samples were tested on Saturday, taking the total number of Covid-19 tests conducted so far to 59,97,71,320. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 33,548,605 while the case fatality rate stood at 1.33%, it said.The Centre on Saturday urged the states and Union territories to focus on those beneficiaries waiting for their second dose of Covid-19 vaccine after their interval period is over.The states and UTs were also urged to improve the momentum of vaccination and accelerate its coverage as the country moves forward to vaccinate all the eligible population by end of the year under the nationwide coronavirus vaccination drive. "So far, 71.24 crore first doses, covering 76% of the eligible population, and 30.06 crore second doses, covering 32% of the eligible population, have been administered the Covid-19 vaccines," the health ministry said in a statement.The Centre has asked states and union territories to ensure that upcoming festivals are celebrated in a safe and cautious manner with "utmost precautions" in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.In a letter to states and UTs, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said that standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued last month for curbing any spike in Covid-19 cases must be followed. "No mass gathering should be allowed in areas identified as containment zones and in districts reporting more than 5 per cent Covid-19 test confirmation rates," Bhushan said in the letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-single-day-covid-19-cases-see-marginal-decrease-to-15-906-infections-101635048005386.html
24-10-2021||India||Odisha gang try to sell of ITDC hotel in Puri for ₹15 crore||A former contractual engineer working with state-owned Odisha Tourism Development Corporation tried to sell off an ITDC (India Tourism Development Corporation) owned hotel in Puri for ₹15 crore, posing as its authorised owner.The hotel set up by Utkal Ashok Hotel Corporation, a subsidiary of ITDC, on Puri sea beach in 1988, has been shut since March 2005 over allegations of financial mismanagement and the government’s bid to disinvest from the hotel has been stayed as the matter remains pending with the Supreme Court.Taking advantage of the situation, a former contractual engineer of OTDC, posing as an authorised official of ITDC, executed an agreement with a Puri-based egg wholesaler February last year to sell off the property for ₹15 crore.Deputy inspector general of police (DIG) of Economic Offences Wing, JN Pankaj said a person named Anikesh Sahu, in connivance with Chandan Akash Mohanty, the former contractual assistant engineer in OTDC, Bhubaneswar and another person duped Puri-based egg wholesaler Tapan Kumar Mohanty of ₹50 lakh.“In January 2020, Chandan Akash Mohanty impersonating as senior officer of ITDC Ltd and Anikesh Sahu posing as contractor working with different projects of ITDC met Tapan Kumar Mohanty through one of his friend and persuaded him to purchase Nilachal Ashok Hotel at Puri for ₹15 crores which included payment of ₹3 crore as bribe. In February 2020, the accused executed an agreement and made the victim deposit ₹20 lakhs in the official account of ITDC, maintained at Delhi, but also took ₹30 lakhs in cash as facilitation fee. However, when the victim did not get any communication from ITDC Ltd., he realised that he had been duped. He subsequently suffered a stroke and was paralysed, losing his speech and memory,” said the DIG.Also Read: Odisha former tourism minister urges direct flights from Bhubaneswar to DehradunAfter the victim’s wife lodged a complaint with the Economic Offences Wing of Odisha police, Sahu was arrested from Cuttack and charged under different sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) including 419, 420, 467, 468 and 471.Main accused Chandan Akash Mohanty, was arrested last month in a separate case while posing as a self-styled godman. The third accused Bikash Maharana is yet to be arrested, police said. They believe there might be other victims of the gang.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-gang-try-to-sell-of-itdc-hotel-in-puri-for-rs-15-crore-101635049377929.html
24-10-2021||India||Odisha minister accused of shielding man who ‘sexually exploited’ school kids||The Opposition parties in Odisha are demanding the sacking of ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) minister of state for home, Dibya Shankar Mishra, in the suspected sexual exploitation of school children case and another related case of murder of a school teacher.Parallelly, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) on Saturday directed the superintendent of police of Bolangir to conduct an investigation into the alleged sexual exploitation of minors in a school, frequently visited by Mishra and run by his close confidante Gobinda Sahu, who has reportedly confessed to have murdered a 26-year old teacher who threatened to blew whistle on his alleged sexual misconduct.52-year old Gobinda Sahu, a former civil contractor turned owner of a school in Mahaling, has been accused of sexually exploiting minor students and was arrested on Tuesday, three days after he gave the police a slip. A police officer aware of the developments in the case said Sahu on Wednesday confessed to have strangulated woman teacher Mamita Meher in his car on October 8 to prevent her from exposing his extramarital affairs.Meher worked as a teacher in Sunshine English medium school in Mahaling village of Kalahandi district. The school is one of the three educational institutes started by Sahu in the area.NCPCR said Gobinda Sahu was accused of tempting schoolgirls and boys, often promising them good marks in return for sexual favours. The child rights body also took note of allegations that the BJD minister was a frequent visitor to the school and allegedly patronised Sahu, the lynchpin in the case.The Bolangir SP has been asked to submit a detailed probe report including the age and number of girls and boys in the school and school authority and officials’ role in the case within 5 days. The NCPCR has asked the SP to furnish copies of FIR, medico-legal reports, statements of the victims, orders of Child Welfare Committee and action taken against the accused. The SP has also been directed to ensure that identity of the victims is not disclosed during the process of investigation or its reporting.Also Read: Odisha former tourism minister urges direct flights from Bhubaneswar to DehradunVanathi Srinivasan, the national president of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Mahila Morcha, demanded that chief minister Naveen Patnaik sack Mishra for his alleged involvement in the case.“It has emerged that Gobinda Sahu has a record of running a sex racket and has been accused of luring girl students from his school into flesh trade, promising them good marks in exams. There are reports about the Odisha minister spending a lot of time in the private school’s premises and there were clear efforts on his part to protect and shield the accused who is his close associate,” she said, alleging that even the family members of the deceased teacher have raised serious charges against the minister in the case.Senior Congress leader Narasingha Mishra has offered to fight the case on behalf of the family of the deceased woman teacher . “If the family wishes and gives me the charge of the case, I will take it up and fight in the courtroom to deliver justice to the family,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-minister-accused-of-shielding-man-who-allegedly-sexually-exploited-school-kids-101635047637722.html
24-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi to address 82nd Mann Ki Baat today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi to address the nation on 82nd edition of Mann Ki Baat todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi is set to address the nation on the 82nd edition of his monthly radio programme ‘Mann Ki Baat’ today. The Prime Minister's radio broadcast is usually aired on the last Sunday of every month but in October, it is being broadcast on the second-last Sunday. Read moreFuel prices increased for 5th straight day: Check latest rates herePetrol and diesel prices were hiked for the fifth consecutive day across the nation on Sunday. The latest increase that follows the hike in international oil prices has pushed fuel prices across the nation to their new high. Read moreAmit Shah to inaugurate research centre at IIT Jammu, address rally todayUnion home affairs minister Amit Shah will on Sunday inaugurate two phases of a multi-disciplinary research centre and lay the foundation of the third phase of the centre at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Jammu on the second day of his three-day visit to Jammu & Kashmir. Read moreAfter Siddaramaiah's billion vaccination jibe, Union minister asks a questionUnion minister Pralhad Joshi hit out at senior Congress leader and former Karnataka chief minister Siddaramaiah over his remarks on India administering over one billion doses of the vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read moreUS envoy urges North Korea to stop missile testsThe US on Sunday urged North Korea to stop "counterproductive" missile tests, but expressed hope Pyongyang would respond positively to Washington's call for dialogue. Read moreDeepak Dobriyal: ‘I spent 2 years to forget my 7 years of theatre career’Deepak Dobriyal of Angrezi Medium fame is back with a romantic comedy, Aafat-e-Ishq, in which he plays the role of a police officer for the first time. The actor, who is also known as Pappi ji for his role in Tanu Weds Manu, says he was a ‘serious actor’ at first but films completely changed that. Read moreMercury rises in the desert as India, Pakistan face off in World CupIndia can place a marker as strong title contenders and reinforce their World Cup supremacy over Pakistan when the teams face-off in a desert shootout that will recall their clashes in the 1980s and 90s though with roles reversed. Read moreSunny Leone slays smoking hot festive look in sheer black saree, backless blouseIf there is one Indian ensemble that is uber appealing, it has to be the black saree and Bollywood actor Sunny Leone's latest pictures in it are enough to back our claim. Slaying a smoking hot festive look, Sunny ditched red to raise the mercury in a sheer black saree and our jaws just dropped in awe. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-modi-to-address-82nd-mann-ki-baat-today-101635044665369.html
24-10-2021||India||‘Are you proud of India or not?’: Union minister Pralhad Joshi on Siddaramaiah's billion vaccination jibe||Union minister Pralhad Joshi hit out at senior Congress leader and former Karnataka chief minister Siddaramaiah over his remarks on India administering over one billion doses of the vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Siddaramaiah, who is the leader of opposition in the Karnataka assembly, questioned on Friday why leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) were celebrating the milestone of over a billion doses when only 21% of India's population was fully vaccinated.In a series of tweets, Siddaramaiah warned that India is still in a position of danger. “Only 290 million people have got two doses and 420 million have got one dose, leaving 620 million without any single dose of vaccine,” the former Karnataka CM also said.Also Read| Siddaramaiah says only 21% people fully inoculated, questions celebrationsUnion minister Pralhad Joshi, while speaking to reporters on Saturday, stated that 31% of the population was fully vaccinated, adding, of the seven billion vaccines administered globally, India alone gave over one billion vaccines."Are you proud of India or not, I am asking Siddaramaiah?" Joshi was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The Union minister pointed out that in several developed countries, people were not coming forward to get inoculated against Covid-19. "However, here our leaders and medical fraternity created awareness among people because of which people are coming and taking vaccines. Indigenous manufacturing of the vaccines is also a big achievement," Joshi further said.Also Read| 1 billion jabs identity of a new India: PM ModiOn October 21, India achieved a record feat of over a billion vaccinations, the second country after China to cross this figure. It took nine months for the Modi government to reach this landmark achievement.Till now, authorities have administered a total of 1,013,028,411 vaccine doses of which 712,413,356 beneficiaries have received the first dose and the remaining 300,615,055 have received both doses. More than 6.84 million doses were given in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-siddaramaiah-s-billion-vaccination-jibe-union-minister-asks-a-question-101635041516566.html
24-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri case key accused Ashish Mishra tested for dengue, hospitalised||Ashish Mishra, the main accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case, is reportedly suffering from dengue and has been hospitalised. According to news agency ANI, Ashish was shifted to a government hospital from the district jail, where he was lodged, due to “suspected dengue”. Citing a senior jail official, the agency reported that Ashish's blood sample has been sent for confirmation of the vector-borne disease.Also Read | UP cops ‘dragging feet’ in Lakhimpur Kheri violence case: Supreme CourtLakhimpur Kheri violence incident: Main accused Ashish Mishra, who is currently lodged in district jail has been shifted to a govt hospital due to suspected dengue, a senior jail official said his blood sample has been sent for confirmation of dengue.News agency PTI also cited another senior jail official, who confirmed that Ashish Mishra’s sample has been sent to a laboratory in Lucknow for confirmation of dengue.“It is not yet confirmed as to whether he (Ashish Mishra) is suffering from dengue,” the superintendent of the Lakhimpur Kheri district jail, PP Singh, told PTI. “His sample was sent for testing on Friday. The picture will be clear once the report comes.”Also Read | What happened in Lakhimpur Kheri: Sequence of events according to both sidesAshish Mishra, the son of Union minister of state for home affairs Ajay Mishra, is the chief accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. As many as eight people, including four farmers and a local journalist, were killed in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3 in the violence that erupted during a farmers' protest.Thirteen people, including Ashish Mishra, have so far been arrested in connection with the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-case-key-accused-ashish-mishra-tested-for-dengue-hospitalised-101635040680446.html
24-10-2021||India||252-million-year-old fossil site in J&K's Khanmoh preserves world's first tsunami||Formally adopting the 252-million-year-old Guryul Ravine fossil site in the Khanmoh area of Jammu & Kashmir's Srinagar, a field workshop was organised on Saturday on the repository of the Permian-Triassic (P-T, P-Tr) mass extinction event. According to news agency ANI, a multitude of fossils hunted at the site, dating as far back as 252 million years ago, were displayed at the workshop. However, one of the key attractions of the day was the evidence of the world's first tsunami lying buried at the site in Khanmoh.This is a global heritage & for almost 20 years a constant work is going on to save it. Mass extinction of marine & plant lives that occurred 252 million years ago destroyed 95% of marine life which is a huge loss: Archaeology Professor GM Bhat said yesterday pic.twitter.com/G0x5fjdHTYWhat is the Permian–Triassic extinction event?Also known as the End-Permian Extinction or, colloquially, the ‘Great Dying’, the Permian-Triassic extinction event marked the boundaries between the Permian and Triassic geological periods, as well as between the Paleozoic and Mesozoic eras approximately 251.9 million years ago.It was one of the major extinction events that the planet ever saw, when biodiversity decreased rapidly and across wide stretches. According to the National Academy of Sciences, in the End-Permian Extinction event, as many as 57% of the world's biological families, including 83% of genera, 81% of marine life, and 70% of terrestrial vertebrate species went extinct. It was also the largest known mass extinction of insects.Significance of the Guryul Ravine fossil site in KashmirThe Guryul Ravines in Kashmir, geologically known as the Vihi district, are a repository of fossils that hold evidence of the Permian–Triassic extinction event, dating as far as back 260 million years, one of the oldest of its types in the entire world. Most importantly, the world's first-ever recorded tsunami event is well preserved in the rocks of Guryul Ravines.Owing to immense evidence from the Permian/Triassic boundary that the Guryul Ravine rocks preserve, scientists and geologists from all over the world – especially from the United States, the United Kingdom, Ireland, China, Japan, Canada, Switzerland, Austria, and Scotland – have been visiting this area for furthering their research studies.Speaking to ANI, archaeology professor GM Bhat said, “This is a global heritage and for almost 20 years there is a constant work is going on to save it.”Kashmir fossil site “much larger” than the one in ChinaThe Khonmoh P-T section of 3 metres is “much, much larger” than 27 cms of the Meishan Section in China, according to experts cited by the news agency, who added that this makes the fossil site in Kashmir attract millions of tourists every year. Nadeem Ahmad, a local resident, told ANI that the three-meter fossil in Khonmoh is “much more” than what is available in China. This is what makes the site special, he added."The site preserves all evidence on how evolution and extinction occurred here. For zoologists this a treasure and as a local I want is to preserve it," he was quoted as saying.Khanmoh District Development Council (DDC) member Aijaz Hussian, who was present at Saturday's workshop, thanked government officials for their efforts and initiative.“I thank the administration who have initiated this workshop,” Hussain was quoted as saying. “We have been told by the scientists that this is the one oldest heritage site in the world. We should develop this for our coming generations, too.”“The government should focus on workshops like this, to attract more attention to the site,” he added. “This can add Khanmoh another great tourist spot on the map.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/252millionyearold-fossil-site-in-j-k-s-khanmoh-preserves-world-s-first-tsunami-101635035588177.html
24-10-2021||India||PM Modi to address the nation on 82nd edition of Mann Ki Baat today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is set to address the nation on the 82nd edition of his monthly radio programme ‘Mann Ki Baat’ today.The Prime Minister's radio broadcast is usually aired on the last Sunday of every month but in October, it is being broadcast on the second-last Sunday. Making the announcement, the Prime Minister tweeted earlier this week, “This month, the Mann Ki Baat programme will take place on the 24th. I invite you all to share your ideas for this month's episode.”This month's #MannKiBaat programme will take place on the 24th. PM Shri @narendramodi invites you all to share your ideas for this month’s episode. Write on the NaMo App, @mygovindia forum or dial 1800-11-7800 to record your message. pic.twitter.com/ybTKDerm4KTune in tomorrow, 24th October at 11 AM. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/CvESmzibccThe Prime Minister's ‘Mann Ki Baat’ address will be broadcast at 11am on the entire network of the All India Radio (AIR), Doordarshan, and as well as on the AIR News and mobile applications. It will also be live-streamed on the Bharatiya Janta Party’s (BJP’s) YouTube channel and the official website of the Prime Minister's Office (PMO).The Prime Minister, who recently hailed the “collective spirit” of the 130-crore-strong ‘New India’ for achieving an incredible one billion-vaccines milestone, is expected to have a word or two about India's fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Sunday's address.Earlier, Modi pointed out that India started the free campaign of vaccines to drive home the point that ‘no VIP culture’ exists in the country. Speaking about vaccine hesitancy, he said while this was a problem in many developed countries, but the administering of 100 crore doses reveal this was not an issue in India.In his last ‘Mann Ki Baat’ address, Modi urged the people to follow the principles of Mahatma Gandhi, who, he said worked towards making cleanliness a mass movement, and urged the people to keep the rivers in our country clean. The Prime Minister also said that proceeds from the ongoing special e-auction of the gifts he receives will be dedicated to the government’s flagship project ‘Namami Gange’, which is the Centre's integrated conservation and rejuvenation programme launched in June 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-the-nation-on-82nd-edition-of-mann-ki-baat-today-101635032261807.html
24-10-2021||India||Amit Shah to inaugurate research centre at IIT Jammu, address rally today||Union home affairs minister Amit Shah will on Sunday inaugurate two phases of a multi-disciplinary research centre and lay the foundation of the third phase of the centre at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Jammu on the second day of his three-day visit to Jammu & Kashmir. Lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha and Union minister for science and technology Jitendra Singh will be present at the inauguration ceremony.The home minister will also address a public rally at the ground adjoining the fourth bridge over Tawi river in Bhagwati Nagar. Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) president of the Jammu & Kashmir Ravinder Raina said earlier said that it will be a "huge public rally". Addressing a meeting if party workers at the BJP headquarters in Jammu earlier, Raina said that the rally should be organised in such a manner so as avoid inconvenience to the visitors at the gathering as well as for the nearby dwellers and commuters.Shah is on a three-day visit to Jammu & Kashmir for the first time since the abrogation of Article 370 in August 2019. On the first day of his visit on Saturday, Shah met families of soldiers and civilians killed in a spate of terrorist attacks in the Valley throughout the month. He asked the country’s top police officers, present at a nearly-four-hour-long meeting, as to why despite the heavy presence of troops in the Valley and the available resources, incidents of prolonged encounters with terrorists and radicalisation of local youth were taking place. At least 32 civilians have been shot by terrorists in Kashmir this year. Of these, 11 have been killed in October.“Under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, we are committed to completely root out the terrorism and infiltration for the overall development of Jammu and Kashmir," Shah said in a tweet after the meeting.Shah also held a security review meeting in Srinagar, followed by an interactive session with the members of Jammu & Kashmir's youth club where he said that the statehood of Jammu & Kashmir will be restored after delimitation of constituencies and the upcoming assembly elections.Later in the evening, Shah flagged off the first international flight services from Srinagar to Sharjah from the Sheikh ul-Alam International Airport. The flight took off from Srinagar to Sharjah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-to-inaugurate-research-centre-at-iit-jammu-address-rally-today-101635032123191.html
24-10-2021||India||3 dead, NH blocked as Valley receives heavy rain, snowfall||Three persons were killed while one was injured after heavy rains triggered a mudslide that hit their tent at Awantipora in Pulwama district, officials said on Saturday, adding that parts of Jammu and Kashmir received moderate snowfall and plains were lashed by heavy rains, leading to early onset of winter-like conditions.“Four persons came under the debris, of which three men succumbed to their injuries. A woman injured in the incident is stable and recuperating at a hospital,” Pulwama deputy commissioner Baseer Ul Haq Choudhary said, adding that a few nomadic families living in tents at Awantipora were hit by a landslide after a bund collapsed due to heavy rains.Choudhary said the deceased were from Kalakote in Rajouri district, but belonged to different families. He added the administration has shifted other families to safer locations.Meanwhile, police said they have rescued 30 nomadic families along with their livestock in Pulwama district, following a distress call from the hilly area of Sangarwani.“Nomadic families comprising more than 200 members along with their livestock were rescued, besides their essential commodities were shifted to the safer place,” a police spokesperson said.Heavy rains lashed the Union territory while moderate snowfall was witnessed in south and north Kashmir after a fresh western disturbance hit the region on Friday. Parts of the apple town of Shopian also received light to moderate snowfall, said the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Srinagar. The Jammu-Srinagar National Highway was also closed for traffic.“Moderate snow was also observed over Gulmarg, Pahlagam, Shopian,Gurez and Ladakh’s Zojila, Drass, Zanskar, and other higher middle reaches,” said deputy director IMD,Mukhtar Ahmad.Met office has forecast wet weather in the Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh for the next 24 hours. The authorities have issued an advisory asking people to stay away from water bodies.Meanwhile, an official of Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board said the twin tracks of Ban Ganga and Tarakote besides cave shrine witnessed heavy rains and hailstorm. “The yatra remains unaffected. However, chopper service remains suspended because of the inclement weather,” he added.(With inputs from HTC Jammu)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-dead-nh-blocked-as-valley-receives-heavy-rain-snowfall-101635032943430.html
24-10-2021||NA||Home minister Amit Shah meets with locals in Makwal border, Jammu||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:Myanmar junta calls UN rights report on country 'incitement to internal violence'#BREAKING Myanmar junta says UN rights report on country 'incitement to internal violence' pic.twitter.com/LMHVpzHdS6Amit Shah exchanges contact number with Makwal border resident, asks to contact him whenever needed #WATCH | J&K: Union Home Minister Amit Shah takes the contact number of a local resident of Makwal border in Jammu, shares his own and tells him that the man can contact him whenever he needs.The Home Minister visited the forward areas of Makwal border today. pic.twitter.com/KJnI9zEsSDUnion home minister Amit Shah exchanged contact numbers with a resident of Makwal border in Jammu and said that he could contact him whenever needed, reports ANI. Read MoreDelhi reports 37 Covid-19 cases, no new deaths in last 24 hoursWith 37 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, Delhi's total caseload reached 1,439,603. The death toll remained 25,091 as there were no new fatalities. Active caseload stood at 320, a bulletin from the health department showed.Amit Shah meets with locals in Makwal border, JammuJ&K: Union Home Minister Amit Shah interacted with the local residents as he visited forward areas in Makwal border, Jammu. pic.twitter.com/jxUZ6QGTphUnion home minister Amit Shah interacted with local residents during his visit to the forward areas in Makwal border, Jammu, reports ANI. Maharashtra reports 1,410 new Covid-19 cases, 18 deaths in last 24 hoursMaharashtra reported 1,410 new Covid-19 cases and 18 deaths. The state's tally reached 6,602,961 and the death toll climbed to 140,016. Meanwhile Mumbai saw 400 new cases and six deaths, pushing the city's total confirmed infections to 754,507 and the death toll to 16,213.Kerala CM writes to TN CM Stalin asking to release water from Mullaperiyar damKerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan wrote to Tamil Nadu CM MK Stalin to release water from the Mullaperiyar dam through tunnel to the Vaigal Dam and to gradually release water downstream. Vijayan also requested to intimate the Kerala government about the opening of shutters at least 24 hrs in advance, reports ANI.RJD leader Lalu Prasad Yadav arrives in Patna, welcomed by party workers#WATCH | Bihar: RJD leader Lalu Prasad Yadav arrives in Patna, welcomed by party workers. Sons and party leaders Tej Pratap Yadav and Tejashwi Yadav also present with him. pic.twitter.com/3JLjOIWsXkRashtriya Janata Dal leader Lalu Prasad Yadav arrived in Patna and was welcomed by the party workers. His sons and party leaders Tej Pratap Yadav and Tejashwi Yadav were also present with him, reports ANI. Kerala sees 8,538 new Covid-19 cases, 71 deaths in last 24 hoursKerala logged 8,538 new Covid-19 cases and 71 deaths in the last 24 hours as the death toll reached 28,592. The active caseload was recorded at 77,363, reports ANI.BJP making ‘bogus claims’ about violence in Bengal, says WB CM Mamata BanerjeeWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said that the BJP was making “bogus claims” about violence in the state, during a rally at Siliguri, reports PTI. Further, she also claimed that the BJP didn't allow her party to take out a rally in Tripura and also assaulted TMC MP Sushmita Dev. Ghulam Nabi Azad says J&K should be given statehood before electionsSo, I think Home Minister has repeated the same. They would like to have delimitation first - I think they would like to have election first & then statehood. Our demand still today is that first statehood should be granted & that should be followed by elections: Ghulam Nabi Azad pic.twitter.com/hlZtm5E2EaCongress leaders Ghulam Nabi Azad said that Jammu and Kashmir should be given statehood first before holding elections, reports ANI. “So, I think Home Minister has repeated the same. They would like to have delimitation first - I think they would like to have election first & then statehood. Our demand still today is that first statehood should be granted & that should be followed by elections,” he said.Brawl erupts among Chhattisgarh Cong leaders, former district president pushed, stopped from speakingTS Singh Deo waited for 2.5 yrs (to become CM) & now Bhupesh Baghel must vacate his seat. When there was no Congress govt here, Deo & Baghel worked together. It's due to them that Congress govt came to power. When I was saying this, people of Kunkuri MLA attacked me:Pawan Agarwal pic.twitter.com/C8CuLooX4LA fight broke out between Congress workers in Chhattisgarh after the party's ex-president Pawan Agarwal was pushed away from the podium and stopped from speaking during a conference at Jashpur, reports ANI.“TS Singh Deo waited for 2.5 yrs (to become CM) and now Bhupesh Baghel must vacate his seat. When there was no Congress govt here, Deo and Baghel worked together. It's due to them that Congress govt came to power. When I was saying this, people of Kunkuri MLA attacked me,” Agarwal said. Madhya Pradesh Congress MLA Sachin Birla joins BJP during CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan's rallyMadhya Pradesh: Congress MLA Sachin Birla joins BJP at CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan's public rally in Bediya, Khargone. pic.twitter.com/gOidYaEe6vMadhya Pradesh Congress MLA Sachin Birla joined the Bharatiya Janata Party at a public rally by CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan in Bediya, Khargone, reports ANI. Home minister Amit Shah, J&K Lt Guv Manoj Sinha visit Gurudwara Digiana Ashram in JammuJammu & Kashmir: Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Lt Governor Manoj Sinha visit Gurudwara Digiana Ashram in Jammu. pic.twitter.com/5cYXbc88EjUnion home minister Amit Shah and J&K Lt Guv Manoj Sinha visited the Gurudwara Digiana Ashram in Jammu, reports ANI.Indigenous aircraft carrier IAC Vikrant sails out for second sea trials from Kochi, KeralaSecond Sea Trials - IAC Vikrant | Indigenous Aircraft Carrier (IAC) Vikrant sailed out today from Kochi (Kerala), for the second sea trials. The maiden sea trials were conducted in August this year. pic.twitter.com/b2C2Vl5UmdIndigenous aircraft carrier IAC Vikrant sails out for second sea trials from Kochi, Kerala today, reports ANI. The first trials were conducted in August this year.PM Modi to visit Italy, UK from Oct 29 to Nov 2 for G-20 summit, COP-26 conferencePM @narendramodi will be travelling to Rome, Italy and Glasgow, United Kingdom from 29 October 2021 to 2 November 2021 to attend the 16th G20 Summit and the World Leaders’ Summit of COP26 respectively.Press Release ➡️ https://t.co/6eFx7p88ilPrime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to visit Rome, Italy and Glasgow, United Kingdom between October 29 and November 2 for the G-20 summit and the COP-26 conference, MEA said. ‘Normal situation soon, era of development won’t stop', says Amit Shah in JammuAssuring that a normal situation would soon prevail in J&K, Amit Shah said that the “era of development” won't be stopped and the government will not allow anyone to sabotage this journey of development.‘Metro after 2 years in J&K, airports being upgraded’: Amit ShahAmit Shah said that metro rail was being introduced in Jammu and Srinagar after two years and airports were also being upgraded. Amit Shah says medical facilities improved in J&KAmit Shah said that the medical facilities have been improved in the UT noting that earlier there were four or five medical colleges but now “plenty” were being opened. He also said that there were 500 doctors earlier but now it has grown to 5,000 doctors. ‘Justice done to all’ says home minister Amit Shah in Jammu rally on revocation of Article 370Union home minister Amit Shah during his rally in Jammu said that the Article 370 was revoked in Jammu and Kashmir and justice was done to all including communities such as the Valmikis, the Paharis, the Gujjars, the Bakerwals and to refugees, refugees from west Pakistan and women.This is Shah's first rally after the abrogation of Article 370.AAP and TMC will be 'marginal players' in Goa assembly polls: P ChidambaramAAP and TMC will be 'marginal players' in Goa assembly polls: Congress leader P Chidambaram to PTI.Deadly blast in Ugandan capital 'seems to be a terrorist act': PresidentA deadly blast in Kampala late on Saturday appeared to be an act of terrorism, Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni said on Sunday.PM Modi urges people to go 'Vocal for Local' in upcoming festive seasonPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday emphasised on the 'Vocal for Local' campaign while shopping for the upcoming festive season and requested countrymen to take a pledge to ensure cleanliness in the neighbourhood.PM Modi greets ITBP on their Raising DayThe Prime Minister, Narendra Modi on Sunday greeted all the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel on their Raising Day.Amit Shah arrives at JammuUnion Home Minister Amit Shah arrives at Jammu, to inaugurate new Campus of IIT-Jammu and lay foundation stone for various development projects here. He will also meet MPs, MLAs and senior BJP leaders later today.US administration wants to resettle over 55,000 Afghan refugeesThe Biden administration wants to permanently resettle 55,600 Afghan evacuees from the military bases of the US to permanent houses, reported local media.Magnitude 6.2 earthquake strikes TaiwanMagnitude 6.2 earthquake strikes Taiwan, reports Reuters citing EMSC.2 police personnel, 1 soldier injured in J-K encounter 2 police personnel, 1 soldier injured in encounter between terrorists and security forces in J&K's Poonch.Wuhan Marathon postponed after China Covid-19 surgeThe Wuhan Marathon, which had been due to take place Sunday, has been postponed at short notice as worries increase over a coronavirus resurgence in China ahead of the 2022 Beijing Winter Olympics.India reports 15,906 new cases in the last 24 hoursIndia recorded 15,906 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, which pushed the nationwide tally to 34,175,468, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Sunday. 2 killed, 7 injured in gas blast in ChinaTwo people were killed and seven others injured in a gas explosion at a residential building in the Chinese port city of Dalian on Sunday.Light rains likely to occur in parts of UP, HaryanaThunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain is likely to occur in parts of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Sunday.Five people killed in head-on crash in Russia's KalmykiaAt least five people were killed in a road accident in Russia's Kalmykia, while seven others were injured, emergency authorities said on Sunday.Lakhimpur Kheri violence incident: Main accused Ashish Mishra's blood sample has been sent for confirmation of dengueLakhimpur Kheri violence incident: Main accused Ashish Mishra, who is currently lodged in district jail has been shifted to a govt hospital due to suspected dengue, a senior jail official said his blood sample has been sent for confirmation of dengue.Gang shootout in northern Mexico leaves four dead: OfficialsA car chase and shootout between gang members and law enforcement near Mexico's northern border left three members of the powerful Gulf Cartel dead along with one bystander, officials said on Saturday.After California wildfire, thousands of trees to be removedIn the wake of California wildfires, upwards of 10,000 trees weakened by fires, drought, disease or age must be removed, work that will keep a nearby highway closed to visitors who seek the world's two largest sequoia trees.Amit Shah to inaugurate research centre at IIT Jammu todayUnion Home Minister Amit Shah will inaugrate two phases of a multi-disciplinary research centre and lay the foundation stone of the third phase of the centre at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Jammu on the second day of his three-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-october-24-2021-101635031722401.html
24-10-2021||India||KTR alleges Congress-BJP nexus in run-up to bypolls for Huzurabad assembly seat||Telangana Rashtra Samithi working president and state Information Technology minister KT Rama Rao on Saturday alleged that the Congress had joined hands with the Bharatiya Janata Party to defeat the TRS in the upcoming by-elections to the Huzurabad assembly seat.“There are Godses in Gandhi Bhavan (the headquarters of Telangana Congress in Hyderabad). The Congress has a nexus with the BJP. I have concrete evidence to prove it. Let them condemn it, I will reveal the proof,” KTR, as chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s son is called, told reporters.He pointed out that even former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh, who recently quit the Congress, said the party would give a lot of priority to those with RSS background.He said BJP candidate in Huzurabad Eatala Rajender had recently met Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee president A Revanth Reddy to conspire against the TRS. “Rajender is a common candidate for the Congress and the BJP,” he said.Rajender was a cabinet colleague of KTR till recently, and he had the health portfolio. He was sacked from the Cabinet on May 1, on charges of land encroachments. He later resigned from his assembly membership and joined the BJP.The TRS working president pointed out that in the past too, the Congress and the BJP had a secret understanding to defeat the TRS in Karimnagar and Nizamabad during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections.“Similar attempt was made in the by-election to Nagarjunasagar assembly seat in April this year. Former Congress MP Vishweshwar Reddy openly appealed to the people to vote for Rajender in the Huzurabad bypolls. What does it indicate?” he said.Both the Congress and the BJP strongly denied KTR’s comments. Rajender, who was campaigning in Huzurabad, said it was true that he had met the PCC chief after coming out of the TRS, but before joining the BJP.“Not just Revanth Reddy, I had met scores of leaders from across the political spectrum, including those from CPI, CPI (M) and Telangana Jana Samithi to seek their support for my fight against the TRS. What is wrong in meeting the PCC chief? After all, it is not a banned party,” he said.Union minister for tourism G Kishan Reddy also said the TRS was spreading a bunch of lies. “Where is the need for us to join hands with the Congress? It is the TRS which is known for indulging in dark room politics,” he said.PCC political affairs committee convenor and former minister Mohd Shabbi Ali said KCR and his son KTR were the real followers of Godse. “KCR should explain why he had met Union home minister Amit Shah several times, as BJP leaders are Godse supporters. In fact, Godse’s new avatar is now resting in Pragathi Bhavan (the official residence of the chief minister),” Ali said.He pointed out that the Congress had been fighting against the BJP across the country. “But it was TRS which has been supporting the BJP government at the Centre on various issues, right from demonetisation to controversial farm laws,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ktr-alleges-congress-bjp-nexus-in-run-up-to-bypolls-for-huzurabad-assembly-seat-101635023571410.html
24-10-2021||India||Everyone is goal oriented, says PM Modi; draws football analogy to praise Goa govt||Prime Minister Narendra Modi used a football analogy to take a dig at political opponents, comparing them to a team that lacked ‘team spirit’ and added that it was selfishness that was at the forefront in the political sphere. Interacting with the people of Goa involved with the ‘Atma Nirbhar Bharat, Swayampurna Goy (Goa)’ the localised version of the Atma Nirbhar campaign, the Prime Minister was all praise for the work done by the BJP-led government in the state which he said had brought stability. “In football, whether it is defence or forward, everyone is goal-oriented. Someone has to save a goal while others have to score goals. The feeling of achieving each other’s goal has never been short in Goa, but the earlier governments lacked team spirit, they could not create a positive environment. For a long time, political selfishness has been taking a toll on good governance,” the Prime Minister said, adding that it was not possible to separate Goa from football since “the passion for football in Goa is something else altogether”. “Political instability also damaged the prospect of progress in Goa. But, in the last few years, the smart people of Goa turned this instability into stability. My friend late Manohar Parrikar put Goa on the path of fast progress and Pramod Sawant and his team is scaling new heights now. Today, Goa is moving ahead with new self-confidence,” the PM said. “I had said from the ramparts of the Red Fort on August 15 that we should take these schemes to saturation point to ensure 100 per cent coverage. Pramod Sawant and his team are playing a leading role in achieving these objectives,” he said. He mentioned that the Goa government was able to reach 100 per cent of the open defecation free objective, 100% electrification objective, 100% piped water supply target and 100 per cent coverage of providing free ration to the poor.“I am pleased to say about the schemes initiated by the central government for providing safety and respect for women, Goa has implemented them successfully on ground, whether it is toilets, Ujwala gas connection or the Jan Dhan bank account. Goa has done great work on this count,” the Prime Minister said. “That is why during the lockdown, thousands of women got free gas cylinders, money could be credited to their bank accounts,” he added. During the interaction, the Prime Minister spoke to a cross section of government officers who coordinated the outreach programme, some among the people who benefited from it as well as local elected representatives on their experience of rolling out the programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/everyone-is-goal-oriented-says-pm-modi-draws-football-analogy-to-praise-goa-govt-101635020211071.html
24-10-2021||India||Ahead of Goa visit, TMC chief Mamata Banerjee urges political parties to unite against BJP||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday urged political parties to unite against the Bharatiya Janata Party and its ‘divisive agenda’ ahead of her maiden visit to Goa next week even as her nephew Abhishek Banerjee attacked the Congress. “As I prepare for my maiden visit to Goa on 28th, I call upon all individuals, organisations and political parties to join forces to defeat the BJP and their divisive agenda. The people of Goa have suffered enough over the last 10 years,” Banerjee tweeted. Election to the 40-member Goa assembly is likely to be held early next year. The TMC after returning to power for the third consecutive time with a sweeping victory in the recently held West Bengal Assembly polls has made inroads in BJP-ruled Goa and Tripura. “Together, we will usher in a new dawn for Goa by forming a new govt that will truly be a govt of the people of Goa and committed to realising their aspirations! #GoenchiNaviSaka,” she tweeted. In September, the TMC had sent a team of senior leaders, including Rajya Sabha MP Derek O’Brien and Lok Sabha MP Prasun Banerjee to Goa, to assess the political situation before taking the plunge. Former Goa chief minister and veteran Congress leader Luizinho Faleiro has already joined the TMC. On Friday, the TMC had appointed Faleiro as its vice president less than a month of his joining the party. Earlier this month, boxer Lenny Da Gama and footballer Denzil Franco joined the party. Political strategist Prashant Kishor has been working with members of the Indian Political Action Committee (I-PAC) to boost the party’s footprint in the western state and help the party gain ahead of assembly elections. “Political parties are uniting against Mamata Banerjee. So she must fight that first before asking political parties to unite against the BJP,” said Rahul Sinha, senior BJP leader. Even as Mamata Banerjee was trying to unite the opposition her nephew Abhishek Banerjee upped the ante against the Congress while addressing a political rally in West Bengal. “For the last seven years Congress has been losing against the BJP. The TMC is winning against the BJP. The Congress sometimes made settlements with the BJP to defeat the TMC, while sometimes it formed alliances with the CPIM and Indian Secular Front. The party has no ideal and hence has no place in Bengal,” he said. The Congress, however, lashed out saying that the TMC should keep the electoral arithmetic in mind before taking on the BJP. “The TMC should keep in mind the national electoral arithmetic in which the Congress still holds 20% of the vote. Without the Congress the TMC, which just has around 4% votes, won’t be able to fight the BJP. Attacking the Congress would strengthen the BJP. It seems that the TMC doesn’t want to actually fight the BJP,” said Adhir Chowdhury, leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha. Abhishek Banerjee, who was appointed the party’s national general secretary earlier this year, announced that the TMC party will expand its base in at least five states other than Goa and Tripura and set up working units in 15 other states ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-goa-visit-tmc-chief-mamata-banerjee-urges-political-parties-to-unite-against-bjp-101635017031050.html
24-10-2021||India||Congress has joined hands with BJP to defeat TRS in Huzurabad: KTR||Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) working president and state information technology minister KT Rama Rao (KTR) on Saturday alleged that Congress has joined hands with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to defeat the TRS in the upcoming by-elections to Huzurabad assembly seat. “There are (Nathuram) Godses in Gandhi Bhavan (the headquarters of Telangana Congress in Hyderabad). Congress has nexus with the BJP. I have concrete evidence to prove it. Let them condemn it, I will disclose the proof,” KTR, son of Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao (KCR), told reporters. He pointed out that even former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh, who recently quit the Congress, said the party would give a lot of priority to those with RSS background. He said Eatala Rajender, BJP candidate in Huzurabad, recently met Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee president A Revanth Reddy to conspire against the TRS. “Rajender is a common candidate for the Congress and the BJP,” he said. Rajender was a cabinet colleague of KTR till recently, holding a health portfolio. He was sacked from the cabinet on May 1, on charges of land encroachments. He later resigned from his assembly membership and joined the BJP. The TRS working president pointed out that in the past, the Congress and the BJP had a secret understanding to defeat the TRS in Karimnagar and Nizamabad during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. “Similar attempt was made in the by-election to Nagarjunasagar assembly seat in April this year. Former Congress MP Vishweshwar Reddy openly appealed to the people to vote for Rajender in Huzurabad bypolls. What does it indicate?” he said. Both Congress and the BJP denied KTR’s comments. Rajender, who was campaigning in Huzurabad, said it is true that he had met the PCC chief after coming out of the TRS, but before joining the BJP. “Not just Revanth Reddy, I had met scores of leaders from across the political spectrum, including those from CPI, CPI (M) and Telangana Jana Samithi to seek their support for my fight against the TRS. What is wrong with meeting the PCC chief? After all, it is not a banned party,” he said. Union minister for tourism G Kishan Reddy also said the claims of TRS were a bunch of lies. “Where is the need for us to join hands with the Congress? It is the TRS which is known for indulging in darkroom politics,” he said. PCC political affairs committee convenor and former minister Mohd Shabbi Ali said KCR and his son KTR are the real followers of Godse. “KCR should explain why he had met Union home minister Amit Shah several times, as the BJP leaders are Godse supporters. Godse’s new avatar is now resting in Pragathi Bhavan (the official residence of the chief minister),” Ali said. He pointed out that Congress had been fighting against the BJP across the country. “But it was TRS which has been supporting the BJP government at the Centre on various issues, right from demonetisation to three controversial farm laws,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-has-joined-hands-with-bjp-to-defeat-trs-in-huzurabadktr-101635015110951.html
24-10-2021||India||Marriage being used for unlawful conversion: UP||Marriage is increasingly being used as an instrument of coercion to convert individuals from one religion to another and also for fuelling terrorist activities, the Uttar Pradesh government has told the Allahabad high court while defending a contentious new anti-conversion law that, it claimed, will guarantee all individuals “an equal moral membership in the society”.In an affidavit responding to a clutch of public interest litigations (PILs) challenging the 2021 UP Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Act, the state government has emphasised that when the “marriage is one of the instruments being abused for unlawfully converting individuals”, the state cannot abdicate its responsibility to regulate the alliance of two adults.“To love is to live better but the agency of an individual to love cannot be eroded by exercising undue influence on them and forcibly converting them to a different religion under the garb of a better lifestyle. The institution of marriage forms the bedrock of any individual’s most profound hopes and aspirations. To discount such an institution and use it as a soul instrumentals conversion goes against the very ideals of our constitution which is premised on the idea of individual autonomy,” maintained the affidavit.Contesting the issues relating to possible breach of privacy of individuals by regulating something as personal as a marriage, the UP government said that while an individual’s agency and capacity to love may unequivocally fall within the sphere of privacy, “this does not mean that a welfare state should abdicate responsibility to ensure that such agency is not threatened by extraneous factors such as coercion, fraud etc which are very much contagious to the society and are a matter of great concern.”According to the affidavit, the Act aims to ensure that the decision of an individual to convert to another religion is “theirs and theirs alone” since forcible conversions strike at the heart of personal autonomy and devalue the sense of identity and dignity of an individual.The UP government passed the law, commonly referred to as the “love-jihad” law in February this year, following enacting the ordinance on the same subject in November 2020. The law prescribes a jail term up to 10 years and fine up to ₹50,000 for conversion under marriage, fraud, coercion or enticement.The ordinance had come into force days after chief minister Yogi Adityanath promised to fight against “love jihad”, a term used by some right-wing groups to describe relationships between Muslim men and Hindu women.Several activists and legal experts have argued that the law could be used to target Muslims and infringe on the fundamental rights to equality, freedom of religion, and life and personal liberty.But the state, in its affidavit filed on Friday before a bench led by justice Munishwar Nath Bhandari, maintained that although the 2021 law is on unlawful conversion and marriage is simply incidental, there are first information reports (FIRs) as well as a report of the Uttar Pradesh anti-terrorism squad to demonstrate that the social fabric in the state is threatened by a spurt in forcible conversions.The statistics submitted by the state showed a total of 79 prosecutions had been launched on charges of unlawful conversion between January 1, 2020 and July 6, 2021. The ATS report of August 2021 claimed that there is a syndicate running in UP to unlawfully convert men and women to Islam and hawala transactions were involved in funding such activities.“There is a compelling state interest in preventing the disproportionate forcible conversions of women in the state. Forcible conversion strikes at the heart of personal autonomy and individual agency. This compelling state interest is also furthered when it is revealed that such conversions are being used as an instrument for terrorist activities and have been probed from a national security angle,” claimed the affidavit.If the impact of the legislation is tested, the state contended, it would be found that the legislation has a direct impact on terrorists and terror organisations which have been probed by the state’s ATS.“There is ample data in public record which shows that forcible conversions have in fact created fear- psychosis in the state which in turn has warranted the need for such a legislation...The impugned act seeks to restore the autonomy of all those individuals who have been forcefully and unlawfully converted from one religion to another. By restoring them with religion that they practice voluntarily and freely, then Act delivers on the promise of equal citizenship and equal moral membership,” stated the affidavit.Through the impugned law, the government said, the state seeks to safeguard freedom of conscience in the interest of public order, health and constitutional morality by ensuring that an individual’s choice to marry and subsequently convert to another religion is an informed one.Adding that the legislation of identical nature is in existence at least in eight other states including Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Uttarakhand and Haryana, the affidavit said that the law prescribes the “least restrictive measure” available with the state to prevent unlawful conversions, especially since the community interest must always prevail over the individual interest.“There are no fetters which had been placed under the Act to take away the freedom of conscience of an individual and the individual is only required to follow the procedure prescribed under the law while exercising the liberty to change belief and faith to worship. This exercise is necessary as there has to be an inquiry at some stage and the law has been settled that the best inquiry in such kind of matters can be done at the level of the executive,” held the affidavit.The UP government clarified that any voluntary conversions by an individual made out of their own free will not attract the provisions of the impugned act but the burden of proof as to whether a religious conversion was not affected from misrepresentation or fraud or coercion or by marriage has to be placed on the person who has caused the conversion.“Conversion being one of the cases that might not usually get reported due to power asymmetry, for socio-cultural and institutional factors, devaluation of self-identity or general fear of societal backlash, the reverse onus clause is a solution that aids in coming to the rescue of the victim and punishing the accused,” said the affidavit.It also defended the provision giving right to the family members under the law to register FIRs in such cases. “By reiterating an already codified law that the relatives have a power to file An FIR against such conversions, the impugned Act in fact ensures that every individual is granted an equal moral membership in the society and the diminished autonomy of the coerced individual it does not let them be a part of a relationship or a religion which they would not voluntarily choose,” underscored the state.The high court is expected to take up the batch of matters on November 15 after the petitioners file their replies to the state government’s stand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/marriage-being-used-for-unlawful-conversion-terror-activities-uttar-pradesh-defends-love-jihad-law-in-allahabad-high-court-101635014812324.html
24-10-2021||India||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal to visit Ayodhya on October 26||Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party convenor Arvind Kejriwal will offer prayers to Ram Lalla in Ayodhya on October 26 on his maiden visit to the temple town, a party spokesperson said on Saturday. Kejriwal will also visit the historic Hanuman Garhi temple in the pilgrim town.Vaibhav Maheshwari, state spokesperson for the party, on Saturday said the Delhi chief minister will be on a two-day visit to Uttar Pradesh from October 25. This will be his first visit to Ayodhya, added Maheshwari. Kejriwal will reach Sultanpur district on October 25 and go to Ayodhya from there the next day. Sanjay Singh, Uttar Pradesh in-charge of the party, will accompany the Delhi chief minister. AAP has already announced it will contest the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls due to be held early next year. On September 14, Aam Aadmi Party leaders Manish Sisodia and Sanjay Singh took out a “tiranga yatra” in Ayodhya, giving a call to establish Ram Rajya and equating it with true nationalism and communal harmony. With Uttar Pradesh assembly polls just few months away, political parties have made it a point to organise a political event in Ayodhya. Union minority affairs minister and BJP leader Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi hit out at the AAP convenor over the proposed Ayodhya visit.“When elections are around the corner, people want to offer prayers to Lord Ram. Some will visit Lord Ram’s temple while some will visit other temples. These people are neither going to be blessed by the voters nor by God,” Naqvi said according to news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-to-visit-ayodhya-on-october-26-101635014454640.html
24-10-2021||India||Ellenabad bypoll: 200 farmers booked after protest in Haryana’s Sirsa||Rohtak: Police in Haryana’s Sirsa district have booked over 200 farmers for allegedly blocking the road in protest against the visit of leaders from the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its ally Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) to Talwara Khurd and Kotli villages to campaign for the upcoming Ellenabad assembly bypoll, police said on Saturday, adding that two first information reports (FIRs) have been lodged against farmers. According to the police, Haryana assembly’s deputy speaker Ranbir Gangwa, state minister Ranjit Chautala, JJP chief Ajay Chautala, Sirsa MLA Gopal Kanda and BJP candidate for the October 30 bypoll, Gobind Kanda, were scheduled to visit the two villages on Friday when farmers blocked their route and showed black flags in protest.Kanda is contesting the Ellenabad bypoll against Indian National Lok Dal (INLD)’s general secretary Abhay Singh Chautala and Congress’s Pawan Beniwal. Chautala is seeking a fourth consecutive term from Ellenabad, which will go to bypoll on October 30.Police said a resident of Mithi Surera village in Ellenabad, Sheshpal, in his complaint, said nearly 150 farmers obstructed the path of BJP-JJP leaders and tried to stop them from canvassing. In another FIR, police have booked 50 farmers for sealing the boundaries of Kotli village to stop entry of BJP-JJP leaders.Sub-inspector Tara Chand of Ellenabad police station said they have booked the farmers under sections 147(punishment for rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly) and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The farmers, who have been protesting against the three central agri laws for nearly 11 months, also took out a rally by carrying the ashes of the four farmers and a journalist who were among the eight people killed in Lakhimpur Kheri violence in Uttar Pradesh on October 3. The ‘ashes yatra’ was taken out in Ellenabad f5rom October 21 to 23. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha has already announced to campaign against Kanda. The farmers also protested against BJP’s rally held at Kagdana village earlier this week. Meanwhile, Dushyant Chautala has announced to campaign for Kanda, who is pitted against his estranged uncle Abhay Singh Chautala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ellenabad-bypoll-200-farmers-booked-after-protest-in-haryana-s-sirsa-101635014090936.html
24-10-2021||India||Nation functions on rights and not on individual’s will, says Uddhav||In an apparent jibe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said that the nation runs on rights and not on the will of an individual. Thackeray reiterated the issue of sovereignty of the states and sought guidance from legal luminaries on the rights of the Centre and state. Thackeray was speaking in Aurangabad at the inauguration of the two wings of the annexe building of Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court, where Chief Justice of India NV Ramana, Union law minister Kiren Rijiju, minister of state for finance Dr Bhagwat Karad, supreme court judge DY Chandrachud, chief justice of Bombay high court Dipankar Datta, were also present.The chief minister added that while we celebrate the Amrut Mahotsav (75th year) of independence, there needs to be a “brainstorming” on what has been achieved in these seven and a half decades after independence. Raking the issue of federalism in India for the second time in eight days, Thackeray said the celebration of freedom should not be limited to 75 years, but freedom is to be maintained permanently.Speaking in front of the legal experts on Saturday, the CM asked, “What is our country’s democracy and is there a federal structure in it. What has been written in the Constitution about Centre and states’ rights? At the time of making the Constitution, the questions were raised by some experts on the powers of states and the Centre. Babasaheb Ambedkar had clearly said that except few rights, the states too are sovereign like the Centre. Are these rights being encroached upon?”He further said that he was speaking what was in the minds of the common man. “If we feel that slavery should not be our destiny again, then I humbly request that all the legal experts should discuss and guide the nation on the issue. What does freedom mean? Who has how many rights? Yes, you hold an office, but being in office does not mean that your will can become your right. Your authority is separate, and your will is different. Someone should tell us.”“I am confident that the legal experts will soon throw light on these matters and everybody will get to know the framework of the constitution,” he added.Last week, in a speech during the Dussehra rally of Shiv Sena — the party he heads — Thackeray had said that the architects of the Constitution gave equal sovereignty to the State and Centre under the federal structure. He had also that if the Centre interfered in the workings of the State then it is “unconstitutional” and “cannot be tolerated”.Thackeray on Saturday also took a jibe at former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh, who remains absconding in the money laundering and Antilia bomb scare case. Justice Chandrachud during his speech had referred to a case from 1958 where an accused was absconding.“Chandrachud saheb, you mentioned that one accused has been absconding since 1958, and his case is still pending. Here (Maharashtra), the complainant is missing, but the case is still going on. Nobody knows where the complainant fled away after levelling the allegations. But, the allegations are dug up, inquiries and raids are conducted. There is a need to bring in some framework for such methods,” he said.Stating that crime against women has now become a major issue in the country, Thackeray said that the government has decided to build shelters for the safety of homeless women and orphan children. “As part of the decision, a survey has stated in Mumbai for the shelter of homeless and orphaned women and children that will help prevent injustice to such vulnerable groups,” he added.Thackeray said that his government will work to give justice to the people as providing justice is not one man’s job but teamwork. The chief minister said that the government will soon allocate land for a new building of the Bombay high court. He asked CJI to remain present for the foundation laying ceremony. “We will try to inaugurate the building in our term only,” the chief minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nation-functions-on-rights-and-not-on-individual-s-will-says-uddhav-101635013550901.html
24-10-2021||India||Targeted killings in Punjab also on NIA radar: Says official||Recent killings of civilians in Jammu and Kashmir has brought back into focus similar methods used by Khalistani terrorists to destabilize Punjab. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has this month initiated probes in two such cases – firing on a priest, Kamaldeep Sharma, and sewadar (volunteer) Simranjit Kaur – on January 31 this year in Phillaur, seriously injuring them, and killing of a dera follower Manohar Lal in Bhatinda on November 20 last year. In both the cases taken over on October 8 by the federal probe agency, it looks to investigate a pattern behind targeted killings in both Kashmir and Punjab. In Punjab, the gunmen were given pistols on the directions of Hardeep Singh Nijjar, the Canada-based chief of banned outfit Khalistan Tiger Force, investigators suspect. The shooters, identified as Lovepreet alias Ravi, Kamaljit Sharma and Ram Singh, targeted prominent persons of other faiths “to create a sense of fear and disharmony in the society,” the home ministry said while handing over the two cases to the NIA.Earlier, the federal agency had investigated and filed charges in eight targeted killings of Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) volunteers, Shiv Sena leaders and Christian pastors in Punjab in 2016-17. It claimed in one of the charge sheets that “Khalistani outfits have been targeting members of specific communities, so as to polarize the society in Punjab on communal lines.” In April, the agency filed charges against eight members of another outfit called Khalistan Liberation Force for the murder of Balwinder Singh Sandhu, a Shaurya Chakra bravery award winner, in Tarn Taran in October 2020. “Islamic or Khalistani outfits in Jammu and Kashmir and Punjab, operating with the help of Pakistan army and the ISI (Inter-Services Intelligence, the Pakistani spy agency), have found this modus operandi more useful to them,” an official said, requesting anonymity. “The local operators, who act as hitmen, are provided with guns easily available within India or smuggled from across the border, for which money is paid through Western Union money transfer or hawala (informal money transfer). The specific targets are selected by handlers and these operatives are asked to attack and flee.” “Using this modus operandi, Pakistan-based outfits aren’t spending lakhs in training terrorists and then risking their capture during infiltration,” the official said. “Increased use of drones to send small arms and ammunition is part of this strategy, and if we don’t have a robust plan soon, things will go out of hand in Kashmir and Punjab.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/targeted-killings-in-punjab-also-on-nia-radar-says-official-101635013370823.html
24-10-2021||India||Global coalition plans to help small island states mitigate climate crisis||The Coalition of Disaster Resilient Infrastructure (CDRI), a global partnership of 27 countries initiated by India, will launch a programme to help small island states boost climate resilience at the United Nations climate summit in Glasgow starting October 31. CDRI was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the UN Climate Action Summit in New York in 2019. The programme – Infrastructure for Resilient Island States – will be implemented between 2022 to 2030 in 58 countries three geographical regions: the Caribbean, the Pacific, and the Atlantic, Indian Ocean, Mediterranean and South China Sea.India, Australia and the UK are likely to pledge 10 million dollars each for the project and other CDRI initiatives. Other countries may also contribute. Japan and the US have offered technical expertise.The small island nations suffer losses to as much as 10% of their GDP due to natural disasters, according to a World Bank report. They account for two-thirds of the countries in the world that suffer the highest relative losses due to disasters. Overall, these nations also have the highest hazard risks relative to the size of their capital stock, as per the 2017 UN Global Assessment Report.For instance, Fiji was ravaged by Cyclone Winston in February 2016, claiming 44 lives, damaging 40,000 homes and hundreds of schools, and destroying much of the island nation’s infrastructure and transport systems.“When you consider losses as proportion of GDP, these countries are the hardest hit. Some countries have lost 80% to 90% of their GDPs in single disaster events in the past. Because of modest sea-level rise there is an increase in wind and water disasters,” said Kamal Kishore, Indian co-chair of CDRI’s executive committee. “So, since February this year we started consultations with governments and organisations in these countries,” Kishore said. “For example, we have consulted countries in the South Pacific; CARICOM (Caribbean Community); partners like Asian Development Bank, United Nations Environment Programme, etc.” In Kiribati, Marshall Islands, Suriname, Tuvalu and the Maldives, 60% to 100% of the population lives only 5m above the sea level, which are rising due to global warming.“These regions also face development challenges that constrain their economic prospects such as remoteness to global markets, poor connectivity, lack of economies of scale, inadequate labour mobility, low levels of development combined with rapid population growth and limited capacity to adapt,” a concept note by CDRI said. CDRI will provide technical assistance and develop capacity in these countries. “Even in ongoing projects, we are trying to ensure they are built in a way that they are resilient and bankable,” Kishore said. “That will also ensure investment in these islands. For example, many island nations don’t have building codes. National building codes have to be context specific and hence they have to be developed with local organisations. We want a bottom-up approach to this project, not a top-down model. Locals should be involved.” “In the context of climate negotiations, this is an important move by India because we are a developing country and yet we are looking to collaborate on infrastructure development in small island countries,” a CDRI official said, requesting anonymity. “It’s exemplary that we are stepping up and playing a global role. This is a positive story for India.”India will support the stand of least developed countries or countries most vulnerable to climate change impacts. Loss and damage due to climate change in vulnerable nations need to be compensated. There is no agreement among nations on this issue. “Floods, unseasonal rains, severe cyclones have increased in frequency and severity. There is 1.2 degree rise in global temperature and we are already seeing this. Island countries and all vulnerable nations need to be compensated for such events,” an official of the environment ministry said, declining to be named. “We will support the least developed countries on loss and damage because we are also suffering. It needs to be resolved how this money will come.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/global-coalition-plans-to-help-small-island-states-mitigate-climate-crisis-101635013010848.html
24-10-2021||India||Centre announces 2 new rules to increase investments in renewable energy||To increase investments in renewable energy, the central government on Saturday announced two new rules to ensure renewable utilities recover generation costs on time and are assured of regular energy purchase by states and power distribution companies.“The new rules would help create an investment-friendly environment in the country,” the power ministry said in a statement on Saturday.The rules are significant because several renewable energy pacts have been stuck in states such as Punjab, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Rajasthan and Gujarat over inordinate payment delays and issues in land acquisition and regulatory clearances, a ministry official said.“The rules will help investors because the cost of solar modules has been at an all-time high since 2019. This reason for the hike in module price is because almost all of them are imported from China, and the manufacturing there has been largely affected as their factories are run on limited days due to a power crisis. So, the ongoing issue of renewable power generators not getting paid on time in India was aggravating the situation and prohibiting growth in the sector,” he said on condition of anonymity. “So now, a formula has been provided to calculate adjustment in the monthly tariff due to the impact of change in law.”The notified rules mandate that a must-run renewable energy plant will not be subjected to curtailment or regulation of generation or supply of electricity. “The electricity generated from a must-run power plant may be curtailed or regulated only in the event of any technical constraint in the electricity grid or for reasons of security of the electricity grid,” the ministry statement said.The move comes when India has set a target of installing 450 GW of renewable energy capacity by 2030. It is aiming to invest ₹1 trillion every year till 2030. India has so far invested about ₹4.7 trillion in renewable energy over the past six years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-announces-2-new-rules-to-increase-investments-in-renewable-energy-101635012952584.html
24-10-2021||India||Loan waiver, 2 million jobs among Cong promises for 2022 UP polls||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday flagged off “pratigya yatras” from Uttar Pradesh’s Barabanki with multiple promises, including loan waiver for farmers and jobs to 200,000 people if voted to power in next year’s Assembly polls. She also promised a separate manifesto for women in a week and stressed that their participation in politics is necessary.Her other promises on Saturday included a minimum support price of ₹2500 per quintal for wheat and paddy, state advisory price (SAP) of ₹400 per quintal for sugarcane, bringing down power bills to half, waiving dues of the Covid-19 period and financial assistance of ₹25,000 to Covid-19 affected families.“We waived loans of ₹72,000 crores earlier. We will waive loans of farmers again and bring down power bills to half. The Chhattisgarh government is buying paddy for ₹2500 per quintal. We will buy paddy at the same rate. We will also give SAP of ₹400 per quintal to sugarcane growers,” she said on Saturday.Earlier this week, Priyanka promised 40% party tickets to women for the assembly polls, smartphones to class 12 pass girls and scooters to women graduates.“We will not be able to bring about development and resolve some issues unless the women make progress and participate in the government. Congress wants to give 40% tickets to women to ensure they are capable of fighting their battles. We are bringing out a separate manifesto for women, and the announcement of smartphones and electric scooters for girls is one of the promises made in the manifesto for women to be released in a week,” said Priyanka.She said several contractual workers met her in the past two years, and the party, when voted to power, would regularise their jobs.“I have come here to understand their problems and the state of affairs here,” she said.Before making the promises, Priyanka had a brief interaction with a group of women in a paddy field in Barabanki. The women were seen offering her jaggery and food.Priyanka also slammed Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the “bad” state of affairs of farmers and failure to dismiss Union minister of state for home Ajay Kumar Mishra Teni, whose son Ashish Mishra has been arrested in connection with violence in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3. The minister and his son have repeatedly denied the latter’s alleged involvement in the incident.“You are aware how farmers got killed by the son of a minister of the Narendra Modi government. This incident speaks of how the Modi government treats the farmers. The father of the accused continues to be a minister in the Modi government,” Priyanka said.Reacting to Priyanka’s promises, BJP’s Uttar Pradesh vice president Vijay Pathak said, “Congress has named poll promises as its pratigya. The people will take a call as the party has not been able to keep its promises in the past.” Priyanka spoke briefly at the launch of the pratigya yatra, which was flagged off from Harakh Bazar in Barabanki, with the slogan “Hamari saat pratigyayen, hum vachan nibhayenge (Our seven promises, we will fulfil our commitment).”The other two yatras began from Varanasi and Saharanpur on the same day. The yatras will cover major cities, towns and villages across the state till November 1. The party’s fourth yatra will be launched from Gorakhpur after Diwali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/loan-waiver-2-million-jobs-among-cong-promises-for-2022-up-polls-101635012530707.html
24-10-2021||India||Tablets and smartphones to be distributed among youngsters by Nov: CM Yogi||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday announced that the state government will begin the distribution of tablets and smartphones among the youngsters by the end of November. Adityanath asserted that his government is working to employ the youth without discrimination.“To equip the youth of Uttar Pradesh with the latest technology, the state government will start providing tablets and smartphones from the last week of November so that they are not deprived of the benefit of online studies,” he said. He announced while laying the foundation stone of a government medical college, to be built for ₹271 crores in Sultanpur. The chief minister also launched 126 other development projects worth ₹46.33 crores in Sultanpur and 99 projects worth ₹334.24 crores in Ambedkarnagar.Hitting out at the Congress and Samajwadi Party governments in the state, he said, “The benefits of development schemes were confined to one family only. One family in Delhi and one family in Lucknow used to grab the money of the poor. People used to die due to hunger and lack of basic amenities.”Adityanath also said the previous SP government was selfish and supported the mafia. “Today, no mafia or criminal can threaten anyone, nor can they play with the faith of people,” he said.Samajwadi Party state spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary reacted to Adityanath’s statement, saying: “The previous Akhilesh Yadav government is known for its revolutionary development works. World-class metro, expressway, or parks. None can match Akhilesh Yadav’s laptop scheme. All this government did in four-and-a-half years of its tenure is change names and re-inaugurate Akhilesh Yadav government’s works.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tablets-and-smartphones-to-be-distributed-among-youngsters-by-nov-cmyogi-101635012352106.html
24-10-2021||India||Grieving wife’s death, retired armyman kills his kids, dies by suicide||A 46-year-old retired army officer, grieving the death of his wife, allegedly killed his four children and died by suicide, in Hukkeri Taluk of Karnataka’s Belagavi district, police said on Saturday.According to the police, the man was suffering from depression since the death of his wife due to post-Covid black fungus on July 6 this year. Late on Friday, the 46-year-old is suspected to have poisoned the food of his four children -- three daughters aged 19, 16 and 11; and a son (8) -- and then consumed the same meal, an official added.On Saturday, neighbours alerted the police and the relatives after no one from the family could be reached.The victim’s cousin said she spoke with him around 9 pm on Friday. “He asked me if I had dinner and even said goodnight before going to bed. There were no indications that he was going to take such a step,” she added.“He and his children often used to tell us that they cannot live without his wife,” the relative told reporters.Police said they were probing into the matter.In August this year, a couple was found dead in their residence in Baikampady near Mangaluru, allegedly fearing complications after showing symptoms of Covid-19.(If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist.) Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/grieving-wife-s-death-retired-armyman-kills-his-kids-dies-by-suicide-in-belagavi-101635012350671.html
24-10-2021||India||Promote e-shopping for festivals: Govt to states||Ahead of the festival season, the Centre on Saturday asked states and Union territories to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour is strictly followed, listing measures like promoting online shopping and avoiding unnecessary travel to stop infection rates from spiralling.“With continued and collaborative efforts of the Central and state governments, India has achieved the landmark of administering over 100 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses. While vaccination is one of the prime interventions against Covid-19, the honourable prime minister has emphasised that we must continue to exercise precaution by following Covid appropriate behaviour to prevent the risk of future resurgence,” Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said in a letter to states and UTs.The billionth shot of Covid-19 vaccines was administered on October 21, nine months and five days after the country’s Covid-19 immunisation programme kicked off on January 16. The vaccines were administered in roughly 430,000 centres and a total of at least around 2 million health workers were directly involved in the process.The states have also been asked to disallow mass gatherings in areas identified as containment zones and in districts reporting more than a 5% positivity rate – the proportion of samples that return positive. “There should be strict adherence to limits on public gatherings taking into account availability of space to ensure effective physical distancing,” the Centre said.The letter also asked states and UTs to explore and promote various modalities for online modes of celebrations, online shopping and discourage unnecessary travel. States must continue to diligently follow the five pillars of Covid-19 management — test-track-treat-vaccinate and adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour, it added.The guidelines come ahead of major festivals such as Diwali next month, and amid a worrying spike in coronavirus cases in many countries such as Russia, UK and China where schools are being closed and renewed lockdowns are being announced.The Centre has also urged states/UTs to focus on those beneficiaries waiting for their second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine after their interval period has been over.“So far, 71.24 crore (712 million) first doses, covering 76% of the eligible population, and 30.06 crore (300 million) second doses, covering 32% of the eligible population, have been administered the Covid vaccines,” Bhushan said.States have also been requested to access the line list of due beneficiaries from Co-WIN portal. The detailed line-lists of due beneficiaries can be utilised for preparing district-wise second dose administration plan involving district magistrates for execution in a time-bound manner, he added.The states/UTs were also advised to identify and prioritise the districts having low coverage for focused action and explore requirements for mobilisation efforts, addressing local challenges, need for additional Covid vaccination centres and improving access in rural areas, the letter said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-curb-covid-spread-centre-tells-states-to-encourage-online-shopping-ahead-of-festivals-101635012172246.html
24-10-2021||India||5 held for killing 2 sex workers in ‘human sacrifice’: MP Police||Five people, including a couple and an occultist, have been arrested for allegedly killing two sex workers in human sacrifice rituals in the past 10 days in Gwalior and Morena districts of Madhya Pradesh, police said on Saturday. Police said the accused have been identified as Bantu Bhadoria (40), his wife Mamta Bhadoria (36), his sister Meera Rajawat (45), her live-in partner Neeraj Parmar (35), all residents of Gwalior, and occultist Girvar Yadav (62) from Datia. According to the police, Bantu and Mamta got married 17 years ago and have been trying for a baby. But Mamta failed to conceive and so the couple decided to approach an occultist, police said. Gwalior superintendent of police Amit Sanghi said, “Girvar Yadav asked the couple to sacrifice a human. Bantu discussed it with Meera and Neeraj. They made a plan of killing an orphan. Neeraj told the couple that he saw in a Bollywood movie a man kills a sex worker and doesn’t get arrested as nobody files any complaint of her missing.” Bantu and Neeraj first killed a sex worker in Sarai Chola area of Morena on the intervening night of October 13 and 14, the SP added. “They showed the body to Yadav, who he rejected it, saying the woman was not killed properly and had injury marks on the body. He asked for another body. Neeraj then hired another sex worker on October 20. He took her to Bantu’s house in Purani Chhawni area, where they killed her by strangulating,” said the SP. The double murder first came to light after the body of a 23-year-old sex worker was found near the Indian Institute of Information and Management Technology (IIITM) on Thursday. “When police investigated, the woman was identified as a resident of Hazira area. Tracing the call details and CCTV footage, police nabbed Neeraj Parmar. During the interrogation, he confessed to the crime,” said the senior police officer. “Neeraj told us that after killing the woman, he along with and Meera were taking the body of the second woman to Yadav’s house on a bike, when the body fell down near IIITM,” the SP said, adding that scared of getting caught, the two fled. Police got the information of the murder of 25-year-old woman from Morena while checking the call details of the woman, who was killed in Gwalior. The call details revealed that Neeraj contacted the woman with a number registered in the name of another woman, police said. “When police tried to trace the woman, they found that she was a sex worker from Morena and missing since the past 10 days. When they interrogated Neeraj, they found that she was also killed by them for the ritual,” said the police officer. Based on Neeraj’s confession, police arrested the five accused on Friday and booked them under section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Bantu and Neeraj have been sent on police remand for three days. Police said Bantu used to drive a school bus, but lost his job during the Covid-19 pandemic, while his wife is a house maker. Meera, who is a divorcee, lives with Neeraj, a property broker. Police said they are interrogating Yadav to find out if he had asked others for similar acts before. Further probe is on, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-held-for-killing-2-sex-workers-in-human-sacrifice-mppolice-101635011990745.html
24-10-2021||India||Mamata’s Goa plan highlights a shift in TMC expansion strategy||Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress is eyeing the Goa election in what might be the West Bengal-based party’s biggest foray into the national political theatre.The party has inducted two popular Goan leaders -- former CM Luizonho Faleiro and Prasad Goankar -- and is in talks with several outfits and local leaders. The Trinamool, which defeated the BJP in May 2021 in what was the former’s most challenging assembly election in Bengal, is also in talks with many independent leaders and plans to contest 40 assembly seats in Goa.The Goa plan also reflects a strategic shift in Trinamool’s expansion strategy. “Earlier, the party was fighting in various states such as Assam or Arunachal Pradesh for the odd one or two seats,” said a senior Trinamool leader.*But now, after Abhishek Banerjee became the national general secretary of the party, we are focusing on states where we can form the local government.”While the Trinamool’s plan for Tripura is seen as a natural expansion of the party into another Bengali-speaking state, Goa reflects the strategy to try to find the space between the BJP and the Congress after the death of Manohar Parrikar, the tallest Goan leader.Trinamool has already despatched Derek O’ Brien, the party’s Catholic face who spends nearly two weeks in the state. It has opened its office in Panjim and rented accommodation in a rural area near the state capital.Trinamool leaders are unsure about a tie-up with independent legislators and want committed people for a long-term political relationship, party insiders said.The party is trying to reach an agreement with Goa Forward party leaders. “We also need a strong Hindu face as nearly 60% of Goan population is Hindu. We are hopeful to induct a popular face to enhance our appeal to Goan voters,” said a Trinamool leader.Mamata Banerjee’s party has not yet made up its mind for an alliance with the AAP, another probable candidate in the next Goan election.“ Kejriwal’s key focus is Punjab and Haryana. We don’t think we will benefit from an alliance with the AAP in Goa,” said another senior Trinamool leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamatas-goa-plan-highlights-a-shift-in-tmc-expansion-strategy-101635011935400.html
24-10-2021||India||Modi meets 7 vaccine makers on way ahead||The world is looking up to India for its vaccination drive, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said at a meeting on Saturday as he praised pharma industry executives manufacturing Covid-19 vaccines.Modi’s comments come days after India delivered the billionth dose of coronavirus vaccines, more than any other country in the world except China. As on Saturday evening, at least 1.02 billion doses have been given to people, covering a little over 76% of the 940 million adults eligible for inoculation.Modi credited vaccine makers for having played a “big role in the success story of India” and the country’s reaching the 1-billion milestone, according to an official statement. Vaccine makers should continuously work together to be ready to face future challenges, Modi told top executives of seven vaccine manufacturers.“The Prime Minister discussed the government’s roadmap for the future with the companies. He also congratulated them and discussed how the vaccination of those not yet inoculated needs to be sped up,” said a person aware of the discussions, asking not to be named.There is need to institutionalise the best practises learnt during the last one-and-a-half years, Modi said, adding that “this is an opportunity to modify our practises, in tune with the global standards”, according to the government statement.Among those that attended the meeting were executives from Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech, the makers of the vaccines mostly in use at present; Zydus Cadila, Biological E, Gennova Biopharma, Dr Reddy’s Lab and Panacea Biotec. After the meeting ended, the executives praised the government’s role in easing hurdles and said the discussions covered how India’s vaccine capacities can be enhanced. “All over the world, countries will invest in vaccine manufacturing and India needs to stay ahead and we discussed how to do that together with the industry and the government… This is a great milestone. We were able to achieve it because of the vision of the Prime Minister and the industries working with the government,” said SII CEO Adar Poonawalla. During the meeting, Poonawalla’s father and SII managing director, Cyrus Poonawalla, appreciated the leadership of Modi and the way he has led the country, the government statement said. “Had it not been for him and the health ministry, today India would not have been able to make a billion doses. When he came in November (last year) to the plant in Pune, I assured him. And, today he is very happy that our assurance has been fulfilled that we will make India self-sufficient, [and] like all other vaccines, at the lowest possible cost in the world… The Prime Minister went out of his way and made all the regulatory people move very fast… which is why we have been able to cover a huge population,” Cyrus Poonawalla said after the meeting.Other than the vaccine manufacturers, health minister Mansukh Mandaviya and junior health minister Bharati Pravin Pawar were present at the meeting. Cadila healthcare chairman Pankaj Patel too thanked Modi. “One of the biggest factors in our scientists developing the first DNA vaccine is the Prime Minister. He encouraged us a lot since the beginning. He said that the government was with us and would support us for any of our needs. That is the reason we have been able to do it,” he said, adding that Modi also mentioned the vaccine at the UN, which was a matter of pride for the company. Bharat Biotech’s Krishna Ella thanked the Prime Minister for having taken Covaxin. Biological E’s Mahima Datla commended Modi’s “vision that helped the country attain the vaccination milestone”, the government statement said. While Gennova’s Sanjay Singh talked about the importance of innovation and backward integration in the field of vaccine development, Dr Reddy’s Labs’ Satish Reddy appreciated the collaboration between the government and industry. Panacea’s Rajesh Jain praised the government’s ceaseless role during the pandemic, the government statement said. India is likely to become the second-largest manufacturer of Covid-19 vaccines by volume by the end of the year, experts said. India is likely to edge past United States to produce a little under 1.5 billion doses by December, second only to China, according to an October 21 projection by science analytics firm Airfinity. The government is expected to allow companies to resume exports of Covid-19 vaccines, a step likely to significantly ease vaccine inequity that has left doses out of reach for many poorer nations, especially in Africa. Experts said India must now focus on encouraging full vaccination. “Now, there is a need to reduce the gap between the two doses of Covishield -- which is administered to a majority of the people -- to ideally eight weeks. There is a huge gap between the people who have received the first dose and those who have received a second dose. A high complete vaccine coverage will prevent future surges in infections and deaths. This is especially necessary during the festive season because the people are out and about, which increases transmission,” said Dr Suneela Garg, professor in the department of community medicine at Maulana Azad Medical College and a member of the Lancet Commission on Covid-19 in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-meets-7-vaccine-makers-on-way-ahead-101635011871322.html
24-10-2021||India||Double engine govt will ensure continuation of development in Goa, says PM Modi||Goa should continue with a “double engine” government to ensure it stays on the path to self-reliance, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday, referring to the Bharatiya Janata Party administrations both at the state and the Centre. Modi also took a dig at opposition parties, saying that they were like a football team that lacks team spirit, as he sounded the bugle for next year’s assembly elections in the coastal state.“In football, whether it is defence or forward, everyone is goal-oriented. Someone has to save a goal, while others have to score goals. The feeling of achieving each other’s goal has never been short in Goa, but the earlier governments lacked team spirit,” Modi said. “They could not create a positive environment. For a long time, political selfishness took a toll on good governance.”Interacting with beneficiaries of the Aatmanirbhar Bharat Swayampurna Goa programme, an extension of the central government’s Aatmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India) initiative via videoconferencing, Modi praised the good work done by the state government.“Political instability damaged the prospect of progress in Goa,” he said. “But, in the last few years, the smart people of Goa turned this instability into stability.”“My friend late Manohar Parrikar put Goa on the path of fast progress and Pramod Sawant and his team are scaling new heights now,” Modi said. “Today, Goa is moving ahead with new self-confidence.”Goa can become self-sufficient only when it makes full use of the developmental avenues and possibilities, Modi said, while calling Swayampurna Goa a means to fulfil the aspirations of the common people. The scheme began on October 2 last year.“Swayampurna Goa is an assurance of well-being and health of our mothers and sisters,” the Prime Minister said. “Swayampurna Goa will provide employment and self-employment opportunities to youth and unemployed people.”Swayampurna Goa was not just a programme of five months or five years, but the first phase of the vision for the next 25 years, he said. “That is why Goa needs a continuation of development by double engine government. Goa needs clear policies like the way they are today and a stable government.”Listing out Goa’s achievements in effectively implementing various schemes initiated by the Centre, Modi said, “India set the goal of being free from open defecation. Goa achieved this target 100%. The country has set a target of providing electricity connection to every household. Goa got it 100%. In Har Ghar Jal Abhiyan, (campaign to provide tap water in every household), Goa was first with 100%. In giving free ration to the poor, Goa achieved 100%.”“I am pleased to say that the schemes, initiated by the central government to provide safety and respect for women, Goa has implemented them successfully on ground, whether it is toilets, Ujwala gas connection or the Jan Dhan bank account,” Modi said.Goa has a key role to play in the country’s tour, travel and hospitality industry, he said.States that depend on tourism such as Goa were front runners in the national vaccination drive. “When the country crossed the 100 crore (1 billion Covid-19 vaccine) doses, Goa was the first state to achieve 100% vaccination of the first dose for its eligible population,” he said.The rapid vaccination drive has built confidence among both the people and tourists. “Now when you are preparing for Diwali, Christmas and New Year, during these vacations, we will be able to see new energy in the tourism sector of Goa,” he said.During his interaction he spoke with a differently abled tea seller by recalling his past as a chaiwala.“You are also a tea seller like me,” Modi told Rurki Ahmad Rajasaheb, a differently abled businessman and table tennis player from Vasco town. He runs a tea stall outside the Kadamba Transport Corporation’ bus stand.The government is working towards providing a life with dignity to the differently abled. “The government is with you. If you progress, the country will progress,” the Prime Minister said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/double-engine-govt-will-ensure-continuation-of-development-in-goa-says-pmmodi-101635011810733.html
24-10-2021||India||‘All parties must unite against BJP’: Mamata Banerjee ahead of visit to Goa||Political parties must unite against the divisive agenda of the Bharatiya Janata Party, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Saturday ahead of a visit to Goa next week.“As I prepare for my maiden visit to Goa on the 28th, I call upon all individuals, organisations and political parties to join forces to defeat the BJP and their divisive agenda” Banerjee said in a tweet. “The people of Goa have suffered enough over the last 10 years.”Goa will elect a new 40-member assembly early next year. Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress party is trying to make political inroads in Goa after retaining power in West Bengal for the second time on a huge mandate.“Together, we will usher in a new dawn for Goa by forming a new govt that will truly be a govt of the people of Goa and committed to realising their aspirations! #GoenchiNaviSaka,” she tweeted on Saturday.In September, the TMC had sent a team of senior leaders, including Rajya Sabha MP Derek O’Brien and Lok Sabha MP Prasun Banerjee, to Goa to assess the political situation before taking a plunge.Former Goa chief minister and veteran Congress leader Luizinho Faleiro joined the party on September 29 this year. On Friday, the TMC appointed Faleiro as vice president. Earlier this month, boxer Lenny Da Gama and footballer Denzil Franco joined the party.Political strategist Prashant Kishor has been working with members of Indian Political Action Committee team to boost the party’s footprint in the coastal state and help it gain footprints ahead of the assembly elections.The state opposition was critical of Banerjee’s move in Goa.“Political parties are uniting against Mamata Banerjee. So she must fight that first before asking political parties to unite against the BJP,” state BJP leader Rahul Sinha said.Even as Mamata Banerjee was calling for opposition unity, her nephew Abhishek Banerjee attacked the Congress party on Saturday at a political rally in West Bengal.“For the last seven years Congress has been losing against the BJP. The TMC is winning against the BJP. The Congress had sometimes made settlements with the BJP to defeat the TMC, while sometimes it had forming alliances with the CPI(M) and Indian Secular Front. The party has no ideal and hence has no place in Bengal,” he said.The Congress lashed out, saying that the TMC should keep electoral arithmetic in mind before taking on the BJP.“The TMC should keep in mind the national electoral arithmetic in which the Congress still holds 20% of the vote. Without the Congress, the TMC, which just has around 4% votes, won’t be able to fight the BJP,” said Adhir Chowdhury, leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha. “Attacking the Congress would strengthen the BJP. It seems that the TMC doesn’t want to actually fight the BJP.”Abhishek Banerjee, who was appointed as the TMC’s national general secretary earlier this year, announced that his party would expand its base in at least five other states, besides Goa and Tripura, and will set up working units in 15 other states ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. He didn’t elaborate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-parties-must-unite-against-bjp-mamata-banerjee-ahead-of-visit-to-goa-101635011690620.html
24-10-2021||India||BJP’s position strong in Goa... will come back with majority: CM Pramod Sawant||Goa has boosted infrastructure and health care services in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, and has taken steps to improve governance and revive the economy, chief minister Pramod Sawant said. These will ensure that the Bharatiya Janata Party retains power in the 2022 state assembly elections, he said in an interview.His government is making sure that all schemes are fully implemented and problems are resolved on the spot through the Swayampurna Goa scheme and the Sarkar Tumchya Dari (government at your door) programme, Sawant said during an interaction on a visit to Delhi on Friday. These are game changers that will ensure his party’s success at the polls. Edited excerpts:What gives you confidence that you will return to power?We have already achieved 100% first dose vaccination. We have had the best Covid-19 and financial management, the best infrastructure and human development. Under the Swayampurna or self-reliant Goa scheme, all the government officials are mandated to visit the gram panchayats (village councils) every Saturday. They have to hear the grievances of the people and resolve the problems that prevent the effective implementation of government schemes.The government has earmarked 10 areas of focus. We have planned for electricity, sanitation, housing and water for all; economic, financial and social security for all, and 100% coverage of services such as free equipment for all divyang people (persons with disabilities). Now we are promoting dairy, agriculture and horticulture.We started the Sarkar Tumchya Dari scheme when we realised that people were finding it hard to resolve small problems. So, we decided to send officials of all 42 departments in the state to a particular taluka (sub-district) with the mandate to solve their problems on the spot. Problems like getting an income or a caste certificate, a Kisan credit card or a soil health card are resolved there and then.What steps has the government taken to ramp up health infrastructure and oxygen supply?Under the PM CARES Fund, seven pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants have been set up. Each and every hospital is fully equipped with an oxygen bed and tank. We are not dependant on anyone for oxygen. An expert committee and a task force have been meeting regularly to set up care facilities for children. We are fully prepared for the third wave.What steps did your government take for economic revival?Tourism is our main economic activity. After 100% vaccination (of first doses), we have allowed tourism to resume. We have mostly Indian tourists now, but with the aid of the government of India, chartered flights and international flights are now allowed. In the Covid-19 period, we did whatever we could to offer help to industries, such as pharmaceuticals and manufacturing.There is a lot of churn among the smaller parties in the state. The Aam Aadmi Party and the Trinamool Congress have also thrown their hat in the ring.The BJP’s position on the ground is strong. Currently we have the support of 27 MLAs and an independent (the assembly has 40 members). There are other parties like MGP (Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party ) and Goa Forward Party. But there will be some developments, and I think there could some mergers. The Congress is a strong opposition party and will be our main opponent. As for the others, the TMC and AAP are only showing off. They have no base on the ground. In the last election, AAP could not even open its account.We are confident of crossing the halfway mark. We will come back with a majority. This election we are confident of 22 mein 22 paar (winning 22 plus seats in 2022).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjps-position-strong-in-goa-will-come-back-with-majority-cm-pramod-sawant-101635011570602.html
24-10-2021||India||Shah takes stock of security situation on 3-day J&K visit||On his first visit to Jammu and Kashmir since the nullification of Article 370 and at a time when civilian killings have hit the region, Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday directed the chiefs of intelligence and investigative agencies, and security forces to make rigorous efforts to wipe out terror from the Valley, people familiar with the development said.Shah began his three-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday amid tight security by chairing a security review meeting in Srinagar and inaugurating an international flight between Srinagar and Sharjah in the United Arab Emirates. He asked the country’s top police officers, present in a nearly four-hour-long meeting, about why, despite the heavy presence of troops in the Valley and the available resources, incidents of prolonged encounters with terrorists and radicalisation of local youth were taking place. A person aware of the matter said Shah specifically told the officials that the incidents of targeted killings of civilians were counter-productive when the government wants peace in the Valley and is looking to increase development activities.Among those present at the meeting were Dilbag Singh, director general of Jammu and Kashmir Police, Kuldiep Singh, chief of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and National Investigation Agency (NIA), director general of National Security Guard (NSG) MA Ganapathy, chief of the Border Security Force (BSF) Pankaj Kumar Singh, Intelligence Bureau (IB) chief Arvinda Kumar, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla, and other police and army officers. Lt Governor Manoj Sinha was also present at the meeting.Shah asked the forces to work in coordination with each other so that the civilian population doesn’t suffer, said an official, asking not to be named. At least 32 civilians have been shot dead by terrorists in Kashmir this year. Of these, 11 have been killed this month alone.After the meeting, Shah said in a tweet: “Under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, we are committed to completely root out the terrorism and infiltration for the overall development of Jammu and Kashmir”. NIA has already been asked to put behind bars the terrorists and overground workers of various terror organisations.The security forces have stepped up operations after the targeted killings recently. J&K Police has said 17 terrorists have been “neutralised” in various encounters in the Valley in the last 22 days amid a spate of attacks on civilians. Five migrant workers were among the 11 civilians killed in the region this month.The government had the interests of the youth in Kashmir in mind when it imposed curfew and blocked access to the Internet after nullifying Article 370 of the Constitution that conferred special status to Jammu and Kashmir, and then bifurcating the state into two Union Territories in 2019, Shah told members of youth clubs in a speech.“That time, a plot was made to trigger the passions of people. Some foreign forces were also part of that ploy,” Shah told people at the Raj Bhawan in Srinagar. “Had we not imposed curfew, we don’t know how many parents would have had to give shoulder to coffins of their young children. Only youth of Kashmir got saved by imposing the curfew. Internet was snapped, only youth of Kashmir got saved.”“We have initiated a new era in J&K under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. I was thinking that only two and half years ago we used to hear news about stone pelting and violence from here,” Shah said. “Today youth of J&K are discussing development, employment and scholarship for their education. This is a big change that has taken place here.”“Delimitation will happen, followed by elections and then restoration of statehood so that the youth of Kashmir get opportunities. I had said that in the parliament also. And, this is the roadmap. I came here to make friends with the Kashmiri youth,” Shah said.Some 70% of Kashmir’s population is younger than 35 years, he pointed out. They will be given all encouragement towards education, development and employment so that they can become brand ambassadors of Kashmir, the home minister said.Nobody can stop this change from happening, even by using force, he said. “This is the beginning of new era in Kashmir.” The situation in Kashmir is normal now, he said. “Everybody is seeking employment, they (youth) are studying, industry is coming,” Shah said. “Tourism is flourishing, there is no curfew now.”This is Shah’s first visit to the Union territory after the central government revoked Article 370, which bestowed special status to Jammu and Kashmir in August 2019. He had last visited J&K in June 2019 after the Bharatiya Janata Party led National Democratic Alliance swept to power at the Centre for a second term.Shah’s latest visit is part of the Centre’s outreach campaign in the region. He is expected to also review the implementation of development schemes. Last month, he held a review meeting on J&K with Sinha and security officials in New Delhi. Security was tightened in Srinagar ahead of Shah’s visit. Roads to Raj Bhawan and adjoining areas were closed to traffic. Drone cameras were deployed to increase surveillance. Shah also visited the house of police sub-inspector Parvez Ahmad, who was killed outside his house while he was on the way to attend evening prayers. “Visited the house of martyred Parvez Ahmad and paid tributes to him. The whole country and I are proud of his bravery. I met his family members,” Shah tweeted. Ahmad’s wife has been given a government job, Shah said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shah-takes-stock-of-security-situation-on-3-day-j-k-visit-101635011511138.html
24-10-2021||India||CJI NV Ramana says effective judiciary can help in economic growth||An inadequately supported judiciary not only impacts the gross domestic product (GDP) of a country but also costs it foreign investments, Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana rued on Saturday, as he implored the central government to ensure financial autonomy of the institution if a “different outcome” is to be expected from the judicial system.“An effective judiciary can aid in the effective growth of the economy. According to international research published in 2018, failure to deliver timely justice cost the country as much as 9% of annual GDP. Moreover, the impact of an under-supported judiciary is also seen on the foreign investments. Without adequate infrastructure we cannot aspire to fill this gap,” said the CJI, speaking at Aurangabad at the inaugural ceremony of two new wings of the annexe building of the Aurangabad Bench of the Bombay High Court.Justice Ramana laid emphasis on what he called “a deeper structural problem that has plagued judicial infrastructure development in our country since independence”, lamenting lack of good infrastructure has been making it difficult for the courts to effectively perform their function. “Judicial infrastructure is important for improving access to justice and to meet the growing demands of public that is more aware of its rights and is developing economically, socially, and culturally. It is baffling to note that the improvement and maintenance of judicial infrastructure is still being carried out in an ad-hoc and unplanned manner,” he said.Asserting that courts are essential for any society governed by the rule of law, the CJI pointed out that court buildings are not merely structures made of mortar and bricks, but they assure the constitutional guarantee of right to justice and assure all seekers of justice that they need not worry about the might of the state.“If we want a different outcome from the judicial system, we cannot continue to work in these circumstances... Good judicial infrastructure for courts in India has always been an afterthought. It is because of this mindset that courts in India still operate from dilapidated structures, making it difficult to effectively perform their function,” rued justice Ramana. Underlining that the courts in India have always stood up whenever individuals or society were at the receiving end of executive excesses, the CJI maintained that institutionalising the mechanism for improving judicial infrastructure is the best gift that the people and country should get in this 75th year of India’s Independence.The CJI has sent a proposal to establish the National Judicial Infrastructure Authority of India (NJIAI) to the law ministry. “I urge the Hon’ble minister of law and justice to expedite the process and ensure that the proposal to create NJIAI with statutory backing is taken up in the upcoming winter session of the parliament,” he said.Law minister Kiren Rijiju was present at the event. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, Supreme Court judges Uday U Lalit, Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, BR Gavai and AS Oka and Bombay high court chief justice Dipankar Dutta also attended the function.In his address, the CJI appealed for removing the stigma attached with citizens approaching courts for redressal of grievances. “It is a common notion that only criminals or victims of crime approach the court. People take pride in stating that we have never seen a court building in our lifetime. But, it is high time that we make efforts to remove the taboo associated with approaching courts for the affirmation of their rights,” he said. Justice Ramana added that the common man deals with multiple legal issues during his lifetime and, therefore, she must never feel hesitant to approach the courts, as people’s faith in the judiciary is the biggest strength of a democracy. Statistics laid out by the CJI during his address* Sanctioned strength of judicial officers: 24,280 * number of court halls available: 20,143 (including 620 rented halls)* 26% of court complexes do not have separate toilets for women * 16% do not have toilets even for men * 46% of court complexes do not have purified drinking water facility* 95% of court complexes do not have basic medical facilities* 68% of court rooms do not have separate record rooms * 49% of court complexes do not have a library* 73% of court rooms do not have computer placed on the judge’s dais with video-conferencing facility||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cji-nv-ramana-says-effective-judiciary-can-help-in-economic-growth-101635011393594.html
24-10-2021||India||Basic right of citizens to know what goes on in the courts: SC judge||It is a basic right of citizens to know what goes on in the courts of the country, justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud said on Saturday, as the Supreme Court judge underlined the importance of live-streaming judicial proceedings in the interest of transparency and accountability.“We have formulated live-streaming rules so that cases can be live-streamed... the hearings before a court can be live-streamed for the rest of the country. Because I do believe that citizens are entitled to know what goes on in the courts. They are entitled to know why cases are adjourned. They are entitled to know whether judges sit from morning till evening in deciding cases. It is the basic right of the citizens to know,” emphasised justice Chandrachud.The judge was speaking at the inaugural ceremony of two new wings of a building of the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court when he mentioned how the Supreme Court e-committee, of which he is the chairperson, is on a mission to use technology to pave the way for moving into the future.Stressing the need to digitise the court records, including orders, judgments and filings, justice Chandrachud said that the Phase 3 document of e-courts project is going to focus on digitisation of 3,100 crore court documents while simultaneously laying emphasis on e-filing of cases.The judge added that the government being the largest litigant in India, he has written to all high court chief justices recently that by January, 2022, all cases of the Centre and state governments must be e-filed in district courts and high courts. “Let the government of India and state governments make the beginning,” appealed justice Chandrachud.He said that the e-committee is looking into data privacy and has provided access to the differently abled so that they can access the court website. “And finally, under the interoperable criminal justice system, we are linking every aspect of the administration of criminal justice, namely, prisons, courts, the police station and the forensic science laboratory,” said justice Chandrachud.Referring to the data available on the National Judicial Data Grid (NJDG), justice Chandrachud said that while pendency of cases is indeed a reason of concern, there is also a reason to celebrate some achievements of the judiciary.“Four crore cases are pending, but we have 11 crore cases on the NJDG which have been disposed of and of which orders are available. The high courts have 56.02 lakh cases pending, but 3.17 crore cases have been disposed of. During the Covid-19 pandemic, 2.18 crore cases were registered in India and 1.48 crore cases were disposed of by the district judiciary in India,” he added.Justice Chandrachud also highlighted the “flip side” of the work judges do. “Sitting in the Supreme Court, you are confronted with the extent of justice and the extent of injustice all over the country when citizens come to us. A convict who has been in prison for 35 years has not been released, an undertrial who is in jail for 12 years and against whom charges have not been framed. These are some of the realities of the Indian judiciary which we have to confront,” he pointed out.Talking about the homogeneity between the judges and the lawyers, justice Chandrachud said that they both dress in black and white because they represent one mission, which is the mission to achieve justice to the common citizen.“The human relations which we unravel as judges and lawyers are deeply influenced by our social ethos; by the cultural traditions of the work that we do; of the historical ethos; of the histories of discrimination which many of our people, not just in the state, but across the nation have suffered. So, it is in this quest for justice that we unify today as judges and lawyers,” said the judge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/basic-right-of-citizens-to-know-what-goes-on-in-the-courts-justice-dy-chandrachud-101635011390872.html
