25-10-2021||India||Power minister RK Singh unveils GDAM portal to promote renewable energy||New Delhi: The Union government on Monday launched a new market segment, Green Day Ahead Market (GDAM), which will enable electricity generation and distribution companies to buy or sell renewable energy through open access, the ministry of power and renewable energy said in a statement. Union minister of power and renewable energy RK Singh, while launching the portal, said India is the only large electricity market in the world to implement a GDAM exclusively for renewable energy. “The buyer’s behaviour is shifting from long-term contracts to short-term contracts, which is true even in the power market. This new initiative will help in enabling this energy transition. It will provide competitive price signals and offer an opportunity to the market participants to trade in green energy in the most transparent, flexible and efficient manner. The distribution utilities would also be able to sell surplus renewable power generated in their area at GDAM,” said Singh. The development assumes significance as India has set a target to have a 450 GW capacity of pure renewable energy by 2030. At present, India has an installed renewable energy capacity of 147 GW, including hydro power, and another 63 GW is under installation through various projects. The move is also aimed at reducing the country’s dependence on imported sources of fossil fuels. At a time when the country is facing a coal shortage, which is straining the generation capacity of thermal power plants, Singh said GDAM will help reduce the cost of power. “We saw that spot purchase of electricity shot up in the past few weeks when the demand for electricity from thermal power plants shot up. At present, average cost of electricity per day is about ₹4 per unit, which will further come down with GDAM,” said the Union minister. With this, the government is aiming to gradually shift from long term power purchase agreement (PPA)-based contracts to market-based models. At present, PPAs are mostly signed for up to 25 years in the electricity sector in the country. “The shift to short term power contracts will help open up the renewable energy market further as it will allow large industries also to go green by purchasing clean electricity from GDAM and selling in case of surplus. The GDAM will operate in an integrated way with the conventional day-ahead market (DAM) in the power sector. It will allow market participants to submit bids together for both conventional and renewable energy through separate bidding windows,” the power ministry said in a statement. An official from the power ministry explained that renewable energy bids will be cleared first, since plants generating green energy have been given a “must-run status”, which will be followed by clearances to the conventional segment (coal fired power plants). “This mechanism will allow renewable energy sellers to subsequently bid in the conventional segment should their bids remain uncleared in the green market. There will be separate price discoveries for both conventional and renewable electricity,” the official said, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/power-minister-rk-singh-unveils-gdam-portal-to-promote-renewable-energy-101635186252195.html
25-10-2021||India||Centre rushes team to UP over Zika case||The Centre on Monday rushed a high-level multi-disciplinary team to Uttar Pradesh, where a case of Zika virus was reported last week. In a statement, the Union health ministry said: “The multidisciplinary team comprising an entomologist, public health specialists and gynaecologist drawn from National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme, National Centre for Disease Control and Dr RML Hospital, New Delhi, has been deployed by Union Health Ministry to assist the State Health authorities for control and containment measures of the Zika virus disease.” A 57-year-old man from Kanpur tested positive for the virus on Friday. The patient, an Indian Air Force (IAF) officer, showed symptoms of the virus, including fever, over the last few days and was admitted to the Air Force Hospital in the district. His blood samples were sent to the National Institute of Virology, Pune, and the test turned positive. The samples of 22 people, who came in contact with the IAF officer tested negative, an official had earlier said.“The central team will work closely with the state health department, take stock of the situation on the ground and assess whether the Union health ministry’s action plan for Zika management is being implemented,” the health ministry’s statement said.“The team will also recommend necessary public health interventions for management of Zika in the state of Uttar Pradesh,” it added. The viral disease is carried by the Aedes aegypti mosquito, which also spreads vector-borne diseases such as dengue and chikungunya.On July 8, Kerala was the first state to record a case of Zika virus after a pregnant woman tested positive. In August, Maharashtra reported its first case after a 50-year-old woman Pune’s Purandar tehsil was infected. Multiple teams of the central government, comprising health experts, were earlier sent to both the affected states to review the situation. At least 60 cases of the viral disease have been reported in India so far this year. The country regularly holds surveillance as there have been sporadic mini-outbreaks in the past.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-rushes-team-to-up-over-zika-case-101635186188886.html
25-10-2021||India||Southwest monsoon withdraws, but 5 states, UTs to receive heavy rain till Oct 30: IMD||The southwest monsoon on Monday completely withdrew from the country, thereby, marking the seventh-most delayed monsoon withdrawal between 1975 and 2021.This, however, made way for the arrival of northeasterly winds that have been setting in in the lower tropospheric levels, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said in its latest bulletin.“Northeast monsoon rain has commenced over extreme south peninsular India today,” the IMD added.Also Read | IMD alerts: Heavy rain with hailstorm and snowfall in 9 states, UTs till Oct 29The delayed monsoon withdrawal this year has led to unseasonal rainfall in many parts of India with the hill states Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh in the north and Kerala in the south getting severely impacted.Meanwhile, untimely snowfall in Jammu and Kashmir has also caused deaths of many people in the Valley.With the arrival of northeast monsoon, the IMD has forecasted heavy rainfall with thunder and lightning in as many as five states and Union territories (UTs) of India till October 30.Here are the key IMD alerts for the five states and UTs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-with-thunderstorm-lightning-in-5-states-uts-till-oct-3-imd-101635184780668.html
25-10-2021||India||Supreme Court lets Karti Chidambaram travel abroad, told to deposit ₹1 crore||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Monday allowed Congress member of Parliament (MP) Karti Chidambaram to travel abroad after he gives an undertaking to return by November 21 and deposits ₹1 crore with the Supreme Court Registry.Karti, the son of former finance minister P Chidambaram, is facing money laundering probe by Directorate of Enforcement (ED) in connection with grant of Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB) clearance to INX Media and for allegedly receiving ₹300 crore in kickbacks for facilitating the deal while his father was the finance minister.On Monday, ED represented by solicitor general Tushar Mehta submitted that Karti Chidambaram was not cooperating with the probe as he had not responded to the summons issued on June 30 requiring him to produce certain documents.Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for the Congress MP, said, “We served this application three months back and we are not told once about this summons. You must show us the summons that you served as the last summon was issued in January 2020.”The bench of justices AM Khanwilkar and CT Ravikumar said, “This application was filed on September 30 after giving notice to respondents. It has been adjourned on two occasions in the past. Today when the applicant wants to go abroad in terms of a plan already stated, for the first time it is said across the bar by the solicitor general that the applicant has not cooperated during investigation of the case and has not appropriately responded to summons issued to him on June 30.”Regardless of this fact, the court allowed Karti to leave the country on Monday in connection with tennis matches in several countries. He has been ordered to report back on or before November 21.In February, this year, Karti was allowed to travel abroad by the top court on deposit of ₹2 crore as security. Sibal told the court, “I do not know why this special treatment is given to him that every time he travels abroad he is asked to make a deposit. Earlier it was ₹10 crore and last time, it was reduced to ₹2 crore.” Sibal requested the amount to be reduced this time.While retaining all other conditions mentioned by the court in its February 22 order, the bench reduced the security deposit amount to ₹1 crore. The top court also allowed ED to file its affidavit indicating non-cooperation by the accused and posted the matter for hearing on November 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-lets-karti-chidambaram-travel-abroad-told-to-deposit-rs-1-crore-101635185108995.html
25-10-2021||India||No expectation from 'Mamu': Digvijaya Singh on ‘Aashram’ set vandalism||A day after Bajrang Dal activists vandalised the sets of filmmaker Prakash Jha's web series ‘Aashram’ in Bhopal, senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh hit out at the Madhya Pradesh police for going soft on the right wing outfit.Urging the state police to take necessary action in the incident, Singh said he had no faith in chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and home minister Narottam Mishra, who said Jha should think of the “wrong he was doing” while condemning the vandalism.He also alleged the outfit was involved in the killing of office-bearers of the Congress-affiliated National Students Union of India (NSUI) in Mandla district.“I strongly condemn the attack on noted film producer and director Prakash Jha and his crew in the Old Jail premises in Bhopal on Sunday,” Singh said in a statement.“What is the police administration doing? I don't have any expectations from the Mamu (apparently referring to Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan who is fondly called Mama by supporters) and the state home minister (Narottam Mishra) but we have faith in the director general of police (DGP). He should take strong action in the matter," the Rajya Sabha MP was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Calling Bajrang Dal leader Sushil Surhele a "habitual offender", Singh said he is out on bail after being sentenced in a murder case connected to a trader in Bhopal's Hamidia Road.Earlier in the day, Surhele said his activists had thrown ink on Jha and that his organisation will not allow the shooting of the ‘anti-Hindu’ show in Bhopal. .Alleging that the district police had failed to take action in the killing of NSUI functionaries in Mandla in 2020, Singh warned that if the administration fails to act on these incidents, the Congress would launch an agitation.On Sunday evening, a group of Bajrang Dal activists ransacked the set of the third season of web series ‘Aashram’, starring Bobby Deol as godman and conman ‘Baba Nirala’. The attackers threw ink on Jha who is also producing the web series, accusing him of portraying Hindus wrongly. Windscreens of two crew buses were broken in stone pelting and one person was injured, police said(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-expectation-from-mamu-digvijaya-singh-on-aashram-set-vandalism-101635182506715.html
25-10-2021||India||Spurt in militancy exposes Centre’s claims on Article 370: Farooq Abdullah||Former chief minister of erstwhile Jammu and Kashmir state and leader of the J&K National Conference party Farooq Abdullah on Monday targeted the Union government over the abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution. He said the recent “spurt” in militancy has exposed the Centre’s claims that terror would end after revoking the law.“Least to speak about ending militancy, it is on the rise, and home minister Amit Shah needs to answer why. Spurt in militancy across Jammu and Kashmir exposes the claims of the Centre that terror would end after revocation of Article 370,” Abdullah was quoted as saying at a rally in Poonch by news agency PTI.On August 5, 2019, the Centre bifurcated the erstwhile Jammu and Kashmir into two Union territories -- Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh -- after revoking the Article 370, which granted special status to the state.Also read | ‘I will talk with people, youth of valley’: Amit Shah responds to Farooq Abdullah’s advice on talks with PakistanHe also expressed doubts about the return of peace to the UT because of the “ill-conceived” policies of the Centre, while urging people to maintain amity and brotherhood.Stating that his party has been facing these challenges since its inception by pursuing secularism and democracy, the former chief minister said, “This has been the strength of this party in a diverse place like Jammu and Kashmir, which has maintained its glorious ethos in the most testing times.”Warning against elements deployed by the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) to create suspicion in the minds of the public about religion, he said, “This atmosphere is aimed at polarisation to garner votes. This is the tested tool of those who want to remain in power at all costs.”The senior leader had also pitched for dialogue between India and Pakistan on Sunday, to which Union home minister Amit Shah had responded on Monday that he would rather talk to the people and the youth of the valley.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spurt-in-militancy-exposes-centre-s-claims-on-article-370-farooq-abdullah-101635183396638.html
25-10-2021||India||Top court asks Army to reconsider denial of PC to exemplary women officers||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Centre and the Indian Army to consider the case of five Army women short service commission officers who were denied permanent commission as they were assessed from 1999-2005 based on an assessment system that relied on an annual confidential report (ACR) due to which they failed to get over 60% marks, the threshold fixed by the Supreme Court in March for grant of permanent commission (PC).The officers in question approached the top court complaining against the unit assessment card (UAC) assessment system that prevailed till 2005. This system was discontinued by the Army in September 2005 and replaced by ACR-based assessment policy for grant of PC. However, their plea to be considered for PC was rejected by the Delhi High Court on September 17 against which the officers had filed appeals. They were discharged from the Army in July.Senior advocates Huzefa Ahmadi and V Mohana appeared for the officers and sought to challenge the denial of PC on the faulty UAC system and the failure of Army to consider their exceptional achievements beyond the stipulated ACRs of the fifth and tenth year of service. “If the UAC assessment marks are eschewed, these officers will get far above 60% marks required by them to get PC,” Ahmadi said while Mohana pointed out that the Court’s March 25 judgment specifically named two of the petitioners - Gopika Bhati and Sonali Singh, for their exemplary achievements and suggested their entire track record be taken into consideration for grant of PC.Bhati was the only officer to receive GOC-in-C commendation card for rendering emergency duties in Northern Command Sector and was part of Operation Parakram and Operation Vijay, besides being a national level squash and tennis player. For Sonali Singh, the judgment noted that she was the first woman officer to be convoy commander for Pathankot to Leh in 1999 and was the first woman to be the officer in-charge of Ammunition Dump, Amritsar during Operation Parakram.Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Sanjay Jain and senior advocate R Balasubramanian were present in Court representing the Centre and Army. “We have gone as per the Court’s decision. The direction was to review the method of evaluation for future batches. If a better system has replaced an old one that does not mean that the old system is condemned.” Further, he argued that any concession will mean dipping the merit below 60% marks.The bench of Justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and BV Nagarathna told the Centre to have a considerate view as the matter involved a small group of officers affected by UAC system. “These are officers who have made achievements. This cannot be ignored. You must add up their achievements while computing 60%. If there are vigilance and discipline grounds on which they have been rejected, we would be the last to interfere,” the judges observed.Both Jain and Balasubramanian sought time to confer with the authorities and proposed to get back by November 12, the next date for hearing the matter.Recently, the Court had directed the Army to reconsider the case of 72 women short service commission officers in the Army who were denied PC. On a nudge by the Court, Army reconsidered the list and agreed to grant PC to 39 officers. The Court had appreciated the Army for its fair stand even as it called for reasons for refusing PC to the remaining officers. This matter too is listed for November 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-court-asks-army-to-reconsider-denial-of-pc-to-exemplary-women-officers-101635182648412.html
25-10-2021||India||‘No lakshman rekha in politics’: Mamata Banerjee inducts 2 ex-UP Congress leaders||KOLKATA: West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress on Monday inducted two former Congress leaders from Uttar Pradesh ahead of assembly elections in the state early next year, declaring that she waited for the Congress but did not receive a response.“We respect all small and regional parties. In whichever state we go, we will not impose our decisions on anyone. I know the character of India. Every state has its own culture. We will stand with the people of that region. Akhilesh (Yadav) is like my younger brother. I am not against him. Our job is to raise issues. I waited for the Congress but sadly, they did not respond,” Mamata Banerjee said at an event in north Bengal’s Siliguri town, a remark seen to explain why the TMC hadn’t tied up with other opposition parties in UP.The event was organised to welcome UP’s Rajesh Pati Tripathi and son, Lalitesh Pati Tripathi, to the Trinamool Congress. The induction ceremony for the two UP politicians - Rajesh is the grandson of veteran Congress leader and former chief minister Kamalapati Tripathi who died in 1990 - coincided with the TMC launching its election campaign in Goa, the other state where the party hopes to make inroads in state elections early next year.Banerjee said the two leaders Rajesh Pati Tripathi and Lalitesh Pati Tripathi, resigned from the Congress before joining the TMC.“When we decided to contest the Goa elections, people said we are a regional party. We all come from some region or the other but we are all Indians. TMC is a national party. There is no such lakshman rekha (boundary) in politics. The lakshman rekha should be applicable only for rioters,” she said.“I have visited UP several times, as a member of Parliament and as a union minister. For the azaadi (independence) of UP, we have welcomed members of a family that contributed to India’s fight for Independence,” said Banerjee, referring to Kamalapati Tripathi, a freedom fighter who served as UP chief minister for two years between 1971 and 1973, was appointed Congress working president by Indira Gandhi in 1983 but eventually targeted Rajiv Gandhi with his “a-letter-a-day” pushback on the state of the party.Mamata Banerjee said she and nephew Abhishek Banerjee will visit Uttar Pradesh after Chhat puja on November 10. “They have invited me to watch Ganga arati at the river bank in Varanasi,” she said, referring to the Tripathis. Former UP legislator Rajesh Pati Tripathi, said: “The distance between the Congress and its workers has widened in recent times. No goal should be difficult to achieve if we have a leader like Mamata Banerjee.” Asked whether the TMC can do better than the Congress in UP, he said, “Our aim is to serve the people. This is a big fight but one must remember that Mamata Banerjee ended the 34-year-long rule of the Left Front in Bengal when nobody thought she could do it.” Son Lalitesh Pati Tripathi said, “People of UP have always presented alternative powers before the country. Mamata Didi sent us a message and we accepted it.” Chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew and TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee was present at the event when the Tripathis switched camps.Hours before the announcement, he campaigned at Dinhata in north Bengal’s Cooch Behar district where assembly bypoll will be held on October 30. While asking voters to defeat the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which won the seat in the March-April polls by a thin margin of 57 votes, Abhishek Banerjee focused on Goa.“I am telling in front of all television cameras that after three months the TMC will come to power in Goa. Write this down. We will win in Goa and then move to Meghalaya, Assam, Tripura and Uttar Pradesh. People take vaccines to defeat the coronavirus. Mamata Banerjee is the vaccine against the BJP,” said the TMC Lok Sabha member.Rival parties scoff at TMC plans West Bengal Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said the TMC’s freshly-minted UP leaders won’t make a difference.“What difference does it make if people whose ancestors were Congress leaders join the TMC? How many people know them? If Mamata Banerjee is so keen on weakening the BJP, why is she inducting people from the Congress, the only national force against the saffron camp. She should be creating cracks in the BJP instead. Who is she helping at the end of the day? Her actions are benefitting the BJP,” said Chowdhury.Abhishek Banerjee, seen as the driving force behind the TMC’s expansion plans announced on June 8, said his party will set up units in other states with the sole aim to win elections and face the BJP head-on. Encouraged by the TMC’s resounding victory over the BJP in the March-April Bengal polls, the TMC has renewed its contract with Indian Political Action Committee, or I-PAC, the company founded by election strategist Prashant Kishor, till the crucial 2024 Lok Sabha polls in which Mamata Banerjee wishes to see her party playing a bigger role in national politics. Kishor is interacting with leaders of regional and national parties on behalf of the TMC.BJP leader and leader of the Opposition in the Bengal assembly Suvendu Adhikari attacked the TMC. “A hunchback always dreams of lying supine but his dreams never come true. The TMC’s daydreams will end in a nightmare. It is not a party but a private limited company run by Mamata Banerjee and her nephew,” he said at a campaign meeting for the Gosaba assembly bypoll in South 24 Parganas district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-lakshman-rekha-in-politics-mamata-banerjee-inducts-2-ex-up-congress-leaders-101635181928588.html
25-10-2021||India||SC notice on plea challenging change of Central Vista land use||The Supreme Court on Monday sought the response of the Centre on a petition questioning the change of land use of a public recreational spot in Central Vista for purposes of constructing residences of the Prime Minister and Vice President under the Central Vista Project.The petition was filed by a lawyer Rajeev Suri, who had earlier filed the petition challenging the clearances given by the Delhi Development Authority, Central Vista Committee and the environmental clearances for the Central Vista project resulting in an elaborate judgment of the top court in January this year which allowed the Centre to proceed with the construction.However, the judgment did not deal with the change of land use of Plot no. 1, the land meant for the residences of PM and Vice President, as it was sanctioned only on October 10, 2020.Under the project, the PM’s residence will come up behind the existing South Block while the new V-P residence would be located behind North Block. As the area is presently occupied by a public recreational park and a bus depot, the petition questioned the change of land use from part-recreational to residential resulting in a loss of public recreational space for citizens.Advocate Shikhil Suri arguing for the petitioner said, “The Government must show how the change of land use is justified in public interest.” He stated that all other challenges with regard to the said land had been addressed by the judgment of the Court in the Central Vista case.The bench of Justices AM Khanwilkar and CT Ravikumar issued notice to the Centre and said, “The petitioner wishes to pursue only one contention, namely, before modification of the plan concerning plot No. 1, it had provided for public recreational area also, as noticed from the public notice. However, now that has been completely done away with and the land use stands converted to residential only.”Solicitor General Tushar Mehta appeared for the Centre and accepted the notice and agreed to file an affidavit in three days. Posting the matter for Friday, the bench said, “The respondents (Centre) may file a short affidavit to deal with this contention….including to justify the necessity for such modification.”The petitioner informed the Court that the land falling under Plot no 1 has facility for transportation spread across nine acres while the recreational space is six acres, which will now be lost for all coming generations of the country.The bench asked the Centre whether any alternate recreational space had been contemplated while acquiring the present plot. “From the petition it is clear that the public recreational area is not available now. Are you giving it up completely or is it being shifted to any other place,” the bench observed. Mehta said, “If Parliament is coming up nearby, from the security point of view, there cannot be any recreational spot.” He agreed to take instructions in this regard by the next date.The proposed Central Vista Project envisages a new Parliament with a built-up area of around 60,000 square metres and expanded seating for over 1,200 members of both Houses, along with 51 Union ministries in 10 buildings. As per the estimates prepared by the Central Public Works Department (CPWD), the work on the new Parliament is expected to be completed before the 75th Independence Day next year while the Central Secretariat complex is slated for completion by 2024. The residence of the Prime Minister along with the building housing elite special protection group (SPG) has a deadline of December next year while the work on the Vice President’s house is expected to be completed by May 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-notice-on-plea-challenging-change-of-central-vista-land-use-101635179348109.html
25-10-2021||India||Not summoned, says NCB's Sameer Wankhede on landing in Delhi||The Narcotics Control Bureau’s (NCB) Mumbai zone director Sameer Wankhede landed in Delhi on Monday evening amid allegations of extortion charges levelled against him and others in the drugs-on-cruise-case in which Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan is behind the bars since a few weeks now.Wankhede said allegations against him were baseless and that he had not been summoned by the authorities, but was in the national capital for a different purpose."I have not been summoned. I've come here for a different purpose. Allegations against me are baseless," the top officer of the NCB was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.NCB Mumbai Zonal Director Sameer Wankhede reaches Delhi amid allegation of payoff in the drugs case involving actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan"I have not been summoned. I've come here for a different purpose. Allegations against me are baseless," he says. pic.twitter.com/FJGuQE8KYtThe NCB has ordered a vigilance inquiry into the claims made by a witness in the case that an extortion bid of ₹25 crore was made by some agency officials, including its Wankhede, and others for letting off accused Aryan.Also read | Aryan Khan drugs case: Being targeted because of my dead mother, says Sameer WankhedeThe inquiry will be conducted by Gyaneshwar Singh, the NCB deputy director general (DDG) of the northern region based at its headquarters here. Singh is also the chief vigilance officer (CVO) of the federal anti-narcotics agency.Earlier in the day, the federal anti-drug agency and Wankhede filed affidavits before a special court under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, against the allegations of extortion attempts levelled against them.Also read | After Nawab Malik’s latest tweet attack, Sameer Wankhede lists names of familyIn the affidavits, they urged the court to pass an order saying no court should take cognizance of the affidavit prepared by the independent witness, Prabhakar Sail. As per the NCB and its zonal director, the allegations made by Sail were only an attempt to create hurdles and scuttle the investigation into the case. However, the court disposed of the applications and refused to pass any blanket order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-summoned-says-ncb-s-sameer-wankhede-on-landing-in-delhi-101635178506639.html
25-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur violence: SKM writes to President Kovind for removal of Ajay Mishra||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Monday wrote to President Ram Nath Kovind demanding the removal and arrest of Union minister of state for home affairs Ajay Mishra in connection with the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri earlier this month, where eight people, including four farmers, were killed. Mishra’s son, Ashish, has been accused of mowing down some of the protesting farmers.The SKM, an umbrella body of several farmer unions, also asked for the formation of a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the incident under the supervision of the Supreme Court.“Union Minister of State for Home Mr Ajay Mishra should be immediately dismissed from his post. Mr Ajay Mishra should also be arrested immediately for his role in the murder (criminal conspiracy under Sec.120B in addition to other charges as described above),” read the SKM’s letter to the President.Also read | Lakhimpur violence: SKM calls for countrywide protests on Oct 26 demanding resignation of minister Ajay Mishra“We also continue to demand that the investigation of this incident should be done by an Special Investigation Team (SIT) under the direct supervision of the Supreme Court,” it added.“It is very obvious that conflict of interest is a key obstruction to justice in the Lakhimpur Kheri farmers' massacre, and any decent government would have, in terms of principles of natural justice, sacked and arrested Mr Ajay Mishra by now,” the SKM further said in its letter.On October 3, eight people were killed in Lakhimpur Kheri district of Uttar Pradesh after a vehicle, allegedly carrying BJP workers, rammed into a group of protesting farmers. Of the eight deceased, four were farmers.In the violence that ensued, two BJP workers, their driver and a journalist were also reportedly killed. Ashish, a key accused in the case, was reportedly present in one of the cars, an allegation that the minister and his son have denied. However, the junior Mishra was arrested in connection with the case on October 9.A ‘Kisan Mahapanchayat’ (farmers’ gathering) was planned in state capital Lucknow on October 26 against the incident. However, it was postponed by the SKM due to adverse weather and the ongoing harvest season.Meanwhile, the Bharatiya Kisan Union, another farmer body that is part of the farmers’ agitation against the three centrally passed agri laws, said the farmers will hold a countrywide protest on Tuesday (October 26) demanding the removal of Mishra.“Demonstrations would be held at administrative headquarters in every district of the country. A memorandum will be submitted to the government with a demand that the Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Mishra be removed from his post,” news agency PTI quoted Dharmendra Malik, media in-charge of the BKU, as saying.The BKU said the protests would also be held against the repeal of the three farm laws and would be supported by all farmer groups already protesting at Delhi’s borders.On Friday, the SKM had given a call for the protests pressing for the removal of Mishra, for the repeal of the three farm laws and for a legal guarantee on minimum support price (MSP).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-violence-skm-writes-to-president-kovind-for-removal-of-ajay-mishra-101635177911173.html
25-10-2021||India||Struck by snowfall, Himachal's Kinnaur bans all treks, mountaineering activities||The Kinnaur district administration in Himachal Pradesh on Monday banned trekking and mountaineering activities after three people out of a group of 13 died following heavy snowfall in the district.The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) had informed earlier today that the deceased trekkers were lying somewhere at a height of 15,000 feet. "Three trekkers are dead while 10 of them have been rescued. The dead are lying somewhere at around 15000 feet. ITBP team is reaching to the spot today to search the bodies," the ITBP said.The tourists – 12 from Mumbai and one from Delhi – were going to Sangla in Kinnaur from Janglik in Shimla. They started trekking from Rohru to Burua village on October 17 but were stranded near Burua Kanda top due to heavy snowfall and bad weather conditions in the region.The deceased, identified as Rajendra Pathak, Ashok Bhalerao and Deepak Rao, are yet to be located. A search and rescue operation is underway.Several areas of Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand have been battered with snow-covered conditions over the past week.Last week, seven out of an 11-member trekking group died on the Harsil-Chitkul route between Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh when they were hit by an avalanche. Bodies of five trekkers have been recovered so far while two of them are still missing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/struck-by-snowfall-himachal-s-kinnaur-bans-all-treks-mountaineering-activities-101635173670519.html
25-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: 2 men confess to inciting Bangladesh violence on Facebook and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.2 men confess to inciting Bangladesh violence through Facebook post, loudspeakerTwo men, accused of spreading communal hatred on social media in Bangladesh, have admitted to their crimes, a court said on Monday. The violence against the minority Hindu community in Bangladesh broke out on October 13 during the Durga Puja festivities after an alleged blasphemous post on social media. Read moreMaharashtra's daily Covid-19 cases down to 889, lowest since May 5 last yearMaharashtra on Monday recorded just 889 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). This is the lowest daily number since May 5 last year (when the 24-hour count was 841). Read moreOn edible oil prices, Centre, states hold meeting to review stock limit ordersThe Centre on Monday held a meeting with states and union territories to discuss ways to reduce the rising prices of edible oils as demand rises during the festive season. Read moreRPSG Group and CVC Capital land successful bids to acquire Lucknow and Ahmedabad IPL teamsThe Sanjiv Goenka-owned RPSG group has won the Lucknow franchise by bidding for over ₹7,000 crore and private equity firm CVC Capital the second franchise at over ₹5,000 crore, the BCCI announced on Monday. Read morePost on 100-year-old great grandpa sparks viral Twitter threadPeople often take to Twitter to wish happy birthday to their loved ones. This Twitter user did the same and now the post has sparked a sweet thread on the micro-blogging site. Read more5 simple habits that can keep heart diseases at bayMany people are on a house-cleaning spree or busy renovating their homes ahead of Diwali. Just like you don't neglect your house cleaning and make every effort to improve its look, it is equally important to pay attention to the maintenance of your heart. Read more'No bulletproof cover, no security': Amit Shah's outreach to J&K's youthDuring his 3-day visit to Jammu & Kashmir Union Home Minister Amit Shah reached out to the youth of Kashmir valley. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-2-men-confess-to-inciting-bangladesh-violence-on-facebook-and-all-the-latest-news-101635174928483.html
25-10-2021||India||Maharashtra's daily Covid-19 cases down to 889, lowest since May 5 last year||Maharashtra on Monday recorded just 889 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). This is the lowest daily number since May 5 last year (when the 24-hour count was 841). It is also a drastic fall from the 1,410 cases reported on Sunday.With today's caseload, the number of cases across the state reached 66,03,850, according to state government's health bulletin. So far, 64,37,025 people have recovered - 1,586 of those recoveries happed today.Maharashtra also recorded 12 Covid-linked fatalities, dowon form 18 a day before. The death toll has now reached 1,40,028.Mumbai, the financial capital of India, on Monday reported 263 fresh Covid-19 positive cases and seven related fatalities. The total caseload and death toll in the city stand at 7,54,770 and 16,220, respectively.This is the lowest daily count for the city since August 14, 2021, when 265 Covid-19 cases were recorded in Mumbai.On Sunday, the city recorded 400 cases and six fatalities.The first wave, which started on March 9, 2020 and went up to February 9, saw 2,048,802 cases and 51,360 deaths in Maharashtra. Against it, the second wave which continues has logged 88,656 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtras-daily-covid-19-cases-down-to-889-lowest-since-may-5-last-year-101635175259709.html
25-10-2021||India||Army brass kicks off top meet, amid Ladakh row||The army’s top brass on Monday kicked off a bi-annual conference in New Delhi to deliberate on key organisational and operational issues including the prevailing situation along the country’s northern border with China where the two armies are negotiating disengagement of rival troops from friction points on the Line of Actual Control (LAC), officials familiar with the development said. Infrastructure development in border areas and induction of niche technologies into the army will also be discussed during the four-day conference, chaired by army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane. The conference began a fortnight after the 13th round of military talks between India and China to cool tensions in Ladakh reached an impasse on October 10, with PLA not agreeing to suggestions made by the Indian Army. The military dialogue took place more than two months after the last round of talks that led to disengagement of forward deployed troops from Gogra, or Patrol Point-17A, which was one of the flashpoints on LAC in Ladakh. If the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) is there to stay in the Ladakh theatre so is the Indian Army, Naravane said on October 9, referring to the military build-up and infrastructure development across LAC. India and China have been locked in a border standoff for over 17 months and despite two rounds of disengagement at friction points this year, the two sides still have 50,000 to 60,000 troops each in the Ladakh theatre. Outstanding problems at Hot Springs and Depsang are yet to be resolved to lay the groundwork for the de-escalation of the Ladakh border row. The conference also comes days after Naravane visited the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir for a security review after several soldiers were killed in a counter-terror operation, and renewed infiltration attempts by Pakistani terrorists are being witnessed along the Line of Control after a temporary lull following the renewal of a ceasefire pact with Pakistan in February 2021. “The apex leadership of Indian Army will brainstorm on current/emerging security and administrative aspects to chart future course in the backdrop of the situation along the borders and challenges imposed by Covid-19 pandemic,” the defence ministry said in a statement on Sunday. Defence minister Rajnath Singh will address and interact with the army commanders later this week, it said while adding that the chief of defence staff and the chiefs of the Indian Air Force and navy are scheduled to address the senior army leadership for promoting tri-service synergy. The current theaterisation model, a long-awaited military reform with the full backing of the government, seeks to set up four new integrated commands for synergy in operations --- two land-centric theatres, the Air Defence Command and the National Maritime Theatre Command. The creation of theatre commands could take two to three years, with senior officers from the three services being assigned key responsibilities to finalise the joint structures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-brass-kicks-off-top-meet-amid-ladakh-row-101635174667626.html
25-10-2021||India||HT This Day: October 26, 1951 — Himachal goes to the polls||India’s first General Elections, the biggest in the world, began today with the casting of votes by the people of Chini and Pangi tehsils of Himachal Pradesh, on the country’s north border. The first votes were cast at 6 am.Details of polling have not yet reached here as there are no means of communication with the tehsils except a wireless link, used for official purposes only.Between today and November 2, the 20,000 voters of these two tehsils will cast their votes to elect two representatives to the State’s first 36-member biggest inland three to Legislative Assembly the House of the People.Polling in Chini, which is in Mahasu District, will conclude on October 27, but in Pangi in Chamba District it will continue till November 2.The voters of Chini will have plural votes in the choice of their representatives to the House of the People as the Mandi-Mahasu Parliamentary constituency, of which it is a part, has to return two members, one of them a Scheduled Caste, The Chamba-Sirmur Parliamentary constituency, which includes Pangi, has to elect only one member.Results for the Assembly seats will be known within a week or ten days after polling is over. But those of the Parliamentary candidates will await the end of voting in the whole State, which with continue till the middle of December.The ballot boxes of the Parliamentary candidates will not be opened until then.There are 11 polling stations in Chini and 15 in Pangi.Polling in the rest of Himachal will start on November 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-october-26-1951-himachal-goes-to-the-polls-101635174189032.html
25-10-2021||India||‘Facing threat to life’: PIL in Delhi HC seeks urgent evacuation of over 270 minorities from Afghanistan||A public interest litigation (PIL) over evacuation of more than 200 Indian nationals and Afghans belonging to minority communities has been moved in the Delhi high court, news agency ANI reported on Monday. The PIL said these individuals were stranded in Afghanistan that was recaptured by the Taliban in August and faced threats to their properties and life almost regularly from the Islamist militant group.The plea has been filed by a former spokesperson of Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee (DSGPC), Parminder Pal Singh, through advocate Gurinder Pal Singh. Parminder has urged the government to make arrangements for urgent evacuation of the 227 stranded Indians and Afghans hailing from Hindu and Sikh communities via chartered and special flights or any other mode from Afghanistan’s capital Kabul.The PIL has also urged the government to issue electronic/e-visas to the stranded persons, and consult with international agencies to ensure their safe return to India.Alleging that the Indian government has so far not provided any assistance to the stranded individuals, the PIL said the minorities were spending every minute in a state of supreme fear and anxiety in the war-torn country.“The long ordeal and waiting for grant of e-visa and lack of evacuation flights have taken a toll on both mental and physical well-being of these stranded persons,” the petitioner was quoted as saying by ANI.The development came a day after multiple humanitarian NGOs wrote to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) and the External Affairs Ministry (MEA), seeking evacuation of around 100 Indians, including their spouses and children, and over 200 Hindu-Sikh Afghans.In the letter, it was mentioned that those wanting to be flown out of Afghanistan are also awaiting issuance of e-visa as the previously issued ones were cancelled by the Indian government.In August, when the US and other foreign-led forces were withdrawing from Afghanistan, India had announced cancellation of all previously issued visas and said Afghans can enter India only via e-visas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pil-in-delhi-hc-seeks-urgent-evacuation-of-over-270-minorities-from-afghanistan-101635172245576.html
25-10-2021||India||Was gang-raped, says Assam college student after photo leaks; classmate arrested||GUWAHATI: A 21-year-old was arrested on charges of gang rape in Assam’s Dibrugarh on Monday on a complaint by his classmate at college after she discovered that her nude photo was being circulated. Police are looking for two others, the accused’s cousin and a friend, who were also identified by the woman as his accomplices.Police registered the woman’s complaint on Saturday. In this, the college student alleged that she believed she was gang-raped by the accused six months ago after giving her a sedative-laced drink.Police said action is also being taken against others who allegedly tried to blackmail the girl after her photo emerged.“As per the complainant, she recently came to know about the photo when someone, while the talks of her marriage were on, sent it to her prospective groom. She decided to file a FIR (First Information Report) after that,” said Shwetank Mishra, superintendent of police, Dibrugarh.According to the FIR registered in Borboruah police station, the woman was going to college with the prime accused on his two-wheeler six months earlier when the vehicle apparently broke down. The two then took a lift from his relative in his car.“During the ride, she allegedly drank a sedative-laced drink that she was offered and fell unconscious soon after. When she regained consciousness, she found herself in a room at the relative’s house where her classmate and another youth was also present,” said Bitul Chetia, additional superintendent of police, Dibrugarh. “The victim apparently had no knowledge of the assault as she was unconscious at that time. She suspects that the three raped her and clicked nude photos of her. We have sent her for medical examination and recorded her statement,” Bitul Chetia added.Based on her complaint a FIR has been lodged under for gang rape, insult with intention to provoke breach of peace, criminal intimidation, criminal act with common intention, violation of privacy and publishing or transmitting sexually explicit material. “There is an allegation that some others tried to blackmail the woman after the nude photo went public. We will initiate separate action for that,” the Dibrugah SP said.In a separate incident, the body of a woman who went missing on Sunday night from her home in Baganpara area of Baksa district was found on Monday in a paddy field. The victim is suspected to have been raped and murdered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/was-gang-raped-says-assam-college-student-after-photo-leaks-classmate-arrested-101635173227482.html
25-10-2021||India||Centre takes stock of edible oil prices, reviews stock limitation orders ahead of Diwali||The Centre on Monday held a meeting with states and union territories to discuss ways to reduce the rising prices of edible oils as demand rises during the festive season. The Union government has taken several steps to ease the edible oil prices including sharp reduction in import duties palm oil, sunflower oil and soybean oil, stopping futures trading in agri commodities and stock limitations.A total of 23 states participated in today’s meeting, people aware of the developments said. Uttar Pradesh took the lead in ordering stock limits while 17 more states are in the process of implementing the same, they added.The meeting was held in response to a letter written to all states by Union food secretary Sudhanshu Pandey on Friday, in which the department outlined initiatives taken by the Centre to ease prices of edible oils for the relief of consumers and keeping the festive season in mind."This is especially important to the context of the upcoming festival season in which demand for edible oils will increase," the government official said in the letter.On October 10, the Centre had imposed stock limits on traders of edible oils and oilseeds, barring a few importers and exporters, till March 31, in a bid to provide relief to consumers.State governments and union territories were asked to decide the stock limit to be imposed on edible oils and oilseeds after taking into account the available stock and consumption pattern of that particular state or UT."However, for finalising the stock limit quantity of edible oils and oilseeds, the states/UTs may consider/explore the previous stock limit imposed for edible oils and oilseeds by the state/UTs," the department said.As an example, the department said that, for refiners, stocks of a maximum of two months of the average scale of the last six months could be used. Similarly, quantities for extractors/millers should be fixed, news agency PTI reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-takes-stock-of-edible-oil-prices-reviews-stock-limitation-orders-ahead-of-diwali-101635171060097.html
25-10-2021||India||Southwest monsoon withdraws; northeast monsoon commences over peninsular India||Monsoon has withdrawn from the entire country; with the setting in of north-easterly winds, the northeast monsoon has commenced over south peninsular India, the India Meteorological Department said on Monday.This is the seventh most delayed monsoon withdrawal during the 1975 to 2021 period. Monsoon had withdrawn on October 28 last year; on October 25 in 2017; on October 28 in 2016; on October 2019 in 2010 and October 27 in 1975. Interestingly, out of these 7 years, during recent years of 2010-2021, 5 years had monsoon withdrawal on or after October 25---2017, 2010, 2016, 2020 and 2021.“The past ten years show that there is some delay in complete withdrawal of monsoon from the country. Southwest monsoon should withdraw from the country around October 15 and northeast monsoon should commence over peninsular India by October 20. But there is some delay. This may be linked to a prolonged summer in the northern hemisphere. It is also linked to climate change which the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) has also recognised in its latest report,” explained DS Pai, scientist and head of climate research and services at IMD Pune.Unseasonal rain in October due to western disturbances caused flooding and landslides in different parts of northwest India earlier this month. Uttarakhand was particularly badly impacted. October rains though caused due to western disturbance, delayed monsoon withdrawal from the country provided adequate moisture for intensification of rainfall episodes, Pai said.In Himachal Pradesh, Rajgarh recorded 8 cm, Solan 7 cm; Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi: 3 cm; Punjab: Ludhiana-10 cm, Patiala-9 cm; in West Uttar Pradesh: Aligarh recorded 5 cm rain on Sunday.“In view of significant reduction in rainfall activity over most parts of the country the Southwest monsoon has withdrawn from the entire country on Monday. Simultaneously with the setting in of north-easterly winds in the lower tropospheric levels, the northeast monsoon rain has commenced over extreme south peninsular India today,” IMD said.A cyclonic circulation is likely to develop over southeast Bay of Bengal and the neighbourhood by Tuesday. It is likely to move westwards. Under its influence, a low-pressure area is likely to form over central parts of South Bay of Bengal during subsequent 48 hours. Isolated heavy rainfall is likely over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal during October 25 to 29; over Kerala and Mahe during October 25 to 27; over South Interior Karnataka on October 25 and 26; over Coastal Andhra Pradesh and Rayalaseema on October 28 and 29. Light to moderate, widespread rainfall with thunderstorm and lightning is likely over Kerala, Mahe, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Karaikal and South Interior Karnataka during next 5 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/southwest-monsoon-withdraws-northeast-monsoon-commences-over-peninsular-india-101635169747140.html
25-10-2021||India||Zika virus in UP: Symptoms, treatment and other things to know||Uttar Pradesh has reported a case of the Zika virus, which caused havoc in Kerala a few months ago. The Centre has dispatched a multi-disciplinary team to Kanpur in UP where an Indian Air Force personnel tested positive with Zika on October 23.The local authorities in Kanpur have formed multiple teams and started implementing precautionary action in the affected person's his residential area and the workplace.According to Kanpur chief medical officer (CMO) Nepal Singh said, as many as 22 samples of people the patient came in contact with have been sent to National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune for examination.What is Zika virus?The World Health Organization (WHO) defines Zika virus as a mosquito-borne flavivirus that was first identified in Uganda in 1947 in monkeys. It was later identified in humans in 1952 in Uganda and Tanzania, it further said.The global health body has recorded outbreaks of Zika virus disease in Africa, the Americas, Asia and the Pacific.TransmissionZika virus is primarily transmitted by the bite of an infected mosquito from the Aedes genus, mainly Aedes aegypti. These mosquitoes usually bite during the day, peaking during early morning and late afternoon/evening.This is the same mosquito that transmits dengue, chikungunya and yellow fever.Zika virus is also transmitted from mother to fetus during pregnancy, through sexual contact, transfusion of blood and blood products, and organ transplantation.SymptomsThe symptoms of the disease caused by the Zika virus are mild fever, rash, conjunctivitis, muscle and joint pain, malaise or a headache and usually last for 2-7 days.The symptoms are very similar to other disease. Zika received special attention after the 2015-2016 outbreak in Brazil.TreatmentNo vaccine is yet available for the prevention or treatment of Zika virus infection. Development of a Zika vaccine remains an active area of research, according to WHO.How to prevent yourself from Zika?Protection against mosquito bites during the day and early evening is a key measure to prevent Zika virus infection. Special attention should be given to prevention of mosquito bites among pregnant women, women of reproductive age, and young children.The WHO recommends wearing clothing (preferably light-coloured) that covers as much of the body as possible; using physical barriers such as window screens and closed doors and windows; and applying insect repellent to skin or clothing.Things to know about Zika virus diseaseAccording to the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) in the United States, Zika is linked to birth defects. Its infection during pregnancy can cause a serious birth defect called microcephaly that is a sign of incomplete brain development.Zika virus infection is also a trigger of Guillain-Barré syndrome, neuropathy and myelitis, particularly in adults and older children. The infection in pregnancy also results in complications such as fetal loss, stillbirth, and preterm birth.It also said that returning travellers infected with Zika can spread the virus through mosquito bites and sex. The CDC, in one of its advisories, said that even if the travellers do not feel sick, after returning from an area with risk of Zika, they should take steps to prevent mosquito bites for three weeks so they do not spread Zika to uninfected mosquitoes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zika-virus-in-up-symptoms-treatment-and-other-things-to-know-101635168336326.html
25-10-2021||India||RJD chief Lalu Prasad to campaign for party candidates on October 27||Campaigning for the by-polls to two assembly seats in Bihar, Kusheshwarsthan and Tarapur, scheduled for October 30, has taken an interesting turn with RJD chief Lalu Prasad Yadav deciding to campaign for his party candidates on October 27. Campaigning for the two seats will come to an end on October 28 evening. The NDA camp has also pushed its top leaders to campaign for the polls with chief minister Nitish Kumar and Union minister Pashupati Paras joining the electioneering from Monday. Kumar addressed one meeting each in both the constituencies on Monday and will follow it up with another couple of meetings on Tuesday. “The RJD chief will campaign for a day on October 27,” said RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwary. People familiar with the development said that Prasad, who returned to the state after almost three-and-half- years would address one meeting each in both the assembly constituencies. Lalu Prasad entering the campaigning assumes significance after the RJD’s partner the Congress announced its exit from the Mahaghatbandhan (Grand Alliance). The Congress Bihar in-charge, peeved over the RJD’s decision to contest on both the seats, announced that the party would field its own candidates. As soon as Lalu’s campaigning dates were announced, the ruling NDA as well as the Congress started targeting RJD leaders and claimed that his presence will hardly make any difference. “When Lalu Prasad will go to these places, people will definitely ask why he ditched Congress. He should mention that whenever he tried to play games with the Congress, he had fallen flat,” said Congress spokesperson Rajesh Rathore. At the same time, BJP spokesperson Prem Ranjan Patel said that Lalu Prasad’s campaign was not going to make any impact this time. “The GA is disintegrated. When they fought the last election together, both the seats were won by the NDA,” said the BJP spokesperson. JD-U spokesperson Nikhil Mandal has also taken Lalu Yadav’s campaign lightly. “People will vote for development,” he said while HAM-S spokesperson Danish Rizwan said that it was a desperate move by RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav who has got a feel of ground reality. “That is why RJD as a last resort is bringing him to campaign,” said Rizwan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rjd-chief-lalu-prasad-to-campaign-for-party-candidates-on-october-27-101635166386842.html
25-10-2021||India||BSF jurisdiction extension: Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi says will move Supreme Court||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi said on Monday that the state government will approach the Supreme Court against the Centre's recent move to enhance jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF). Channi was speaking after an all-party meeting on the issue.He also said that a session of the state assembly will be convened to pass a resolution against the central government's notification.Also Read | Mamata says Centre's BSF move meant to hurt federal structure"Political parties will hold agitations against the extension of BSF jurisdiction in Punjab. We will also approach the Supreme Court seeking justice in this matter," Channi said while addressing the media."A session of Punjab Assembly will be convened in the next 10-15 days to pass resolutions against the central government's notification and against the three farm laws," he added.The all-party meeting was convened by Channi. The Punjab government, governed by the Congress, had earlier called the move an attack on federalism.Also Read | ‘Relook and restore status quo’, says Punjab CM on Centre's BSF moveAt the all-party meeting, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), the main opposition party, was represented by Bhagwant Mann and Aman Arora whereas Daljit Cheema and Chandumajra were the representatives of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD).Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal also reached Punjab Bhavan for the meeting.Meanwhile, Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) Punjab unit decided to boycott the meeting stating that there is no conflict between the BSF and the state police.Senior BJP leader Manoranjan Kalia said, "BSF is a concurrent list subject. Along with the BSF, the Punjab Police can also carry out searches and register cases. The drones are used to smuggle weapons and drugs and to stop these illegal activities, the jurisdiction of BSF has been widened."Earlier this month, the Union government amended the BSF Act to authorise the force to undertake search, seizure and arrest within a larger 50 km stretch, instead of the existing 15 km, from the international border in Punjab, West Bengal and Assam.In Gujarat, which shares border with Pakistan, the same limit was reduced from 80 km to 50 km, and in Rajasthan, it was kept unchanged at 50 km.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsf-jurisdiction-extension-punjab-cm-channi-says-will-move-supreme-court-101635162978348.html
25-10-2021||India||Kerala newborn case: Court stays adoption, orders DNA test||A family court in Thiruvananthapuram on Monday stayed the adoption of a baby after the state government opposed it in light of the allegations of the daughter of a ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) or CPI (M) leader that her parents snatched and put her newborn up for adoption as they disapproved of her relationship with her Dalit husband.Anupama S Chandran, the daughter and a former student activist, sat on a fast outside the state secretariat seeking her baby back and action against those who allegedly kidnapped her newborn. In her police complaint, Chandran alleged her father took away and handed over the baby to a Kerala State Council for Child Welfare-run orphanage. The baby was later reportedly given to a family from Andhra Pradesh in a hurry flouting adoption rules.The court ordered a DNA test and asked the state Child Welfare Committee to furnish details whether the baby was abandoned or admitted to a children’s home by someone. “There are enough ambiguities in records. Was the child abandoned or received from its guardians?” the court asked the panel to explain when it hears the matter next on November 1. The court asked police to submit an action taken report and other details of the case in a sealed cover. The baby will remain with the Andhra family till then.Chandran welcomed the court’s order saying she feels she is getting closer to getting her child back. “I am happy my six-month fight for my baby evoked some results for the first time. I have immense faith in the judiciary,” she said. She said even after getting her child back, she will continue her fight against her tormentors and government agencies, who failed her.Legal experts said she has to cross more hurdles to get her baby back after the DNA test. The foster parents or the Central Adoption Resource Authority (CARA) can appeal against the family court’s decision in a higher court. CARA is the nodal agency for all adoption-related issues in the country.The Kerala government on Friday ordered a probe into “serious lapses and delay” on the part of its agencies in the case. The Kerala State Women’s Commission on Thursday also ordered an inquiry into the matter.The CPI (M) too pledged support to Chandran. Chandran has said the party was aware of everything and did not expect justice from it. She added it was forced to react as the case has hit national headlines. Chandran said she has been struggling to trace her baby.PS Jayachandran, Chandran’s father, has claimed they sent the baby to the government-run children’s home in Thiruvananthapuram with his daughter’s consent. He added Chandran signed on stamp paper but the daughter has said she did so under duress.The opposition Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party sought a probe and the baby’s return to the mother.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-newborn-case-court-stays-adoption-101635162668008.html
25-10-2021||India||Delhi HC to hear petitions seeking recognition of same-sex marriages on Nov 30||The Delhi high court has listed multiple petitions seeking legal recognition and registration of same-sex marriages under the Foreign Marriage Act and the Special Marriage Act for final hearing on November 30, news agency ANI reported on Monday.The petitioners in the case are a married same-sex couple, with one between them being of Indian origin and even has his family living in the country. They have been in a relationship for around 20 years, and got married in New York, US in 2012. The couple currently is a resident of Paris, France, and their marriage is legally recognised and accepted in the United States, Canada and France – all of where they have lived and worked in the past two decades, the ANI reported.The petitioners are expecting their first child together, and the Indian origin spouse has sought to obtain the Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) status so that he can spend time with his family in the country. Among several pleas, the petitioners have sought a declaration that a foreigner spouse of an Indian citizen or OCI cardholder can apply for registration as an overseas citizen of India under the Citizenship Act, 1955, regardless of sex, gender or sexual oriental of him or her.The LGBT community members in India, the petitioners pointed out, are forced to hide their feelings of getting married to the person they desire. They also noted that it’s discriminatory to deny the LGBT community the option to marry, thereby creating them a second class of citizens.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the central government, submitted to the court that marriage in India is permissible between a biological man and a biological woman, according to the ANI report. However, counsel Karuna Nunday, who appeared for one of the petitioners, said that there is no such requisite under law and it is a matter of discourse.Earlier, Centre had told the Delhi high court that the acceptance of marriage between two persons of the same gender is neither recognised nor accepted in any uncodified personal laws or any codified statutory laws.Also Read | Delhi HC to hear petitions seeking legal recognition of same-sex couplesAs its reply to many other pleas seeking recognition of same-sex marriages under the Special Marriage Act, the Foreign Marriage Act and even the Hindu Marriage Act, the Centre has quashed it saying the same are untenable, misplaced and unsustainable, ANI reported.Notably, before the November 30 hearing, the division bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh has also granted liberty to all parties in the matter to file an affidavit, if they desire.In what was a historic verdict in the history of Indian constitution, the Supreme Court in September 2018 had decriminalised Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), which termed sex between two consenting homosexual individuals to be an “unnatural offence.” The Section remains relevant in cases of non-consensual sexual acts, sex with minors, and with animals. However, legal recognition and/or acceptance of same-sex marriage is yet to happen in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-to-hear-petitions-seeking-recognition-of-same-sex-marriages-on-nov-30-101635161247524.html
25-10-2021||India||AIADMK high command to take call on Sasikala's re-induction: OPS||All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) coordinator O Panneerselvam said on Monday the party’s leadership would discuss and take a call on re-induction of expelled leader VK Sasikala into the camp.A report quoted the former deputy chief minister of Tamil Nadu, also known as OPS, saying politics was a space where anyone could come and go.Party high command will discuss and decide on the re-induction of VK Sasikala into AIADMK: Party Coordinator O Panneerselvam in Madurai(File photo) pic.twitter.com/Z0VTLNls9zOnly last week, the party had filed a police complaint against Sasikala, aide to former chief minister J Jayalalithaa, for unveiling a plaque identifying herself as the AIADMK ‘general secretary’.The AIADMK had sought action against Sasikala for “cheating by impersonation, promoting disharmony, enmity and hatred and circulating statements with intent to cause fear or alarm.”Ever since she walked out of jail earlier this year ahead of the Assembly election in Tamil Nadu, Sasikala has been making several not-so-discreet bids at staking claim to the party with the latest one being unveiling a plaque that addressed her as the AIADMK general secretary.Also read | New equations in making? Sasikala meets OPS to condole his wife's deathThe incident happened on October 17, the day AIADMK rang in its golden jubilee year of founding, when Sasikala, along with her supporters, went to party founder MG Ramachandran’s (MGR) memorial to unveil the plaque.She had earlier shared audio clips with supporters wherein she spoke about setting the party back in order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiadmk-high-command-to-take-call-on-sasikala-s-re-induction-ops-101635161342859.html
25-10-2021||India||Farming crisis: India faces fertiliser crunch ahead of key sowing season||Escalating global prices and a supply-chain squeeze have hit the availability of fertilisers in India, threatening the coming winter sowing season. The crisis has left cultivators in various states scrambling for crop nutrients, such as in Punjab.A sharp increase in international prices, lower production of feedstock or raw materials during the peak of the pandemic, and shipping bottlenecks are the key reasons behind the crisis.Inventories of crop nutrients, especially DAP (diammonium phosphate) and the muriate of potash (MPO), have hit a five-year low, the managing director of one of India’s biggest crop-nutrient firms has revealed said, requesting not to be named.The Centre as well as state governments have pressured authorities to crack down on hoarding, as farmers in Punjab say they are being compelled to buy some nutrients above the label price.On October 14, the government revamped parts of its subsidy regime for fertilisers and crop nutrients to continue providing them at below-market rates, while special discounts were announced for the summer sowing season heading into the coming winter sowing months.International prices of raw materials for crop nutrients such as DAP and 22 grades of P&K fertilisers have been increasing for over 18 months now, trade data shows. Most of these fertilisers have seen a jump of over 50% in prices, forcing the government to expand subsidies.India offers subsidies to compensate fertiliser companies who sell them at below-market rates.The country imports up to a third of its fertilisers to meet domestic demand. China, the largest producer of DAP, is a key supplier of the nutrient to India.“Prices have gone through the roof and urea, for instance, is very expensive to buy. That is the main issue,” said KS Raju, chairman of the board at Nagarjuna Fertilisers and Chemicals, a top conglomerate.Although the government has announced additional subsidies under its nutrient-based subsidy regime worth ₹28,602 crore, manufacturers could still be buying at a slower pace.“Since extra capital is required because of higher global rates, purchase deferment is taking place, adding to the shortage,” said Ashok Agrawal of Comtrade, a commodities trading firm. Shipments, however, were expected to increase, he said.Data show that India needs to ratchet up imports as stocks are running low. During the summer sowing months, DAP demand outstripped availability by 13.6%, official data accessed by HT show.“Indigenous production of urea at 7.89 million tonnes and DAP at 1.11 million tonnes during April-July 2021 declined by 3.9% and 12.3%, respectively, over April-July 2020,” wrote Satish Chander, the director-general of Fertiliser Association of India, in the latest issue of the Indian Journal of Fertilisers.Rumours of a shortage have prompted panicked farmers to buy nutrients such as DAP in excess quantities, said Amrik Singh, an official of Punjab’s agriculture department. DAP is an essential nutrient for winter-sown wheat.“I bought two bags for ₹1,400 each against the label price of ₹1,200,” said Lakhbir Singh of Nizampura Vegetable Growers’ Association in Punjab.The Centre has called upon the railways to increase the number of rakes ferrying fertilisers to states such as Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, a fertiliser department official said, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farming-crisis-india-faces-fertiliser-crunch-ahead-of-key-sowing-season-101635161646131.html
25-10-2021||India||Amit Shah to visit Pulwama, spend the night at CRPF camp||Union home minister Amit Shah, who is in Jammu and Kashmir, will visit the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) camp in Lethpora, in Pulwama district on Monday, news agency ANI reported. He will have dinner with the soldiers, and spend the night at the camp before wrapping up his visit to the union territory.Lethpora is the place where a convoy of vehicles carrying security personnel on the Jammu-Srinagar National Highway was attacked by a vehicle-borne suicide bomber on February 14, 2019. Forty CRPF personnel were killed in the attack.Shah is on a three-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir - his first since the abrogarion of Article 370.The home minister arrived in J&K on Saturday. Immediately after his arrival in Srinagar, Shah drove straight to Nowgam from the airport to meet the family of Jammu and Kashmir police officer Parvaiz Ahmad, who was killed by terrorists in June this year.Later that day, Shah reviewed the security scenario at a meeting held at Raj Bhavan in Srinagar.The home minister returned to Srinagar on Sunday evening after addressing a rally in Jammu and visiting the India-Pakistan border, where he interacted with jawans of the Border Security Force (BSF).On Monday, he visited the Kheer Bhawani temple, nestled among chinars in Tullamulla area of Ganderbal district of Jammu and Kashmir. After offering prayers at the revered temple, Shah said the shrine has divine power which can be felt only after visiting it.Donning a traditional Kashmiri pheran, Shah was accompanied to the temple by Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha.He also offered prayers at the temple of Mata Ragnya Devi and performed puja.Taking to Twitter, Shah said he had the honour of visiting the major centre of faith of the Kashmiri Pandit community which inspires the nation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-to-visit-pulwama-spend-the-night-at-crpf-camp-101635160632397.html
25-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: Rajnath Singh invites foreign defence firms to DefExpo 2022 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Rajnath Singh invites foreign defence firms to take part in DefExpo 2022Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday chaired a roundtable of ambassadors from friendly foreign countries and invited international defence firms to take part in Asia’s largest defence exhibition, DefExpo 2022, which will be held in Gandhinagar from March 10-13, 2022. Read more'Every kid in Pakistan plays this kind of bowling in street cricket': Ex-Pak captain tears down on IND's ChakaravarthyFormer Pakistan captain Salman Butt, following India's 10-wicket drubbing at the hands of Pakistan in their opening T20 World Cup encounter on Sunday, tore down on India's spinner Varun Chakaravarthy. Read moreSatyameva Jayate 2 trailer: John Abraham rips apart cars with bare hands, fans say ‘John ab-rehem nahi karega’. WatchThe trailer of Satyameva Jayate 2 has just dropped online. The film features John Abraham in a triple role - a father and twins on opposite sides of the law. Read moreJioPhone Next launch: Never-before revealed details out nowJioPhone Next disappointed the entire country when it failed to launch on the deadline announced by Reliance Industries chief Mukesh Ambani. It was all set to launch this Diwali, but missed the original launch date on Ganesh Chaturthi. Read moreThis Made-in-India e-bike gets one lakh bookings in two months since launcheBikeGo on Monday informed that it has received over one lakh orders for its Rugged electric bike which was launched in India two months back. Read moreAlia Bhatt in bodysuit and pants is caught up in retro vibes and we are obsessedRetro fashion can never go out of style because a little bit of nostalgia never hurt anyone. On the runway, retro looks have dominated many designer's collections this season. Even back home, many Bollywood stars have given this trend their stamp of approval, and Alia Bhatt, who is dating Ranbir Kapoor, seems to be one of them. Read moreKid refuses to eat roti and sabzi, wants cake instead. Watch sweet videoRemember the viral video of the little boy who asked Alexa in his very sweet voice to play ‘Dum Dum Diga Diga, Mausam Bheega Bheega’? The little one is making headlines again and this time for expressing his demand about what he wants to eat in a sweet way. Read more'Hum aap sabhay...': PM's Bhojpuri speech while inaugurating UP medical collegesPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday inaugurated nine medical colleges in Uttar Pradesh. Built at a cost of ₹2,329 crore, these medical colleges are situated in the districts of Siddharthnagar, Etah, Hardoi, Pratapgarh, Fatehpur, Deoria, Ghazipur, Mirzapur and Jaunpur. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-rajnath-singh-invites-foreign-defence-firms-to-defexpo-2022-and-all-the-latest-news-101635160042058.html
25-10-2021||India||Congress attacks Facebook, seeks probe against it for ‘influencing elections’||The Congress on Monday attacked Facebook while reiterating its allegation that the social media company influences elections in India in favour of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and demanded a probe into the matter.“We demand a Joint Parliamentary Committee to look into Facebook’s role of influencing our elections, in trying to compromise and undermine our democracy, and in trying to shape opinions through fake posts,” said Congress spokesman Pawan Khera. He called the company “Fake-book”.The attack came after The New York Times cited Facebook’s internal documents and said they show “a struggle with misinformation, hate speech and celebrations of violence” in India. Researchers at the social media giant pointed out that there are groups and pages “replete with inflammatory and misleading anti-Muslim content” on its platform. In February 2019, a Facebook researcher created an account to look into what the social media website will look like for a person living in Kerala, the New York Times reported. “For the next three weeks, the account operated by a simple rule: Follow all the recommendations generated by Facebook’s algorithms to join groups, watch videos and explore new pages on the site. The result was an inundation of hate speech, misinformation, and celebrations of violence, which were documented in an internal Facebook report published later that month.”The report said internal documents include details on how bots and fake accounts tied to the “country’s ruling party and opposition figures” were wreaking havoc on India’s national elections.Khera cited the company’s reluctance in banning the Bajrang Dal although an internal report, according to the Wall Street Journal, termed the Hindu nationalistic group a “dangerous” organisation, as “it would anger the ruling party”. He questioned why was the government was not uttering a word against Facebook.Khera accused Facebook of inaction during the 2020 Delhi riots and the West Bengal elections this summer. “They are knowingly furthering the agenda of the ruling party and its ideologies,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-attacks-facebook-seeks-probe-against-it-for-influencing-elections-101635159847032.html
25-10-2021||India||‘I will talk with people, youth of valley’: Amit Shah responds to Farooq Abdullah’s advice on talks with Pakistan||Union home affairs minister Amit Shah on Monday responded to former erstwhile Jammu & Kashmir chief minister Farooq Abdullah’s suggestions for talks between India and Pakistan and said that he would rather speak with the people and the youth of the valley.Shah, who is currently on his first visit to the Union territory since revoking Article 370, made the remark while speaking at a public rally in Srinagar earlier in the day.On Sunday, Jammu Kashmir National Conference (JKNC) leader Farooq Abdullah had pitched for discussions between India and Pakistan and said that a conducive environment should be made for dialogue between the two sides, news agency PTI had reported. Abdullah has made similar remarks earlier on October 17 when he said that attempts should be made for friendly relations between the two neighbours.Also read | Call me whenever you need: Amit Shah shares phone number with Jammu man, takes his number“Today I saw in the newspaper, Farooq (Abdullah) ‘sahab’ has advised me that the Government of India should talk with Pakistan. He is an experienced person and was also the chief minister and it is his advice. But I want to tell him and you that I will speak to the people of the valley (Kashmir) and the youth of the valley,” Shah said during his speech.“Why shouldn’t I talk with you?” he asked, adding that is why he has extended his hand of friendship to the youth of the valley.Further, the home minister also said that he wanted to talk with the people of the valley “frankly” and so there was no security in front of him. “I was taunted and condemned with harsh words. Today, I want to speak to you frankly and that is why there is no bullet proof (shield) or security here,” he said.Earlier in the day, Amit Shah and Jammu & Kashmir’s lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha visited the Kheer Bhawani Durga temple in Ganderbal district where they offered prayers, news agency ANI reported. Later, Shah is also scheduled to visit the CRPF camp in Lethpora in Pulwama district.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-will-talk-with-people-youth-of-valley-amit-shah-responds-to-farooq-abdullah-s-advice-on-talks-with-pakistan-101635159306337.html
25-10-2021||India||‘Filmmakers to take prior permission for shooting objectionable scenes’||Filmmakers will have to take prior permission for shooting “objectionable scenes” including those that may hurt the “religious sentiments”, Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra said on Monday a day after Bajrang Dal men vandalised the set of web series Ashram 3 in Bhopal on Sunday.The men threw ink on filmmaker Prakash Jha and thrashed a few crew members after chasing them while accusing them of including obscene scenes and hurting the sentiments of Hindus in the series. Police have taken four people under preventive custody but have not filed any first information report (FIR) in this regard.Mishra said the state government is laying down guidelines under which filmmakers will have to take prior permission before filming “objectionable scenes” from the concerned district administration. He also objected to an advertisement showing two women celebrating Karva Chauth and added he has spoken to the state police for required action. “Today, they are showing two women celebrating Karva Chauth, and tomorrow, they will come up with an advertisement that two men are getting married. We cannot allow anyone to show such objectionable content.”Mishra questioned why film and advertisement makers were “targeting” Sanatan Dharma and added why don’t they make any ads on other religious traditions and places.In November 2020, Mishra announced a team of officers will check scenes and content before shootings at religious and heritage places. He made the announcement after a kissing scene of the web series Suitable Boy was filmed at Maheshwar Temple in Khargone district.Officials said draft guidelines were being prepared for shootings at religious places.Congress leader Digvijaya Singh attacked the state government over the attack on Jha. “Prakash Jha is a renowned filmmaker and police protection should have been provided to him.” He questioned till when will the state’s residents bear the atrocities of goons, who he alleged enjoyed chief minister Shivraj Chauhan and Mishra’s patronage. “RSS (Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh)’ Bajrang Dal has become an organisation of goons.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/filmmakers-will-have-to-take-permission-for-scenes-that-may-hurt-religious-sentiments-mp-minister-101635159307626.html
25-10-2021||India||Mamata says Centre's BSF move meant to hurt federal structure, borders peaceful||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday said the Centre’s decision to extend the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) was meant to create a disturbance and her government was protesting the move.Stating that it was an attempt to interfere into the federal structure of the country, the Trinamool Congress supremo said law and order was a police subject and her government would follow the state laws.“Just like Punjab, we're also protesting against the BSF's jurisdiction that has been recently increased. Our border areas are completely peaceful. Law and order is a police subject. It'll create disturbance. The state government will go with state laws,” Banerjee was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also read | Punjab cabinet opposes Centre’s decision to extend BSF’s jurisdictionThe Narendra Modi-led central government had amended the BSF Act to authorise the force to undertake search, seizure and arrest within a larger 50-km stretch, instead of the earlier 15-km limit, from the international border in Punjab, West Bengal and Assam.Speaking at an administrative review meeting in Siliguri, Banerjee said, "We have sent a letter protesting the move. Earlier, they had a jurisdiction of 15km. There were incidents of firing in Balurghat or Cooch Behar. Now, they have extended it to 50km”"We do not have problems in the border areas and share very cordial relations (with neighbouring countries). There is no need to create this confusion. Law and order is a state subject. The BSF must look after what they are responsible for and we will have total support for that," she said.Also read | As a controversy hits BSF, the roots and evolution of India’s border forceBengal shares an international border with Bangladesh, Nepal and Bhutan. On Sunday, Banerjee had appealed to the Prime Minister to immediately withdraw the Union Home Ministry's notification that extended the jurisdiction of BSF earlier this month.Meanwhile, Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi said all parties on Monday unanimously passed a resolution that this notification be rolled back by the central government. “If the Centre doesn't do it, the parties decided that a session of the Vidhan Sabha be called over this,” he said.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-says-centre-s-bsf-move-meant-to-hurt-federal-structure-borders-peaceful-101635159000438.html
25-10-2021||India||Amit Shah has bulletproof shield removed, tells J&K crowd want to speak frankly||Union home minister Amit Shah, on the final day of his three-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir, addressed a gathering at Sher-i-Kashmir International Convention Centre (SKICC) in Srinagar on Monday. He had the bulletproof glass shield removed while talking to the people of the union territory, saying he wants to "speak to them frankly"."I was taunted, condemned… today, I want to speak to you frankly, which is why there is no bullet proof shield or security here," Shah said. This is his first visit to Jammu and Kashmir since the abrogation of Article 370 in August 2019.Watch: Bulletproof glass shield being removed from the podium ahead of Amit Shah's address#WATCH | J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha had the bulletproof glass shield removed from the podium before addressing a gathering in Srinagar earlier today. pic.twitter.com/s41gF7icDNHe also hit out at National Conference (NC) president Farooq Abdullah for seeking talks with Pakistan, saying the government would rather talk to the youth of Jammu and Kashmir for making it the most developed in the country."I read in newspapers that Farooq Abdullah has suggested that the government should talk to Pakistan. He has a right to his opinion but we would rather talk to the Kashmiri youth," Shah said in his address."The repealing of Article 370 had only one intention - to put Kashmir, Jammu and newly created Ladakh (Union Territory) on the path of development. You will see the fruits of our efforts by 2024," the home minister added.Also Read | J&K was better governed before nullification of Article 370, says Ghulam Nabi AzadArticle 370, which granted special status to the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, was abrogated in August 2019 and the state was bifurcated into union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh.Shah said that those who advocate talks with Islamabad and separatists should be asked what has Pakistan done in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK)."Compare the development between this side and PoK. Do they have electricity, roads, healthcare and toilets. There is nothing (on the other side). You (Kashmiris) have the same rights as any other Indian," he said.Shah then remotely inaugurated several development projects, including a 500-bed hospital at Bemina, which has been completed at a cost of ₹115 crore. The home minister also laid the foundation stone for the Handwara Medical College, a ₹46-crore steel girder bridge over the Ferozepur Nallah in Baramulla district and road projects worth ₹4,000 crore.The home minister said that ₹12,000 crore worth of investment has already come to the union territory and the government aims at a total of ₹51,000 crore by the end of 2022 to provide five lakh jobs to the local youth.Also Read | Govt doesn't believed in buying peace in J&K, says Manoj SinhaShah said the schemes and the plans of the Modi government will ensure that Jammu and Kashmir will be the most developed province of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-has-bulletproof-shield-removed-tells-j-k-crowd-want-to-speak-frankly-101635158535391.html
25-10-2021||India||7th century Sanskrit play staged in Bengali for first time in Silchar||A seventh-century Sanskrit play, Bhagavadajjukam, has been staged in Bengali by a group of young artists in Assam’s Silchar recently. An alumnus of the National School of Drama (NSD), Gulista Aliza from Mumbai, travelled thousands of kilometres to be a part of it. The Bengali screenplay was written by veteran theatre artist Santanu Paul, who claimed that this is probably for the first time for Barak Valley when a Sanskrit play is being staged in Bengali. The play in Bengali is named “Khachachara Atmaram”.A 40-year-old theatre group, Bhabikal, which organises youth and children theatre workshops twice a year, staged the play at Kalikaprasad Bhattacharjee and Mukundadas Bhattacharjee Smriti Mancha. Most of the cultural groups stage their dramas and musicals in Barak Valley during the Durga Puja festival. Earlier, drama used to be a part of the celebration which is still known as ‘Jatra Gaan” in rural areas. Bhagavadajjukam is a Sanskrit play written by Bodhayana in the seventh century. The play is about the transmigration of souls as practised by Buddhist monks. It’s called prahasana, a satirical comedy and has been staged in different languages across India. The dedication of the entire team was seen during the play. The stage was old and comparatively small. There was no ceiling fan and they staged the play twice in a row in heat. Apart from two actors, the rest of the team was performing on stage for the first time. Some of the actors were not Bengali but it never looked like they were struggling with the language. There were only a few people seated in the audience but it did not discourage the actors from giving their best shot. Gulista Aliza, who directed Khachachara Atmaram, said, “Before staging the play, we did workshops for months to train the artists. Most of the artists who played different roles in the play were not experienced but on stage, they were so much mature and confident. It is a result of their dedication and strong teamwork.”Gulista is trying to explore Sanskrit drama and Indian mythology. She said, “From Samudra Manthana to many more mythological stories, in my perception, they were beautifully written and rich by content. I have met many theatre artists from western countries like France and Italy. They all believe that Natya Shastra of India has enriched their theatre culture. We need to explore our own culture more and being part of this play is one of my attempts in that direction.” Santanu Paul, who leads the Bhabikal theatre group, is one of the coordinators of the National School of Drama for northeast India and also a faculty of Sangeet Natak Academy. He said, “Theatre culture in Northeast India is rich but we don’t get proper exposure. The first drama in Cachar district was staged in 1903 by the postal recreation club. We celebrated its hundred years in 2003. Revolutionary Bengali writer Dinabandhu Mitra came here and wrote famous ‘Kamale Kamini’ during his visit to Silchar.” Paul also informed that several groups across Barak Valley organise competitions and workshops to keep the young generation connected. “We often say that the young generation is not connected to roots but they are interested in theatre in my opinion. We organise workshops twice a year, Rupam Natya Sanstha organises competitions and there are other initiatives. I have seen youths practising in every corner of town before the competition. We need to give them a bigger platform. I had a chance to get a year-long training under Padma Bhushan Heisnam Kanhailal in 2007, it changed my perception. We need to provide our young generation with such chances here,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7th-century-sanskrit-play-staged-in-bengali-for-first-time-in-silchar-101635158646246.html
25-10-2021||India||Snowfall sets foot in Himachal, Uttarakhand; North India braces for cold winter. See photos||Many parts of Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand received fresh snowfall on Monday as weather conditions started changing across north India preparing it for a cold winter. Many people have been stranded in Himachal’s Lahaul and Spiti district due to inclement weather as roads remained blocked.Meanwhile, the famous Char Dham Yatra near Kedarnath in Uttarakhand continued amid clearance of layers of snow, the Devasthanam Management Board informed. The snowfall started in the high peaks of Gangotri and Yamunotri Dham as the temperatures dropped in the low-lying areas of Uttarkashi district.The Manali-Leh highway was closed for normal traffic after fresh snow at Baralacha pass in Himachal Pradesh's Lahaul and Spiti district. At least 80 passengers were stranded in the area on Sunday.A layer of snow covered the Dhauladhar mountains visible from Dharamshala, Himachal Pradesh, as the region received the season's first snowfall.However, the cold weather conditions have not been kind to everyone. Three trekkers out of a group of 13, died following heavy snowfall in Himachal Pradesh's Kinnaur district, the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) informed on Monday. The trekkers started their climb from Rohru to Burua village in Kinnaur district on October 17 and were stranded at Burua Kanda due to snowfall.The extreme weather events amid a delayed monsoon withdrawal over the past few weeks have raised an alarm for exceptionally cold conditions across the northern belt of India. Experts have warned that the mercury will fall as low as 3 degrees celsius due to the La Nina effect.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has already predicted heavy rainfall, snowfall with thunderstorms, gusty winds, and lightning at isolated places over Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh, and Punjab this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/snowfall-sets-foot-in-himachal-uttarakhand-north-india-braces-for-cold-winter-see-photos-101635155728646.html
25-10-2021||India||Rajnath Singh invites foreign defence firms to take part in DefExpo 2022||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday chaired a roundtable of ambassadors from friendly foreign countries and invited international defence firms to take part in Asia’s largest defence exhibition, DefExpo 2022, which will be held in Gandhinagar from March 10-13, 2022. “More than 200 delegates, including ambassadors, heads of missions and defence attaches attended the roundtable, reflecting the growing global interest in the Indian defence space,” the defence ministry said in a statement. The minister briefed the delegates about the planning, arrangements and other details of the exhibition. The focus of India’s flagship defence exhibition is on projecting the country as an emerging defence manufacturing hub --- one of the top priorities for the government in the defence sector. Singh said he was confident that DefExpo 2022 will bring all the latest technologies under one roof and provide myriad opportunities to all stakeholders. “A resurgent India, where defence manufacturing is an identified pillar of growth, will display its ability to take the lead at DefExpo 2022. It will sow the seeds of successful new ventures and international partnerships to promote shared prosperity, boost investment, expand manufacturing and bolster the aerospace and defence ecosystem in India, which shall be ready to serve the defence requirements of our friendly countries also,” the minister said. The event comes at a time when the government has sharpened its focus on promoting self-reliance in the defence manufacturing sector and positioning itself as an exporter of military hardware. DefExpo was traditionally held in Delhi until 2014 after which it has seen a string of new venues --- Goa (2016), Chennai (2018) and Lucknow (2020). The venue was shifted to Goa when Manohar Parrikar was the defence minister, it moved to Chennai when Nirmala Sitharaman held the portfolio and it was staged in Lucknow with Rajnath Singh as the defence minister. From raising foreign direct investment (FDI) in defence manufacturing to creating a separate budget for buying locally-made military hardware and notifying two lists of weapons/equipment that cannot be imported, the government has taken a raft of measures to boost self-reliance in the defence sector over the last two years. India has set aside ₹70,221 crore this year for domestic defence procurement, accounting for 63% of the military’s capital budget. Last year, the ministry spent over ₹51,000 crore, or 58% of the capital budget, on domestic purchases. SURPRISE INSPECTION Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday undertook a surprise inspection of the offices of defence ministry in South Block, officials familiar with the development said. He visited several offices and inspected cleanliness, work atmosphere, upkeep of files and interacted with the employees, they said. The minister passed necessary instructions wherever the need for improvement was felt. He also made a point about digitisation of records and files being the way forward.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-invites-foreign-defence-firms-to-take-part-in-defexpo-2022-101635158405780.html
25-10-2021||India||Nawab Malik questions birth certificate of NCB official Sameer Wankhede||In another attack against the Narcotics Control Bureau’s zonal director Sameer Wankhede, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and state minister Nawab Malik on Monday raised questions over the birth certificate of the officer. Malik tweeted a copy of a birth certificate that read the name of the officer’s father as Dawood K Wankhede. “Forgery by Sameer Dawood Wankhede started from here,” Malik tweeted. In another tweet, he posted an old picture of Sameer Wankhede with a question, “Guess who.”In a written statement, Wankhede said that publishing his personal documents on Twitter is defamatory in nature and an unnecessary invasion of the privacy of his family. “It is intended to malign me, my family, my father and my late mother. The series of allegations of Hon minister over the last few days have put me and my family under tremendous mental and emotional pressure. I am pained by the nature of personal defamatory, slanderous attacks by the hon minister without any justification,” the statement added. The statement also says that his father, Dnyandev Kachruji Wankhede, is a Hindu and his mother late Zaheeda was a Muslim. “I belong to a composite multi-religious and secular family and I am proud of my heritage,” the officer said. The Bharatiya Janata Party has hit back raising questions over the intention of the leaders from the ruling parties. According to the document issued by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation and tweeted by Malik, the officer’s mother’s name is Zahera Bano. In a press statement issued by the NCP, questions have also been raised over Wankhede’s first marriage. A picture of his first marriage in 2006 has gone viral on social media. The statement by Wankhede adds that he was married to Dr Shabana Qureshi in 2006. They mutually decided to file a divorce in 2016 and the next year, Wankhede got married to actress Kranti Redkar. Last week, Malik said that he will not stop until the NCB officer is put behind the bars. The NCP leader said that Wankhede will lose his job within a year. In a series of press conferences in the last three weeks, Malik raised many questions over the operations by the NCB in cruise drugs raids. BJP office-bearer Manish Bhanushal was also seen as part of the team of officers raiding the cruise. Meanwhile, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Monday lauded the “bravery” of Prabhakar Sail, the independent witness in the cruise drug bust case, and demanded security as he’s is the key witness in the case. The Sena leader also demanded a probe by a Special Investigation Team (SIT) on the recent developments, stating it was a conspiracy to defame Maharashtra by political parties and central agencies “under the garb of nationalism”.On Sunday, Sail alleged that he was made to sign on blank papers as pancha (witness) on the night when the NCB officials conducted a raid at the International Cruise Terminal, Green Gate, on October 2 and arrested Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan, his friend Arbaaz Merchant and fashion designer Munmun Dhamecha. Sail, 40, claimed that he used to work as a bodyguard of KP Gosavi, one of the nine witnesses in the case. “He is a key witness in this case and the home department must provide him security. I have spoken to home minister [Dilip] Walse-Patil. The witness has brought to light this conspiracy by one political party with the help of a few officials to defame Maharashtra,” said Raut. He also added, “Prabhakar Sail has done a great service to the country and the state. Therefore, the state must provide him security and I am confident it will be provided.”Raut also said the entire case is also about money laundering. “Sam D’Souza is the biggest money-laundering player of Mumbai and the country. He launders money for political leaders, IAS-IPS officers. It’s a big game which has just started. The facts which came to light are shocking. Under the pretext of nationalism, some people are extorting money, lodging fake cases,” Raut said.The Sena chief spokesperson added that the “thread” of the case will go “right up to Delhi”. “The things that have come to light are startling. I think there should be an SIT probe on this matter,” he said. Reacting to the letter by NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede to “ensure that no precipitate legal action is carried out” against him by “unknown persons” with “ulterior motives” to frame him, Raut said, “If he’s not done anything then he need not worry.”BJP has hit back at the ruling parties questioning as to who is behind the rebuttal of witness Prabhakar Sail. “It needs to come to the light that who is behind Sail’s statement and in which hotel was Sail’s statement recorded? Shielding the drug mafia is the real intention behind it? Is Sail being threatened to become part of the extortion gang of the ruling party? The entire episode needs to be investigated by the CBI to check all these links. His mobile locations and call records need to be checked to find out who all were in contact with the witness for the last 22 days. We firmly beleive that the truth will prevail,” said BJP leader Ram Kadam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nawab-malik-questions-birth-certificate-of-ncb-official-sameer-wankhede-101635157328102.html
25-10-2021||India||UP's Purvanchal region will become medical hub of North India, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday shared his vision of turning the Purvanchal region into a medical hub while inaugurating nine medical colleges in Uttar Pradesh. He was speaking while addressing an event in Siddharthnagar."With the construction of nine new medical colleges, about 2,500 new beds have been created, new employment opportunities have been created for more than 5,000 doctors and paramedics," said the Prime Minister.These colleges are situated in the districts of Siddharthnagar, Etah, Hardoi, Pratapgarh, Fatehpur, Deoria, Ghazipur, Mirzapur and Jaunpur. They have been built at a cost of ₹2,329 crore."Today is a big day for east Uttar Pradesh and the entire state. The day marks a double dose of healthcare infrastructure. More than 5,000 new doctors and paramedics will now be available. The dream of pursuing medical education will now be a reality for youth of eastern Uttar Pradesh," PM Modi added.He also accused the previous governments of ruining the Purvanchal region by defaming it because of 'dimagi' (brain) fever. "The same region will now infuse new hopes," the Prime Minister said.Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya, who was also present on the occasion, said that the Centre has started as many as 157 medical colleges in the country so far.While eight medical colleges have been sanctioned under a Centrally sponsored scheme for establishment of new medical colleges attached with district or referral hospitals, the one at Jaunpur has been made functional by the state government through its own resources.The new medical colleges have been named after noted personalities of the region and in some cases prominent politicians.Governor Anandiben Patel, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya were also present at the inauguration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ups-purvanchal-region-will-become-medical-hub-of-north-india-says-pm-modi-101635154505015.html
25-10-2021||India||Zika virus in UP: Centre rushes high-level team to Kanpur to assess situation||The Union health ministry on Monday rushed a multi-disciplinary team to Uttar Pradesh where a case of the Zika virus disease case has been reported.A 57-year-old man from Kanpur had tested positive for the viral disease on October 22.The high-level team, comprising an entomologist, public health specialists and gynaecologist drawn from the National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme, National Centre for Disease Control and RML Hospital, New Delhi, shall work closely with the state health department and take a stock of the situation on the ground.In a statement, the ministry further said it would also be assessed whether the Centre's Action Plan for Zika management was being implemented. The team would further recommend necessary public health interventions for containing the spread of the virus in the state.Also read | Maharashtra reports first Zika virus case in Pune villageA warrant officer in the Indian Air Force (IAF) was diagnosed with the infection on Saturday, the first case in Kanpur.Chief Medical Officer Nepal Singh said the IAF officer was suffering from fever for the past several days and was admitted to the Air Force Hospital in the district.Due to mysterious symptoms, his blood samples were sent to Pune where it was confirmed that the patient was Zika virus positive, he said, adding the report was received on Saturday.Also read | Zika virus cases in Kerala: Symptoms, prevention and treatment of mosquito-borne diseaseTwenty-two more samples of persons who came in contact with the patient and those who had similar symptoms were also sent for examination, Singh said.Kerala was the first state to have reported a case of Zika virus in a pregnant woman on July 8, following which a high alert was issued in the state.(With inputs from agencie)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zika-virus-in-up-centre-rushes-high-level-team-to-kanpur-to-assess-situation-101635154425463.html
25-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan drugs case: Sameer Wankhede denies allegations, ready to face probe||Sameer Wankhede, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) officer heading the investigation into a drugs case involving actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son, Aryan Khan, on Monday denied any wrongdoing and said he was ready to face any inquiry.Wankhede, the NCB’s Mumbai zonal director, made the assertion before the special Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) court. Citing recent developments, especially allegations made by Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik, the NCB on Monday moved the special court seeking orders to not allow anyone to take cognizance of the affidavit of Prabhakar Sail, a witness in the alleged drug bust case, or initiate action on the basis of the affidavit without prior permission of the special court.On October 3, Aryan Khan along with and a few others was arrested by the NCB after an alleged drug bust on a cruise ship.The agency’s counsel Advait Sethna urged the court to take up the plea for urgent hearing. Sethna told the court that names of witnesses were being divulged and also informed it about Sail’s affidavit, adding that it was forwarded to the NCB’s Delhi office “for further legal action”. In the affidavit, sworn before a notary, Sail claimed that he used to work as a bodyguard of Kiran P Gosavi, one of the nine witnesses in the case. Sail said a meeting was held after the raid at a cruise terminal in Mumbai and he heard a conversation between Gosavi and another individual about demanding ₹25 crore and settling for a smaller sum. He also claimed that he heard ₹8 crore of ₹25 crore was meant for a senior NCB officer. Sail went on to claim that he had collected two bags allegedly containing ₹50 lakh in cash and handed it over to Gosavi. In the affidavit filed before the special court along with the plea, Sameer Wankhede categorically denied the allegations made against him, saying they “are not only false but misleading, mischievous and maligning”. “I have been personally targeted, especially by a known political figure, for reasons best known to him,” Wankhede said in his affidavit. “The only justification that I can fathom is that one Sameer Khan, a relative of the political honcho, was arrested in an NDPS case in accordance with law and later enlarged on bail by this court. From that time, there are a series of personal vendetta targeted at me and my family members, who are victims of such defamatory attacks and false, frivolous and vexatious allegations.” Sameer Wankhede further said in his affidavit, “I was threatened to be arrested and to be dispelled from service. There is a lurking threat of arrest as it does not suit some vested interest, just for conducting honest and impartial investigation. “I am ready to face all that is in law to establish my innocence. In this case, highly influential people are involved, so I request the court to pass appropriate orders to preserve and protect the sanctity of a fair and unbiased investigation.”Wankhede stepped into the witness box and informed special judge Vaibhav Patil that his personal details and information about his family members were being made public. “They are targeting my family, by deceased mother and father. Today, they have also posted some photographs,” said Wankhede. “They are threatening officers, ‘panch’ witnesses and their family members. In this regard, a ‘panch’ has already filed a complaint.” The special court has slotted the matter for hearing in the afternoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aryan-khan-drugs-case-sameer-wankhede-denies-allegations-ready-to-face-probe-101635154625827.html
25-10-2021||India||MP minister Narottam Mishra backs ‘Ashram’ set vandals' demand, wants Prakash Jha to think||Madhya Pradesh home minister on Monday condemned the vandalism unleashed by Bajrang Dal activists at the sets of web series ‘Aashram’ in Bhopal, but backed the demand of the vandals calling for a change in the name and content of the series.He further urged Ashram’s producer-director Prakash Jha, on whom the miscreants threw ink over accusations of “portraying Hindus wrongly”, to think of the wrong that he was committing. The home minister said a permanent guideline will be issued and if there was an objectionable scene, the story would only be shot once permission was granted by the administration.“I support it (demand to change the show's name). Do you dare to keep some other name? Don't do things that will cause problems. What happened (violence at 'Aashram' sets) was wrong, four arrests were made. But Jha sahab, you should also think of the wrong you're doing,” Mishra was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.#WATCH | MP HM says, "...Directed DGP on Dabur's "lesbian ad", it should be probed & they be told to withdraw ad or face action. In 'Ashram' matter, we'll issue a permanent guideline that if there's objectionable scene,story should be given to admn first & shot only if permitted" pic.twitter.com/burQZYOXrgOn Sunday, Bajrang Dal activists ransacked the set of the third season of the web-series and threw ink on Jha. The windscreens of two buses of the crew were also broken in stone-pelting, said police. The outfit also threatened to stop the shooting of the web series that was underway on Old Jail Premises located in the Arera Hills.The activists also raised slogans against Jha and Bollywood actor Bobby Deol, who is in the lead role in the web-series, accusing them of hurting the Hindu sentiments.Speaking about advertisement by fast-moving consumer goods brand Dabur on a same-sex couple celebrating Karwa Chauth, Mishra said he had ordered the director general of police to probe the same and inform the company to withdraw the ad or face action.“Directed DGP on Dabur's "lesbian ad", it should be probed and they be told to withdraw ad or face action,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-minister-backs-ashram-set-vandals-demand-wants-prakash-jha-to-think-101635153035217.html
25-10-2021||India||PM Modi launches Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission from Varanasi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday launched PM Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission, touted to be one of the country's largest pan-India schemes, from Uttar Pradesh's Varanasi.Addressing the event, Modi took the opportunity to congratulate India for achieving the milestone of administering one billion (100 crore) vaccine doses in the fight against the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. He also extended greetings for upcoming festivals, including Diwali and Chhath. Also read: 'A gift to the state’s people’: PM Modi inaugurates 9 medical colleges in Uttar Pradesh“In its fight against Corona pandemic, the nation has achieved a major milestone of administering 100 cr vaccine doses.With blessings of Baba Vishwanath, Maa Ganga & trust of people of Kashi, the campaign of 'Sabko vaccine, muft vaccine' is going ahead successfully,” PM Modi said. The prime minister also inaugurated various development projects worth more than ₹5,200 crore for Varanasi.Speaking at the event, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath thanked Modi for launching the mission from Varanasi, which also happens to be the Prime Minister's Lok Sabha seat.The Pradhan Mantri Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission aims to fill gaps in public health infrastructure, especially in critical care facilities and primary care in both urban and rural areas. It will provide support for 17,788 rural health and wellness centres in 10 high focus states, reported news agency PTI.Through this, critical care services will be available in all the districts of the country with more than five lakh population through exclusive critical care hospital blocks, while the remaining districts will be covered through referral services.Under the scheme, a national institution for one health, four new national institutes for virology, a regional research platform for WHO South East Asia Region, nine biosafety level-III laboratories, five new regional national centre for disease control will be set up.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-launches-ayushman-bharat-health-infrastructure-mission-in-varanasi-101635149766351.html
25-10-2021||India||Will oppose BJP in Uttar Pradesh polls, says farmer leader Rakesh Tikait||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKU), which is spearheading the protests against the three farm laws enacted last year, will oppose the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections due early next year, farmer leader Rakesh Tikait said on Monday. He asked farmers not to vote for the BJP while maintaining they will not support any political party.Tikait accused the BJP of cheating the farmers. “...thus, I will appeal farmers not to vote for the BJP in the state assembly elections,” said Tikait in Agra, where he met the family of a sanitation worker allegedly killed in police custody last week. He added their agitation will continue until the three laws are not withdrawn. “The masses will give a befitting reply to the BJP which has brought these farm laws.” He added the farmers were always ready for the talks.The SKM earlier asked voters to “punish” the party in Assam, West Bengal, Puducherry, Tamil Nadu, and Kerala assembly elections held this summer.Tikait also accused the state government of discrimination when it comes to compensation. “...(Rs) 40 lakh was given to the family of a trader from Kanpur allegedly killed by police but only 10 lakh has been given to the family of the sanitation worker killed in Agra...(this) is unjustified,” He sought a judicial probe into the alleged custodial death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-oppose-bjp-in-uttar-pradesh-polls-tikait-101635151326653.html
25-10-2021||India||Singhu border lynching: NCSC says Punjab govt abdicated responsibility||The chairperson of the National Commission for Scheduled Castes, Vijay Sampla, on Monday alleged that the Punjab government abdicated its responsibility by not taking care of the family of Lakhbir Singh, the Dalit farmer who was lynched at Kundli at the site of the farmers’ protest. Sampla met Singh’s family, including his wife, sister and four minor girls, in Delhi on Monday. Sampla said no action has been taken by the state government to ensure the release of compensation to the family under the provisions of the SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act. He also pointed out that the family has been facing a social boycott that is unlawful and has been prevented from performing rites as per their faith. “We had earlier written to the Akal Takht that the social boycott should not be allowed. In the border areas, religious conversions are on the rise, this will worsen it,” he said.Accusing the government of not taking action to nab the perpetrators he said, “Earlier in a report, they (state government) said four (accused) have been arrested but no organisations or the state government has recognised their pain. The Punjab government has taken no steps nor said a word about the incident. They have abdicated their responsibility.” “The commission has assured them that under the POA Act action will be taken and money will be released at the earliest. Provisions for the education and other requirements of the girls will be ensured. A compensation of ₹8.5 lakh that they are entitled to will be released. Half of that amount is released soon after the filing of the FIR,” Sampla said. The wife of the deceased will also be entitled to a monthly pension of ₹5,000. Singh, 35, from Cheema Khurd village in Punjab’s Tarn Taran district was lynched at a farmers’ protest allegedly for desecration of the holy book of the Sikhs. Sampla however, said there is no proof of his involvement in the said crime and alleged that the killing could be a conspiracy. “There is no evidence that Lakhbir Singh did anything, they (protesting farmers) got him to work there, so they brought him there. If we look at this, there is a conspiracy planned. On Dussehra, it was rumoured that they will target Hindu festivals as well. Till there is no evidence, he cannot be held responsible,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/singhu-border-lynching-ncsc-says-punjab-govt-abdicated-responsibility-101635150607373.html
25-10-2021||India||'It could've been avoided': Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel on Jashpur incident||A day after a clash broke out between the Congress leaders in Chhattisgarh's Jashpur, chief minister Bhupesh Baghel said on Monday that the incident was unfortunate and should not have taken place. “It could have been avoided,” Baghel told news agency ANI.On Sunday, Congress' former Jashpur unit president Pawan Agarwal was pushed by party workers and was stopped from completing his speech at a party workers conference in the district.Video shared by news agency ANI showed Congress leaders getting into an altercation with Agarwal, who reportedly started speaking about Chhattisgarh health minister TS Singh Deo.Speaking to news agency ANI, chief minister Baghel said, “Party's state in-charge PL Punia has clarified everything, one should not spoil the atmosphere by raising questions again and again after that. The incident could have been avoided. It was unfortunate, it should not have taken place.”Also Read| Chhattisgarh Cong leader tries to make a case for TS Singh Deo, stopped midwayMoments after the assault on Sunday, Congress leader Pawan Agarwal said that TS Singh Deo waited for two and half years to become the chief minister of Chhattisgarh and it was time for Bhupesh Baghel to leave the top position. Agarwal also pointed out that it is due to Deo and Baghel that Congress became the ruling government in Chhattisgarh.For months, a power-sharing crisis has been going on between Bhupesh Baghel and TS Singh Deo. As the Baghel led-government finished over two and a half years of office, supporters of Deo have been demanding a rotational tenure for the chief minister.On the other hand, there is resentment growing in the Baghel camp over a possible change of guard amid the issue of rotational tenure for the CM's post.Last week, TS Singh Deo arrived at New Delhi on October 18, days after chief minister Baghel visited the national capital and met senior Congress leaders including Priyanka Gandhi. However, functionaries close to Baghel, denied that the meeting had anything to do with a possible change in guard.Apart from Deo and Baghel, two other prominent Congress leaders in Chhattisgarh- home minister Tamradhwaj Sahu and speaker Charan Das Mahant are eyeing the chief minister's post.In 2018, Congress won the state assembly elections with a thumping majority, as it secured 68 of the total 90 seats. Bhupesh Baghel, who was then the state unit president, was appointed as the chief minister.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-could-ve-been-avoided-chhattisgarh-cm-bhupesh-baghel-on-jashpur-incident-101635150296106.html
25-10-2021||India||Delhi sees sharp spike in dengue cases, total tally crosses 1,000 this year||There seems to be no respite for New Delhi residents despite a drop in Covid-19 cases as the city witnessed an alarming increase in the number of dengue cases in recent days, with 283 cases reported in the Capital over the last week. The jump in cases took the tally of infections beyond 1,000 this year, according to data released by the municipal corporation on Monday. The city recorded a total of 1,006 dengue cases this year until October 23, according to the data. Of the confirmed dengue cases this year, 665 were reported in just October, the month in which the city historically sees a peak in dengue infections. Of the total number of dengue cases recorded this year, 66.1% were reported in October alone.In October 2020, 346 dengue cases were reported, accounting for 32.2% of the total number of infections that year; 787 cases were reported in October 2019, marking 38.6% of the annual cases; and 1,114 cases were recorded in October 2018, accounting for 39.8% of the total annual infections. This year also saw dengue claim a life in New Delhi, even as fatalities from the Covid-19 pandemic came down. Last month, a 35-year-old woman from Sarita Vihar was hospitalised with severe stage of dengue and later succumbed on September 28. Her death was examined and confirmed by an expert committee. A dengue death was reported last year as well. Two people died from the disease in 2019 and four in 2018. The highest number of dengue deaths in New Delhi in a single year was reported in 2015 when a deadly outbreak claimed at least 60 lives, according to official figures. Dengue causes fever, body ache, nausea, vomiting, and in severe cases, internal bleeding or a fatal drop in blood pressure. Dengue cases began to rise amid a steady drop in the number of Covid-19 infections. Dengue was recently identified as one of the diseases, along with scrub typhus and leptospirosis, which killed at least 51 people, most of them children, in the state of Uttar Pradesh this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-respite-after-covid-19-slowdown-as-delhi-sees-sharp-spike-in-dengue-cases-101635150365086.html
25-10-2021||India||La Nina threatens to worsen energy crisis with colder winter||A weather phenomenon that typically delivers harsher winters is on the way and expected to add to Asia’s energy crisis. The La Nina pattern, which forms when equatorial trade winds strengthen to bring colder, deep water up from the bottom of the sea, has emerged in the Pacific. That typically spells below-normal temperatures in the northern hemisphere and has prompted regional weather agencies to issue warnings about a frigid winter.Several nations and particularly China, the top energy consumer, are grappling with surging fuel prices and for some, power shortages or curbs on supply to heavy industry. Coal and gas prices are already elevated and a bitter winter will add heating demand that’ll likely spur further gains.“We are expecting temperatures to be colder than normal this winter across northeastern Asia,” said Renny Vandewege, a vice president of weather operations at data provider DTN. “Weather forecast data is a critical component of predicting how much energy load will be required.”Here’s the outlook for some key nations:ChinaTemperatures plunged early last week across most of eastern China, and are already colder than usual in some northern areas, according to the country’s National Climate Center. Provinces including Heilongjiang, Shaanxi and Shanxi began the winter heating season between four and 13 days earlier than in previous years. Local government-controlled systems -- typically powered by coal or gas -- are fired up to warm residents’ homes in many areas.Extreme weather conditions could happen more regularly as a result of global warming, according to Zhi Xiefei, atmospheric science professor at Nanjing University of Information Science & Technology. “Cold waves could lead to greater temperature drops, but unusual warm events could also appear,” Zhi said.The climate center expects the country to enter La Nina conditions this month, the official Xinhua News Agency said on Saturday.JapanJapan will likely see lower than normal temperatures next month, according to the Japan Meteorological Agency, which had earlier forecast a 60% chance of a La Nina over the autumn-winter period. The nation, which has been relatively insulated from the energy crisis, is staying vigilant after last year’s deep freeze that saw wholesale power prices spike. Utilities were caught without enough fuel as demand surged last winter, forcing them to buy costly spot liquefied natural gas shipments. The trade ministry has already been meeting with major power, gas and oil firms to prepare for the winter months, and LNG stockpiles held by Japan’s major electricity providers are currently about 24% above the four-year average.South KoreaSouth Korea will see colder weather in the first half of winter, and is also likely to be impacted by the effects of La Nina, according to the country’s meteorological administration. The country saw its first snow of the season 15 days earlier than last year amid an unusually cold October.The nation’s government is already taking steps to bolster fuel supply and mitigate the impact of higher prices. Fuel taxes and LNG import tariffs will be temporarily lowered, Vice Finance Minister Lee Eog-weon said Friday. IndiaTemperatures in India are expected to fall to as low as 3 degrees Celsius (37 Fahrenheit) in some northern areas in January and February before recovering. Unlike in other nations, cooler weather typically leads to lower energy consumption as demand for air conditioning wanes.Most importantly, the nation is anticipating a drier period after the end of the monsoon season. Key coal mining regions suffered flooding in recent months that triggered a squeeze on supply of the fuel used to produce about 70% of the nation’s electricity. Aside from La Nina events, there are other factors that can impact the region’s winter weather, according to Todd Crawford, director of meteorology at Atmospheric G2. Climate change has led to a lack of sea ice in the Arctic’s Kara Sea, which may be contributing to high pressure ridging in that area. This leads to downstream colder conditions across northeast Asia, “like what happened last winter,” he said.There are also indications the polar vortex – a girdle of winds that bottle up cold at the pole – could be weaker than normal at the start of winter, which would allow frigid air to spill south, Crawford said. “Putting all that together, we think the best window for big cold in northeast Asia this winter is in the late November to mid-January window,” he said. “That is where we think the greatest risk lies.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/la-nina-threatens-to-worsen-energy-crisis-with-colder-winter-101635145648841.html
25-10-2021||India||Metro Matters | Green infra is the health insurance Delhi needs||For long, Delhi learnt to associate even moderate spells of downpour with waterlogged roads. But last Monday, few seemed to resent traffic snarls triggered by the heaviest 24-hour rainfall recorded for October since 1956. The intense shower washed away pollutants that were setting the stage for the city’s annual choking season, giving Delhi its first “good’ air day of 2021.
25-10-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Mumbai airport footfall returning to pre-Covid times and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.The footfall at the Mumbai airport is returning to pre-Covid times. During the nine-day Navratri festival, 665,985 passengers flew in and out of the airport between October 7 and October 15. Over 317,000 of them arrived at the airport and 348,740 departed it. Read moreIt was a long time coming, but was worth the wait. It took Pakistan nearly three decades and 13 matches to end their barren run against India at World Cups. And what a way to do it. Led by the charismatic Babar Azam, Pakistan annihilated India by 10 wickets in their T20 World Cup opener at the Dubai International Cricket Stadium on Sunday to snap their losing streak at the biggest cricketing tournament in the world. Read moreAsus has been launching thin and light laptops with its VivoBook series in India and the company is now bringing OLED displays to the range with the recently launched Asus VivoBook K15 OLED laptop. This laptop features a good quality display with decent hardware specifications which are light to hold — the company says these laptops are aimed at a younger demographic. Read moreToyota Motor has filed a trademark for the Maruti Suzuki Ertiga-based Toyota Rumion in India, hinting that the automaker is looking at launching the MPV in the country sometime soon, and under the same name. The vehicle, which is the third rebadged Maruti Suzuki model to be sold under Toyota brand, had been recently revealed in South Africa. Read moreThere are videos on the Internet that show wonderful gestures by kids. Those videos often leave people both surprised and happy. This clip involving a kid and a security official at Bengaluru airport is a fine inclusion to that list. There is a chance that the wholesome video will leave you smiling. Read morePomegranate or anar, the fruit that lures with its shiny red tiny seeds that taste sweet and a little tart, is a storehouse of nutrition. Rich in phytochemicals, antioxidants and Vitamin C, pomegranate has been known for its medicinal properties since more than a thousand years. India is said to be one of the largest producers of pomegranates in the world. It is also grown in parts of the United States, Afghanistan, Russia, China, and Japan. Read moreOn Monday, October 25, the 67th National Film Awards ceremony took place and Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu presented the awards to those who won this year. The awardees include Kangana Ranaut and Manoj Bajpayee. Read moreIndia's first indigenous aircraft carrier IAC Vikrant set sail from Kochi for its second sea trial on October 24. The warship, the largest and most complex to ever be built in India, had completed maiden sea voyage in August this year. It is likely to be inducted into the Indian Navy in August next year. After the first sea trials, the Navy had said that performance of key systems was found to be satisfactory. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-mumbai-airport-footfall-returning-to-pre-covid-times-and-all-the-latest-news-101635146185014.html
25-10-2021||India||After alleged student attack, Omar asks Punjab CM to reassure Kashmiri students||National Conference leader Omar Abdullah on Monday asked Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi to reassure Kashmiri students studying in his state after some of them were allegedly assaulted after India lost their opening match of the Twenty20 World Cup to Pakistan in Dubai on Sunday.“It is distressing to hear about the incidents of physical & verbal assault against some Kashmiri students in a college in Punjab last night. I request @CHARANJITCHANNIji to direct @PunjabPoliceInd to look in to this & also to reassure the students studying in Punjab,” Abdullah, a former chief minister, said in a tweet.Nasir Khuehami, a student leader, said that Kashmiri students were assaulted in Sangrur and Kharar (Mohali) in Punjab. He added that they told him that local Punjabis came to their rescue. “Students from Bihar, UP (Uttar Pradesh), and Haryana barged in their rooms, thrashed them and went rampage,” tweeted Khuehami.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reassure-kashmiri-students-omar-asks-punjab-chief-minister-101635146647001.html
25-10-2021||India||Festival season: Centre to hold meeting with states to discuss edible oil prices||With an eye on the festival season, Sudhanshu Pandey, secretary of the Department of Food and Public Distribution (DFPD), is expected to hold a meeting today with representatives of all the states and union territories in order to discuss the demand, availability, stock limits and prices of edible oils across India.“The DFPD is monitoring the prices of edible oils and their availability to the consumer,” a statement issued by the department said. “It is especially important in the context of the upcoming festival season, during which the demand for edible oils will increase.”The government-run department said that since the demand for edible oils was different in each state and union territory, they can separately refer to the stock disclosure notice that has been issued in order to finalise their stock limits for edible oils and oilseeds. The DFPD has also created a website dedicated to closely monitoring edible oil stocks on a weekly basis. The Centre has already taken various steps to bring down high prices, including a cut in import duties on palm oil, sunflower oil and soybean oil. Stock limits were put in place for most traders of edible oils and oilseeds until March 31 this year in a bid to control domestic prices. The prices of oils have fallen by ₹3-4 per kg following a recent cut in import duties. During an 11-month spell from November 2020 to September 2021, the import of vegetable oils rose 2% to 12,470,784 tonnes compared to 12,257,837 tonnes in the corresponding period of the previous year. Of the total vegetable oils imported, edible oil imports rose to 12,085,247 tonnes from 11,950,501 tonnes, while non-edible oil imports rose to 385,537 tonnes from 307,333 tonnes. The marketing year for vegetable oils runs from November to October.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/festival-season-centre-to-hold-meeting-with-states-to-discuss-edible-oil-prices-101635145444996.html
25-10-2021||India||Kerala man orders iPhone worth ₹70,900 from Amazon, gets soap bar, ₹5 coin||A man from Kerala's Aluva ordered an Apple iPhone 12 from Amazon but received a bar of soap and a coin instead earlier this month, according to reports. Noorul Ameen later told Mathrubhumi.com that his account has been credited with the amount he paid to buy the phone using an Amazon Pay card.Noorul Ameen, a regular Amazon customer, ordered the smartphone on October 12 after paying ₹70,900 through his Amazon Pay card and received the package on October 15, according to Mathrubhumi.However, he was suspicious after the package was halted in Salem for a day after being dispatched from Hyderabad. Most packages arrived from Hyderabad to Kochi in two days, but his iPhone 12 order took three days. As he was suspicious, he opened the box in front of the Amazon delivery partner and shot a video while doing so. He told Mathrubhumi that the items felt similar in weight to an iPhone.The package contained a bar of popular dish-washing bar Vim, a piece of the soap, and a ₹5 coin instead of the iPhone 12 he had ordered. Ameen immediately called Amazon customer care and filed a police complaint. The police launched an investigation and found that the iPhone was being used by someone in Jharkhand since September 25. This was 15 days before Ameen booked the phone.“We contacted the Amazon authorities and the Telangana-based seller. The phone has been in use in Jharkhand since September 25 this year, even though the order was placed only in October. When we contacted the seller, he said the phone was out of stock and that the amount paid by Noorul would be returned,” a police officer told the New Indian Express.Ameen told Mathrubhumi that his account was credited with the amount, which he had paid using an Amazon Pay card. Kerala Police also said in a Facebook post that the seller returned the money to Ameen. They said the amount was credited to his account last Thursday and that an investigation into the case is ongoing.Last month, the New Indian Express also reported that a 22-year-old engineering student in North Paravoor received a package stuffed with old newspapers instead of a high-end laptop she booked. The seller has refunded the amount to the student, the New Indian Express added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-man-orders-iphone-worth-rs-70-900-from-amazon-gets-soap-bar-rs-5-coin-101635143431848.html
25-10-2021||India||Mumbai drugs case: Witness arrives at NCB office; Ananya Pandey to be quizzed by NCB | Latest updates||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has summoned Bollywood actor Ananya Pandey for the third round of questioning on Monday in connection with the Mumbai drugs-on-cruise case. The actor faced questioning by the agency for around four hours last Thursday.In a new turn of events in the drugs-on-cruise case, an 'independent witness' on Sunday claimed that an official from the anti-drugs agency and others, including absconding witness KP Gosavi, demanded ₹25 crore to let off Aryan Khan, the son of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan under arrest in the case.>Prabhakar Sail, the 'independent witness', told reporters he overheard Gosavi telling a man called Sam D'Souza over the phone about a demand of ₹25 crore and "to settle at ₹18 crore as they have to give ₹eight crore to Sameer Wankhede", the zonal director of NCB, reported news agency PTI. This was after Aryan Khan was brought to the NCB office after the October 2 raid.Also read: 'Aryan has a future ahead, should be …’: Union minister's advice for Shah Rukh>Prabhakar Sail is one of the nine witnesses the NCB has named in the case. He also claims to be a personal bodyguard to KP Gosavi. He reached NCB Mumbai Police Commissioner’s office on Monday.>A senior NCB official has denied the allegations, terming them as "completely false and malicious".>Meanwhile, Sameer Wankhede, who is heading the probe, on Sunday wrote to Mumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale seeking protection from likely legal action "being planned" against him by unknown persons to falsely frame him concerning an alleged vigilance related issue.>Wankhede did not mention any names but wrote in his letter that the threat of jail and dismissal have been issued against him on public media by highly respectable public functionaries.>This could be a reference to Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik who earlier said the officer will lose his job. "They (BJP) have a puppet - Wankhede. He raises bogus cases against people. I challenge that Wankhede that he'll lose his job within a year... We have evidence of bogus cases," news agency ANI quoted Malik as saying.>Sail also shared a video with the media which purportedly shows Gosavi recording audio of Aryan Khan at the NCB office, in which hotelier Kunal Jani, who was earlier arrested in a separate drugs case, was also briefly seen. This triggered speculation if Jani, who is the director of a prominent restaurant in Bandra, was connected to the case.>However, the NCB said that it arrested Jani in a separate drugs case and he was present at its office when Aryan Khan was brought there as the restauranter’s statement was also being recorded, reported PTI.>Aryan Khan was arrested on October 3 and was sent to judicial custody on October 7. He has been charged under the sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and all his bail pleas have been rejected.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-drugs-case-witness-arrives-at-ncb-office-ananya-pandey-to-be-quizzed-by-ncb-latest-updates-101635139641401.html
25-10-2021||India||Mumbai airport traffic returning to pre-Covid times with Navratri as tailwind||The footfall at the Mumbai airport is returning to pre-Covid times. During the nine-day Navratri festival, 665,985 passengers flew in and out of the airport between October 7 and October 15. Over 317,000 of them arrived at the airport and 348,740 departed it. During the same time last year, about 284,000 passengers flew in and out of the Mumbai airport. Before the Covid-19 pandemic, around 844,000 passengers flew in and out of the airport during the Navratri festival from September 29 to October 7, 2019.“From October 7 to October 15, 2021, CSMIA (Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport) played host to a total of over 665,985 passengers of which over 317,240 passengers were seen arriving, while 348,740 passengers departed the airport. During the same period, a total of 5,101 flights were operated with 2,544 departing and 2,557 arriving at CSMIA,” said an airport spokesperson.Mumbai authorities allowed airlines to operate at 100% capacity, and the footfall is expected to increase during Diwali and Christmas.As many as 729,240 passengers flew in and out of the airport during the Ganpati festivities between September 5 and September 19.The airport spokesperson said New Delhi, Bengaluru and Goa were the top three destinations during the Navratri festival.IndiGo flew the most number of passengers, at 340,347, followed by Go First (95,562) and Air India (87,546) during that period. As many as 277,805 passengers flew on weekdays and 3,88,180 during the weekend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-airport-traffic-returning-to-pre-covid-times-with-navratri-as-tailwind-101635141664588.html
25-10-2021||India||Netas react to India’s defeat in T20 match with Pakistan||Several politicians took to Twitter after India lost to Pakistan in their opening match of the ICC T20 World Cup in Dubai on Sunday.Indian National Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, who was at the Dubai International Stadium to watch the match, said, “A few cheerful moments on a dispiriting evening at the Dubai Cricket Stadium. Never have I witnessed India being routed more comprehensively in over half a century of watching international cricket.” He also congratulated Pakistan and hoped that India reverses the result in the finals.
25-10-2021||India||Rising water levels, swampy banks a challenge for Patna as Chhath approaches||Rising water levels of the Ganga due to unprecedented rain this month and unusually swampy banks have turned into a challenge for Patna’s civic authorities as they focus on preparing the ghats of the capital city of Bihar for next month’s Chhath festival, officials of Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) said on Sunday.The four-day Chhath festival begins on November 8 and is celebrated across Bihar.PMC officials said an unusually high amount of rainfall in October has worsened the condition of the ghats along the Ganga river in Patna. Several roads leading to the banks of the Ganga are inundated while many are peppered with potholes. The water levels near NIT Ghat, Kali Ghat and Collectorate Ghat have risen considerably over the past two days.Municipal commissioner Himanshu Sharma said, “Repairs to the approach roads have begun. Uneven roads are being levelled using sand and mud. We have also launched a drive to clean up the banks of the river. A sufficient number of sanitation staff has been deployed to carry out the drive.”The civic body has segregated a total of 93 ghats along the Ganga river into 23 sectors to make arrangements for the Chhath festival, which include putting in place barricades, lighting, drinking water facilities and changing rooms.Patna’s district magistrate Chandrashekhar Singh said, “We have formed 21 teams for monitoring preparations at Chhath festival ghats and for ensuring timely completion of all assigned work. These teams will inspect all the ghats and identify the unsafe ones, where devotees will be prevented from entering.”Also, the urban development department (UDD) has asked the authorities to set up artificial ponds at 45 parks in Patna. Department officials also said a cleanliness drive is underway spanning around 1,400 ghats and at least 3,000 ponds across Bihar to set the stage for Chhath celebrations.“Municipal bodies have been instructed to repair approach roads, clean up water bodies and arrange basic amenities at Chhath festival ghats for the convenience of devotees latest by November 8. A special cleanliness drive will be launched during Diwali and Chhath festival,” said a senior UDD official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rising-water-levels-swampy-banks-a-challenge-for-patna-as-chhath-approaches-101635139144555.html
25-10-2021||India||India reports 14,306 fresh Covid cases; Kerala highest contributor||India reported 14,306 fresh cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 443 related deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Monday. Of the total cases and fatalities reported in the past 24 hours, Kerala alone accounted for 8,538 infections and 71 deaths.The health ministry also said that the country's active caseload now stands at 167,695, the lowest in 239 days, and accounts for less than 1 per cent of total infections.The recovery rate in the country has soared to 98.18 per cent and is the highest since the beginning of the pandemic. The weekly positivity rate stood at 1.24 per cent and the daily positivity rate at 1.43 per cent, according to the health ministry.Also read: Pandemic far from over, will end when...: WHO chief's word of cautionIn an apparent sign of the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic receding, the daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 31 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 120 consecutive days now.India has administered more than 1.0227 billion Covid-19 vaccine doses so far, as per the data available with the health ministry. On October 22, the country celebrated the milestone of administering 1 billion vaccine doses under the inoculation drive.India's Covid-19 tally crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-14-306-fresh-covid-cases-kerala-highest-contributor-101635136050940.html
25-10-2021||India||Char Dham Yatra continues amid snowfall in Uttarakhand, temple council says||The pilgrimage to Char Dham in Uttarakhand continued on Monday, the governing council of the circuit of the temples said, even as heavy snowfall and rain battered most parts of the hilly state.The Char Dham temples comprise four pilgrim destinations, including Yamunotri, Gangotri, Kedarnath and Badrinath, in Uttarkhand and draw a large number of visitors every year. The pilgrimage to the four temples began on September 18 this year, after the Nainital high court allowed fully vaccinated tourists with negative RT-PCR reports for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to travel.The Devasthanam Management Board, the governing council of the pilgrim circuit, said the process of clearing snow on the route to the Kedarnath shrine was underway, according to news agency ANI. Last week, the state authorities were forced to halt pilgrimage to the Char Dham as heavy rainfall triggered flash floods and landslides across Uttarakhand and claimed the lives of at least 75 people, including several tourists. At least 13 people, including 10 trekkers, were also reported to have died after they were trapped in heavy snowfall in the mountains.ALSO READ | Climate crisis, land-use change ruining ecology: Experts on Uttarakhand flash floodEven helicopter services to the Kedarnath shrine was reportedly affected after layers of snow covered the helipad. The route to Gangotri and Yamunotri was also hit by snowfall.The Uttarakhand government then requested the pilgrims and visitors to the Char Dham to postpone their trips or stay put at safer locations for the weather to improve. Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami asked the district magistrates of Pauri and Rudraprayag to keep him updated on the situation.Incessant rainfall, result of an unusual western disturbance – a rain system that originates in the Mediterranean region — swept across Uttarakhand and adjoining Himachal Pradesh brought normal life to a virtual standstill and caused widespread damage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/char-dham-yatra-continues-amid-snowfall-in-uttarakhand-temple-council-says-101635133982063.html
25-10-2021||India||‘J&K was better governed before nullification of Article 370’: Azad||Former chief minister and Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad has said Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) was better governed before it was stripped of its semi-autonomous status and downgraded to a Union Territory following the nullification of the Constitution’s Article 370 in August 2019.The comments came hours after Union Home Minister Amit Shah, who is on a three-day visit to J&K, on Tuesday called Article 370 “discriminatory” and said that a new era of development was ushered in with its nullification.“We were told the scenario in J&K will change after the abrogation of Article 370. Growth, hospitals, unemployment will be taken care of. But that has not happened at all. As a matter of fact, we were far better when it was being ruled by various CMs (chief ministers before August 2019),” Azad told news agency ANI. “...We are a great loser after the state has been divided into two (Union Territories). We have been a great loser ever since the Assembly has been dissolved.”Another former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti criticised the Centre for opting for “cosmetic” steps which do not address the “actual problem”. In a tweet, she said Shah’s visit should have been preceded by following up on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s assurances after his meeting with J&K leaders in June.At that meeting, Modi and Shah stressed the importance of conducting elections in J&K. They reiterated their commitment to restoring the region’s statehood, and urged J&K leaders to participate in the ongoing delimitation exercise for redrawing poll constituencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-was-better-governed-before-nullification-of-article-370-azad-101635136565654.html
25-10-2021||India||Amit Shah to address panchayat, BJP leaders on Day 3 of J&K visit||Union home minister Amit Shah will address panchayat representatives and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders in Srinagar on the third and last day of his visit to Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) on Monday. He will also meet members of the civil society and attend a Central Reserve Police Force function in Pulwama.Shah earlier returned to Srinagar on Sunday evening after addressing a rally in Jammu and visiting the India-Pakistan border. He interacted with Border Security Force jawans as well.Security across Jammu and Kashmir had been enhanced, especially in Srinagar, in view of his visit. Security forces have stepped up checking and frisking. Some of the roads have been closed for traffic while three-tier security has been put in place in Srinagar. Amit Shah on Sunday said the Centre aimed to wipe out terrorism from Jammu and Kashmir and put an end to the killing of civilians. He said nobody will be allowed to disrupt peace and development in the region.Shah’s visit is his first to the region after the Centre revoked the erstwhile state’s semi-autonomous status and split it into two union territories in August 2019.Amit Shah arrived in Srinagar on Saturday amid a spike in violence. A series of targeted killings has left 11 civilians dead this month.On Sunday, paramilitary troopers allegedly shot dead Shahid Ahmad, a civilian, in Shopian. Ahmad’s family called his killing a “cold-blooded” murder even as police blamed him for snatching the rifle of a paramilitary trooper. It was the second such civilian killing this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-to-address-panchayat-bjp-leaders-on-day-3-of-jammu-and-kashmir-visit-101635135184201.html
25-10-2021||India||PM Modi to visit UP today, launch new healthcare scheme||On Monday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Uttar Pradesh for the launch of a new healthcare scheme, Prime Minister Atmanirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojana (PMASBY), that will work toward strengthening the healthcare infrastructure across India.“The objective of PMASBY is to fill critical gaps in public health infrastructure, especially in critical care facilities and primary care in both urban and rural areas. It will provide support for 17,788 rural Health and Wellness Centres in 10 High Focus States,” stated the press release issued by PM’s office. It added that 11,024 urban Health and Wellness Centres will also be established across all states.Under the PMASBY, a national institution for one health, four new national institutes for virology, a regional research platform for WHO South-East Asia Region, nine biosafety level-III laboratories, five new regional national centres for disease control will be set up, the PMO said.Under three phases of the scheme, 157 new medical colleges have been approved across the nation, out of which 63 medical colleges are already functional, the PMO said.The Centre said that eight medical institutions have been sanctioned under the centrally sponsored scheme, which aims to set up colleges attached with district or referral hospitals, while one institution to be inaugurated in Jaunpur on Monday has been made operational by the Adityanath-led state government using its own resources.The PMASBY scheme was first announced in the Union Budget 2021-2022 on February 1. An outlay of about ₹64,180 crores over six years (till the financial year of 2025-26) was sanctioned for the scheme in September.Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel and Union Minister of Health and Family Welfare Mansukh Mandaviya will also be present at the event. Furthermore, PM Modi will also inaugurate many development projects worth more than ₹5, 200 crores in Varanasi.With Uttar Pradesh going to the polls next year, this is PM Modi’s second visit to the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-visit-up-today-launch-new-healthcare-scheme-101635133805937.html
25-10-2021||India||Northeast monsoon to set in over peninsular India||Monsoon is likely to withdraw from the entire country during the next 48 to 24 hours according to India Meteorological Department.Monsoon normally withdraws completely by October 15.Simultaneously, the northeast monsoon, which affects the south Peninsular region, is also likely to commence over southeast Peninsular India during the next 48 hours. Under the influence of likely setting in of northeasterly winds in the lower tropospheric levels over the Bay of Bengal and extreme south Peninsular India, light to moderate fairly widespread rainfall with isolated heavy rain, thunderstorm and lightning are likely over Kerala and Mahe, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal and South Interior Karnataka during next 5 days, over Coastal Karnataka during next 3-4 days and Coastal Andhra Pradesh and Rayalaseema during the next 24 hours. Isolated very heavy rain is also likely over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal from October 25 to 26 and over Kerala and Mahe on October 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/northeast-monsoon-to-set-in-over-peninsular-india-101635133325783.html
25-10-2021||India||On last day of J-K visit, Shah to inaugurate development projects in Srinagar||Union home minister Amit Shah, who is on the last leg of his three-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir, will on Monday inaugurate and lay the foundation stone of various development projects in Srinagar. Shah's visit to the Valley is the first since the revocation of Article 370 and 35A in August 2019.On Sunday, Shah visited the forward areas of the Makwal border and interacted with the soldiers and local population. He was accompanied by J-K lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha.Speaking to news agency ANI, additional director general of the Border Security Force (BSF) posted to the Western Command, NS Jamwal said on Sunday that Shah's visit to the border area was a huge encouragement for the soldiers. "He has assured that our issues of tunnels and drones are being addressed and it will be resolved soon," Jamwal addedIn Jammu, the Union home minister met the delegations of Kashmiri Pandits, Gujjar-Bakarwal community, Pahadi community and Jammu and Kashmir Chamber of Commerce.Addressing a rally in Bhagwati Nagar ground after he inaugurated a new campus of the IIT in Jammu on Sunday, Shah said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi restored the grassroots democracy and started a new phase of development in Kashmir where lakhs of people faced injustice under the garb of Article 370.On Saturday, Amit Shah met the families of civilians and soldiers in Jammu and Kashmir who were killed by terrorists in a series of targeted killings in October. As many as 11 civilians, a majority of who belonged to other states, have been killed this month.Shah also met the family of slain Jammu and Kashmir Police inspector Parvez Ahmad, who was killed by terrorists in June this year. Shah said that the entire country is proud of Ahmad's bravery and offered a government job to the policeman's wife.Chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat said the Union home minister's visit to the Valley is to give confidence to people that security forces and the state administration are with them. “We will not allow this to be perpetrated and that we will bring the situation under control,” Rawat added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-final-day-of-j-k-visit-shah-to-inaugurate-development-projects-in-srinagar-101635128719219.html
25-10-2021||India||Monday’s forecast for Delhi: Partly cloudy skies, lowest temperature of 18°C||New Delhi is likely to see partly cloudy skies on Monday, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast, with the mercury predicted to dip to around 18 degrees Celsius.The city’s maximum temperature on Monday could go up to 31 degrees Celsius.On Sunday, the mercury recorded a high of 31.5 degrees Celsius, while it was 19 degrees Celsius at its lowest.Delhi’s air quality was categorised as “moderate” as of Monday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) stood at 105 at 7am. Sunday’s average 24-hour AQI for the Capital was 160.An AQI up to 50 is considered “good”, 51-100 “satisfactory”, 101-200 “moderate”, 201-300 “poor”, 301-400 “very poor”, and 401-500 “severe”.On Sunday, the ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), said, that New Delhi’s AQI was in the “moderate category”, and combined with dry weather and southwesterly winds, dust emission will enhance to PM10. “Additional dust input from desert areas via transport is very likely,” SAFAR said. “Stubble burning effective fire count… is 735 and its share in PM2.5 is 2%.”It also said that the impact of emissions from fires will be low as the wind is mainly from southwesterly. “With a change in wind direction from southwesterly to northwesterly, the AQI may degrade. Due to scattered rainfall, the AQI will improve slightly over the next 24 hours and then degrade to moderate,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mondays-forecast-for-delhi-partly-cloudy-skies-lowest-temperature-of-18c-101635131884047.html
25-10-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: PM Modi to launch health infra scheme from Varanasi today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9AM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM to launch ₹64k-cr health infra scheme from Varanasi todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday will launch the Pradhan Mantri Atmanirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojana (PMASBY), worth ₹64,180 crore, to strengthen the health care infrastructure across the country. Read more'Aryan Khan has a future ahead, should be …’: Union minister’s advice for Shah Rukh KhanUnion minister of state for social justice and empowerment Ramdas Athawale has advised Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan to send his son Aryan Khan, who has been arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in connection with the drugs-on-cruise case, to a rehabilitation centre. Read moreAs Covid cases surge in Germany, questions on extension of state of emergencyGermany is currently facing an increased spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), prompting calls to extend the nationwide state of emergency, which will end next month. Read moreVarun Dhawan joins Natasha Dalal for her first Karwa Chauth, Kartik Aaryan calls him ‘Aadarsh Pati’Varun Dhawan and wife Natasha Dalal celebrated their first Karwa Chauth on Sunday. Late evening, Varun shared pictures from the celebrations at home as Natasha did puja of the moon. Read moreAngelina Jolie dresses up in silver bodycon gown with Zahara Jolie-Pitt and Shiloh for Eternals premiereAfter stunning the crowds at the Los Angeles premiere of Eternals, Angelina Jolie graced the red carpet at the Rome premiere of the film with her daughters, Zahara, 16, and Shiloh, 15. Read more'This is the first game of the tournament, not the last': Virat Kohli after India's 10-wicket drubbing against PakistanVirat Kohli's India endured a tough start to their T20 World Cup campaign as they suffered a heavy 10-wicket drubbing against Pakistan in their first match in Dubai on Sunday. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9am-pm-modi-to-launch-health-infra-scheme-from-varanasi-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101635126485312.html
25-10-2021||India||Unlike other parties...: Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi explains BJP's take on secularism||Union minister for minority affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi has alleged that some political parties have used secularism as a tool for "political gains", but for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) it is the "constitutional and national responsibility"."Some people have used the word secularism only for their political gains. If you look at the 75 years of Indian history, you'll see that some political parties have made secularism as the means for their political benefits. They have deceived the objectives of our Indian Constitution," Naqvi said during his address to the national executive meeting of BJP Minority Morcha in Delhi on Saturday, according to news agency ANI"For the BJP, secularism is a constitutional and national responsibility. It is not a political deal for us," the BJP leader said.Naqvi also highlighted the benefits received by minorities under various schemes launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led central government.“Out of 2 crore people who benefitted from the Modi government's housing project, 31% are minorities, while 33% of 12 crore farmers being provided Kisan Samman Nidhi are also minorities,” the cabinet minister asserted.Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi also credited PM Modi for working on ensuring equality among all sections of society during the last seven years of his governance. “The government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has worked for inclusive empowerment with a commitment to constitutional values. It has ensured all sections, including minorities, becoming an equal partner of the development process,” ANI quoted him saying further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlike-other-parties-mukhtar-abbas-naqvi-explains-bjp-s-take-on-secularism-101635129048775.html
25-10-2021||India||India to lift quarantine requirement for international travellers from today||Fully vaccinated travellers, who are coming from a country with which India has reciprocal arrangements for mutual acceptance of World Health Organization (WHO) approved Covid-19 vaccines, shall be allowed to leave the airport and need not undergo home quarantine and testing from Monday, according to the revised guidelines for international arrivals released on Wednesday.They will, however, have to produce a negative Covid-19 RT-PCR report. These guidelines for international arrivals supersede all others issued on and after February 17 this year, the Union health ministry has said.“The global trajectory of Covid-19 pandemic continues to decline with certain regional variations. The need to monitor the continuously changing nature of virus and the evolution of SARS-CoV-2 variants of concern (VOCs) must still remain in focus,” the ministry said.“The existing guidelines (issued on 17th February 2021 with subsequent addendums) for international arrivals in India have been formulated taking a risk-based approach. In view of increasing vaccination coverage across the globe and the changing nature of the pandemic, the existing guidelines for international arrivals in India have been reviewed,” it added.Check latest SOPs here:1. If partially or not vaccinated, the travellers need to undertake measures which include submission of sample for post-arrival Covid-19 test at the point of arrival after which they will be allowed to leave the airport, home quarantine for seven days, re-test on the eighth day of arrival in India and if negative, further self monitor their health for the next seven days.2. The new guidelines provide protocols to be complied with international travellers as well those to be followed by airlines, points of entry (airports, seaports and land border) for risk profiling of passengers.3. This Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) shall be valid from Monday till further orders. Based on the risk assessment, this document shall be reviewed from time to time, the ministry said.4. According to the guidelines, while planning for travel, all travellers should submit a self-declaration form on the online Air Suvidha portal before the scheduled travel and upload a negative Covid-19 RT-PCR report. This test should have been conducted within 72 hours prior to undertaking the journey.5. All passengers shall also submit a declaration with respect to the authenticity of the report and will be liable for criminal prosecution if found otherwise.6. “Travellers from countries excluding those countries at risk will be allowed to leave the airport and shall self-monitor their health for 14 days’ post-arrival. This is applicable to travellers from all countries including countries with which reciprocal arrangements for mutual acceptance of WHO approved Covid-19 vaccines also exist,” the guidelines stated.7. If the travellers who are under home quarantine or self-health monitoring develop signs and symptoms suggestive of Covid-19 or test positive for Covid-19 on re-testing, they will immediately self-isolate and report to their nearest health facility or call the national helpline number (1075) or state helpline number.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-lift-quarantine-requirement-for-international-travellers-from-today-101635120558123.html
25-10-2021||NA||Sameer Wankhede reaches Delhi, says have come for ‘different purpose’||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:Kanpur Metro today began run on test-track in depot: UPMRC MD#WATCH | Kanpur Metro today commenced a run on test-track in depot. Extremely satisfying and fulfilling achievement for the whole team of UPMRC. We will be achieving bigger goals in the next few months: Kumar Keshav, MD, UPMRC(Video source: Kanpur Metro Corporation) pic.twitter.com/tVXJ8ynZFxKanpur Metro today commenced a run on test-track in depot, ANI reported quoting UPMRC MD Kumar Keshav. “Extremely satisfying and fulfilling achievement for the whole team of UPMRC. We will be achieving bigger goals in the next few months,” he added.NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede reaches Delhi, says have come for ‘different purpose’NCB Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede reaches Delhi amid allegations of payoff in the cruise ship drugs case involving Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan. "I've come here for a different purpose. Allegations against me are baseless," he told ANI.Sudan army kills 2, injures 80 others among anti-coup protestersAmid the ongoing unrest in Sudan, the country's army has killed two people, and injured as many as 80 others among the anti-coup protesters, AFP reported citing medics.Kinnaur administration in HP bans trekking, mountaineering activitiesAmid multiple deaths among trekkers due to extreme snowfall in the state, the Kinnaur administration in Himachal Pradesh has prohibited trekking and mountaineering activities on all treks in the district, ANI reported.Maharashtra begins process of announcing ex-Mumbai cop Param Bir Singh as an ‘absconder’The Maharashtra home department has commenced the process of announcing former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh as an ‘absconder’. The department has written to the Intelligence Bureau (IB) that the IPS officer is untraceable. The state said it has sought legal opinion on the process to declare him an absconder.Bengal governor Dhankar admitted to AIIMS, Delhi with MalariaNews agency ANI on Monday reported that West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar has been admitted in the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi after testing positive for Malaria.NIA court sentences 4 Hizbul Mujahedeen terrorists to up to 12 yearsThe NIA court Delhi on Monday sentenced Md Shafi Shah and Muzaffar Ahmad Dar to 12 years of imprisonment, and Talib Lali and Mushtaq Ahmad Lone to 10 years of imprisonment for conspiring to commit terror activities in India, and also conspire to wage war against the Indian government. “All are functionaries of Hizbul Mujahedeen,” ANI reported citing the court order.Moderna reports ‘robust’ response to Covid vaccine in kids aged 6-11Moderna has reported ‘robust’ response to Covid-19 vaccine in children between six and 11-years-old, news agency AFP reported.US-based car rental giant Hertz orders 1 lakh Tesla electric autosCar rental giant headquartered in Florida in the United States, Hertz, has ordered 100,000 Tesla electric autos, news agency AFP reported.Delhi's air quality to deteriorate to ‘moderate’ category in coming daysIn the forthcoming days, the air quality of Delhi will deteriorate to ‘moderate’ category, IMD's Vijay Kumar told ANI on Monday. He said that on Sunday, due to “very good rainfall” in the Delhi-NCR region, the air quality improved to ‘satisfactory’ category from ‘poor’ category.Uttarakhand raises grant to ₹1.5L each from ₹95K for damaged houses due to rainUttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on Monday said that according to the standard of the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF), the state government has raised the aid from ₹3,800 to ₹5,000 for household goods that was damaged due to rains. “We've also raised grant from ₹95,000 to ₹1.5 lakh each for damaged houses,” he was quoted as saying by ANI.Ananya Pandey skips NCB questioning today for being unwell, agency confirmsActor Ananya Pandey has sought for a different summon date from the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) for questioning in the Mumbai cruise ship drugs' case, deputy director general Mutha Ashok Jain said. “Actress Ananya Panday is not well and sought for time.”  He said that the NCB will be issuing another summon to her in the next few days.RJD chief Lalu Prasad to campaign for Bihar bypolls on Oct 27RJD supremo Lalu Prasad who returned to Bihar after nearly three-and- half years on Sunday will campaign on October 27 for the party candidate in two assembly seats in the state where bypolls are scheduled. The by-elections, notably, will be held on October 30.SC allows Cong MP to travel abroad on condition of depositing ₹1 crSupreme Court allows Congress MP Karti Chidambaram to travel abroad from October 25 to November 21, 2021 on the condition of depositing ₹1 crore.(file photo) pic.twitter.com/PIB2I2FLymSupreme Court on Monday allowed Congress MP Karti Chidambaram to travel abroad between October 25 and November 21, 2021 on the condition of depositing ₹1 crore, ANI reported.Schools, colleges in Bengal to reopen from Nov 15: CM MamataWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday announced tht schools, and colleges in the state will reopen from November 15 onwards.Centre rushes team to Kanpur where a case of Zika virus was reportedThe Centre has sent a multi-disciplinary team to Uttar Pradesh's Kanpur, which reported a case of Zika Virus on Sunday. Read morePM Modi launches Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure mission in VaranasiPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday launched Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission and development projects in Varanasi. PM Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission is one of the largest pan-India schemes for strengthening healthcare infrastructure across the country. PM, officials detained, internet down in apparent Sudan coup: ReportSudan's interim prime minister and a number of senior government officials were arrested Monday, the information ministry said, describing the actions as a military coup, reported news agency AP. According to the ministry's Facebook page, the internet in the country was largely cut off and military forces closed bridges. It said the whereabouts of Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok were not immediately known. Witness in cruise drugs case arrives at NCB officePrabhakar Sail, the witness in the Mumbai drugs case, has reached the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) Mumbai Police Commissioner’s office. The witness has claimed that ₹25 crore was demanded by an official of the NCB and other persons, including absconding witness K P Gosavi, to let off Aryan Khan, the son of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan, who was arrested in the case.PM Modi inaugurates 9 medical colleges in UPPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday inaugurated nine medical colleges in Uttar Pradesh. The Prime Minister left for Siddharthnagar and Varanasi today to launch Pradhan Mantri Atmanirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojana and inaugurate medical colleges in the state.3 trekkers dead amid heavy snowfall in Himachal Pradesh's KinnaurThree trekkers died following heavy snowfall in Himachal Pradesh's Kinnaur district, while 10 others were rescued, reported news agency ANI. Search and rescue operations are underway, the news agency further quoted Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) as saying in a statament.India's daily Covid-19 tally comes down after 14,306 new infections; active caseload lowest in 239 daysIndia reported 14,306 new Covid-19 cases in the past 24 hours, marginally lower that the previous day's number, according to the Union Health Ministry's data published on Monday. A total of 443 Covid-19 related fatalities were recorded in the same time span. Further, 18,762 people recovered from the viral disease in the last 24 hours, with the active caseload standing at 1,67,695. Internet services interrupted in Sudanese capital Khartoum: ReportInternet services were interrupted in the Sudanese capital Khartoum early on Monday, Reuters reported. Several local media reports also confirmed internet services were down, according to Reuters. Military forces arrested several members of Sudan's civilian leadership early on Monday, Al Hadath TV reported, as a prominent pro-democracy group called on Sudanese people to take to the streets to resist any military coup.Delhi CM Kejriwal in Lucknow, to offer ‘aarti’ at Saryu GhatDelhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday arrived in Lucknow. He will be offering 'aarti' at Saryu Ghat, this evening, reported news agency ANI.As Covid cases surge in Germany, questions on extension of state of emergencyGermany is currently facing an increased spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), prompting calls to extend the nationwide state of emergency, which will end next month. Read moreUttarakhand rains: Total deaths climb to 72The Uttarakhand government said on Sunday that a total of 72 people have died due to rain-related incidents in the state, adding four people are still missing. Amit Shah to inaugurate various development projects in J-KWith Monday being the last day of his three-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir,  Union home minister Amit Shah will inaugurate and lay foundation stone of various development projects in Srinagar.PM Modi to launch ₹64k-cr health infra scheme from Varanasi todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday will launch the Pradhan Mantri Atmanirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojana (PMASBY), worth ₹64,180 crore, to strengthen the health care infrastructure across the country. Read moreFrom today, Maharashtra to start special vaccination drive for college studentsMaharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope, while announcing the special inoculation drive on October 21, said that vaccination, especially among the youth, is the need of the hour as they have to travel the most. Tope added that those universities and colleges which perform well in this inoculation drive will be rewarded. Read moreAfghanistan: 17 killed in clashes between Taliban, group of armed men in Herat provinceSeventeen people were killed in a clash between the Taliban fighters and a group of armed men in the western Afghan province of Herat, Sputnik reported on Monday citing a local hospital. "Today, the bodies of 17 people, including seven children, three women and seven men, were taken to a hospital in the province of Herat. All of them died from gunshot wounds," the sources told the news agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-october-25-2021-101635121555094.html
25-10-2021||India||Accused to stay in IAF custody, nod for police probe||The principal district court in Coimbatore allowed the Indian Air Force (IAF) to continue with custody of flight lieutenant Amitesh Harmukh, accused of raping a woman colleague, under the Air Force Act, 1950 and also the local police to proceed with their investigation in the rape case.On Saturday, the court, while hearing the petition filed by the Coimbatore police against the lower court’s September 30 order, directed the Indian Air Force (IAF) authorities “to provide a feasible atmosphere on campus for the privacy of police enquiries” that will have to go on “without interruption”.“The Revision Petitioner (Coimbatore Police) is permitted to proceed with their investigation and that the accused would only be under the custody of Air Force Authority and that proper intimation to be given well in advance for investigation of the accused by the police to the respondent (Air Force Authority)...,” the court said in its order on Saturday. The court added that the police after completion of the probe, shall prepare two sets of material evidence and one of which should be produced to the court martial for trial under the Air Force Act. “It is left open for the revision petitioner (local police) to seek appropriate direction after the disposal of the case by the court-martial, as per section 126 of Air Force Act, that a person convicted or acquitted by a court martial may, with the previous sanction of the Central government, be tried again by a criminal court for the same offence or on the same facts,” the order read.N Sundaravadivelu, counsel for Harmukh, said that the IAF has started a court of inquiry. “They will issue summons for a court martial soon,” he said.The city police said that they are awaiting a detailed order. “The revision application was to set aside the order of the magistrate. Our investigations will continue and we will examine the detailed order once it is received,” said a senior police official, requesting anonymity.Police arrested 29-year-old Harmukh on September 25 after the 28-year-old woman officer filed an FIR on September 20 saying she was unhappy with the action taken by the IAF authorities. The assault took place on September 10. The arrest was challenged by Harmukh and the IAF. On September 30, the judicial magistrate’s court in Coimbatore decided to hand over the custody of Harmukh to the IAF. On October 7, the Coimbatore city police filed a petition before the district court challenging lower court’s order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/accused-to-stay-in-iaf-custody-nod-for-police-probe-101635116116229.html
25-10-2021||India||PM to launch ₹64k-cr health infra scheme from Varanasi today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday will launch the Pradhan Mantri Atmanirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojana (PMASBY), worth ₹64,180 crore, to strengthen the health care infrastructure across the country.According to a statement by the press information bureau, the Prime Minister will inaugurate the project from his parliamentary constituency Varanasi, during a visit to poll-bound Uttar Pradesh. Besides this, he will also inaugurate nine new medical colleges at Siddharth Nagar, the bureau added.“Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Uttar Pradesh on 25th October, 2021… at around 1.15 in Varanasi, the Prime Minister will launch PMASBY. It will be one of the largest pan-India schemes for strengthening healthcare infrastructure across the country. It will be in addition to the National Health Mission,” a note by the press information bureau said on Sunday.“Modi will also inaugurate various development projects worth more than ₹5,200 crore for Varanasi,” it added.The PMASBY scheme with an outlay of around ₹64,180 crore over six years (till financial year 2025-26) was announced by the Centre during the Budget session in February this year. This scheme will be in addition to the National Health Mission, the statement said.The scheme focuses on developing capacities of health systems and institutions across the continuum of care at all levels — primary, secondary and tertiary — and on preparing health care systems for responding effectively to the current and future pandemics, and disasters, it added.Under the scheme, government support will be provided to 17,788 rural health and wellness centres in 10 high-focus states. At least 11,024 urban health and wellness centres will be set up.Besides these, critical care services will be available in districts having more than 500,000 population, through exclusive critical care hospital blocks, while the remaining districts will be covered through referral services.“Under PMASBY, a National Institution for One Health, 4 New National Institutes for Virology, a Regional Research Platform for WHO South East Asia Region, 9 Biosafety Level III laboratories, 5 New Regional National Centre for Disease Control will be set up. PMASBY targets to build an IT enabled disease surveillance system by developing a network of surveillance laboratories at block, district, regional and national levels, in Metropolitan areas. Integrated Health Information Portal will be expanded to all States/UTs to connect all public health labs,” the statement said.Experts believe it is time to strengthen the medical infrastructure at the ground level.“In a country like India whatever efforts we make to improve the health care system, it will still be less because of the population; and inaccessibility and affordability is also an issue... This underutilised infrastructure in the pvt sector can be utilised either through Ayushman Bharat or any other schemes...,” said Dr MC Misra, former director, AIIMS, Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-to-launch-64k-cr-health-infra-scheme-from-varanasi-today-101635115884942.html
25-10-2021||India||Farmers facing repeated crop loss look forward to govt’s aid scheme||For years, farmers in southwest Delhi’s Rawta village have had to contend with their farmlands turning into waterbodies during monsoon due to the Najafgarh drain that passes through nearby Gurugram overflowing.Some farmers have made peace with it, leasing out their submerged farms for pisciculture. But others have suffered the consequences of damaged crops resulting in financial losses. Now, the villagers see hope in chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s assurance on compensation for crop damage.“Most farmers have no other source of income. So, they must take the risk of investing in crops, even though input costs have been going up and incomes dropping year after year. It is not just the rain calculations anymore; things are getting worse. Floods are more frequent now. There is unplanned development around these villages and large parts of the Najafgarh drain are blocked. Crop damage is more frequent, and farmers have been suffering losses for several years now. The government must help us,” said Amit Yadav, a farmer in Rawta’s neighbouring village of Jhuljhuli.Kejriwal had on October 20 said that he has issued directions to officials to ensure that farmers in the city who suffered losses due to crop damage this year get compensation of ₹50,000 per hectare — an initiative which, Kejriwal said, the Aam Aadmi Party government in the national capital has been actively pursuing since it came to power in 2015.He further said that district officials under the revenue department have started a survey, which is likely to be completed within two weeks, following which compensation money will be disbursed to eligible farmers within one-and-a-half months.Government data showed that Delhi has around 29,000 hectares of farmlands and around 21,000 farmers.HT visited several villages in the northern, north-western, southern, and south-western peripheries of the Capital this week and found that financial losses caused by crop damage, especially during the monsoons, is a perennial issue.Although there have been instances of compensations for crop damage earlier, many farmers still don’t trust the system. This year, with the chief minister himself addressing the issue through a press briefing, some of them are hopeful.Dinesh Rana, a farmer based in Palla village in the northwestern periphery of Delhi, said: “This year, there has been significant crop damage because of excess and unseasonal rain. Farmers are in immense distress. The compensation system is often clumsy but this year there is some hope because the chief minister himself has given assurance.”Many farmers also assert that the amount of compensation is unreasonably low in the light of current input costs per hectare and the absence of many farming subsidies in Delhi.Paras Tyagi, co-founder, Centre for Youth Culture, Law and Environment, a Delhi-based public policy group that works primarily on villages, said: “In Delhi, there are almost no subsidies for farmers. So, input cost is very high compared to several other states. In light of the input costs, ₹50,000 per hectare is too little a compensation amount. Secondly, there are loopholes in the system because of which many genuine farmers often get excluded from such schemes. So, there is a lack of trust too. The government has to invest in making the system better.”“Still, something is better than nothing. The financial burden is too high on farmers. But these are short-term measures. The government needs to come up with long-term measures if it is serious about addressing the issue of crop damage. There have to be infrastructural changes,” said Rajneesh Chauhan, a farmer in Tiggipur village.Rajesh Shokeen, a farmer based in Dichaon-Kalan village in southwest Delhi, said along with compensation schemes, “the government has to invest on irrigation, subsidies, facilities to pump out flooded water, etc.”Delhi’s revenue minister Kailash Gahlot said he is monitoring the process as directed by the chief minister. “We will not only ensure that no eligible farmer is excluded from the scheme, but also that they are adequately compensated. The compensation amount in Delhi is higher than in its neighbouring states. We will make sure that no farmer in Delhi is distressed,” Gahlot said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-facing-repeated-crop-loss-look-forward-to-govt-s-aid-scheme-101635115471676.html
25-10-2021||India||India’s first voter readies for a new challenge||Kinnaur/Shimla: The clouds are rolling in as Shyam Saran Negi gets ready for his morning walk. The 105-year-old sleeps on a thin mattress on the floor of his cramped room, the steam from the wood-fire blanketing him from the cold. Outside, a film of mist hangs over the orchard as unseasonal flakes of snow drive down the mercury.
25-10-2021||India||A civilisational triumph for a newly independent country||That the Indian National Congress should have won 364 of the 489 seats to the first Lok Sabha was natural. It was the party that had led the freedom struggle. And not just dynamically but charismatically. Its leader, Jawaharlal Nehru, was, without question, the man of the moment with lesser but not less-known personalities from the struggle illuminated by their courage and sacrifice, forming his ‘victorious team’. The Congress had to win that election by what is commonly called a ‘landslide’ , forming the first elected government of free India
25-10-2021||India||What we eat and what we eat in: Need for law on food containers||Urban middle-class India has embraced take-out food with gusto. During the pandemic, this intensified. But what else were people imbibing, apart from food? A new study, ‘Occurrence, potential release and health risks of heavy metals in popular take-out food containers from China’, by researchers Yu Han, Jiali Cheng, Di An, Ying He, Zhenwu Tang, published recently in Environmental Research, is worrying. According to the researchers “the summed carcinogenic risks of Cadmium, Lead, Nickel and Cobalt were unacceptable under specific exposure frequency, although the total non-carcinogenic risks from metal intake were low”.What does this mean for you and me? It is obvious that the containers we and others globally use are likely to be contaminated with heavy metals. While Indian legislation is cracking down on single use plastics, containers are a harder one. This study talks of cancer, but the heavy metals it discusses can cause several other disorders, from nerve and brain damage to poisoning of the nephric system.India needs standards and public testing as a first step to regulate containers that will, hopefully, be entirely replaced. Manufacturers should be registered, their goods bearing their details. It is sometimes possible to carry one’s own reusable containers but for most part, the idea is still laden with loopholes. These must be plugged, though shifts in culture, behaviour, logistics and innovation. Leaning on the Precautionary Principle, India should act on whatever data exists. As the pandemic showed us, health is literally, national wealth. What we eat matters, but what we eat in matters equally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-we-eat-and-what-we-eat-in-need-for-law-on-food-containers-101635109859471.html
25-10-2021||India||Kerala forest dept seizes suspected whale bones from self-styled antique collector’s house||The Kerala Forest Department on Sunday seized whale bones from one of the hideouts of arrested self-styled antique collector Monson Mavunkal in Kochi, officials said. The police have also slapped a case on his former make-up man for allegedly raping a minor. The forest team raided his hideout after a tip-off and recovered suspected whale bones and sent them for examination. Officials found that bones were shifted from his house in Kochi soon after his arrest. Earlier, two ivory tusks obtained from the house were found fake after an examination, therefore, the officials are tight-lipped this time. They found ivory tusks were made of grated powder of cattle horns obtained from meat shops. “We have seized two big suspected whale bones and sent them for examination. If they are real bones we will book him under the Wildlife Protection Act. We will start our investigation once the result is out,” said forest flying squad inspector KG Anwar. Whales are protected species under the Wildlife Protection Act and possession and trade of any of their by-products is punishable in the country. Meanwhile, a case under the Protection of Children from Offences of Sexual Act (POCSO) was registered against Mavunkal’s former make-up man P Joshy. In her complaint, a 19-year-old girl said besides Mavunkal she was also sexually exploited by his make-up artist several times. She was 17 when the assault took place and the special investigation team (SIT) registered a case under POCSO. Arrested Joshi was sent to judicial custody later. The SIT earlier slapped a POCSO case on Mavunkal after the girl, daughter of one of his employees, complained that she was sexually assaulted at his house. In the complaint filed at the Ernakulam North police station, the mother of the girl said her daughter was sexually assaulted while she was 17 and they were scared to approach the police. During the investigation, she also took the name of the make-up man. Mavunkal was arrested on September 26 after five businessmen approached chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s office complaining that they were cheated by him of ₹10 crore on the promise of shares in the upcoming international antique museums in Kochi and Thiruvananthapuram. Later, several other businessmen filed similar complaints against him and the government constituted a special investigation team.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-forest-dept-seizes-suspected-whale-bones-from-self-styled-antique-collector-s-house-101635102904248.html
25-10-2021||India||Anti-razing law comes into effect in Karnataka||The Karnataka Religious Structures (Protection) Act, aimed at preventing the demolition of religious structures in public places, has come into effect following the assent of Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot. The law that was recently passed by the Karnataka Assembly has now been published in the Karnataka Gazette notification. The demolition of a temple in Nanjangud in Mysuru a couple of months ago had triggered public outrage following which the Karnataka Religious Structures (Protection) Bill was introduced in a hurried manner in the assembly and on October 19, the governor gave his nod. The new law says, “Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time being in force or any judgment, decree or order of any court, tribunal or authority from the date of commencement of this Act, subject to the provisions of this Act, or the rules made there under the government shall protect the religious structures existing on the date of commencement of this Act, in such manner subject to such conditions as may be prescribed: Provided that no protection shall be done, if any case relating to their removal is pending in any court of law and in such other circumstances as may be prescribed.” The Act also bars construction of any religious structures on public places by the government or local authority without proper permission in future. It further says that the district administration may allow religious activity in such protected structures, subject to custom, law, usage and any other conditions as may be laid down by the state government from time to time. The law gives protection to the state government as well as its officers or employees with the provision that no legal proceeding should lie against them for anything which is done or intended to be done under this Act or rules made there under. PTI GMS RHL||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/antirazing-law-comes-into-effect-in-karnataka-101635102311387.html
25-10-2021||India||Karnataka: Doctor held for killing wife in suspected case of ‘black magic’||Karnataka police arrested a doctor for murdering his wife by injecting a high dose of drugs in a suspected case of a ‘black magic’ ritual in Davanagere district, an official said on Sunday. The crime was committed nine months ago, the police said. The police have identified the suspect in custody as a 45-year-old Dr. Channakeshappa, who practised medicine in Rameshwara village in Nyamathi taluk, and the victim as Shilpa . Following her death, Shilpa’s parents registered a complaint with the Davangere police station on February 11, claiming that her death was not an accident but a planned murder. During the initial police investigation, the doctor was able to evade arrest, claiming his wife was suffering from low blood pressure. Upon further investigation, it was found that Channakeshappa was frequently visiting suspected ‘black magic’ practitioners for the past year, and during one such interaction, was advised to ‘sacrifice’ his wife to access a treasure, the police said. On February 11, Channakeshappa gave Shilpa a dose of Dexamethasone, following which she became sick and died on the way to the hospital, the police added. CB Ryshyanth Superintendent of police said that the doctor is in judicial custody. “We have filed a chargesheet against the doctor on charges of murder,” he said. The doctor was taken into custody on October 18after the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) confirmed the administration of the drug. He has been booked under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code, the police said. The incident comes weeks after Belagavi police started probing into a suspected case of ‘black magic’ after a two-year-old girl, who was found unconscious in a sugarcane field in Halyal village near Athani on September 23, died on October 1. The police said that there were signs of torture, especially burn marks on the girl’s body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnatakadoctor-held-for-killing-wife-in-suspected-case-of-black-magic-101635102302025.html
25-10-2021||India||Crane falls at Bengaluru Metro site, workers unhurt||Several construction labourers engaged in Bengaluru’s Namma Metro rail project had a narrow escape after a crane fell from a height of 40 feet at one of the worksites on Sunday. The incident took place during the construction of an elevated line metro from RV Road to Bommasandra and a metro-cum-road flyover from Ragi Gudda to Silk Board under phase II of Namma Metro. Talking about the incident, a BMRCL official said that a launching girder at a metro construction site near Udupi Garden Signal in BTM Layout Second stage, ‘rested’ on a metro pier instead of taking support from its own legs on Sunday, around 6.25 a.m. Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) officials attributed it to a mechanical failure. In a statement, BMRCL said that no casualties were reported after the incident. “On October 24 at about 6.15 am the launching girder near Udupi Garden Signal, BTM Layout II Stage, while auto launching, instead of taking support on its own leg was resting on the pier. Preliminary investigation states mechanical failure and zero casualities. The launching girder will be taken down safely. Further action will be carried out as per contract provisions,” read a statement from BMRCL. At around 6.30 am, the machine that joins the segment snapped midway and fell. Labourers who were below it escaped by a whisker. Speaking to reporters, Namma Metro MD Anjum Parvez said: “This is the first time such a mishap took place during Phase 2 of the Namma Metro work. The broken launcher cannot be used again. There is a possibility that the work will get delayed by two or three weeks because of this incident. However, we will still manage to complete the work within schedule. We have already ordered an inquiry into the mishap.” Last month, there was a landslip at Tannery road at the site of Kottigere to Nagavara Metro work. The owners of the land had accused officials of BMRCL as being responsible for the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crane-falls-at-bengaluru-metro-site-workers-unhurt-101635102247379.html
25-10-2021||India||Man in Belagavi celebrated dead wife’s birthday before killing kids, self: Police||A day after a 46-year-old retired army personnel allegedly killed his four children and died by suicide in Hukkeri Taluk in Belagavi district, police on Sunday said that hours before the incident, the ex-serviceman had celebrated the birthday of his deceased wife on Friday night. According to the police, the man was suffering from depression since the death of his wife due to black fungus on July 6 this year. Late on Friday, the 46-year-old is suspected to have consumed poison, along with three daughters, aged 19, 16 and 11 years old; and son (8), an official added.According to police, after the celebration, the man gave water mixed with poison to his children and later he also consumed it. During the investigation, police were able to recover a death note as well, in which the man held himself responsible for the deaths. He also wrote that he was leaving ₹20,000 cash for the final rites.Until now the state has reported 41 deaths due to Covid-19 depression, including five deaths that came to light on Saturday. The deaths have happened due to the fear of infection, losing dear ones and financial loss due to Covid-19 pandemic. Udupi district in Karnataka tops the deaths related to Covid depression with 11 cases while Bengaluru is in the second position with 9 deaths.On Saturday, neighbours alerted the police and the relatives after no one from the family could be reached. The victim’s cousin said she spoke with him around 9 pm on Friday. “He asked me if I had dinner and even said goodnight before going to bed. There were no indications that he was going to take such a step,” she added. “He and his children often used to tell us that they cannot live without his wife,” the relative told reporters. In August this year, a couple was found dead in their residence in Baikampady near Mangaluru, allegedly fearing complications after showing symptoms of Covid-19.(If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist.) Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-in-belagavi-celebrated-dead-wife-s-birthday-before-killing-kids-self-police-101635102242010.html
25-10-2021||India||Infra work derails in Bengaluru, residents voice discontent||With the infrastructure in Bengaluru crumbling following heavy rains since October and with chief minister Basavaraj Bommai busy campaigning for the October 30 bypolls, angry residents on Sunday took to social media to apprise the chief minister the problem they are facing. Several users even challenged the chief minister to accompany them on a city tour to get a sense of the trouble people are going through. A twitter user ‘BangaloreRepair’ tweeted, “Dear Mr B Bommai, we challenge you to come with us on a tour of Bangalore (not CBD) and realize what the citizens are going through. From pothole-ridden roads to no streetlights, from dusty air to garbage-laden roads. Your day, your time, your vehicle. Just our pitstops and destinations(sic).” Bommai is currently touring the poll-bound Hanagal and Sindgi constituencies. For the past five days, the chief minister has been campaigning in these constituencies along with his predecessor BS Yediyurappa. The tour has affected development works in the city since the chief minister holds the portfolio of Bengaluru development. A Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) official on Sunday said several review meetings which were to be headed by the chief minister now stands postponed. “While the development works are underway, but the urgency with which the development works started after rains has died down due to election campaign,” the official said. Meanwhile, on social media, people continued to pose challenges to the chief minister. People have been posting videos and pictures of their areas to show the kind of hardship they all must endure on a daily basis, under the hashtag #ChallengeTheCM. The two assembly constituencies fell vacant after CM Udasi, the senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader died on June 8 while MC Managuli, another senior Janata Dal (Secular) leader died earlier in January. Hangal falls in his home district Haveri and a victory in this constituency is important for him since it’s the first election after taking over as the chief minister. Hanagal is a constituency located in the Haveri district which is the home district of Bommai and neighbours his own assembly constituency of Shiggaon in the Haveri district. Bommai has sought votes for BJP citing development works by the government like irrigation and water resources projects implemented in the two seats and in the names of PM Narendra Modi and Yediyurappa. “As much as the chief minister has emphasized on how Yediyurappa is his political guru, he is keen on proving his potential. He is aware that any loss would affect him as well. Generally, the ruling party wins elections in Karnataka, but the CM is not taking chances,” said a north Karnataka-based legislator. But it is not just the chief minister who is taking the bypolls seriously. Apart from a few ministers like CN Ashwath Narayan, N Munirathna, and CV Nagesh, others have been camping in Sindgi and Hangal for the past one week. A team of four ministers each headed by Govind Karjol and Murugesh Nirani as in charge of Sindgi and Hangal and 20 MLAs have also been deployed for campaigning. Meanwhile, BBMP officials claim that the latest deadline given for filling the potholes might not be completed in time due to the rains. Senior BBMP officials said that filling potholes, which has been a major concern for the citizen, will be completed only after rains have completely stopped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/infra-work-derails-in-bengaluru-residents-voice-discontent-101635102182286.html
25-10-2021||India||1971 war tilted balance in India’s favour: Ex-envoy Menon||The 1971 Indo-Pakistan war, which gave birth to Bangladesh, tilted the balance of power in India’s favour in the sub-continent with Pakistan losing its ability to threaten India with the two-front war, former Foreign Secretary Shivshankar Menon said on Sunday.He said Bangladesh today is a development success story as that country overtook India and Pakistan in terms of per capita income and human development indicators.“In the Indian sub-continent, the outcome tilted the balance of power in India’s favour with Pakistan losing the ability to threaten India with the two-front war and for several years losing also the confidence to launch a conventional war,” Menon said during the Swarnim Vijay Varsh Conclave organised here to celebrate the 50th anniversary of India’s victory in the 1971 war.The former diplomat, who had served as the National Security Adviser under former Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh, said the war brought India peace with Pakistan for almost three decades “until Pakistan thought that her nuclear weapon has redressed the balance and tried Kargil only to fail again.” According to him, the war showed Pakistan that it could not match India in conventional warfare or count on Chinese or United States intervention.It resulted in Pakistan adopting non-conventional way of violence by use of terrorism and Jihadi Tanzeem as a policy, Menon said.“Pakistan has made it into a regular state policy, and particularly after the Jihad against the Soviet Russia in Afghanistan in the 1980s perfected her modus operandi,” the former diplomat.Menon said the positive effect of the war’s outcome clearly outweighed the lingering after-effects on Bangladeshi politics.“Today, Bangladesh is a development success story. She has taken over both Pakistan and India in terms of per capita income, human development indicators,” he said.According to Menon, India and Bangladesh now enjoy a relationship of unequalled cooperation and understanding, contributing to each other’s security and prosperity in real and significant way.Speaking about the Indo-Pakistan war, the former diplomat said the 1971 war changed the course of geo-politics of sub-continent, Indian-Pakistan relations, politics within India, Bangladesh and Pakistan and also affected relations with super-powers.Menon said the primary reason for India’s success in 1971 war was a clear political aim of India, which was followed by an integrated grand strategy.“The goal was to liberate Bangladesh by military and other means. This was made clear immediately after the Operation Searchlight. The grand strategy to achieve this end (goal) marshalled all the available instruments of the state power -- integrating military, diplomatic, economic and domestic affairs,” the former diplomat told the gathering.He opined that Bangladesh should be seen as liberated by its own people.Explaining the preparations at home, Menon said the challenge was also to maintain communal harmony in the face of atrocities on Hindus in Bangladesh and massive Pakistani incitement to communal violence in India||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1971-war-tilted-balance-in-india-s-favour-ex-diplomat-menon-101635101762238.html
25-10-2021||India||Karnataka man celebrated dead wife’s birthday before killing children, self||Hours before killing his four children and himself, an ex-serviceman celebrated the birthday of his late wife Jayashree with his children on Friday night, said police who are probing the suicide case. The 46-year-old retired army personnel, grieving the death of his wife, allegedly killed his four children and died by suicide in Hukkeri Taluk of Karnataka’s Belagavi district, police said on Saturday.According to the police, the man was suffering from depression since the death of his wife due to post-Covid black fungus on July 6 this year. Late on Friday, the 46-year-old is suspected to have consumed poison, along with his three daughters, aged 19, 16 and 11 years and a son (8), an official added.According to police, after the celebrations, the man consumed water mixed with poison and gave the same to his children. During the investigation, police were able to recover a death note as well wherein he held himself responsible for the deaths. He also wrote that he was leaving ₹20,000 cash for the final rites.On Saturday, neighbours alerted the police and the relatives after no one from the family could be reached. The victim’s cousin said she spoke with him around 9 pm on Friday. “He asked me if I had dinner and even said goodnight before going to bed. There were no indications that he was going to take such a step,” she added. “He and his children often used to tell us that they cannot live without his wife,” the relative told reporters. Until now the state has reported 41 deaths due to Covid-19 depression, including five deaths that came to light on Saturday. The deaths have happened due to the fear of infection, losing dear ones and financial loss due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Udupi district in Karnataka tops the deaths related to Covid depression with 11 cases while Bengaluru is in the second position with 9 deaths.In August, a couple was found dead at their residence in Baikampady near Mangaluru, allegedly fearing complications after showing symptoms of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-man-celebrated-dead-wife-s-birthday-before-killing-children-self-101635101342572.html
25-10-2021||India||Ashram 3 sets vandalised, Bajrang Dal activists throw ink on Prakash Jha||Bajrang Dal activists on Sunday threw ink on filmmaker Prakash Jha and vandalised the set of his upcoming web series, Ashram 3, in Old Jail in Bhopal on Sunday, police said. Four people were arrested in connection with the case, they added. The workers belonging to the right wing organisation vandalised cars and a vanity van as they went on a rampage and also thrashed a few crew members after chasing them, police said. The accused alleged that series contained obscene scenes and hurt the sentiments of Hindus. When Jha tried to pacify the protesters, some of them threw ink on him. Sai Krishna Thota, superintendent of police, Bhopal South, said the workers objected to the name of the web series when it’s shooting was underway. “Bajrang Dal activists objected that this web series may hurt the sentiments of Hindus as it contains obscene scenes,” he said. While no case was registered till the time of going to press, deputy inspector general of police (DIG) Irshad Wali said four people were arrested as a preventive action under section 151 of CrPC. “We are identifying those involved in the incident,” he said. Actor Bobby Deol was present in the vanity van but was not injured in the incident. “We have been warning them to change the name of the web series because Ashram is a very pious place and Ashram is where people used to get education in the ancient time...,” Bajrang Dal regional head Sushil Sudole said, “We met Jha and Bobby Deol and they assured us of changing the name of the series,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bajrang-dal-activists-throw-ink-on-prakash-jha-vandalises-ashram-3-sets-in-bhopal-101635101221904.html
25-10-2021||India||Chronicling political journey of TRS spanning 2 decades||“Main akela hi chala tha janib-e-manzil magar log saath aate gaye aur karvan banta gaya.”(I set off alone towards my goal, but, people came along and it began to turn into a caravan). Telangana Rashtra Samithi president and chief minister Kalvakuntla Chandrasekhar Rao once quoted this popular verse written by famous Urdu poet Majrooh Sultanpuri, while describing his journey towards his goal of achieving separate statehood to Telangana region from the combined Andhra Pradesh.KCR was virtually alone when he resigned from the post of deputy speaker in the Andhra Pradesh state assembly and Telugu Desam Party headed by N Chandrababu Naidu in 2001 to take up the cause of Telangana, which was facing discrimination by successive governments in the united Andhra Pradesh.When he floated the TRS in a small portion of Jala Drushyam, a bungalow of veteran Telangana leader Konda Laxman Bapuji on the banks of Hussainsagar lake in the heart of Hyderabad on April 27, 2001, there were hardly any leaders with him, as they were sceptical about the success of such a movement for achieving statehood to Telangana.The Telangana region, which was merged with erstwhile Andhra state to form Andhra Pradesh in November 1956, had witnessed several movements for separation, the biggest being that in 1969-71 which turned violent and claimed several lives.There were quite a few attempts to revive the movement for separate Telangana subsequently, but they could not be sustained due to either lack of willpower from the leaders or lack of efforts to convert them into mass movements.So, there was no surprise when KCR began his journey, everybody thought it would also be a fly-by-night experiment like the previous ones. But now, after 20 years, KCR has not only proved the sceptics wrong by achieving statehood to Telangana, but also developed the TRS as one of the most powerful regional parties in the country.On Monday, the TRS is celebrating its 20th year of foundation with over 6,000 delegates attending the plenary to be held at sprawling Hyderabad International Convention Centre, where KCR would be re-elected as the party president. Though the event was supposed to be held in April this year, it was deferred due to second wave of coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.“The success has not come so easily. We had to struggle a lot to enlighten the people of Telangana and faced several ups and downs during the 13-years-long movement to achieve the statehood. Our commitment to the cause and our fighting spirit led to the formation of Telangana in June 2014,” TRS working president and KCR’s son K T Rama Rao told reporters on Saturday while reviewing the arrangements for the plenary.He said the chief minister had been striving to develop Telangana into a number one state in the country with the same commitment. “In the last seven years, Telangana has become a role model for other states so much so that people in the borders area of neighbouring states are demanding that they be merged with Telangana,” KTR said.TWO DECADES OF TRSUnlike in the case of earlier movements for Telangana statehood, KCR adopted a two-pronged strategy – leading a mass movement to galvanise people to agitate for statehood, while carrying out a political movement by fighting the electoral battles, as he strongly believed that statehood cannot be achieved only through battles on streets but through a political process which involved the Centre.Within a few months of its inception, the TRS won substantial number of mandal parishad (block parishad) and zilla parishad seats, thereby indicating groundswell of support to KCR. At the same time, he travelled to different parts of Telangana to kick start a debate on issues confronting the region.During the movement, KCR raked up three issues – “Neellu, Nidhulu, Niyaamakalu” (Water, funds and recruitments), in which Telangana was allegedly facing discrimination from Andhra rulers and they became part of the TRS campaign in the subsequent years.Since KCR was aware that statehood could be achieved only through a political process involving the Centre, he quickly accepted the friendly hand extended by Congress party led by Sonia Gandhi in the 2004 general elections. The TRS won 26 assembly seats and five Lok Sabha seats and joined the UPA government at the Centre and the Congress government in the state.In the very first address of joint session of Parliament, the TRS forced incorporation of a sentence in the address of the President to the joint session of Parliament on granting statehood to Telangana through a process of consultation and consensus. KCR became the Union minister for labour in the Manmohan Singh Cabinet.However, the TRS did not remain content with what it had achieved. KCR continued to put pressure on the UPA government on granting statehood to Telangana and when nothing materialised even after two years, KCR pulled the TRS out of the UPA for failing to decide on Telangana statehood. KCR quit the Singh Cabinet at the Centre and his ministers from Y S Rajasekhar Reddy Cabinet in the state.He resigned from his Lok Sabha membership and forced a by-election in his Karimnagar LS constituency, which he had won with a massive majority in September 2016. Again in April 2008, he made all his MLAs and MPs resign from their seats and contest the by-elections so as to prove the strong Telangana sentiment among the people.Though the TRS suffered setbacks in 2009 general elections, it bounced back in 2010 by-elections, necessitated by the resignation of all its MLAs.“KCR used elections as a strategy to sustain the Telangana movement, apart from making his party cadres hit the streets with a series of agitations,” observed veteran journalist K Ramachandra Murthy, who was also former advisor to Andhra Pradesh government on public policy.In fact, Murthy said, the TRS would not have reached his goal of achieving statehood to Telangana, had Y S Rajasekhar Reddy not met with fatal helicopter accident in September 2009.“As long as YSR was alive, he had put his foot firmly down in separating Telangana from Andhra Pradesh. After his death, KCR revived his movement in November 2009 by undertaking fast-unto-death, that forced the UPA to announce the commencement of process for separate Telangana,” he said.In the next two years, Telangana was like a boiling cauldron with a spate of suicides by Telangana activists demanding separate statehood. Apart from TRS, several other political parties including the CPI, BJP and the Congress, besides state government employees, teachers and workers of various PSUs joined the agitation and fought under the umbrella of Telangana Joint Action Committee (TJAC) headed by Osmania University professor M Kodandaram.“In fact, it was TJAC, rather than TRS, which spearheaded the movement for separate statehood. The credit should go to Kodandaram,” said Murthy.Ultimately, the UPA government announced the formation of Telangana state and in February 2014, the AP Reorganisation Bill was passed in Parliament amidst an unprecedented pandemonium.POST-TELANGANA ERAThough it was the Congress which granted statehood to Telangana, the TRS, being the political front of the Telangana movement, walked away with the credit. KCR initially proposed to merge the TRS with the Congress but later went back on the move and contested the first assembly elections to Telangana in April 2014. The TRS won 63 out of 119 assembly seats in Telangana and KCR became the first chief minister.After achieving Telangana, the TRS lost its image of being a mass organisation and turned into an out-and-out political party. He began decimating the opposition parties by encouraging defection of their MLAs into the TRS in the name of polarisation of political forces.“In the last seven years, the TRS government has taken up several developmental programmes like Kaleshwaram, Mission Kakatiya and Mission Bhagiratha and welfare schemes like Rythu Bandhu. It was able to sustain and even improve the brand image of Hyderabad. But at the same time, KCR has become inaccessible to the common man and has been ruling from his fort-like bungalow, a character of typical feudal lord,” Murthy said.All India Congress Committee official spokesman Dasoju Sravan said there was no doubt that TRS had played a big role in Telangana state becoming a reality, but there were various other factors that led to the formation of the state. “It was Sonia Gandhi who should be thanked for granting statehood to Telangana, as she understood the aspirations of the people,” he said.Sravan said after coming to power, KCR failed to ensure a sustainable development of the state due to his lopsided priorities. “The state had plunged into a debt trap, corruption is all pervading and unemployment has reached its peak due to autocratic governance of the TRS chief,” he alleged.Former Bharatiya Janata Party Telangana unit president and party’s national president of OBC Morcha Dr K Laxman said the TRS had lost its character of an organisation that led a massive movement before 2014 and had turned into a typical autocratic regional party dominated by a single family of KCR.“The aspirations of the people who took part in the movement have not been fulfilled after the TRS came to power. They continue to suffer as they were during the combined Andhra regime,” he observed.The TRS has also earned the notoriety of being a family party with KCR’s son K T Rama Rao, daughter K Kavitha and nephews T Harish Rao and J Santosh Kumar dominating the party and the government. “Nobody dares to question KCR’s authority and those who raised any voice like former health minister Eatala Rajender, they would be hounded out,” political analyst Suresh Dharur said.As of now, the TRS has been more or less an invincible and formidable political party in Telangana, except for an occasional setback as had happened in 2019 general elections in which the BJP won four Lok Sabha seats and Congress three.“The TRS has been able to win the elections due to lack of strong opposition. There is no powerful leader who can match up to the stature of KCR,” Dharur observed.It would be interesting to see whether the Telangana Congress under the leadership of firebrand leader A Revanth Reddy and the BJP led by MP Bandi Sanjay could emerge as a potential alternative to the TRS in the next elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chronicling-political-journey-of-trs-spanning-2-decades-101635101102080.html
25-10-2021||India||CIAL to commission its 1st hydropower project||Cochin International Airport Ltd (CIAL) is venturing into hydropower production, and its first plant will be commissioned by Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan in Kozhikode district on November 6, the authorities said on Sunday. The CIAL, the country’s first fully solar-powered airport, said it is expecting an annual power generation of 14 million units through the plant, which will be constructed at Arippara near Kozhikode, and it will be handed to the state electricity board grid in November first week. “Despite the pandemic threat, we completed the project in the estimated time. We are sure that this will impart further momentum to set up projects across the state, which has 44 rivers and numerous streams,” said the managing director of the CIAL S Suhas. “The potential of renewable energy is immense. If we use our technological expertise we can set up joint ventures to harness the light of the Sun, the power of the wind, and the strength of rushing streams to create a better future’’ he said. The project was awarded to the CIAL by the state power department under the build, own, operate & transfer small hydropower policy for 30 years. The project came across the Iruvazhinji river without disturbing the fragile eco-system, the CIAL said in a statement. The CIAL also said it purchased five acres of land from 32 residents after giving them enough compensation, and the total project cost was ₹52 crores. The powerhouse will generate around 108,000 units a day during peak flow days, and it is estimated that the plant can be operational in full capacity for 130 days in a year. Annual power generation is estimated at 14 million units, said CIAL adding that it is its largest project after achieving power neutrality in 2015. Being a river project, it works on limited storage of water without affecting the natural downward flow, causing no adverse effect on the environment, CIAL said. The CIAL received the UN’s prestigious Champion of the Earth Prize for going carbon neutral three years ago. In January this year, it also commissioned the biggest floating solar power plant with a capacity of 452 KWh. The installed capacity of the world’s first airport fully powered by solar energy now stands at 40 MWp, producing 160,000 units a day against its requirement of 130,000 units. It also introduced cost-effective high-density polyethene floats using French technology, upon which 1300 photovoltaic panels were mounted. These panels were laid over two artificial lakes located in the 130-acre golf course of the airport, covering one acre and connected to the state’s power grid. One of the fastest-growing airports in 2091-20 the turnover of the CIAL was ₹655 crores and profile was ₹204 crores after tax.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cial-to-commission-its-1st-hydropower-project-101635101042584.html
25-10-2021||India||Forest department seizes whale bones from Mavunkal’s Kochi hideout||The Kerala Forest Department on Sunday seized whale bones from one of the hideouts of arrested self-styled antique collector Monson Mavunkal in Kochi. Forest team raided his hideout based on a tip-off and recovered suspected whale bones and sent them for examination. Officials found that bones were shifted from his house in Kochi soon after his arrest. Earlier, two ivory tusks obtained from the house were found fake after examination so this time officials are tight-lipped. The ivory tusks were found to have been made of grated powder of cattle horns obtained from meat shops. “We have seized two big suspected whale bones and sent them for examination. If they are real bones we will book him under the Wildlife Protection Act. We will start our investigation once the result is out,” said forest flying squad inspector K G Anwar. Whales are protected species under the Wildlife Protection Act and possession and trade of any of their by-products is punishable in the country. Meanwhile, a case under the Protection of Children from Offences of Sexual Act (Pocso) was registered against Mavunkal’s former make-up man P Joshy. In her complaint a 19-year-old girl said besides Mavunkal she was also sexually exploited by his make-up artist several times. The victim said she was 17 when the assault took place and based on her statement the special investigation team registered a case under Pocso. Joshi was arrested on Saturday and sent to the judicial custody later. The SIT had earlier slapped Pocso case on Mavunkal after the girl complained that she sexually assaulted at his house. In the complaint filed at the Ernakulam North police station, the mother of the girl said she was sexually assaulted while she was 17 and they were scared to approach the police. During investigation she named the make-up man. Mavunkal was arrested on September 26 after five businessmen approached chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s office complaining that they were cheated by him of ₹10 crore by promising shares in the upcoming international antique museums in Kochi and Thiruvananthapuram. Later several other businessmen filed similar cheating complaints against him and the government constituted a special investigation team.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/forest-department-seizes-whale-bones-from-mavunkal-s-kochi-hideout-101635100982517.html
25-10-2021||India||Hearts cannot be won by undermining J&K status: Farooq Abdullah||National Conference chief Farooq Abdullah on Sunday expressed surprise over Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s statement that Jammu and Kashmir’s statehood would be restored after assembly elections.He said “urges and aspirations of people have to be satiated for lasting peace” in the Union territory.Abdullah expressed surprise over the logic being advanced by the central leadership that the statehood will be restored after completion of the delimitation of constituencies and holding of elections.“It is strange,” he said and recalled the all-party meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi a few months ago in which he took up these issues.“Modi had at that point of time asserted that the gap between New Delhi and J-K would have to be bridged by winning over the hearts… Hearts cannot be won by undermining the status of Jammu and Kashmir, which was bifurcated and then downgraded,” the NC leader said while addressing a public meeting at Mendhar in Poonch district.Defending the BJP-led NDA government’s decision to revoke Jammu and Kashmir’s special status, Shah had on Saturday said August 5, 2019 was written in golden letters in the history of Kashmir.He had reiterated that elections would be held in J-K after the delimitation exercise to be followed by restoration of statehood.“Elections will happen. (Politicians from Kashmir want that the) Delimitation be stopped. Why? Because it hurts their politics. Now, such things will not stop in Kashmir.“The youth of Kashmir will get opportunities, so a right delimitation will be done, which will be followed by elections and then the status of the statehood will be restored. I have said this in the country’s Parliament and this is the roadmap,” Shah had said.Abdullah further said it must have happened for the first time that a state is transformed and downgraded as a Union territory.“The urges and aspirations of the people have to be satiated for lasting peace,” he underlined.Pitching for India-Pakistan dialogue, the NC president said peace in the region will remain elusive unless a conducive atmosphere is made for talks between the two neighboring countries.He also decried attempts of dividing the society for political gains and said this is not good for the unity of the country and integration of people.“The nation cannot afford to get fragmented into bits and pieces on the basis of religion. Elections were not to be fought on religion, as these provide an opportunity to put in place responsive governments which serve the people in terms of development and economic emancipation,” he said.The former chief minister expressed grave concern over loss of life, and damage to standing crops and orchards due to heavy downpour, hailstorm and stormy winds across Jammu and Kashmir.Abdullah, who is on a four-day visit to Jammu Province, also sought an exhaustive assessment by expert panels on the damage caused, saying preliminary relief in terms of financial assistance should be provided to the affected till the assessment is completed.He also sought immediate release of compensation to the next of kin of those killed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hearts-cannot-be-won-by-undermining-j-k-status-farooq-abdullah-101635100925260.html
25-10-2021||India||Kerala CM asks Tamil Nadu to draw maximum water from Mullaperiyar||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Sunday requested his Tamil Nadu counterpart M K Stalin to ensure that maximum quantity of water is drawn from Mullaperiyar dam as the reservoir level may reach 142 ft once the torrential rains intensify.Vijayan, in a letter written to the Tamil Nadu chief minister, stated that at 4 PM, the inflow to Mullaperiyar dam was 2109 c/s and the discharge level was at 1750 c/s.“At present there is a net inflow of around 2,109 cusecs accumulating in the reservoir even after the diversion from Tamil Nadu side. With the current inflow it is feared that the reservoir level may reach 142 ft once the torrential rain intensifies. Hence, there would arise an urgent need for the gradual release of water from Mullaperiyar dam through the tunnel to Tamil Nadu,” Vijayan said in his letter.Vijayan sought Stalin’s timely intervention in the matter and requested him to give immediate directions to the authorities concerned to ensure that maximum quantity of water is drawn from Mullaperiyar Dam through the tunnel to Vaigai Dam and to gradually release the water downstream.He also requested to intimate the Kerala government about the opening of the shutters at least 24 hours in advance in order to take precautionary measures for ensuring the safety of the people living downstream of the dam.In the letter, Vijayan also pointed out that when the water level reached 133.45 ft on October 18, the Kerala state Chief Secretary and other officials held meetings to ensure safety and security of the people.Meanwhile, the NDRF has conducted awareness classes among the people living downstream Mullaperiyar dam and along the banks of Periyar river.As per the latest report in the afternoon, the water level at Mullaperiyar was at 136.85 ft.Kerala was ravaged by heavy rains it received during October 15 and 16 resulting in widespread damage to property and life in south central districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cm-asks-tamil-nadu-to-draw-maximum-water-from-mullaperiyar-101635100922105.html
25-10-2021||India||Two more killed as Kashmir records heavy snowfall||Two persons died and two were rescued on Sunday after the vehicles they were travelling in got stranded in snow on Sinthan Pass in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district, taking the death toll due to inclement weather to five. Police identified the two deceased as Imtiyaz Ahmad and Dawood Majeed, residents of Kishtwar. “The duo was driver and conductor of a vegetable vehicle. They got stuck in snowfall,” said a police official.The rescued persons are Amir Ahmad and Sajad Ahmad, both residents of Kishtwar were treated for hypothermia and shock. “They have been sent to their homes,” police control room Anantnag informed. Deputy Commissioner Anantnag, Piyush Singla said that a rescue operation was launched by administration, police, army and SDRF during the night after learning about stranded persons and vehicles at Sinthan Pass at Kokernag. “Two vehicles were stuck along with four persons. We were trying to rescue them during the day but we had no contact. We could only contact one of them in the late evening,” Singla said.“The snowfall was heavy and we pushed men and machinery including excavators and JCB to clear the road. We also took the help of army. In the morning at around 5, the teams were able to rescue two of them while unfortunately the other two lost their lives,’ he said.On Saturday, three persons putting up in tents at Awantipora had died after a soil embankment had collapsed due to heavy rains in Pulwama district. The three belonged to nomad community from Jammu’s Rajouri district.The weather, however, cleared in Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday with no major rain or snowfall in the region after heavy rains and snowfall on Friday and Saturday.The Srinagar - Jammu national highway was closed for the second day for fresh traffic. However, the authorities said that stranded vehicles were allowed to move after the road was cleared of the blockades.“The work on the road is going on while stranded vehicles are slowly allowed to move. The road will open for traffic on Monday if weather continues to improve,” an official of traffic control room said.Director meteorological department in J&K Sonam Lotus said that the weather outlook for the next 10 days is mainly dry. “Light rain or snow may occur at isolated places during November 1-2, although chances are less,” he saidThe union territory was under the influence of a western disturbance since Friday evening bringing heavy rains and snowfall in the region, according to the weather department officials. Weather office said that the spell brought record rainfall in many parts of the region.The summer capital Srinagar’s observatory of the meteorological department recorded a cumulative rainfall of 66 mm on Friday and Saturday. “The previous extreme rainfall record for the month of October in Srinagar was 65.4 mm in 1966,” said deputy director MeT Mukhtar Ahmad.The mountainous resort of Pahalgam received 111 mm rains during the two days against 67. 2 mm record in October, 1982. In Jammu, Katra recorded 124.5 mm rains breaking the record of 92.2 mm in the October of 2000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-more-killed-as-kashmir-records-heavy-snowfall-101635100802531.html
25-10-2021||India||Success of vaccination drive shows India’s capability: PM Modi||The success of India’s Covid-19 vaccination drive has showed that the country was moving ahead with new energy after administering 1 billion doses earlier this week, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on his monthly radio broadcast on Sunday.“Our health workers, through their tireless efforts, resolve and determination, set a new example,” the Prime Minister said in the 82nd edition of Mann Ki Baat. “I knew that they would leave no stone unturned in vaccinating people. After administering 100 crore vaccine doses, the country is moving ahead with new energy and enthusiasm.”“The success of our vaccine programme displays India’s capability and the strength of the sabka prayas (collective effort) mantra,” he said. On October 21, India achieved a milestone in its vaccination programme against Covid-19 as the cumulative vaccine doses administered in the country surpassed i billion. India has given a befitting reply to those who questioned its ability to inoculate its population against the deadly virus, Modi said. He also spoke about the use of latest technology such as drones, or unmanned aerial vehicles. He cited the examples of Manipur, where vaccines were delivered via a drone to an island, and Telangana, where trials are underway to deliver the jabs in a similar way. “Earlier, there were so many rules, laws and restrictions in this sector that it was not possible to unlock the real capabilities of a drone,” Modi said. “The technology that should have been seen as an opportunity was seen as a crisis.”Drones are now being used for various purposes, from spraying fertiliser on crops to preparing digital records of lands, and monitoring law and order, he said. “We have to become a leading country in drone technology. Many companies are setting up manufacturing units. The Army, Navy and Air Force have also placed orders worth more than ₹500 crore with Indian drone companies,” Modi said. Speaking about Amrit Mahotsav, Modi said the culture ministry is set to conduct a competition on patriotic songs to mark the celebration of 75 years of India’s Independence. He urged the country’s youth to pen songs that reflect thoughts of a new India that would fuel the country’s resolve for the future.“It is essential that these creations reflect the thought of new India, inspired by the current success of the country; it should be such that it fuels the country’s resolve for the future,” he said. Noting that lullabies also have their own diversity, the Prime Minister called on reviving the art and said the ministry has decided to organise a competition related to it after receiving suggestions from listeners. “In these lullabies, there should be reference to modern India, the vision of 21st century India and its dreams,” Modi said.The ministry will also conduct a Rangoli contest to mark the Amrit Mahotsav that would see people draw Rangolis related to the freedom movement, he said. Noting that October 31 is the birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, the Prime Minister paid tributes to the freedom fighter and independent India’s first home minister. “Sardar Patel used to say that we can take the nation to new heights if we are united. With national unity, the nation has stature and development,” he said. “We can learn a lot from the life and thoughts of Sardar Patel.”Lauding the increase in the number of women joining police, Modi said it has doubled between 2014 and 2020. He expressed hope that they will lead “new-age policing” in the future.Amid the festive season, Modi urged people to promote locally manufactured items. “If you buy local, then your festival will also be illuminated and the house of a poor brother or sister, an artisan, or a weaver will also be lit up,” the Prime Minister said. “I am sure that the campaign which we all have started together will be stronger this time during the festivals.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mann-ki-baat-success-of-covid-vaccination-drive-shows-india-s-capability-says-modi-101635100682457.html
25-10-2021||India||Lalu attacks Cong, returns to Bihar ahead of bypolls||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) president Lalu Prasad attacked the Congress on Sunday, saying if the RJD had left an assembly bypoll seat in the state for the Congress, the latter could lose even its deposit.Prasad, who returned to Patna after three-and-a-half years, asserted that he will campaign for the upcoming bypolls to Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan assembly seats.  Earlier in April, the Jharkhand high court granted him bail in one of the fodder scam cases.Asked about a virtual breakup of the Congress-RJD alliance in the bypolls, Prasad said: “Kya hota hai Congress ka gathbandhan? (What is this thing about an alliance with the Congress).” “Should we have given one seat (to Congress) for it to lose? So that it could lose even its deposit?” he told the media ahead of his departure, in New Delhi.The RJD chief also mocked Congress leader Bhakta Charan Das, the Congress’s in-charge for Bihar, who recently accused the RJD of having a secret understanding with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).“Does he (Das) know anything,” Prasad asked.He also played down the reported rift between his two sons -- Tej Pratap and Tejashwi -- asserting that “there is no difference between the duo. Both are my sons”.Responding to the comment, Das said: “Lalu Prasad is a big leader and I have always had great respect for him. But I am not capable of responding to his remarks on me the way he has made it.”Talking over the phone in the midst of campaigning for the Tarapur assembly constituency, Das said Prasad had been the voice of Dalits and deprived sections for decades. “And the culture of Congress and sanskar of the Gandhi family prohibits me to reply to the comments of Prasad,” he added.Prasad has been receiving treatment in the national capital after he was relieved from the AIIMS.Late on Friday, Prasad returned to a rousing welcome by his family and party workers at the Patna airport.Posters and banners were put up across the city to welcome the RJD chief, who drove straight from the airport to his 10 Circular residence.Meanwhile, the Congress senior leaders including MLC Premchand Mishra have strongly objected to Prasad’s bid to mock the party’s state in-charge saying it does not behove of a veteran and tall leader like the RJD chief to use such derogatory words against a Congress senior leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lalu-attacks-cong-returns-to-bihar-ahead-of-bypolls-101635100444239.html
25-10-2021||India||In a month, Sansad TV gets 6mn subscribers||Parliament’s new channel Sansad TV, launched last month, has already reached 6 million subscribers, chief executive officer Ravi Capoor said on Sunday.“It’s not about TRPs for the channel,” Capoor said. “Its a no shrill, no noise channel. Its about drawing cerebral, intelligent viewers back to TV.”The channel, formed by merging the Lok Sabha TV and Rajya Sabha TV, airs a wide range of shows from fortnightly programmes about the history of India to panels that analyse House committee reports.During the upcoming winter session, Sansad TV will have two channels so that the proceedings of both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha could be aired simultaneously.Meanwhile, Capoor said that the administration was focusing on expanding its content base. “Bibek Debroy does a programme called Itihaas, while Dr Karan Singh is doing a programme on what different faiths preach called Ekam Sat,” Capoor said. “The draw of Sansad TV is that experts are the anchors.”The channel also has shows dedicated to familiarizing the public with the members of Parliament, while opposition MPs such as Congress’ Shashi Tharoor and Shiv Sena’s Priyanka Chaturvedi also have their own interview segments. The channel also does shows on international policy, such as Diplomatic Dispatch and broadcasts iconic international speeches.The channel is also expected to rationalise the expenditure and assets of the two channels. At present, it has a work force of over 280 people, as compared to the earlier combined strength of nearly 600.“The operating cost has already been reduced by 25% in a month since its complete launch,” Capoor said.Capoor said that the channel was completed after a study of how international Parliamentary channels work. “Our learning was that while the channel should be rooted in Parliament, there should also be other content,” he said. “Our focus remains on how to straighten democracy and we are moulding content around that.”Sansad TV is also bilingual, and telecasts content in both English and Hindi. “We ideated and found that while we can’t telecast live proceedings of the standing committees, we can always analyze the reports that have been tabled to give the viewers a better sense of what is happening,” Capoor said.Though the channel has a dedicated news section, Capoor stressed that its purpose was not to “sell news”. “There is a small round of the news of the day in the morning and in the afternoon,” he said.Whether the new channel will fall under the jurisdiction of the Rajya Sabha or the Lok Sabha still remains to be decided. “We are looking at the structuring that needs to be done,” the TV chief said. “Right now, we’ve reached about six hours of programming, we are aiming to make that eight hours.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sansad-tv-reaches-6-million-subscribers-ceo-says-want-it-to-be-a-cerebral-channel-for-intelligent-viewing-101635100202463.html
25-10-2021||India||20 ITBP troopers get gallantry medals for role in LAC defence||Union minister of state for home affairs, Nityanand Rai pinned the gallantry medals earned by 20 Indo-Tibet Border Police (ITBP) personnel for their bravery during the violent clashes and ongoing standoff with Chinese troops at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) last year, during the 60th raising day celebrations of the force on Sunday. Rai, who was the chief guest at the event, said the ITBP is working with dedication, utmost devotion and highest order of professionalism even in the uncongenial and inhospitable weather conditions on the mountainous borders of the nation. He said that he himself went to the forward posts of ITBP and experienced how the Himveers are discharging their duties with high morale. The medals for 20 men were announced on the eve of the Independence Day on August 14 this year. Out of the 20 ITBP personnel, eight personnel have been awarded the police medal for gallantry (PMG) for their gallant act, meticulous planning and tactical insightfulness and for defending the motherland in Galwan Nalla on June 15 last year, an ITBP spokesperson said on Sunday. Six ITBP personnel have been awarded with the PMG for gallant action during violent face-off on May 18 in the Finger IV area while the rest six have been decorated with the same medal for their gallant action near Hot Springs in Ladakh on the same day (August 14), the ITBP had said in August. India and China have been locked in a border standoff for 17 months and both sides are carrying out negotiations to reduce tensions. The brutal clash in Galwan Valley on June 15 last year, which saw troops from both sides fighting each other for several hours with rocks, rods and clubs covered with barbed wire, resulted in the first fatalities on the LAC in 45 years. The Indian side lost 20 soldiers while China did not acknowledge casualties on its side till February this year when it admitted the death of four soldiers.Deputy Inspector General (veterinary) Sudhakar Natarajan was also decorated on Sunday with the police medal for meritorious service during the event for rendering exceptional service in the animal transport wing of the force, the lifeline for ensuring rations and logistics to its mountainous border deployments. Natarajan, who joined the ITBP in 1992, is credited with introducing the first batch of Belgian Malinois infantry patrol dogs in the ITBP, which was followed by all other Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF).In eastern Ladakh, the ITBP troops not only effectively used shields to protect themselves but also responded fiercely to Chinese PLA advancing troops and brought the situation under control during fierce face offs and skirmishes, the ITBP said in August. “With highest order of professional skills, ITBP troops fought shoulder-to-shoulder and also brought the injured (Army) troops to the rear. Even when the ITBP troops fought the whole night, they received minimum casualties by giving befitting reply to the stone pelters of the PLA,” the ITBP said. At certain places, it said, they gave a determined standoff for about 17-20 hours throughout the intervening night (June 15-16) in extremely challenging conditions. “Due to the high-altitude training and survival experience of the force at the icy Himalayan deployments, ITBP troops kept the PLA troops at bay and due to the all out and befitting response of ITBP troops at several fronts, many areas were safeguarded. The ITBP troops showed highest level of devotion, courage, determination, utter disregard to personal safety even in injured condition and exhibited great professional skills in the face of violent physical scuffle with the PLA,” it had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/20-itbp-troopers-get-gallantry-medals-for-role-in-lac-defence-101635099724029.html
25-10-2021||India||Will not let terror stop J&K’s progress: Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday said the Centre aimed to wipe out terrorism from Jammu and Kashmir and put an end to killings of civilians, and added that nobody will be allowed to disrupt peace and development in the Union territory.Shah is on a three-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir, his first after the Centre revoked the erstwhile state’s special status and split it into two UTs – J&K and Ladakh – on August 5, 2019.He said the “discriminatory” Article 370 was scrapped because of the personal efforts of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to fulfil the dream of Jana Sangh founder Syama Prasad Mookerjee. Shah added that the development of the region had a place in the Prime Minister’s heart.Without naming the Abdullahs, Muftis and Gandhis, Shah took a swipe at the “three families” for all the ills plaguing Jammu and Kashmir and said that a new era of development was ushered in with the nullification of articles 370 and 35-A.Shah sent a clear warning to terrorists and Pakistan proxies by saying that “any attempt to vitiate peace and scuttle development won’t be tolerated”.Shah expressed regret over the loss of lives due to Pak-sponsored terrorism in the Union territory but added that violence has come down drastically ever since the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) came to power. “But we want to create such an atmosphere where not a single life is lost to terrorism,” he said.In a reference to the killing of 11 civilians by terrorists in targeted attacks across Jammu and Kashmir this month, he said some people are raising questions about the prevailing security situation in the UT but “I want to answer them with facts and figures”. “Between 2004 and 2014, a total of 2,081 civilians were killed with average deaths of 239 annually. From 2014 till September this year, 239 civilians unfortunately lost their lives which accounted 30 deaths per year. The figures are down but we are not satisfied,” the home minister said.“Jammu and Kashmir is placed in the heart of the prime minister and under his government, there will be no injustice, discrimination or appeasement,” he said.Shah later visited the International Border (IB) in Jammu on Sunday evening and lauded the bravery of soldiers guarding India’s frontiers. He interacted with BSF jawans and said they should protect the country without any worry as the government led by PM Modi will take care of their families. The home minister also visited the last border hamlet of Makwal and told residents that the Modi government is committed to providing every facility and ensuring development in the border areas.On his maiden visit to Jammu following the August 5 move in 2019, Shah started his speech at the JDA ground in Bhagwati Nagar with “Bharat Mata Ki Jai” slogans. “I have come here to meet the people of Jammu. I was tensed if the Jammu rally could be held due to inclement weather but see the blessings of Mata Vaishno Devi, the weather has cleared up,” he said.The time for sidelining the people of Jammu has come to an end and now both Kashmir and Jammu will be developed together, he said.Shah invoked the late Pandit Prem Nath Dogra (a Dogra leader who was for the full integration of J&K with India) to strike a chord with the crowd. “Today is the birth anniversary of Pandit Prem Nath Dogra. He worked along with Syama Prasad Mookerjee, who had given the slogan of ‘ek nishan, ek vidhan’. Jammu had been discriminated against for years together but not anymore. Now, there shall be equitable development of Jammu and Kashmir because an era of development under the Modi government has started,” Shah said.“From the land of Mata Vaishno Devi, of Pandit Prem Nath Dogra and the land where Syama Prasad Mookerjee sacrificed his life, I assure you that we will not allow anyone to sabotage the scuttle this journey of development of Jammu and Kashmir.”Shah also pointed fingers at the Abdullahs, Muftis and the Gandhis by making several references to the “three families”. “These three families were raising questions about what I would give to the people. May I ask them that you ruled for so long and what have you done for 70 years?” he said. “These families owe an explanation to the people of J&K. For 70 years, these three families did nothing for the people except for their personal gains but their dadagiri won’t work anymore.”Shah said the BJP did better than everyone else. “Article 370 was revoked by PM Modi and justice was done to all, including Valmikis, Paharis, West Pakistan refugees, women, Gujjars and Bakkarrwals. We brought laws, including forest rights law to do justice with all sections of the society,” he said.Saying that the BJP government headed by PM Modi has accorded top priority to Jammu and Kashmir, he said: “We don’t want any house in J&K to be without LPG, electricity and water. We have given 25,000 jobs to the youth recently and today alone 7,000 jobs have been given to youth from this podium.”Shah said that the new industrial policy of the BJP government was mocked by the “three families”. “But an investment of ₹12,000 crore was already in and by 2022 another investment of ₹51,000 crore will be in. At least five lakh youth will get jobs out of it,” he added.The home minister informed the audience that on a single day and from the podium of Bhagwati Nagar ground, he announced developmental works worth over ₹15,000 crore for Jammu.He also informed that the Modi government has initiated ₹35,000 crore worth of power projects in the UT of which some will be commissioned soon.National Conference chief Farooq Abdullah expressed surprise over Shah’s statement that Jammu and Kashmir’s statehood will be restored after assembly elections. He said “urges and aspirations of people have to be satiated for lasting peace” in the UT. Abdullah expressed surprise over the logic being advanced by the central leadership that the statehood will be restored after completion of the delimitation of constituencies and holding of elections.Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti alleged that “repression” is the only method of the Centre to deal with the Jammu and Kashmir situation.“Even after turning Kashmir into an open-air prison, Bipin Rawat’s statement comes as no surprise because repression is GOIs only method to deal with the situation in J&K. It also contradicts their official narrative that all is well here,” Mufti said in a tweet reacting to Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat’s statement over warning of further curbs in Kashmir.With inputs from PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-not-let-terror-stop-j-k-s-progressshah-101635099721898.html
25-10-2021||India||PLA to govern border areas under new law||China enacted a new law on Saturday on its land borders amid a military standoff along the disputed boundary with India, saying that its sovereignty and territorial integrity were “sacred and inviolable”, a remark likely to impact the ongoing row with New Delhi.The legislation, the first such law since new China was formed in 1949, combines military defence of China’s land borders with improving social and economic development in border areas.It strengthens a policy of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) to work closely with civilians staying in border areas, such as villagers in its Tibet autonomous region living along the border with India, Bhutan and Nepal, to work as the first line of defence.India and China have been locked in a border row for 17 months, a phase that saw a deadly skirmish in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on June 15, 2020, when troops from both sides engaged each other for hours. Twenty Indian soldiers were killed in the clash, the first fatalities on the Line of Actual Control since 1975; four Chinese soldiers were killed and one injured.Long-standing border disputes should be resolved through negotiations, the new law enjoins, according to Chinese official media.China’s parliament, the National People’s Congress (NPC) on Saturday voted to adopt the “…new law on the protection and exploitation of the country’s land border areas, which will take effect on January 1, 2022”, Xinhua news agency reported.The law will now govern how China guards its 22,000km land border with 14 countries, including Russia, nuclear-capable North Korea and Mongolia, besides India and Bhutan, two countries with which Beijing has border disputes.Last week, Indian foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said the developments along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh have “seriously disturbed” the peace and tranquillity in border areas, and this has obviously had an impact on the broader relationship too. The foreign secretary, in his remarks at a seminar on “Leveraging China’s Economy” on October 21, also referred to external affairs minister S Jaishankar’s remarks that the ability of India and China to work together will determine the Asian century.The state, the law says “shall take measures to safeguard territorial integrity and land boundaries and guard against and combat any act that undermines territorial sovereignty and land boundaries”.The law, which has 62 articles, stipulates that the state shall take measures to “…strengthen border defence, support economic and social development as well as opening-up in border areas, improve public services and infrastructure in such areas, encourage and support people’s life and work there, and promote coordination between border defence and social, economic development in border areas”.The law “stipulates the relevant responsibilities” of the PLA, the armed militia, and local governments to support and coordinate border defence and management of areas at the border and the building of border infrastructure.“Under the leadership of the Central Military Commission, relevant military organs shall organise, guide and coordinate the defence and control of land borders, maintain social stability, handle emergencies and cooperate in border defence and other related work,” Article 7 of the law says.The law laid out that the state has to nurture border towns and improve their overall “supporting capacity”.China has built hundreds of border villages – by some counts more than 600 – across the country’s borders in the Tibet autonomous region.“The State supports the construction of border towns, improves the system of border towns, improves the functions of border towns and strengthens the construction of supporting capacity,” Article 43 of the law says.On the issue of resolving border disputes, the law says: “The state shall, following the principle of equality, mutual trust, and friendly consultation, handle land border related affairs with neighbouring countries through negotiations to properly resolve disputes and longstanding border issues.”The land border law establishes a standardised legal framework for managing China’s land border affairs, Gao Jinlu, from the foreign affairs committee of the NPC, was quoted as saying by state media.President Xi Jinping signed orders to promulgate the law.Li Zhanshu, chairman of the NPC Standing Committee, presided over the closing meeting of the 31st session of the 13th NPC Standing Committee, which ran from Tuesday to Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pla-to-govern-border-areas-under-new-law-101635099602816.html
25-10-2021||India||Facebook struggles with hate speech, celebrations of violence in India: Report||Facebook’s internal documents show “a struggle with misinformation, hate speech and celebrations of violence” in India, with researchers at the social media giant pointing out that there are groups and pages “replete with inflammatory and misleading anti-Muslim content” on its platform, a US media report has said. In February 2019, a Facebook researcher created an account to look into what the social media website will look like for a person living in Kerala, the New York Times reported on Saturday. “For the next three weeks, the account operated by a simple rule: Follow all the recommendations generated by Facebook’s algorithms to join groups, watch videos and explore new pages on the site. The result was an inundation of hate speech, misinformation and celebrations of violence, which were documented in an internal Facebook report published later that month,” the US newspaper said in its report. “Internal documents show a struggle with misinformation, hate speech and celebrations of violence in the country, the company’s biggest market,” said the report based on disclosures obtained by a consortium of news organisations, including the New York Times and the Associated Press news agency. The documents are part of the material collected by data engineer and whistleblower Frances Haugen, a former Facebook employee who recently testified before the US Senate about the company and its social media platforms. The internal documents include details on how bots and fake accounts tied to the “country’s ruling party and opposition figures” were wreaking havoc on India’s national elections, the report said. In a separate report produced after the 2019 national elections, Facebook found that “over 40 per cent of top views, or impressions, in the Indian state of West Bengal were fake/inauthentic”, the newspaper reported. One inauthentic account had amassed more than 30 million impressions. In an internal document – titled Adversarial Harmful Networks: India Case Study – Facebook researchers wrote that there were groups and pages “replete with inflammatory and misleading anti-Muslim content” on the social media platform. The documents also detail how a plan “championed” by Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg to focus on “meaningful social interactions” was leading to more misinformation in India, particularly during the pandemic. Another Facebook report detailed efforts by Bajrang Dal to publish posts containing anti-Muslim narratives on the platform. “Facebook is considering designating the group as a dangerous organisation because it is “inciting religious violence” on the platform, the document showed. But it has not yet done so,” the New York Times report said. The documents showed that Facebook did not have enough resources in India and was not able to grapple with the problems it had introduced there, including anti-Muslim posts.“This exploratory effort of one hypothetical test account inspired deeper, more rigorous analysis of our recommendation systems, and contributed to product changes to improve them,” A Facebook India spokesperson said. “Product changes from subsequent, more rigorous research included things like the removal of borderline content and civic and political groups from our recommendation systems.”The company has strengthened its hate classifiers to include four Indian languages, the spokesperson said.The company has reduced the amount of hate speech that people see by half this year, the spokesperson said. “We’ve invested significantly in technology to find hate speech in various languages, including Hindi and Bengali. As a result, we’ve reduced the amount of hate speech that people see by half this year. Today, it’s down to 0.05%. Hate speech against marginalized groups, including Muslims, is on the rise globally. So we are improving enforcement and are committed to updating our policies as hate speech evolves online.”After India’s national elections had begun, “Facebook put in place a series of steps to stem the flow of misinformation and hate speech in the country,” according to an internal document called Indian Election Case Study, the New York Times reported. “The case study painted an optimistic picture of Facebook’s efforts, including adding more fact-checking partners — the third-party network of outlets with which Facebook works to outsource fact-checking — and increasing the amount of misinformation it removed,” the report said. “The study did not note the immense problem the company faced with bots in India, nor issues like voter suppression. During the election, Facebook saw a spike in bots – or fake accounts – linked to various political groups, as well as efforts to spread misinformation that could have affected people’s understanding of the voting process.”(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/facebook-struggles-with-hate-speech-celebrations-of-violence-in-india-us-report-101635099544970.html
25-10-2021||India||Modi to travel to Europe for G20, UN climate meet||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will travel to Italy and the UK between October 29 and November 2 to attend the G20 summit in Rome and the world leaders’ summit at the United Nations climate conference in Glasgow.He will be attending the G20 group of countries on October 30-31 at the invitation of Mario Draghi, his Italian counterpart. Other heads of nations of the world’s top economies are also expected to participate. This is the eighth time that Modi will attend the G20 summit, which has emerged as the main global forum for international economic cooperation. India will host the summit in 2023 for the first time.The summit under Italian presidency will focus on recovery from the Covid-19 pandemic and strengthening global health governance, economic recovery and resilience, climate change and energy transition, and sustainable development and food security.Modi will hold several bilateral meetings in Rome, including with Draghi.From Rome, Modi will travel to Glasgow to attend the World Leaders Summit of the 26th Conference of Parties (COP26) to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) at the invitation of his British counterpart Boris Johnson.COP26 is being held between October 31 and November 12 under the presidency of the UK partnering with Italy. The high-level segment of COP26, known as the world leaders’ summit, will be held on November 1-2. More than 120 heads of state are expected to attend. COP 26 was scheduled to be held in 2020, but was deferred because of the pandemic.“The UNFCCC embodies the global will and vision to combat climate change. The periodic Conference of Parties to this Convention have emerged as global climate summits, providing an opportunity for stocktaking and for charting the way forward,” the external affairs ministry said in a statement.Modi last attended the UN climate summit in 2015, when resulted in the historic Paris Agreement, whose implementation begins this year. At COP26, nations are expected to issue guidelines to implement the Paris pact, and agree on mobilising climate finance, actions to strengthen climate adaptation, technology development and transfer, and trying to reach the Paris Agreement goal of limiting the rise in global temperatures.Modi will hold several bilateral meetings on the sidelines of COP26, including with Johnson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-to-travel-to-europe-for-g20-un-climate-meet-101635099424057.html
25-10-2021||India||A classroom and a nursery of new democracy||The government primary high school in Himachal Pradesh’s Kalpa village is a charming three-room wooden structure ringed by the Kailash mountain ranges on one side and an ancient monastery on the other. Built by the British in 1890, the school is perched atop a small hill and its 67 students have to trudge through mounds of snow in winter up a cobbled path to reach the classroom.But this unassuming building hides a storied history. Its classroom functioned as India’s first polling booth on the morning of October 25, 1951, in the newly independent country’s first national elections. It is here that Shyam Saran Negi, now 105, cast the country’s first ballot at 6.30am – the ballot box installed at the far end of the room, the presiding officer sitting on the teacher’s table and stacks of ballot paper piled up in a corner.“It was an unforgettable experience. It made me feel powerful because I realised the value of a vote,” said Negi, who has voted in 16 subsequent parliamentary elections.The village of Kalpa, then called Chini, went to the polls months ahead of the rest of the country because the remote village with roughly 60 families would get cut off by snowfall in early November. India’s first election commissioner, Sukumar Sen, was aware of this problem. He was keen to finish polling before it became impossible for election officials to trek up for six days from Rampur city, roughly 100km away.“Elections to these areas had to be arranged in a hurry before the snow-fall. It was just possible to complete the polling in these areas in time. Even then, it took about a week after the poll to transport the ballot boxes to the headquarters of the respective returning officers for the counting of votes,” Sen wrote in his election report.Holding an election at 10,000 feet was only of the many daunting challenges before Sen, who took over as election commissioner in March 1950, days after India officially became a republic and adopted a groundbreaking new Constitution that declared, among other things, that the country’s government will be elected by universal adult franchise.India had witnessed two previous elections, one in 1937 and another in 1946, but they had been conducted on restricted franchise, with roughly 20% of the adult population eligible to vote. Moreover, only 18% of the country was literate in 1951 – and the figure was in single digits in far-flung areas – and nowhere in the world had such a mammoth exercise been undertaken with so little prior experience.Yet, by all measures, the inaugural elections, held over 68 phases and four months, was a success.The Congress party won 364 of the 489 seats but opposition parties, independents and smaller groups garnered roughly half the cumulative votes. The introduction of symbols, indelible ink to prevent impersonation or double voting, and manufacture of ballot boxes, papers and seals on an industrial scale helped the exercise. The successful culmination of the election also belied the predictions of colonialists who warned that a large and poor country like India could never hold free and fair elections, or sustain democracy.“In the true spirit of democracy, the Constituent Assembly unhesitatingly adopted the principle of adult suffrage with full knowledge of the difficulties involved. This was indeed an act of faith – faith in the common man of India and in his practical common sense. This decision launched a great and fateful experiment unique in the world in its stupendousness and complexities,” Sen wrote after the completion of the election.Many things have changed in the past 70 years. The electorate has grown from 172 million to 911 million in 2019, the 68 phases have shrunk to seven, the turnout has swelled from 45% to 67% and the 489 seats in the first Lok Sabha polls have become 543.Still, many things remain unchanged. The Indian election continues to be the largest democratic exercise in the world, held at last count by 12 million officials across one million polling booths. Most of all, the unprecedented enthusiasm of people who had never voted before in 1951 is reflected in each new generation.“Even in a remote region like Kalpa, the elections were a festival that everyone wanted to participate in. It was a carnival, and it remains like that even today,” said VC Pharkha, former chief secretary of Himachal Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-classroom-and-a-nursery-of-new-democracy-101635099246970.html
25-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri violence case: Ashish Mishra contracts dengue, hospitalised||Lucknow/Lakhimpur Kheri: Union minister Ajay Kumar Mishra’s son Ashish Mishra, the main accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case, was shifted to the district hospital on Sunday after his blood sugar reached “critical level” and he was found infected with dengue as well, police said. “Ashish Mishra was sent to the district jail on Saturday evening itself for treatment at its healthcare facility after he was diagnosed with dengue. The illness has interrupted the investigation as the police were unable to continue with his cross -examination,” a member of the Investigation Committee probing the case said, on the condition of anonymity.Another police officer, requesting anonymity,said a panel of senior-most physicians from the district hospital, led by the chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Shailendra Bhatnagar, examined Ashish Mishra in the jail hospital on Sunday morning and referred him to the district hospital for treatment “under observation”. “The blood samples [of Ashish Mishra] collected Saturday night tested positive for dengue. His sugar levels were found to be critical. Some changes were also observed in the ECG. At the district hospital, a panel of doctors will attend him under six-hourly observation and subsequent follow-up will be made thereafter. Fresh [blood]samples have been sent to Lucknow for confirmation [of dengue],” the CMO said. The police official said Mishra, his friend Ankit Das, Das’ driver Shekhar Bharti and gunner Latif alias Kaale were taken on two-day custody for the second time since Friday. The police would seek the custody of Mishra again after his recovery, the official added. Ashish Mishra alias Monu is the main accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case in which eight people, including four farmers, a local journalist, a driver and two Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers were killed on October 3 after a convoy of vehicles allegedly led by Ashish Mishra rammed into a group of farmers returning from a protest against the three Central farm laws. A total of 13 arrests have been made in the case so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-case-ashish-mishra-contracts-dengue-hospitalised-101635099246197.html
25-10-2021||India||UN climate conference: Reducing greenhouse gases India’s top priority||India is likely to reiterate its commitment of rapidly reducing greenhouse gas emissions at the United Nations climate conference to be held in Glasgow between October 31 and November 12, but may also insist that wealthy nations take stronger action to curtail emissions so that developing countries like India have room to grow. India has said it would install 450 GW of renewable energy by 2030 and has internally announced that 30% of all private vehicles will run on electricity by that year. These could be reflected, among other measures, in an updated nationally determined contribution, environment ministry officials said at a select media briefing on Friday. Expectations of concrete action are high in the run up to this year’s climate summit as it could be the last change for the world to keep global warming to within 1.5 degrees Celsius compared with pre-industrial times, as was agreed upon in the landmark 2015 Paris Agreement, without compromising on growth in developing economies. India might even agree to net-zero emissions sometime after 2050. Net zero refers to the balance between the amount of greenhouse gas produced and the amount removed from the atmosphere. It entails reductions in the use of coal, oil and gas, and corresponding increase in carbon sequestration efforts like planting trees. “Net zero for a later date is on the platter as an option,” an environment ministry official said. However, the developed world should transition to net zero far earlier, say by 2030, leaving some carbon space for emerging economies like India, he said. “The decision will be taken at the highest level of the government, as it involves India’s growth trajectory,” the official said, requesting anonymity. India may decide on its final negotiation strategy on Wednesday during a meeting of the Union cabinet.As many as 130 countries have set or are considering a net-zero emissions target by mid-century, according to the United Nations. A net zero commitment by 2060 is under discussion in India, said the London-based Energy and Climate Intelligence Unit, a non-profit. Many western nations such as France, the UK and Denmark, among others, will have net-zero emissions by 2050. Russia and China have also announced plans to be carbon neutral by 2060. Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest oil exporter, will reach zero-net emissions by 2060, it said on Saturday.India’s climate negotiators have held meetings with relevant ministries and on October 6 held consultations with non-government organisation working in the area of climate change. Many of these institutions have asked environment minister Bhupender Yadav that India should negotiate on the use of remaining carbon budget. Carbon space and its budgeting will be of highest importance for India, they said in their submissions reviewed by HT. Big emitters pledging net-zero emissions by 2050 or 2060 have no meaning unless the trajectory to get there is clear, according to economist Nitin Desai, chairman of the governing council at The Energy and Resources Institute, a New Delhi-based think tank. India should call on the developed world to become carbon negative or at least carbon neutral by 2030, Desai said. There is a need to highlight the carbon budget that is available to the world to meet the goal of 1.5 degrees Celsius, he said .  India may consider coining the concept of carbon tax on historical emissions by developed countries, according to Kirit Parikh, chairman of Integrated Research and Action for Development, a research foundation. He is of the view that India should call upon developed countries to adopt shorter timelines to become carbon neutral and highlight the importance of carbon space that remains available to the global community. By 2030, the US would have appropriated around 17.7% of the world’s total carbon budget, according to an analysis in Climate Change: Science and Politics, a book released by the Centre for Science and Environment, an advocacy organisation. China’s emissions will be between 29.5% of global emissions between 2012 and 2030, compared to 6.5% for India, the analysis revealed. “In this way, by 2030, over 80% to 100% of the available carbon budget will be occupied with hardly any room for India and African countries… Therefore, India and other developing countries must stake claim to the remaining carbon space,” the analysis showed. The remaining carbon space is of utmost importance and should be highlighted by India at the climate summit, said climate scientist T Jayaraman, senior fellow at the MS Swaminathan Research Foundation in Chennai, who was also part of the consultations. “India could consider supporting a global net zero by 2050, which is achieved in consonance with the principles of UNFCCC, particularly common but differentiated responsibilities and equity,” said Manjeev Singh Puri, former ambassador and lead climate change negotiator for India. “A timeline for peaking and then emissions reduction trajectory is a longer term issue for India, given its development imperatives.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/un-climate-conference-reducing-greenhouse-gases-india-s-top-priority-101635099127340.html
25-10-2021||India||Shopian man killed in crossfire, say police; kin demand justice||A 20-year-old man was killed in crossfiring between terrorists and a CRPF party, in Shopian district of Jammu & Kashmir on Sunday, police said. The deceased’s family, however, dismissed the security forces’ statement and termed it a “targeted killing”.According to the police, Shahid Aijaz Rather was hit by bullets outside the camp of CRPF’s 178 battalion, at Babapora, Shopian.“Around 10:30 hrs unidentified terrorists attacked a Naka party of 178 Bn, CRPF at Babapora, Shopian. CRPF retaliated the fire and during crossfiring, one unidentified person got killed. Further details are being ascertained,” the Shopian district police said in a tweet.Block medical officer of Zainapora, Dr Khalid Abbas said the young man was brought dead to the hospital. “We are conducting his post mortem,” he said.The man sustained seven bullet injuries, including on the chest, heart and spleen, a medical official added.Rather’s brother Zubair Ahmad Rather, however, refuted the CRPF statement.“If he had been hit in cross firing then others with him would also have been hit. He was directly targeted. We want justice. Today it happened with us, tomorrow it will happen with others,” he told the media.Rather’s cousin and neighbour Adil Ahmad said he worked as a labourer and had gone to Shopian to pick apples. “He had been visiting Shopian for the past two days to pick apples. He was a Class 12 student... We came to know of his killing from social media. Everybody is in shock. His killing is an injustice.”Rather is survived by parents and four younger siblings, he added. “He was the eldest of his siblings and would do labour work to help his mason father to run the family expenses.”The killing has triggered condemnations from political leaders.People’s Democratic Party leader Mehbooba Mufti accused armed forces of showing little restraint. “Another innocent civilian killed allegedly by CRPF in Shopian today. It’s sad that armed forces show little restraint & operate with such impunity. My heartfelt condolences to his family,” she said in a tweet.Srinagar mayor and youth president of Apni Party, Junaid Mattu said: “Strongly condemn the killing of a civilian, Shahid Aijaz at Zainapora, Shopian. My deepest condolences to his family. Allah (swt) jannat naseeb karey. Ameen”.National Conference vice president and former J&K chief minister Omar Abdullah, while reacting to the killing of the youth, said: “He was shot dead & his bag has no weapons or explosives, he’s carrying fruit & vegetables. This policy of ‘shoot first’ will further alienate people. This is no way to make friends with the people or the youth of Kashmir.”This is the second such death in Kashmir this month. On October 7, Parvaiz Ahmad Bokad, a tribal, was killed when CRPF opened fire on a vehicle, allegedly charging at a checkpoint at Monghal Bridge in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district.Police then said that the vehicle without a number plate was signalled to stop by CRPF’s Naka party, however, it instead sped towards the CRPF party, prompting the troops to open fire.Board’s family had protested his death and said he didn’t deserve to be killed irrespective of whether he jumped a naka (barricade) or not.The incident comes amid a heightened security environment in Jammu and Kashmir following suspected terrorists killing 11 civilians including non-locals and minorities this month. Home minister Amit Shah has been reviewing the security situation during his first visit to the Union Territory (UT) since the abrogation of Article 370 in August 2019 and splitting of the region into two UTs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shopian-man-killed-in-crossfire-say-police-kin-demand-justice-101635099126120.html
25-10-2021||India||Search team attacked in Poonch, LeT terrorist killed||An arrested member of terror outfit Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) was killed and three security personnel injured when terrorists opened fire on a search team of the army and police in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch on Sunday, officials familiar with the matter said.Police said that Zia Mustafa, an LeT terrorist from Pakistan, was taken to the Bhata Durian forest to identify the terrorist hideout. Security personnel have been carrying out a search operation for 14 days in Bhatta Durrian and the nearby forest areas of Surankote in Poonch and Thanamandi in Rajouri district to eliminate hiding terrorists. On October 14, terrorists killed a Junior Commissioned Officer (JCO) and three soldiers in the area. A total of nine personnel have died in the ongoing operation.“When the team approached the hideout, the terrorists opened fire, in which two policemen and an army jawan sustained injuries. Mustafa also sustained injuries and he could not be extracted from the site due to heavy firing,” the police said in an official statement.Officials said Mustafa, a resident of Rawalakot in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK), was lodged in the Kot Bhalwal jail for the last 14 years and was shifted to Mendhar on police remand after investigation revealed his link with the hiding terrorists.“During the subsequent operation additional reinforcements were sent and the body of Mustafa has been retrieved from the encounter site,” a police official said, adding the operation, to neutralise the hiding terrorists, was in progress.The operation in the forest areas in the twin border districts began on October 11 when terrorists ambushed a search party killing five soldiers including a Junior Commissioned Officer (JCO) in Surankote forest of Poonch before another gunfight in nearby Thanamandi on the same day. Drones and helicopters have been pressed into service to assist the marching troops, which includes para-commandos, in the jungle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/search-team-attacked-in-poonch-let-terrorist-killed-101635098946246.html
25-10-2021||India||Witness in Aryan case levels extortion charge, NCB denies||In a new disclosure on the drugs bust case involving Aryan Khan, son of actor Shah Rukh Khan, an independent witness has alleged an extortion racket, prompting a strong denial by the Narcotics Control Bureau.Prabhakar Sail, who claimed to have worked as a bodyguard of KP Gosavi, who was seen with drug enforcers in a raid on a cruise ship earlier this month, said in an affidavit that he was forced to sign blank papers on that night. Gosavi, one of the witnesses in the case, is on the run and police have issued a lookout notice on him.Sail allegedly heard Gosavi and another person discussing an amount of ₹25 crore, out of which ₹8 crore was supposedly to be paid to a senior NCB official, he said in a notarised affidavit. Sail said he had overheard Gosavi telling one Sam D’Souza over the phone after Aryan Khan was brought to the NCB office after the October 3 raid about a demand of ₹25 crore and to settle at ₹18 crore as they “have to give ₹eight crore to Sameer Wankhede”, the zonal director of NCB.“We will give a befitting reply” to the allegations, said Sameer Wankhede, zonal director of the anti-drugs agency.NCB enforcers had raided a cruise ship on October 3, and arrested Aryan Khan, his friend Arbaaz Merchant and model Munmun Dhamecha for possession and consumption of banned drugs. The three continue to remain in judicial custody and courts have denied them bail several times. Another appeal for bail will be heard on Tuesday.“As the case is before an honourable court and sub-judice, Sail needs to submit his prayer to the court rather than through social media if he has anything to say,” the NCB said in a statement. “Zonal director Sameer Wankhede of the NCB has categorically denied these allegations.”“The affidavit has been forwarded to the director general of Narcotics Control Bureau for further necessary action,” the statement signed by deputy director general Mutha Ashok Jain of the NCB said.Wankhede also wrote a letter to the Mumbai police commissioner Hemant Nagrale on Sunday requesting him to ensure that no precipitate legal action is carried out with ulterior motives to frame him.“It has come to my notice that some precipitate legal action for framing me falsely is being planned by unknown persons in relation to the alleged vigilance related issue in case number 94/2021 (cruise drug case)” Wankhede said in the letter.The disclosures by Sail evoked responses from political parties opposed to the Bhartiya Janata Party, who have been protesting the handling of the case by the federal agency.“I am going to demand an SIT (special investigation team) probe by Maharashtra police in this entire episode. I will personally meet chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to demand a probe,” said Nawab Malik, a leader of the Nationalist Congress Party that rules the state in alliance with the Shiv Sena and the Congress party. Malik is a minister in the state.“Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has said the cases are made to defame Maharashtra. This seems to be coming true. Police should take suo moto (on its own) cognisance,” said Sanjay Raut , a leader of the Shiv Sena.“The Modi government has been misusing central agencies against non-BJP governments. The statement by Prabhakar Sail has re-established it,” said Atul Londhe, spokesman of the Congress party. “The central agencies were used in Sushant Singh Rajput’s case for political gain and now being used in Aryan Khan case, too, for politics. We urge the judiciary to take a suo moto cognisance of the entire episode for the sake of Constitution as these cases have posed a challenge to democracy.”Leader of opposition in legislative council and BJP leader Pravin Darekar said, “Nawab Malik and others have been levelling false allegations against NCB and its zonal director Sameer Wankhede. The ruling parties have been targeting central agencies and the central government for political reasons.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/witness-in-aryan-case-levels-extortion-charge-ncb-denies-101635098881560.html
25-10-2021||India||Uzbekistan to push for connectivity plan through Chabahar||Uzbekistan will push ahead with a joint plan with India and Iran to promote connectivity through the Chabahar port, as part of the country’s efforts to improve and diversify access to sea routes for trade, senior Uzbek officials have said.The three countries intend to hold the second meeting of a trilateral working group to discuss the joint use of Chabahar port on Iran’s Makran coast for trade and transit, Uzbekistan’s deputy foreign minister Furkat Sidikov said on the sidelines of a roundtable here on foreign policy issues. He indicated that the recent developments in Afghanistan would not have any impact on the plans of the three countries.“India is one of our strategic partners and this is an important project,” Sidikov said. The first virtual meeting of the trilateral working group on the joint use of Chabahar port was held last December, and the three sides will set the date for the second meeting, he said.Bakhtiyor Mustafayev, deputy director of the state-backed International Institute for Central Asia, said the government of landlocked Uzbekistan believes it is strategically important to diversify efforts to enhance access to the oceans.Almost 80% of Uzbekistan’s exports and imports move through northern routes passing through Central Asian states and Russia and it would be beneficial for the country to gain access to the Persian Gulf, Mustafayev said. At the same time, the countries in South Asia are developing fast, and represent a huge market with a population of about two billion, he said.“It would be more beneficial to try to combine South Asia and Central Asia,” Mustafayev said.Enhanced connectivity, he said, would also “open new doors to improve the security situation and deal with terrorism and extremism” across the region.The takeover of Afghanistan by the Taliban in mid-August has triggered speculation about the viability of Chabahar port. India developed the Shahid Beheshti terminal of Chabahar as part of its efforts to access Afghanistan while bypassing the territory of Pakistan. The US granted the port a special waiver from sanctions imposed on Iran in view of its strategic importance in shipping supplies to Afghanistan.During a virtual summit with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on December 11 last year, Uzbek President Shavkat Mirziyoyev – who is widely anticipated to retain his position in presidential elections held on Sunday – had first proposed a trilateral dialogue between India, Iran and Uzbekistan to promote connectivity through Chabahar port.The Indian side welcomed the proposal and responded with alacrity. The first meeting of the trilateral working group on the joint use of Chabahar was held just three days later on December 14, 2020.During the virtual summit last year, India and Uzbekistan had also reiterated their commitment to enhancing connectivity between the two countries and in the larger Central Asian region to bolster trade and investment. The Indian side had said at the time that Chabahar port could be “a fulcrum of connectivity to Central Asia”.Speaking at the roundtable of foreign policy issues that was held on Saturday as part of the campaign for the presidential elections, Sidikov described the situation in Afghanistan as “difficult” but said that the country could not be isolated.Uzbek foreign minister Abdulaziz Kamilov visited Kabul on October 7 for talks with the Taliban leadership, and Uzbek officials and Taliban representatives held a working meeting in the border city of Termez on October 16 to improve cross-border connectivity, especially for shipping humanitarian aid.The Uzbek side is also interested in moving forward with a project to extend the existing railway line connecting Termez and Hairatan in Uzbekistan to Peshawar in Pakistan. The line currently terminates at Mazar-e-Sharif in northern Afghanistan. “This railway project is not related to governments and is for the benefit of the people…We have discussed the project with the provisional government of Afghanistan…We are ready to support such projects,” Sidikov told the roundtable.People familiar with the matter said the thinking on the Uzbek side is that any isolation of Afghanistan could lead to an economic collapse and more chaos across the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uzbekistan-to-push-ahead-with-joint-efforts-with-india-to-promote-connectivity-via-chabahar-port-101635097981017.html
25-10-2021||India||Call me whenever you need: Amit Shah shares phone number with Jammu man, takes his number||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday visited Jammu’s Makwal border, and interacted with many local residents. During a meeting with one such resident, Shah took the man’s contact number and also shared his own, news agency ANI reported. The union minister told the man that he can “contact him (Shah) whenever he needs.”In a video shared by ANI on Twitter, the man can be seen sitting on a bench beside Shah, with Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha also present at the scene. Shah types on what looks like the man’s mobile in an apparent move of sharing his contact details with the resident.During his visit to Makwal border, Shah also met and interacted with soldiers.Earlier in the day, he inaugurated a new campus of the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) in Jammu, before heading to the Bhagwati Nagar ground to address a rally where he said that earlier the Union Territory (UT) along with Ladakh were facing discrimination but now the administration was ensuring there was equitable development in these regions.He added that some individuals wanted to “derail the era of development” that had begun in Jammu and Kashmir under the rule of UT Governor and Union minister Jitendra Singh. “We won’t allow it and will ensure no harm is done to the development of Jammu and Kashmir,” Shah said.Shah, who is on a three-day visit to the UT, also hailed the abrogation of Section 370, saying that August 5, 2019 will be written in “golden letters” as it marked the end of “terrorism, nepotism, corruption” in the region. “J&K youth has to contribute to the development of the UT, it is their responsibility,” he said.Also Read | Delimitation will happen, J&K statehood to be restored: Amit Shah in SrinagarThe Union minister assured the people of J&K that “strict action” will be taken against those who want to ruin the current peace in the region, adding that it is the central government’s “commitment” to not allow obstruction of development there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-exchanges-contact-number-with-jammu-man-while-visiting-local-residents-101635093372940.html
