26-10-2021||India||Amit Shah shares pictures of Pir Panjal, urges tourists to visit Kashmir||Union home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday said Kashmir is all set to welcome tourists and urged people to visit the “beautiful part of India”. Sharing pictures of the Pir Panjal mountain range on Twitter, the minister said he captured the breathtaking images while he was on his way to Delhi after completing a three-day visit to Jammy and Kashmir.Captured these breath-taking pictures of the Pir Panjal mountain range after the first snowfall of the season on my way from Srinagar to Delhi. Kashmir, the Jewel in India's crown, is all set to welcome tourists. Do visit this beautiful part of India.@JandKTourism #IncredileIndia pic.twitter.com/K4vqIC5QFgThe home minister's visit came amid targeted killings of minorities and migrants in the Valley and subsequent counterterrorism operations. Shah visited the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) camp in Lethpora in Pulwama district on Monday, had dinner with the soldiers, and spend the night at the camp before wrapping up his visit to the union territory.It was also his first visit to Jammu and Kashmir since the Central government repealed Article 370 of the Constitution in August 2019 that conferred special status to the erstwhile state. The government has assured that the statehood will be restored once the delimitation process gets completed and elections are held in the union territory.During his visit, the minister asserted that the curfew and internet suspension was necessary following the abrogation of Article 370 to prevent bloodshed in Kashmir. He also rejected former J&K chief minister Farooq Abdullah's advice to Pakistan to resolve the Kashmir issue.“Farooq sahib has given some advice to the Union government – to talk to Pakistan. I want to tell Farooq sahib, who has been a former chief minister of J&K, that we will talk to the people of Kashmir. I will talk to the youth of Kashmir Valley,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-shares-pictures-of-pir-panjal-urges-tourists-to-visit-kashmir-101635266040375.html
26-10-2021||India||Mamata Banerjee promises permanent political solution for Darjeeling, says statehood promise meant to divide people of hills||Siliguri: West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday promised a permanent political solution for Darjeeling hills while it remains part of the state, even as she urged leaders in the hills to prepare a roadmap for the same by December. “Some political parties come to Darjeeling ahead of the elections and promise statehood. Their actual motto is to divide the people of the hills. You give me a plan on how to come to a permanent solution. I would help you even while Darjeeling remains a part of West Bengal,” the Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief said. Banerjee, who is on a four-day tour of north Bengal since October 24, was speaking at an administrative meeting in Kurseong, which was attended by political leaders of the hills. She asked Anit Thapa, former Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM) leader who recently floated a new outfit; Roshan Giri, secretary of the GJM; and Gautam Deb, senior TMC leader and former minister, to hold a meeting and come up with a plan by the first week of December. Officials and political representatives from the Gorkha Territorial Administration (GTA) — an autonomous body that manages Darjeeling and Kalimpong hills in north Bengal — have also been asked to attend the meeting. Banerjee’s remark on finding permanent political solution comes in the wake of Union home minister Amit Shah holding a tri-partite meeting in Delhi to discuss the Gorkha issues on October 12. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Darjeeling MP Raju Bista said: “The Centre is actively considering finding a permanent political solution for Darjeeling hills that witnessed 104-day long general strike and death of 13 people in 2017.” Hill political parties, meanwhile, are clearly divided. GJM headed by Bimal Gurung and Bharatiya Gorkha Prajatantrik Morcha headed by Anit Thapa are aligning with the TMC. The Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF), Communist Party of Revolutionary Marxists (CPRM) and other small parties are pro-BJP and are banking on the Centre to find a permanent political solution. Talking to reporters after the meeting, Giri said, “We are ready to work with Thapa for the development of the hills.” Thapa also said, “We are ready to work together with the GJM only for making plan for permanent political solution.” Though the hill parties have maintained that a permanent political solution means a separate state of Gorkhaland or a Union territory, the Bengal CM on Tuesday indicated that whatever political solution is to be reached, it should be without granting statehood to Darjeeling. The chief minister also said that the state government would hold the GTA elections after fresh electoral rolls are prepared. Parties like the GJM, GNLF and CPRM are opposed to the GTA as they claim it would not fulfil the aspiration of Gorkhas. Banerjee announced that the Darjeeling district magistrate will head the GTA till the elections are held. The GTA elections were due in 2017. But since the 2017 Gorkhaland agitation and until the dates for the 2021 assembly elections were announced, the GTA was being run by the state government-nominated bodies headed by people like Binoy Tamang and Anit Thapa. Tamang, who played a pivotal role to derail the 2017 Gorkhaland agitation, was not invited to Tuesday’s meeting. At present, the GTA is run by a senior IAS officer of the rank of divisional commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-promises-permanent-political-solution-for-darjeeling-says-statehood-promise-meant-to-divide-people-of-hills-101635272784057.html
26-10-2021||India||Dravid closer to India coach job, Laxman may head NCA||Former India captain Rahul Dravid on Tuesday moved closer to taking over as the next head coach of the Indian team when he formally sent in his application for the job, less than a fortnight after discussing the modalities with officials of the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI), including his long-time dressing room colleague Sourav Ganguly, in Dubai.The deadline inviting applicants ended on Tuesday evening, and it is now all but certain that Dravid will get the job after India’s T20 World Cup campaign ends in the UAE. “Yes, Dravid has sent in his application. We will follow the required procedure. A new member will be added to the Cricket Advisory Committee and they will conduct the interviews,” said a BCCI official who is involved in the process, on condition of anonymity.Though the procedure dictates that BCCI opens up the application process, and then forms a committee to interview the applicants, in Dravid’s case, the interview is expected to be a formality. “To be honest, we haven’t even looked at the other applicants,” said the BCCI official. Dravid will be giving up the post of director of the National Cricket Academy (NCA) soon, and a new appointment will be made. VVS Laxman, another batting stalwart from BCCI president Ganguly’s playing days, is among the front-runners, people aware of the matter said. There is no clarity, however, if Laxman will be willing to give up his lucrative IPL and media commitments for the job. Calls and messages to him went unanswered. Apart from the coach — the current incumbent Ravi Shastri steps down after the T20 World Cup — there will be changes in India’s support staff as well, with batting coach Vikram Rathour the only one expected to be retained, officials indicated. Rathour, who has worked with Dravid at NCA, has submitted his application for the job. Former India batter Pravin Amre, currently batting coach with Delhi Capitals, is also expected to apply. The deadline for applications for the supporting coaches is November 3. For the bowling coach’s job, Paras Mhambrey, who is coaching the India A team and has worked extensively with Dravid at NCA and at the U-19 level, is a front-runner. Former India players Abhay Sharma and Ajay Ratra have applied to be India’s fielding coach. Dravid has been on the coaching circuit for the past seven years working at various levels — from a less-than-successful stint in the IPL with Delhi Daredevils, to a long and fruitful association with India A, India U-19, and as the head of the National Cricket Academy, where he is widely credited for shaping the next generation of international cricketers. When current coach Ravi Shastri first announced in September that he would step down after the ongoing T20 World Cup, BCCI approached Dravid, but failed to convince him at the time to take up a job that would require much of the year be spent on tour.It was finally in this month’s meeting with the BCCI top brass in Dubai — Ganguly and secretary Jay Shah — that Dravid shed his reluctance, and agreed to become the coach for the next two years, the official cited in the first instance said. These two years are packed with ICC tournaments in each format, starting with the 2022 T20 World Cup in Australia, the ICC World Test Championship in 2023 and the ODI World Cup at home in that same year. A big expectation from Dravid would be to end India’s drought of winning ICC trophies. Since Shastri took over in 2014 (Anil Kumble was coach for one year in 2016-17) India have developed into a formidable force in Test cricket with a crack fast bowling attack, but do not have an ICC trophy to show for their success. India’s last major title was the 2013 Champions Trophy. Since then, they have been knocked out from the 2015 ODI World Cup, the 2016 T20 World Cup, 2017 Champions trophy, and the 2019 ODI World Cup. The BCCI appointed former India captain MS Dhoni as “mentor” for the ongoing World Cup after increasing dissatisfaction with the team’s inability to win a trophy. In the past, apart from not wanting to spend that much time away from his family — the Indian head coach job is a full-time job except the two months of IPL— Dravid’s reluctance came from being unsure if he could work successfully with captain Virat Kohli. Kohli has already announced that he will be giving up the T20 captaincy after this World Cup. The BCCI has hinted that he may not remain ODI captain either, though he is likely to continue as Test captain. Kohli briefly shared the Indian dressing room with Dravid as a player — he made his ODI debut in 2008 and Test debut in June 2011. Dravid played his last match for India in January 2012.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dravid-closer-to-india-coach-job-laxman-may-head-nca-101635272595688.html
26-10-2021||India||After being stopped twice, TMC’s Abhishek Banerjee to visit Tripura on Oct 31||All India Trinamool Congress general secretary Abhishek Banerjee is scheduled to visit Tripura on October 31 in connection with the party’s organizational activities, senior TMC leader Kunal Ghosh said on Tuesday. During his visit, Banerjee is expected to address a public rally following the Model Code of Conduct after the announcement of the schedule for civic polls to be held in the state. “Many of our party workers were attacked by BJP cadres in the past two months. Even our activists were attacked during one of our programme at Amarpur in Gomati district. We condemn it. We are confident that people’s mistrust in the BJP will be reflected in the polls,” Kunal Ghosh told the media in Agartala. Banerjee was supposed to address a public rally in September in Tripura, but he was denied permission twice by the police. A week after permission was denied, the state government imposed restrictions on public meetings and processions of any political party till November 4 apprehending deterioration of law and order in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-being-stopped-twice-tmc-s-abhishek-banerjee-to-visit-tripura-on-oct-31-101635270796153.html
26-10-2021||India||Pramod Sawant hits mute on Satya Pal Malik charge; BJP disses ex-Goa guv Malik||PANAJI: Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant and his office did not respond to former governor Satya Pal Malik’s comments on corruption in his regime but the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) mounted a sharp counterattack at Malik, accusing him of crossing a line of “ethics and propriety”.Sawant, who was speaking to reporters outside the BJP office about the party’s preparations for Goa elections next year, was also asked by reporters about Malik’s allegations but he abruptly walked away without responding. His office didn’t respond to requests for a reaction either. That task was assigned to the party’s spokesperson Damodar “Damu” Naik who reminded that his “own government” was in power in the state, wondered why he didn’t send a report to the Union home ministry when he was still the state’s governor and questioned Malik’s motives.Naik said Malik should step down from his constitutional post if he wants to criticise “his own government”.“It is completely wrong for the governor to speak this way. There is ethics and propriety. He should behave within the limits of ethics and propriety. Did he act on it (corruption charge) when he was the governor? To speak about it now and to speak to the media while still being a governor is completely wrong and unconstitutional. He should have sent a report to the Union home ministry back then and then the senior leaders would have taken it forward,” Naik said. “Why is he talking about it now... after so many months (of being moved on from the post of Goa governor) and that too when only one month is left for elections? Who is behind this?” Naik asked. “Don’t sit in a constitutional post and speak against your own government. Resign from your post and then speak,” he said.Naik said that Sawant was an ‘honest man’.“An honest man is managing the affairs of the state and has taken the responsibility given to him. He even got praise from the Prime Minister (at a recently held interaction),” Naik said. “Was his (Malik’s) mouth taped back then (when Satya Pal Malik was Goa governor)? He should not step across the line,” Naik said. Naik also hit out at opposition parties who have latched onto Malik’s statements saying they had no moral right to lecture the BJP about corruption.“These parties have no authority to talk about corruption when they themselves are steeped in corruption. The Goa Forward Party was removed from the alliance on grounds of corruption. These are publicity stunts. They are attempting to create a negative1 atmosphere ahead of the polls,” he added. In an interview with India Today TV that was broadcast on Monday, Satya Pal Malik who spent a little under a year as Goa governor between October 2019 and August 2020 before being shunted to Meghalaya, said: “I am a Lohia-ite. I get very angry when it comes to corruption. I do not take it kindly. On the day when the lockdown was announced, the government said that even the stores selling basic essentials would not be allowed to open but said they would sell door to door. Which was impossible, but they allowed one company to sell basic essentials door to door which had given money to the Goa government, when people from Congress told me about it, I informed PM Modiji ,” Malik said.“There was corruption in the Goa government in handling everything… because of that I was sent away from there,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pramod-sawant-hits-mute-on-satya-pal-malik-charge-bjp-disses-ex-goa-guv-malik-101635270736066.html
26-10-2021||India||Delhi’s air quality has been surprisingly good in Oct, but smog may be on way||The air quality this October in Delhi is not only better than last year, but also the best in at least the past four years. Covid-19 related restrictions and their impact on mobility would suggest that this improvement in air quality should have happened in 2020, not 2021. After all, transport and industry are important contributors to pollution, and both mobility and economic activity are higher this year.If things are better, it’s because of a drastic change in weather conditions this year that has prevailed over these factors and reduced air pollution – for the time being. This also means that when these conditions change, we might return to business-as-usual, which, in the case of Delhi, means smog.Air quality this October is the best in at least four years...One metric of air pollution available more consistently than others is the concentration of PM2.5 particles, or particles smaller than 2.5 micrometers wide that penetrate deep into the lungs and bloodstream. On 18 of the first 25 days of October, the 24-hour average of PM2.5 concentration in Delhi was less than in all the years after 2018. It suggests that air quality in October has been much better. To be sure, October 2021 has had four days when PM2.5 concentration was in the poor or worse categories.Why is this comparison limited to after 2018? The Central Control Room for Air Quality Management (CCR) shows that PM2.5 data is available from 40 different stations for Delhi. However, only 35 of them have consistent data from 2018 for October. In 2017, this number falls to 15. This comparison is limited to after 2018 so that we have a sufficient number of stations to better represent Delhi’s air, and its quality also remains comparable across years. This means that it is possible that Delhi’s air quality is better this October than in a longer time period than four years.…despite higher mobility and economic activityThe reason good air in October is surprising is because movement of people and economic activity is both higher this year than in 2020. An improvement in air quality 2020 – as it did happen during the 68-day lockdown starting March 25 – could be explained because the sources of pollution were shut. Google mobility data shows this is not the cause for improved air in October 2021. Mobility levels in Delhi, as well as in the neighbouring north-western states of Punjab and Haryana, are far higher this October than last year. An analysis published in HT on October 26 showed economic activity is also higher this October than at the same time last year.Weather, not sources of pollution, is the likely reason for better air this OctoberAs the above data suggests, vehicular and industrial sources of pollution are unlikely to have driven the improvement in air quality. There is a third source of pollution that becomes important at this time of the year – farm fires in Punjab and Haryana. Data shows that farm fires are also somewhat lower this year, especially in the second-half of the month when the number of fires is usually more. On eight days until October 25, farm fires were the lowest since 2017. Five of these eight days have come after October 15.One reason for a lower number of farm fires is that paddy procurement was postponed from October 1 to October 11. This could possibly have delayed clearing of farms for the next crop, which is why the stubble is burnt. Another likely reason for lower number of fires is the rainfall this October. Until 8:30 AM on October 25, rainfall in Punjab and Haryana has been 290% and 192% more than the average rainfall for the same interval between 1960 and 2010, also called the Long Period Average, according to the India Meteorological Department’s gridded rainfall database. Such rainfall, apart from preventing fires, has also likely cleared existing pollutants in the air from other sources. In not only Punjab and Haryana, but also in Delhi, the rainfall this October has been much higher than in all years for which comparable air quality data is available.Good air dependent on weather is not sustainableIf the farm fires have just been delayed, it is likely that farmers will be even more compelled to take the faster route of burning the stubble to clear the fields for their next crop. This can possibly bring an even bigger peak in air pollution later on. This situation can also be complicated by the trend in temperatures so far this October. The maximum temperatures in Punjab, Haryana and Delhi, especially in the past one week, have been lower than in the past four years for which air quality data is available. Maximum temperatures are daytime temperatures.A higher temperature during the day prevents the accumulation of pollutants close to the ground. This has been prevented so far because of rainfall. Without a curb on the sources of air pollution, a quick reversal to bad air quality days will not be surprising. But for now, breathe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/octobers-air-quality-has-been-surprisingly-good-in-delhi-but-smog-may-be-on-its-way-101635265395859.html
26-10-2021||India||India, Kyrgyzstan hold first strategic dialogue, focus on Afghanistan||India and Kyrgyzstan agreed to enhance cooperation in counter-terrorism and defence to address common threats and challenges arising from the situation in Afghanistan during their first strategic dialogue on Tuesday. The secretary of the Security Council of Kyrgyzstan, Lt Gen Marat Imankulov, visited India for the maiden bilateral strategic dialogue between the National Security Council Secretariats of the two sides. The dialogue is significant in view of India’s efforts to step up cooperation with the Central Asian states on regional security. The two sides discussed the threats and challenges facing both countries and the regional security environment, with special reference to Afghanistan, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity. “The two sides welcomed the similarity of views on these matters, and agreed on steps to enhance bilateral security cooperation between relevant bodies, including in the fields of counter-terrorism, combating radicalisation, narcotics control and defence cooperation,” one of the people cited above said. During the strategic dialogue, Imankulov met National Security Adviser Ajit Doval. There was no official word on the strategic dialogue.The strategic dialogue with Kyrgyzstan was held days ahead of India hosting a meeting of national security advisers (NSAs) of countries in the region, including Pakistan and China, to discuss the situation in Afghanistan. This will be the first such meeting to be convened by India since the Taliban marched into Kabul in mid-August. Besides China and Pakistan, regional countries such as Iran, Russia, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan have been invited to the meeting. There are no plans to invite the Taliban to the meeting in line with the Indian side’s decision not to rush into recognising the current dispensation in Kabul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-kyrgyzstan-hold-first-strategic-dialogue-focus-on-afghanistan-101635265095802.html
26-10-2021||India||RJD slogan at Nitish's poll rally; Bihar CM has a word of warning for voters||As hectic campaigning got underway for two by-elections in Bihar, leaders and workers of two key political players -- the Nitish Kumar-led Janata Dal-United (JD-U) and Lalu Yadav’s Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) are back in news.The ailing Yadav, who has already started making adequate noise ever since his return to the home turf after spending three-and-a-half years in jail and treatment, on Tuesday found some support even at a rally addressed by the chief minister.A clipping shared by news agency ANI showed a group of men raising slogans of "Lalten chhaap (the RJD election symbol) zindabad" during Kumar's address at an election rally in Tarapur, Munger.#WATCH | A group of men raise slogans of "Lalten chhaap (RJD election symbol) zindabad" during CM Nitish Kumar's address at an election rally in Tarapur, Munger earlier today. pic.twitter.com/psDvhMhpRGThe JD(U) chief later warned voters of having to stay at home after sundown if the Opposition, namely the RJD, managed to win the bypolls.Also read | In climbdown, Lalu says Cong key challenger to BJP at Centre“If something goes wrong and they (opposition in the state) get the opportunity (to win in the bypolls), you will once again have to start staying at home before it gets dark. Therefore, understand everything properly,” Kumar was quoted as saying by ANI. The chief minister was referring to the lawlessness that allegedly prevailed during Yadav’s reign in Bihar.Earlier in the day, he also took a dig at the former chief minister over his ‘visarjan’ remark stating that Yadav can get him shot, but would not be able to do anything else.By-elections are slated to be held in Bihar’s Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan seats on October 30 that fell vacant following the deaths of sitting MLAs Mewalal Choudhary and Shashibhushan Hazari, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rjd-slogan-at-nitish-s-poll-rally-bihar-cm-has-a-word-of-warning-for-voters-101635264754874.html
26-10-2021||India||RSS to discuss violence on Hindus in Bangladesh during upcoming meeting||The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) will hold discussions on the recent attacks on minority Hindus in Bangladesh during its three-day All India executive committee meeting starting October 28.RSS officials familiar with the matter told news agency PTI the outfit is likely to pass a resolution on the recent incidents of vandalisation of puja venues in Comilla and other cities of Bangladesh.“We all know that recently there were large-scale attacks on Hindus and the 'puja pandals' in Bangladesh during Durga Puja. Many people were killed and injured. There were protests at many places on this issue. This topic will also be discussed during the Akhil Bharatiya Karyakari Mandal Baithak and there is a possibility of passing a resolution on this issue,” Sunil Ambekar, the RSS’s Akhil Bharatiya Prachar Pramukh or the publicity in-charge, said.The RSS will also discuss its expansion programme to reach regions where it does not have a presence. Ambekar said that the main discussion will be on expanding the activities of the RSS and preparing an action plan. Ambekar said the outfit is working on an action plan which began this year. “The Sangh was established in 1925 and in 2025, the RSS will complete its 100 years. We have made a three-year action plan for our expansion starting from 2021 to 2024 and the work is underway. The same will be discussed in an elaborate way in the meeting,” he said.Ambekar further spoke about the RSS’ action plan to deal with a possible third wave of Covid-19. “Already 1.5 lakh volunteers have been trained. We pray that the need for utilising these volunteers does not arise ever,” he said.Among the initiatives which will be taken up by the RSS, the outfit will celebrate the 400th Prakash Varsh of Guru Tegh Bahadur, the ninth of the 10 Sikh Gurus. It will also discuss the celebrations surrounding the platinum jubilee of Indian independence.Ambekar said it will be the first ‘karyakari baithak’ with complete presence of its members after a year where the regional ‘sangh chalaks’, ‘karyavahs’ and ‘pracharaks’ are expected to participate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rss-to-discuss-violence-on-hindus-in-bangladesh-during-upcoming-meeting-101635257681942.html
26-10-2021||India||The foundation of a new political narrative||It is symbolic and significant that the seventieth anniversary of the first general election and the seventieth year of the founding of Bharatiya Jana Sangh, predecessor of Bharatiya Janata Party, are being observed this year.
26-10-2021||India||A commitment to the democratic ideals was Nehru’s mark on polls||Commenting on the smooth conduct of the first general election in India, the Manchester Guardian wrote on February 2, 1952: “The Working Committee of the Indian National Congress can draw pleasure from the extraordinary demonstration which India has given. If ever a country took a leap in the dark towards democracy it was India. Contemplating these facts, the Congress Working Committee may purr with satisfaction.”
26-10-2021||India||India, Kyrgyzstan NSAs are on the same page on Afghanistan||India’s national security advisor Ajit Doval on Tuesday held a dialogue with his Kyrgyz counterpart Lieutenant General Marat Imankulov where they discussed the regional security environment with a special reference to Afghanistan. The secretary of the security council of the Kyrgyz Republic was in India for the first strategic dialogue between the National Security Council Secretariats of the two countries.The two sides discussed the Afghanistan issue in the wake of the Taliban’s takeover, and the visitor was in consonance with the Indian perspective on stabilisation of the war-torn country through a government in Kabul that has enough representation of women and minorities like Tajik, Uzbek and Hazara communities. The two sides were on the same page on the Afghanistan issue and shared similar views.Also Read | NSA Ajit Doval wants SCO to take action against Pak-based terror groups Jaish and Lashkar-e-TaibanIndia and Kyrgyzstan also agreed upon steps to enhance bilateral security cooperation between the relevant bodies, including in the areas of counter-terrorism, combating radicalisation, narcotics control and defence cooperation, according to people familiar with the matter.Kyrgyzstan is one of the founder members of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO), of which India is a permanent member along with Pakistan, China, Russia, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan, which makes the dialogue between the two countries significant.The Taliban announced the interim government last month and expanded the cabinet a few weeks later, claiming that it was an inclusive set-up as per the wishes of the international community. A closer look, however, revealed that the government was anything but inclusive, with no women representation in the cabinet and symbolic representation from minority communities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-kyrgyzstan-nsas-are-on-the-same-page-on-afghanistan-101635263008898.html
26-10-2021||India||CBI arrests serving Navy Commander, 4 others for submarine data leak||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has arrested a Commander-rank serving officer and two retired officials of the Indian navy along with two other persons for allegedly leaking confidential information related to an ongoing submarine project in lieu of illegal gratification, people familiar with the development said on Tuesday. The federal anti-corruption probe agency refused to divulge any other details of the case, including the name of the serving officer arrested for the leak. However, officials who didn’t want to be named said the secret action was initiated last month and the matter relates to the upgrade of Russian-origin Kilo class submarines in the Indian fleet. At least 19 locations in Delhi, Mumbai, Noida and Hyderabad have been raided so far in the case and several people as well as recovered digital evidence are being examined. It is alleged that the Commander had discussed crucial details about the ongoing modernisation project of Kilo class submarines with the two retired officers for alleged illegal gratification, said an official. The Anti-Corruption Unit of the agency, which handles sensitive and high profile corruption cases, was tasked to unearth the leakage of information following which the operation was started, they added. Investigation is being carried out to unearth if the information has fallen into the wrong hands. The Indian Navy said on Tuesday that investigation related to alleged information leak of administrative and commercial nature being with some unauthorised personnel has come to light and is being investigated by appropriate government agency. The investigation by the agency with complete support of the Indian Navy is in progress, it added. An internal inquiry by the Navy is also underway and is being carried out by a vice admiral to find out how information leaked despite security protocols and advisories, and how lacunae, if any can be fixed, officials said. India operates eight Kilo class submarines, four HDW German origin submarines and three Scorpene submarines built in India under technology transfer from France (three more Scorpenes will join the fleet in the future). The navy also operates an indigenous nuclear-powered ballistic missile submarine, INS Arihant. India is also pursuing a project worth ₹43,000 crore for building six advanced submarines in the country under the government’s “strategic partnership” (SP) model to bolster the Indian Navy’s underwater force levels and counter the rapid expansion of China’s submarine fleet. The new submarines are part of the 30-year submarine-building programme approved by the Cabinet Committee on Security in 1999.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-arrests-serving-navy-commander-2-retd-staff-and-2-others-for-submarine-data-leak-101635263055693.html
26-10-2021||India||Farmers' stir: Haryana govt panel holds talks with agri body over Tikri border blockade||A team of senior officials of the Haryana government on Tuesday held a meeting with farmers protesting three agri laws of the Centre for almost a year along the Tikri border in Delhi.The high-powered committee was headed by additional chief secretary (Home) Rajeev Arora and included director general of police PK Agrawal among others.Representatives of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, which is spearheading the agitation, took part in the meeting held at Jhajjar’s Bahadurgarh, close to the Tikri border.Arora later said the meeting was held in a cordial atmosphere though the apex leadership of the SKM was not present in the meeting. “We will continue to work for reopening of roads," he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.High-powered committee of Haryana Govt held talks in Bahadurgarh over road blockade at Delhi's Tikri border with representatives of farmers protesting the three farm laws"Meeting held in a cordial atmosphere. We'll continue to work for reopening of roads," ACS Rajiv Arora said pic.twitter.com/U8b3BqGO1xHe further said the main purpose of the meeting was discussing how to open the road for smooth movement of traffic. Before talking to the Delhi Police, they wanted to know if all roads on the Haryana side were open, Arora added.The meeting came days after the Supreme Court said the protesting farmers cannot block roads indefinitely.According to a PTI report, a farmer leader said they conveyed in the meeting that from their side, no road has been blocked. "The entire responsibility to open roads is on the Delhi Police as the way has been blocked towards the other side," he said."We told the Haryana government committee that we have not blocked roads," he added.Representatives of the industry too were present in the meeting. Speaking to reporters, an industry representative said, "The officials listened to our concerns patiently. We told them the industry is facing a lot of problems due to road blockade and some have been forced to shift to other places.”Last month, the Haryana government decided to form a committee to hold talks with the protesting farmers for clearing the blockade at the Tikri and Kundli-Singhu borders, where farmers have been protesting against the farm laws for the past 11 months.Haryana home minister Anil Vij had said the committee had been constituted to comply with the apex court orders to open passage on the national highways leading to the national capital.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-stir-haryana-govt-panel-holds-talks-with-agri-body-over-tikri-blockade-101635261884149.html
26-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: Mumbai Police to probe Sameer Wankhede-Nawab Malik allegations and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Mumbai Police to probe Sameer Wankhede-Nawab Malik allegations, counter-allegationsMumbai Police officers said in the past 48-hours, they have received six complaints in which allegations were made against both — Nawab Malik and Sameer Wankhede. Read moreHe can get me shot, can’t do anything else: Nitish on Lalu’s ‘visarjan’ claimBihar chief minister and Janata Dal (United) supremo Nitish Kumar on Tuesday took a dig at Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Yadav over the latter’s “visarjan” remark. Read moreImran Khan names new ISI chief ending standoff with Pakistan ArmyPakistan PM Imran Khan on Tuesday approved the appointment of Lt Gen Nadeem Ahmed Anjum as the next chief of the ISI agency, ending an unprecedented standoff on the issue with the powerful army. Read moreT20 World Cup: After India's loss to Pakistan, Sourav Ganguly talks about the extra bowler issueSourav Ganguly knows all about being at the receiving end of angry supporters, and appealed to the Indian cricket fan to take the defeat against Pakistan in the T20 World Cup sportingly. Read moreParesh Rawal says wife Swaroop was his boss' daughter, reveals how he proposed: 'Don't do this futile exercise with me'Actor Paresh Rawal has opened up about his love story with his wife, former actor Swaroop Sampat. In a new interview, Paresh said that he had told his friend that he will marry her and they ended up tying the knot 12 years later. Read moreMan showered with offers after posting quirky job application videoWhat would you do when you are looking for a job? Probably create a profile on a job portal and scroll through vacancies and apply. But this man did something very unique to draw the attention of the potential recruiters. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-mumbai-police-to-probe-sameer-wankhede-nawab-malik-allegations-and-all-the-latest-news-101635258571476.html
26-10-2021||India||15-year-old stalker held for rape bid in Kerala||The Kerala Police on Tuesday arrested a 15-year-old boy, a day after he made a brutal attempt to sexually assault a 21-year-old college student in Kondotty in Kerala’s Malappuram district, police said. The incident has triggered shockwaves in the state and posed questions on the misuse of the internet by youngsters. Malappuram superintendent of police Sujith Das said the young stalker was arrested after the police checked CCTV visuals of some houses in the area and based on the statement of the college student. He said the boy has no criminal record and the woman also said he had never troubled her earlier. However, the teenager’s parents said he was addicted to watching horror films and adult videos. The SP said the woman had a narrow escape after she fiercely resisted his advances. He also received minor injuries and when his parents asked about his injuries he said he had been chased by a stray dog and had fallen into a ditch. However, when the police reached his residence and questioned him, he confessed that he had received injuries while assaulting the 21-year-old woman. In his hurry to escape from the spot, he had left his slippers at the site and later his parents identified them, the SP said. According to the police, he had followed the woman for some distance before attacking her close to a secluded banana plantation. The accused had hit her on the head with a stone, tied her arms and pressed down on her neck to subdue her but she fought back and saved herself. The police added that the boy was also a district level judo champion. After escaping from him, the woman managed to reach a nearby house and alerted them. The woman, in whose house the college student took refuge, told the media that her hands were tied and she had injuries on her face and head and was bleeding profusely. She was discharged from hospital on Tuesday. “She fought back valiantly and escaped. We have already seized his mobile phone and other gadgets,” the SP said adding the minor would be sent to a juvenile home after investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/15yearold-stalker-held-for-rape-bid-in-kerala-101635260055467.html
26-10-2021||India||CBI arrests navy officer, 4 others for leaking info about submarine project||The CBI has arrested five persons including a commander-rank Navy officer for allegedly leaking confidential information related to an ongoing submarines project in return for illegal gratification, officials said Tuesday. The agency has initiated action in a secret operation last month in which two retired Navy personnel and as many private persons in addition to the Navy officer were taken into custody, they said. So far, the agency has conducted searches at 19 locations in Delhi, Mumbai, Hyderabad among others from where important documents and digital evidence have been seized and are being examined, they said. It is alleged that the commander had discussed crucial details about the ongoing modernisation project of Kilo class submarines with the two retired officers for alleged illegal gratification, they said. The Anti Corruption Unit of the agency, which handles sensitive and high profile corruption cases, was tasked to unearth the leakage of information following which the operation was started, they said. The unit has questioned several other officers and ex-servicemen who were in regular touch with the arrested officer and retired personnel, they said. The CBI is conducting a forensic analysis of digital products used by the officer to understand if the information had fallen into the hands of people with vested interests, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-arrests-navy-officer-4-others-for-leaking-info-about-submarine-project-101635258145791.html
26-10-2021||India||J&K police team reaches Gogra to rescue nomads amid heavy snowfall; death toll in Valley touches five||Amid extreme weather conditions in Jammu & Kashmir (J&K), a team of police from the Union territory’s Reasi district has reached the Gogra region to rescue nomads who have been stranded there. “Two people were reported missing after heavy snowfall in the area,” news agency ANI reported, quoting police.
26-10-2021||India||India notifies framework for traffic management of drones in lower airspace||The Centre on Tuesday notified a traffic management policy framework for drones that will manage their movement in the airspace under 1,000 feet. It will allow both public and private third-party service providers to manage the unmanned aerial vehicles in lower airspace.The policy framework issued by the civil aviation ministry noted that with rapid technological evolution of unmanned aircraft, opening up of new use cases and policy reforms, the number of such aircraft operating in the Indian airspace is poised to increase rapidly.It has also taken into consideration the scenarios which will require flying multiple drones near manned aircraft, especially on lower levels of the airspace where drones are allowed to fly.Current air traffic management (ATM) systems have not been designed to handle the traffic from unmanned aircraft, the National Unmanned Aircraft System Traffic Management policy framework issued on October 24 stated."Integration of unmanned aircraft in the Indian airspace using conventional means may require unmanned aircraft to be equipped with bulky and expensive hardware, which is neither feasible nor advisable," it noted.This requires the creation of a separate, modern, primarily software-based, automated traffic management system, it said, adding that such systems may subsequently be integrated into traditional ATM systems.The framework allows third-party service providers to give services such as registration, flight planning, dynamic deconfliction and access to supplementary data like weather, terrain and position of manned aircraft.All drones (except Nano drones operating in the green zone) shall be required to mandatorily share their real-time location through the network to the Centre either directly or through third-party service providers, it mentioned.The Centre had on September 15 approved a production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme for drones and drone components with an allocation of ₹120 crore spread over three financial years.The civil aviation ministry had on August 25 notified the Drone Rules, 2021 that eased the regulation of drone operations in India by reducing the number of forms that need to be filled to operate them from 25 to five and decreasing the types of fees charged from the operator from 72 to four.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-notifies-framework-for-traffic-management-of-drones-in-lower-airspace-101635256073340.html
26-10-2021||India||Covid-19: Centre says Kolkata primary district of concern in West Bengal||Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Tuesday wrote to his West Bengal counterpart Narayan Swaroop Nigam expressing concerns over the new coronavirus cases and deaths registered in the eastern state in the last 30 days.Bhushan said one of the primary districts of concern was Kolkata where there was a “worrying trend with respect to cases” and a “concerning rise in positivity rate”.The Centre's letter came days after Durga Puja festivities, celebrated with pomp across the state, came to an end with several experts raising concerns over scant regard being paid to social distancing norms and other Covid-appropriate protocol. And, there has been a minor but gradual spike in case since the celebrations came to an end. On Monday, the state reported 805 new infections, which was, however, 184 less than the virus count registered on the previous day.The current trends, if left unchecked, may lead to a situation where there could be a severe strain on the health infrastructure and workforce, the Union health secretary warned.Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan writes to Narayan Swaroop Nigam, Health Secretary of West Bengal Govt regarding new deaths and cases of #COVID19 in the state, in last 30 days. "One of the primary districts of concern is Kolkata..." reads the letter. pic.twitter.com/ulc6YAmDpgIn his letter, Bhushan said Kolkata reported a high quantum of average daily cases in the week ending October 21 with more than 25 per cent increase in tally when compared to the previous week -- from 217 cases in the week ending October 14 to 272 infections the next week.The district also registered about 27 per cent rise in positivity rate in the past week -- from 5.6 per cent in the week ending October 14 to 7.1 per cent a week later.The weekly testing trends in the district were also showing a downward trend, Bhushan said, while urging more proactive action in this regard.Regarding the overall pandemic situation in Bengal, the Central government representative said the state reported 20,936 cases and 343 related deaths in the last 30 days, accounting for 3.4 per cent of the total infections nationally and 4.7 per cent fatalities, respectively.The Centre said an exponential surge in infections can be in instances where the basic public health strategy of testing, tracking, treating, vaccinating and following Covid-appropriate behaviour are not followed. Bhushan said that with the ongoing festive season, it is crucial to emphasise the importance of implementing Covid-safe behaviour to maintain the collective gains made in the battle against the pandemic.The Centre further urged the state to undertake regular review of cases and deaths and ensure that districts maintain consistency in updating data in the Covid-19 portal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-centre-cites-kolkata-as-primary-district-of-concern-in-bengal-101635255304196.html
26-10-2021||India||Quality Council of India sets up team of experts to execute proposed ONDC project||The Quality Council of India (QCI) has established a team of experts and a number of small and medium enterprises have been on-boarded as volunteers for execution of a proposed project - Open Network for Digital Commerce (ONDC), the commerce and industry ministry said on Tuesday.The Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) has initiated this project, which aims to democratise digital or electronic commerce, moving it from a platform-centric model to an open-network.As UPI is to the digital payment domain, ONDC is to e-commerce in India. ONDC will enable buyers and sellers to be digitally visible and transact through an open network, no matter what platform/application they use. It will also empower merchants and consumers by breaking silos to form a single network to drive innovation and scale, transforming all businesses from retail goods, food to mobility."It has been suggested to establish a private sector led non-profit company. The entity is expected to provide a start-up mindset for a population scale implementation, enabled by a management with a futuristic vision, leadership with a deep understanding of commerce, comfort with cutting edge technology, and missionary outlook to drive change," the ministry said in a statement.It added that a non-profit company structure removes any incentive for owners to drive for profit maximisation, keep focus on ethical and responsible behaviour while providing for trust, rigorous norms of governance, accountability and transparency.Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal reviewed the progress on this initiative."QCI has established a team of experts for execution of the project in a mission mode. A number of small and medium enterprises have been on-boarded as volunteers to complement the ONDC team. An ONDC gateway has also been established. About 20 entities covering all network components are at various stages of on-boarding," it said.The DPIIT has approved a budget of about ₹10 crore for initial work on the project.It said that the role of the company would be to develop the network by adopting and building enabling technology and encouraging wide-scale voluntary participation by ecosystem players."It would ensure network discipline by establishing a code of conduct and rules of network based on principles of consumer protection, fair trade and regulatory conformity. The entity will also provide foundational services for managing the network like digital infrastructure for the network, common registry, certification of participants and certifying agencies, grievance redressal, etc," the ministry said.It will also support SMEs in their digital transformation by developing readymade tools to help existing software applications quickly adapt to the network.Goyal directed that wide participation from the ecosystem should be ensured and the institutional structure should be created in such a manner so as to ensure that the entity conducts itself in an ethical, cooperative, democratic and responsible manner.He also directed that special efforts must be made to build trust in the ONDC network and elaborate mechanisms must be put in place for dispute resolution.The government has set up a nine-member advisory council, including Nandan Nilekani from Infosys and National Health Authority CEO R S Sharma, on steps required to design and accelerate adoption of ONDC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/quality-council-of-india-sets-up-team-of-experts-to-execute-proposed-ondc-project-101635250845225.html
26-10-2021||India||2 accused given bail by NDPS court, first to get relief in drugs-on-cruise case||A special NDPS court on Tuesday granted bail to Manish Rajgaria and Avin Sahu, two accused arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) after raid on a cruise ship off the coast of Mumbai on October 2. They are the first to be granted bail in the case.Actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan too has been arrested in the same case, but his multiple bail petitions have been rejected. The 23-year-old has now moved the Bombay high court, which today adjourned the hearing of his bail plea till Wednesday.Rajgaria, who was invited as a guest on the cruise ship, was arrested with a small quantity of hydroponic weed multi-strain cannabis. Sahu was arrested on the consumption charges, according to the NCB. They were in NCB custody since their arrest on October 5.The agency said that the duo belongs to Odisha's Rourkela.During the hearing of Rajgaria's bail petition earlier, his lawyer Taraq Sayed told the NDPS court that his client was arrested with alleged recovery of 2.4 grams of ganja, "a nano-small quantity". He had also argued that 'panchnama' doesn't mention from where the contraband was recovered.Sahu's lawyer Sana Khan claimed nothing has been recovered from her client. The only allegation against Sahu was that he consumed ganja twice while on the cruise, she said.The NCB had said after the raids that they seized 13 grams of cocaine, five grams of MD, 21 grams of charas and 22 pills of ecstasy and ₹1.33 lakh from the Goa-bound ship.The NCB has so far arrested 20 people in connection with the drug bust case. It has also told the sessions and special NDPS court that this drug bust has links to international racket and the agency is trying to unearth the conspiracy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-accused-given-bail-by-ndps-court-first-to-get-relief-in-drugs-on-cruise-case-101635254588520.html
26-10-2021||India||Mamata Banerjee posters in Goa vandalised ahead of her visit, TMC blames BJP||Two days before West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s visit to Goa, Trinamool Congress’ posters and hoardings with the CM’s face on them have been vandalised with black paint smeared on her image. TMC’s Goa unit has claimed that this is a planned attack by the Bharatiya Janata Party.“Goa TMC condemns this act of vandalism that amounts to insulting a woman who is the only sitting woman Chief Minister in the country. Goans will definitely give a befitting response to such a vengeful government. The latest pictures are evidence of how the BJP has not just vandalised Goa TMC branding but has done so at the cost of Goans,” a statement issued by the Goa TMC said.The TMC further claimed that apart from destroying the hoardings, the effort of local businesses is also ruined, and added that “the BJP is not just spreading hate but is attacking the livelihood of hundreds of fellow Goans by destroying their businesses.”On Tuesday, the TMC also alleged that these acts of vandalism were premeditated, claiming that BJP held a closed-door meeting where it was decided that hoardings will be destroyed “overnight”.National Vice President of TMC, Luizinho Faleiro also expressed his disappointment through a video message. “Today I saw the ruling party members tearing the legal hoardings of the TMC, just because they are threatened by the entry of TMC in Goa,” he said and deemed the incident as “disturbing”.However, BJP national spokesperson Rajiv Pratap Rudy denied TMC’s claims and called them baseless. “Simply because there is a BJP government in Goa, the TMC is blaming us for this act. Making allegations of this sort is incorrect when there is no substantial proof,” he told Hindustan Times.Mamata Banerjee will travel to Goa on October 28 with the aim of spreading TMC’s roots in the coastal state given the upcoming Assembly elections in February 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-posters-in-goa-vandalised-ahead-of-her-visit-tmc-blames-bjp-101635252915077.html
26-10-2021||India||S Selvaganapathy, Sushmita Dev take oath as Rajya Sabha members||Rajya Sabha Chairman Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu on Tuesday administered the oath to S. Selvaganabathy and Sushmita Dev who were elected unopposed to the Upper House from Puducherry and West Bengal respectively in September.While Selvaganabathy took oath in Tamil, Dev did so in Bangla. Dev, who quit the Congress party in August, was nominated by the Trinamool Congress (TMC). Selvaganabathy is the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) nominee to the upper House.M Venkaiah Naidu appreciated the growing trend of newly elected members taking oath in their respective languages and giving prominence to regional languages during House proceedings.Pralhad Joshi, parliamentary affairs minister, was present at the swearing-in ceremony, among several other ministers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/s-selvaganapathy-sushmita-dev-take-oath-as-rajya-sabha-members-101635251475873.html
26-10-2021||India||West Bengal bans gutkha, pan masala for one year||The West Bengal government on Tuesday announced a ban on manufacturing and sale of gutkha and pan masala containing tobacco for a year. According to state government's order, the ban will come into effect from November 7, 2021.A notification issued by West Bengal's health department said that the decision has been taken keeping in mind the health of the people. It also said that the commissioner of food safety is empowered under Section 30 of the food safety and standards act, 2006 to impose such a ban on manufacture, storage, distribution or sale of any article of food in the entire state."As per regulation 2.3.4 of the Food Safety and Standards (Prohibition and Restrictions on Sales) Regulations 2011 made by the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India, in the exercise of powers conferred by clause (i) of sub-section (2) of section 92 of the Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006 (Central Act 34 of 2006) read with section 26 thereof, prohibits sale of articles of food in which tobacco and/or nicotine are used as ingredients, as they may be injurious to health," said the notification issued under the signature of Tapan K Rudra, commissioner of food safety, West Bengal.Gutkha and pan masala see wide usage of tobacco and nicotine as ingredients.The state governments usually earn a lot of tax revenue from the sale of these items. However, in the interest of public health, many states across the country have gradually taken steps to ban gutkha and other products with nicotine.The Mamata Banerjee government had decided to ban gutkha, betel spice and several other tobacco products for the first time in 2019. In 2013, the state government had banned khaini, gutkha and pan masala in West Bengal for one year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-bans-gutkha-pan-masala-for-one-year-101635250203094.html
26-10-2021||India||Congress to launch Jan Jagran Abhiyan from Nov 14||The Congress on Tuesday said it will launch a week-long ‘Jan Jagran Abhiyan’ from November 14. Party spokesperson Randeep Surjewala made the announcement following a meeting of the party’s top leaders.The Jan Jagran Abhiyan comes ahead of the Parliament’s Winter Session, whose dates are yet to be announced and the assembly elections in five states.The Congress earlier on Tuesday held a meeting of party leaders to decide a strategy for the upcoming legislative elections in the five states. Party president Sonia Gandhi asked party leaders to aim towards strengthening the Congress and asked them to set aside their personal ambitions.She also highlighted that there existed a ‘lack of clarity and cohesion’ on issues related to policy among state leaders. She was also concerned that grassroots-level Congress leaders may be missing out on messages on key issues.Former party president Rahul Gandhi, Congress general secretaries, in-charges and pradesh presidents were part of Tuesday’s meeting which also sought to address the problem of growing factionalism within the party.“The fight to defend our democracy, our constitution and the Congress party's ideology begins with being fully prepared to identify and counter false propaganda. We must fight the diabolical campaign of BJP/RSS ideologically. We must do so with conviction and expose their lies before the people if we are to win this battle,” Sonia Gandhi was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.The meeting also comes before the party is set to launch its new membership drive from next week. Sonia Gandhi said that ahead of the legislative elections in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Goa, Uttarakhand and Manipur emphasis should be laid upon discipline and unity among Congress members.“I would like to re-emphasise the paramount need for discipline and unity. What should matter to each and every one of us is the strengthening of the organisation. This must override personal ambitions. In this lies both collective and individual success,” Gandhi told the attendees of the meet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-to-launch-jan-jagran-abhiyan-from-nov-14-101635250052812.html
26-10-2021||India||2 more held in killing of BJP workers, journalist in Lakhimpur Kheri||Two more people have been arrested in connection with the second First Information Report (FIR) lodged in the ongoing Lakhimpur Kheri violence case, Uttar Pradesh Police additional director general (law and order) Prashant Kumar said on Tuesday. These are the first arrests made in relation to the second FIR of the case.Identified as Gurwinder Singh and Vichitra Singh, the fresh arrests have been made pertaining to the killing of four people during the incident earlier this month, including two Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers, a driver and a local journalist, Kumar added.As many as 13 people have so far been held in connection to the first FIR registered in the case where a total of eight people, including four farmers, were killed after an SUV belonging to Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni mowed them down. Teni’s son, Ashish Mishra, is the primary accused in the case. On Sunday, news agency ANI reported, citing a senior jail official, that Ashish is suffering from dengue and has been moved to a government hospital.Of the 13 arrested, four were held last week by the Uttar Pradesh police and SWAT team. A BJP worker named Sumit Jaiswal, who was present in the vehicle during the violence incident on October 3, was one of the four people arrested last week.Meanwhile, the Supreme Court has pulled up the Uttar Pradesh police for “dragging its feet” in the matter.(With inputs from bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-more-held-in-killing-of-bjp-workers-journalist-in-lakhimpur-kheri-101635249565450.html
26-10-2021||India||Congress promises to improve disaster relief, rescue in poll-bound Uttarakhand||As record rains left at least 72 people dead in a two-day span last week, disaster management appears to have become a major issue ahead of the Uttarakhand elections due early next year. Opposition Congress has said ways to deal with disasters will be part of its manifesto while accusing the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of failing in managing the latest natural disaster in the state.“We will include disaster management issues in our manifesto... we promise to improve the parameter of relief and rescue work in any disaster in the state,” said former chief minister Harish Rawat. He added that the government failed in the aftermath of the record rains this month, saying, “there has been no effort by the government to improve the rescue and relief works.”Rawat said chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami and his ministers have visited only those affected areas accessible by choppers. “We are giving them time till October 27 to improve the rescue and relief work. If it fails to do so, then we will hold statewide protests against the government from October 28.”Also Read: Snowfall sets foot in Himachal, Uttarakhand; North India braces for cold winterBJP leader Madan Kaushik maintained lives of many people were saved due to timely warnings and exact information about the disaster. “The government has also been carrying rescue and relief works on a war footing, but Congress, instead of helping, is busy doing politics even in a disaster.”Kaushik said the Centre provided all possible help in the relief works, adding, “Dhami was in constant touch with the officials of district administrations concerned and himself visited the affected areas.” MM Semwal, a political science professor at Garhwal Central University, said, “Being a disaster-prone state, disaster management has to be given significance in the agenda of political parties.” He said whenever a disaster happens in the state, it affects tourism that contributes to 25-30% of the state’s GDP. “Steps should be taken to minimise the loss of property and lives in any disaster,” he said, calling the Congress’s announcement a welcome step. “The BJP would be under pressure after the Congress’s move to take a similar step considering the upcoming elections.”Political commentator SMA Kazmi echoed Semwal’s opinion. “Political parties have made big statements on disaster management, especially in the hills where it is a major issue. But there is a lack of political will,” Kazmi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-promises-to-improve-disaster-relief-rescue-in-poll-bound-uttarakhand-101635250096501.html
26-10-2021||India||India first Asian country to have two container-based hospitals: Health minister||Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Tuesday said that the government is working with a ‘saturation approach’ for affordable and quality healthcare. Addressing a press conference, Mandaviya highlighted some of the key features of PM Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Varanasi a day earlier.The minister said 134 different types of tests will be done for free at the district level under the new programme to save costs and reduce inconvenience for poor people. He further stated that two container-based hospitals will be kept ready at all times which can be swiftly mobilised by rail or air to respond to any calamity across the country.The pan-India Health Infrastructure Scheme aims to provide a fillip to India's capacity to address emergent Public Health issues, which, according to the government, will bring about a “paradigm shift” in India’s healthcare infrastructure. Mandaviya said that the scheme will provide primary, secondary, tertiary, digital and resilient healthcare systems that will equip the country to face the challenges of pandemics in the future.“The poorest person is today getting the same quality healthcare as others in premier hospitals through Ayushman Bharat-PMJAY”, he added.The minister informed that 1,50,000 Ayushman Bharat Health and Wellness Centres will be set up, of which around 79,000 are already functioning. He opined that the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic has provided India with the opportunity to boost healthcare facilities including laboratories, hospitals and diagnostic facilities at all levels of healthcare. Mandaviya stated that the government is working to ensure that every district has at least one medical college.“This will also build a trained frontline health workforce to respond to any public health emergency”, the Union Health Minister added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-first-asian-country-to-have-two-container-based-hospitals-health-minister-101635248921137.html
26-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: NCB's Wankhede refutes NCP leader Malik's allegations and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Nawab Malik’s allegations baseless, made to humiliate me, kin: Sameer WankhedeNCP leader Nawab Malik on Monday accused the Indian Revenue Service officer of using a fake caste certificate to get a government job under reserved quota. Read more here. Centre exempts non-telecom revenue for calculating levies on industry operatorsThe applicable adjusted gross revenue (ApGR) will be calculated after deducting the exempted sources of revenue earned by telecom operators from their gross revenue. Read more here. Salman Khan says he keeps criticism of Aayush Sharma's work to himself: 'He will go and tell Arpita...'Actor Salman Khan was asked if he is critical of his brother-in-law, actor Aayush Sharma's work. The two will be seen together in the film Antim: The Final Truth. Read more here. T20 World Cup: After India's loss to Pakistan, Sourav Ganguly talks about the extra bowler issueBCCI president and former India skipper Ganguly urged Virat Kohli’s team to forget the 10-wicket loss on Sunday and bounce back in the T20 World Cup. Read more here. Komaki to launch India’s first electric cruiser bike. Check timeline hereKomaki is promising to price its electric cruiser well in order to take it to a wider set of audience. Read more here. Shriram Nene shares about the time he and Madhuri Dixit met Apple CEO Tim CookShriram Nene took to Instagram to share the picture of him with Madhuri Dixit and Tim Cook. Read more here. In a sultry black dress, Amyra Dastur wants ‘to be a perfect mix of…’On Tuesday, the actor shared a snippet from one of her recent fashion photoshoots and it is making us drool like anything. For this photoshoot, Amyra chose to ditch ethnic and casual, and instead opted for a satin black dress with a sultry touch. Read more here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-ncb-s-wankhede-refutes-ncp-leader-malik-s-allegations-and-all-the-latest-news-101635247421228.html
26-10-2021||India||Manipuri film Eigi Kona gets Rajat Kamal Award||Manipuri film Eigi Kona was on Monday conferred the Rajat Kamal Award as the best regional feature film at the 67th National Film Awards in New Delhi.The film has been produced by K Sushila Leima and directed by Bobby Wahengbam and Maipaksana Haorongbam. It highlights the sorry state of ponies and polo players. The film tells the story of Thawai, a young boy who loves Polo riding Stallone, a pony. Stallone is a descendant of the horse his famous grandfather rode to play polo. Again, like him, horses are in bad shape for want of food and shelter. His father cannot help but sell Stallone. Thawai becomes sick with pangs of separation from the horse. Unable to see Thawai’s suffering, his coach, mentor, and family bring back Stallone.The 90-minute-long film was earlier well-received at reputed festivals such as Indian Panorama, 51st International Film Festival, Goa, 4th Ottawa Indian Film Festival Awards, Canada.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipuri-film-eigi-kona-gets-rajat-kamal-award-101635247274124.html
26-10-2021||India||Jyotiraditya Scindia flags off maiden Shillong-Dibrugarh direct flight||Union minister for civil aviation Jyotiraditya Scindia on Tuesday virtually flagged off the first direct flight on the Shillong-Dibrugarh route, under the Centre's regional connectivity scheme, called ‘Ude Desh Ka Aam Naagrik (RCS-UDAN)’. Apart from the Union aviation minister, among those present at the event were Meghalaya chief minister Conrad K Sangma and Shillong MP Vincent H Pala.Scindia said Shillong, considered one of the "wettest places in the world", is crucial both for the country but the world, reported news agency PTI.Highlighting that Shillong is known for its rolling hills, caves, tall waterfalls, beautiful landscapes and rich heritage and culture, the civil aviation minister said, “There’s nothing that Meghalaya does not have to offer”.Scindia also pointed out that only six airports were operational in the northeast back in 2014, adding that the number has now risen to 15."Within a short span of seven years, we have achieved this ambitious target. I assure you that this is just the beginning. We are committed to enhancing the interstate and intrastate connectivity in the Northeast," the minister stated.Scindia said the government is not only focused on improving flight connectivity, but also on developing infrastructure capabilities, along with helicopter services."We recently launched a helicopter policy to further promote heli services in the northeast. We want travellers from all over the country to visit the northeast," he added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jyotiraditya-scindia-flags-off-maiden-shillong-dibrugarh-direct-flight-101635243545248.html
26-10-2021||India||Mandaviya to meet health ministers of states tomorrow. Here's what's on agenda||Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya will meet health ministers of states and union territories on Wednesday to discuss ramping up Covis-19 vaccination drive in the country, news agency ANI reported. The meeting will be held nearly a week after India crossed the historic ilestone of administering one billion vaccine doses.Mandaviya will also discuss the delay in administering the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccines in tomorrow's meeting, ANI report further said.After crossing the one billion doses milestone on October 21, the Union health ministry had said that the government's focus now is to ensure the beneficiaries, who are waiting for their second dose, get a vaccine shot as soon as possible.In a note today, the central government urged the states and union territories to focus on such beneficiaries.Wednesday's meeting is expected to discuss the PM Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission, according to ANI. The states and union territories have been urged to improve the momentum of vaccination and accelerate its coverage as the country moves forward to vaccinate with the target to vaccinate the eligible population by end of the year.India has covered 76 per cent of the eligible population for the first dose.On Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi interacted with the domestic vaccine manufacturers where he appreciated their hard work. PM Modi also hailed the confidence given by them during the fight against Covid-19 pandemic.According to Prime Minister's Office (PMO), the domestic vaccine manufacturers praised the never before seen collaboration between the government and industry, and applauded the regulatory reforms, simplified procedures, timely approvals, and forthcoming and supportive nature of the government throughout this endeavour.Representatives from seven vaccine makers - Serum Institute of India, Bharat Biotech, Dr Reddy's Laboratories, Zydus Cadila, Biological E, Gennova Biopharma and Panacea Biotech - participated in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mandaviya-to-meet-health-ministers-of-states-tomorrow-here-s-what-s-on-agenda-101635245708073.html
26-10-2021||India||Elections after permanent political solution in hills: Mamata in Kurseong||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Tuesday outsiders and not insiders were creating problems in the hills while urging leaders of the region to come up with a final plan for a ‘permanent political solution’ before going ahead with elections. Addressing an event in Kurseong, Banerjee said once a final plan for the region was in place, her administration would ahead with elections for panchayats and the Gorkha Territorial Administration (GTA).I request the hill leaders to make a final plan for hills-'Permanent Political solution' (PPS) & then we will go for Panchayat polls and Gorkha Territorial Administration (GTA) polls...Outsiders are creating problems in the hills, not insiders: WB CM Mamata Banerjee in Kurseong pic.twitter.com/82dFHJcUZc“I request the hill leaders to make a final plan for hills-'Permanent Political solution' and then we will go for panchayat polls and GTA polls... Outsiders are creating problems in the hills, not insiders,” the Trinamool Congress supremo was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. Banerjee also brought up the issue of the Centre's decision to extend the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) in states like Bengal, Punjab and Assam. Also read | ‘No lakshman rekha in politics’: Mamata Banerjee inducts 2 ex-UP Congress leadersShe said that while she respected the forces, they should not harass people in the name of security. She reiterated her statement that the state's borders were peaceful and the forces' involvement were not needed.“I respect the forces but they can't intentionally harass people in the name of security. I have already written a letter to the Centre opposing the BSF jurisdiction issue. Our border areas are completely peaceful, we don't need their involvement,” the chief minister said. On Monday, she had said the Centre’s BSF move was meant to create a disturbance and her government was protesting the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elections-after-permanent-political-solution-in-hills-mamata-in-kurseong-101635245168427.html
26-10-2021||India||Chhattisgarh’s Hasdeo Arand residents plan protest in Delhi against mining clearance||Residents of Chhattisgarh’s Hasdeo Arand are planning a protest in Delhi against permission granted for stage II mining clearance in the Parsa coal block. They are expected to arrive in the national capital in a few days to also meet environment and forest ministry officials and lodge their protest against the clearance. A press meet is also scheduled in Delhi under the banner of Hasdeo Arand Bachao Sangharsh Samiti.Alok Shukla, convener of NGO Chhattisgarh Bachaao Andolan, said they will move the National Green Tribunal against the clearance and also stage a protest in Delhi.Activists say around 700 people will be displaced and about 840 acres of dense forest will be destroyed due to the mining project. “...both Central and state governments, to serve the corporate interest, are stepping back in terms of safeguarding this (previously) No-Go area...,” said Bipasa Paul, an activist working in the region.Activists and the residents have alleged the clearance was given on the basis of fake consent documents from the local village council, making it illegal. On October 21, the ministry said the clearance was based on the state government’s recommendation. It cited new facts brought to its notice and added it will be at liberty to impose additional conditions.Also Read: Study warns against mining nod to 14 coal blocks in Hasdeo ArandThe clearance came even as around 250 Hasdeo Arand residents undertook a 300-km long foot march from Korba to Raipur demanding cancellation of all mining projects in the region. The marchers met governor Anusiya Uike and chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, who assured them that their rights will be protected and the documents will be probed.Paul called it unfortunate that even after the march, the state government has not ordered an independent probe into the documents. “...no correspondence (has been) done in this matter with (Union environment and forest ministry)... which granted stage-II forest clearance.”Hasdeo Arand is one of the largest contiguous stretches of dense forest in central India spanning 170,000 hectares. It has 23 coal blocks. In 2009, the Union environment ministry categorised the region as a No-Go zone for mining because of its rich forest cover. It was opened again to mining because the policy was not finalised.There is also a significant elephant presence in the area and it is also an important part of a large migratory corridor. Hasdeo Arand forests are the catchment of Hasdeo River --Mahanadi’s largest tributary- which is critical for perennial river flow. It is also the watershed of Hasdeo Bango reservoir and critical for irrigation of 3 lakh hectares double-cropped land in the rice-bowl state of Chhattisgarh.On October 23, Uike wrote to Chhattisgarh’s chief secretary over the issue and directed an inquiry into the documents within 15 days.State minister Ravindra Chaubey cited allegations of irregularities and added there are provisions under which the state government will review the matter.Chhattisgarh forest department has said the Centre asked the Indian Council of Forestry Research and Education (ICFRE) to conduct a biodiversity assessment and based on its report stage-II clearance was given.Shukla said it was after stage-I clearance of the project that concerned villagers complained about the fake documents to Baghel but nothing was done. “The state government should have objected to the ICFRE report...but the report was accepted and government, under the pressure of corporates, hurriedly sent it to the environment ministry.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarhs-hasdeo-arand-residents-plan-protest-in-delhi-against-mining-clearance-101635245356498.html
26-10-2021||India||Covaxin may get approval within 24 hours, says WHO official||A technical committee of the World Health Organization (WHO) could recommend emergency use approval to Covaxin withing 24 hours, the global health body's spokesperson said. Margaret Harris told journalists that the technical advisory group is currently reviewing data on India's indigenously-made vaccine against coronavirus disease (Covid-19)."If all is in place and all goes well and if the committee is satisfied, we would expect a recommendation within the next 24 hours or so," news agency Reuters quoted Harris as saying at a UN press briefing in Geneva.Millions of Indians have taken a Covaxin shot but many have been unable to travel pending the WHO approval.The vaccine has been developed by Hyderabad-based pharmaceutical company Bharat Biotech. It had submitted the Expression of Interest (EOI) for the emergency use approval as far back as April 19, but WHO has said it needs more data from the company before showing the green light.Without a WHO nod, the two-dose Covaxin is unlikely to be accepted as a valid vaccine globally.Last Friday, a top official of the WHO said the process of thoroughly evaluating a vaccine for use and recommending it sometimes takes a long time but it has to be ensured that the right advice is given to the world."The World Health Organisation is very clear that we want all countries to recognise vaccines that have been given an Emergency Use Listing (EUL) by the WHO advisory process. But it's also very important that WHO, when it makes a recommendation like that, is making that globally,” WHO Health Emergencies Programme Executive Director Dr Mike Ryan had said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi met Indian Covid-19 vaccine manufacturers on Saturday and discussed various issues including furthering the vaccine research. The meeting was held within days of the country achieving a key milestone of administering one billion doses of the jabs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxin-may-get-approval-within-24-hours-says-who-official-101635244994003.html
26-10-2021||India||Kerala governor favours new dam in Mullaperiyar||Thiruvananthapuram: Kerala governor Arif Mohammad Khan on Tuesday said it is time to decommission the 125-year-old Mullaperiyar Dam and build a new one. “...it is an old dam and efforts should be made to build a new one. Let the court deal with issues between two states over this and arrive at an amicable solution,” he said while echoing concerns of the people living downstream. The comments came a day after the Supreme Court directed Kerala and Tamil Nadu to discuss the water level in the dam and take a speedy decision to cap it.Joes Joseph, a resident of Kerala’s Idukki, has moved the court saying the level should not go above 139 feet in view of heavy rains in the area like in 2018 when Kerala faced the flood of the century. But Tamil Nadu opposed the plea, saying the court in 2014 fixed the maximum water level at 142 feet.Kerala government has been pressing for a new dam for years citing frequent tremors and changing rain patterns in the Idukki district where the old dam is situated. But Tamil Nadu has opposed it fearing that once the new dam is built, it would not get control over it.The dam was built in 1886 to supply water to southern Tamil Nadu for irrigation. Its main share of water goes to Tamil Nadu.Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday dispelled any immediate threat to the dam. He reiterated the state’s long-pending demand for a new dam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-governor-favours-new-dam-in-mullaperiyar-101635244282017.html
26-10-2021||India||Falsely implicated in drug bust case, says SRK’s son Aryan Khan in bail plea||Bollywood star Shah Rukh Khan’s son, Aryan Khan, said in a bail plea on Tuesday that he was falsely implicated in the drug bust case. In his bail plea in the Bombay high court, he argued that no contraband material was seized from him and there was no evidence to suggest he consumed drugs. Aryan Khan also argued that the 6gm of “charas” seized from his friend Arbaaz Merchant was meant to be consumed, and considering that it was a small quantity, the offence can only attract a maximum punishment of up to a year’s jail or fine. Hence, he should be released on bail, he pleaded.The bail plea said there was nothing on record to suggest that Aryan Khan was connected to the sale, purchase or trafficking of any narcotic drugs or psychotropic substances.Aryan Khan moved the high court after a special court on October 20 rejected his bail plea, citing prima facie material indicating that “he was in contact with persons dealing with prohibited narcotic substances”.Also Read: Sameer Wankhede in Delhi, likely to meet NCB director generalAryan Khan, Merchant, and model Munmun Dhamech were arrested earlier this month.Special judge VV Patil had rejected Aryan Khan’s argument that nothing was found in his possession and there was no material to connect him to other accused persons from whom drugs were seized.“Perusal of papers shows that though nothing was found in possession of accused No. 1 (Aryan Khan), 6gm of ‘charas’ was found with accused No. 2 (Merchant), which was concealed in his shoes,” said the special court. The special court accepted the NCB’s argument that the accused were part of a drug network and Aryan Khan’s WhatsApp chats showed that he was in touch with a foreign national, and an unknown person dealing in drugs. It added during interrogation, they disclosed the names of the persons who supplied the contraband to them. “Thus, all these facts prima facie show that the accused acted in conspiracy with each other. It transpires that all the accused are connected in the same thread,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/falsely-implicated-in-drug-bust-case-says-srk-s-son-aryan-khan-in-bail-plea-101635243674862.html
26-10-2021||India||Carrying a child on motorcycle? Know the draft rules notified by Central govt||The Central government has notified the draft rules for safety provisions for carrying a child on a motorcycle, recommending a safety harness to be used for attaching the child to the driver. The rules announced by the ministry of road transport and highways will be applicable to drivers carrying a child pillion passengers aged nine months to four years.The draft rules have been notified in the official gazette and the ministry has given a 30-day window seeking feedback from the public.According to the draft rules, an adjustable safety harness must be used to securely attach the upper torse of the child to the driver. The straps of the harness are attached to the back of the vest in a way that two large crossing-over loops form, passing between the legs of the passenger.The safety harness should be lightweight, adjustable, waterproof and durable. It should be made of heavy nylon or multifilament nylon material with high-density foam designed to hold a weight of up to 30 kg. These requirements for safety harness should be kept in mind till such time the specifications are prescribed by the Bureau of Indian Standards under the Bureau of Indian Standards Act 2016:The drivers will have to ensure that the child pillion passengers must wear a crash helmet that fits their head or wear a bicycle helmet. The speed of the motorcycle should not exceed 40 kmph the driver is carrying a child up to four years of age as a pillion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/carrying-a-child-on-motorcycle-know-the-draft-rules-notified-by-central-govt-101635241660216.html
26-10-2021||India||BJP chief JP Nadda sets up panel to report on Odisha row on teacher’s murder||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will send a three-member team to Odisha to prepare a report on the alleged murder of a 26-year-old school teacher in the state’s Kalahandi district.Sambit Patra, the party’s national spokesperson, on Tuesday said the BJP president J P Nadda took the decision to send the team to the state.The BJP has demanded Odisha minister of state for home Dibya Shankar Mishra’s removal over his alleged proximity to the man arrested for the alleged murder. It has organised two bandhs in Kalahandi and Balangir districts last week to protest against the state’s response to the killing.“The police personnel had refused to register an FIR (first information report)…Somewhere the police knew that there was a question of the credibility of the minister in this, so the police were hesitant to register the FIR. When there was pressure from the opposition parties, the police had to register the FIR,” Patra said. He alleged illegal activities were going on in the hostel of the school, where the teacher taught, and innocent girls and teachers were being victimised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-chief-jp-nadda-sets-up-panel-to-report-on-odisha-row-on-teacher-s-murder-101635242414722.html
26-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan case: Sameer Wankhede in Delhi, likely to meet NCB director general||Sameer Wankhede, the Mumbai zonal director of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) who is supervising the investigation into a drug bust case that led to the arrest of actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan, arrived in New Delhi on Monday evening. Wankhede did not respond to phone calls and messages, but NCB sources said he will meet NCB’s director general in the Capital. Wankhede visit to New Delhi comes in the wake of the purported revelations made by Prabhakar Sail, a panch witness in the cruise drug bust case, that he was made to sign on blank papers at the NCB office after Aryan Khan and the others arrested along with him were taken there. He also alleged in a notarised affidavit that he overheard discussion between KP Gosavi, another witness in the case, and another person, who talked about a ₹18 crore deal, of which ₹8 crore was allegedly to be given to Sameer Wankhede. Sail was Gosavi’s bodyguard. Also Read: SRK’s manager apparently influenced witness, NCB tells HCThe notarised affidavit was sent to the NCB office in Mumbai and was marked to the DG by deputy director general Mutha Ashok Jain, in-charge of the Maharashtra and Goa area. After receiving the affidavit, the DG ordered a vigilance enquiry into Sail’s purported revelations. Deputy Director General of northern region, Gyaneshwar Singh, who is also the chief vigilance officer of the NCB, is leading a three-member team that has been tasked to carry out the inquiry. “The director general of the NCB has received Sail’s affidavit, and as per his direction, I have been conducting an inquiry,” said Singh. Acting on a tip-off, a team of NCB officials, headed by Sameer Wankhede, on October 2 searched certain passengers slated to take the Cordellia cruise to Goa from the International Cruise Terminal at Green Gate in Mumbai. During the search, the agency claimed to have seized multiple drugs from the cruise ship. The NCB team intercepted 14 persons and after hours of interrogation, placed Aryan Khan and two others under arrest on October 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aryan-khan-case-sameer-wankhede-in-delhi-likely-to-meet-ncb-director-general-101635242114513.html
26-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan case: SRK’s manager apparently influenced witness, NCB tells HC||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), in an affidavit filed before the Bombay high court, has said that Bollywood star Shah Rukh Khan’s manager Pooja Dadlani apparently “influenced” Prabhakar Sail, a panch witness in the agency’s drug bust case over which the actor’s son Aryan Khan was arrested earlier this month. “Respondents submit that attempts are being made to tamper with the ongoing investigation, with mala fide attempt to derail the same,” say the affidavit filed as a response to Aryan Khan’s bail application. “This is evident from the purported affidavit dated October 23, 2021 by one Prabhakar Sail. Such a document has not being filed in any proceeding before any court, despite the fact that the matter is sub judice before the Hon’ble Sessions Court and before this Hon’ble Court,” the affidavit says. “Curiously, the same has been clandestinely distribute and widely publicised in the media. Significantly, such purported affidavit clearly names one Pooja Dadlani, manager connected to this applicant (Aryan Khan).” “It so appears that the said lady appears to have influenced such panch witness when the investigation is ongoing. Such interference at the stage of investigation is mala fide to ensure that the same is derailed and the quest for truth is obstructed,” says the affidavit filed by VV Singh, investigation officer of the drug bust case. “Thus, the respondent respectfully states that as there are clear instances of tampering, influencing witnesses in the midst of an ongoing investigation, the bail application be rejected on such ground alone,” the affidavit says.Also Read: ‘It’s terrible that being Shah Rukh’s son has gone against him’: Rajit Kapur on Aryan KhanPrabhakar Sail, who claimed to have worked as a bodyguard of KP Gosavi, who was seen with drug enforcers in a raid on a cruise ship earlier this month, said in the affidavit that he was forced to sign on blank papers on that night. Gosavi, one of the witnesses in the case, is on the run and police have issued a lookout notice for him. Sail allegedly heard Gosavi and another person discussing monetary settlement for an amount of ₹25 crore, out of which ₹8 crore was supposed to be paid to a senior NCB official. Sail said in the affidavit that he overheard Gosavi telling a person called Sam D’Souza over the phone after Aryan Khan was brought to the NCB office after the October 3 raid about a demand of ₹25 crore and to settle at ₹18 crore as they “have to give ₹8 crore to Sameer Wankhede”, who is the Mumbai zonal director of NCB. He has since been provided protection by Mumbai police.Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan moved the Bombay high court for bail after the special NDPS court on October 20 rejected his bail application. Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha, who too were arrested in the drug bust case, have also moved the high court and all the bail applications are listed for hearing before a single judge bench of justice Nitin Sambre. Former attorney general Mukul Rohatgi has reached Mumbai along with a team from Karanjwala & Co to argue Aryan Khan’s bail plea before the high court. Acting on a specific tip-off, a team of the NCB officials, headed by the agency’s zonal director Sameer Wankhede, on October 2 searched certain passengers slated to take the Cordellia cruise to Goa from the International Cruise Terminal at Green Gate in Mumbai. During the search, the agency claimed to have seized multiple types of drugs such as 13 grams of cocaine, 5 grams of mephedrone, 21 grams of “charas”, and 22 MDMA pills, along with ₹1.33 lakh in cash. The NCB team intercepted 14 individuals, and after hours of interrogation, placed 23-year-old Aryan Khan, Arbaaz, 26, and Dhamecha, 28, under arrest in the afternoon of October 3. The trio moved the special NDPS court after a metropolitan magistrate on October 10 rejected their bail applications.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aryan-khan-case-srk-s-manager-apparently-influenced-witness-ncb-tells-hc-101635240434508.html
26-10-2021||India||J&K: UAPA cases filed over alleged videos of people celebrating Pak’s win||The Jammu and Kashmir Police have filed cases under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) over videos that purportedly showed some people in the union territory celebrating Pakistan’s victory over India in a T20 World Cup match in Dubai, UAE on Sunday.“We have registered a case,” said Vijay Kumar, inspector general (Kashmir).People aware of the matter said first information reports (FIRs) under the UAPA and the Indian Penal Code were filed on Monday at police stations in Srinagar’s Soura and Karan Nagar.“An FIR under the UAPA has been registered after there were purported celebrations and slogans following a cricket match. The case is not specific to videos on social media,” said an officer from the Soura police station, who requested no to be named.There is no provision for anticipatory bail under the UAPA, which provides for a minimum of five years of imprisonment.Videos have gone viral on social media purportedly showing celebrations in Kashmir following Pakistan’s one-sided win in the cricket match.Also Read: Mufti links Pak T20 win against India with J&K status, Vij says DNA ‘defective’HT could not independently verify the authenticity of the videos or confirm whether they were related to the India-Pakistan T20 World Cup match played in Dubai on Sunday.Alleged celebrations over the West Indies team’s win against India in the T20 World cup semi-final in 2016 had triggered a clash between non-local and local students at Srinagar’s National Institute of Technology.Former minister Sajad Lone has opposed calls for punitive action against those who reportedly rooted for Pakistan. “I strongly disagree. If you think that they are not patriotic enough because they cheered for another team, you should have the courage and the belief to wean them back if you think they have gone patriotically astray. Punitive actions won’t help. [They] have not helped in the past either,” Lone tweeted.Former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti questioned the anger against Kashmiris for allegedly celebrating Pakistan’s win on Sunday. “Some are even chanting murderous slogans... One hasn’t forgotten how many celebrated by distributing sweets when J&K was dismembered and stripped of special status [in 2019],” she said. “Let’s agree to disagree and take it in the right spirit like [Indian captain] Virat Kohli, who was the first to congratulate the Pakistani cricket team,” Mufti remarked.In Punjab, some students from Kashmir said they were beaten up after the match on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-uapa-cases-filed-over-alleged-videos-of-people-celebrating-pak-s-win-101635238154263.html
26-10-2021||India||‘Talking to Gulf nations, Saudi & Russia’: Union minister on rising fuel prices||Union petroleum minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Tuesday said that he was personally in touch with his counterparts in the Gulf nations, Saudi Arabia, and Russia to sort the nationwide crisis over rising fuel prices. Speaking to reporters, Puri said, “I am talking to my counterparts in Saudi Arabia, the Gulf countries, and Russia… we are working at various levels.”Delhi | I am talking to my counterparts in Saudi Arabia, Gulf countries and Russia...we are working at various levels: Union Petroleum Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on rising fuel prices pic.twitter.com/TGQQQIVGXuThe statement from the Union petroleum minister comes days after he commented that the taxes on petrol and diesel prices funded vaccinations against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and provided meals to the poor in the country. Refuting the “simplistic political narrative” that reducing levies will solve the crisis over high fuel prices, Puri had said, “Every time the price goes up due to something else, it [the said narrative] says you axe your own feet in the process.”As of Tuesday, petrol and diesel prices in India have remained constant for two consecutive days. However, the fuel rates are still at an all-time high with the latest price hike on October 24. Petrol is currently selling at ₹107.59 per litre in the country while diesel is priced at ₹96.32 a litre. In Mumbai, however, diesel has crossed the ₹100-per-litre mark and is currently selling at ₹104.Crude oil prices have also stabilised on Tuesday after remaining at a multi-year high the day prior. Union minister Puri had earlier warned that crude oil prices, if not maintained at sustainable levels, will severely impact the green shoots of global economic recovery.The oil prices were at a multi-year high as producers restricted supplies even amid an increased demand due to rapid economic recoveries from the Covid-19 pandemic. Other immediate factors included low US inventories and a shortage of coal in major economies such as China and India.Benchmark Brent crude, which soared to a three-year high at $86.1 a barrel during the trading session last week, continued to remain firm, hovering above $85.99 on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/talking-to-gulf-nations-saudi-russia-union-minister-on-rising-fuel-prices-101635231384323.html
26-10-2021||India||Assam eases Covid-19 curbs as situation improves, relaxes night curfew||Assam eased Covid-related restrictions on Tuesday, limiting the night curfew from 11pm to 5am, in view of the improvement of the situation in the state, officials said.Issuing a new set of guidelines, chief secretary Jishnu Barua said 31 per cent of the eligible population of the state have been fully vaccinated, while 95 per cent got their first dose."The situation of Covid-19 in the state has been reviewed and the overall Covid scenario in the state has further improved," said the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) order, which came into effect immediately.The daily new cases are hovering between 300 and 400, mostly reported from the urban and peri-urban areas, and most of the districts are reporting less than 10 cases per day for the last four-five weeks, it added.The ASDMA order relaxed the night curfew, which will be from 11 pm to 5 am, instead of starting at 10 pm earlier.The new guidelines, however, cut the number of people attending weddings to a maximum of 50 single-dose vaccinated persons from 200 fully vaccinated persons, in the earlier order issued on October 1.On the other side, 50 people have been allowed to attend the last rites of a dead person, the guidelines said.In "iconic" religious places, 60 fully vaccinated people have been permitted per hour, while 40 fully vaccinated persons will be able to enter other religious centres, the order mentioned.Cinema halls and auditoriums were allowed to function with 50 per cent capacity, it added.In the earlier order, all those entering any auditorium or cinema hall were mandated to be fully vaccinated, but this clause was removed from the latest guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-eases-covid-19-curbs-as-situation-improves-relaxes-night-curfew-101635232798176.html
26-10-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Arvind Kejriwal prays to Ram Lalla in Ayodhya and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal prayed to Ram Lalla at the Ram Janmabhoomi temple site in Ayodhya on Tuesday morning. Acharya Satyendra Das, the head priest of the makeshift Ram temple, performed puja with Vedic rituals. Read moreThe Kolkata Police have intensified their crackdown on instances of people not wearing face masks with Covid-19 cases in the city rising after the Durga Puja festivities. They said 446 people were booked on Sunday and 419 on Monday. Police penalised around 750 people daily in the first week of September.Read moreFormer England captain Michael Vaughan has called the Indian Premier League the "most powerful aspect of the game," adding that the fans will likely see more matches and longer tournaments in the league as the game progresses. Read moreJaguar has announced the price of the 2021 XF luxury sedan for India. The carmaker has brought in the facelift version of the 2021 XF without much fanfare at a starting price of ₹71.60 lakh (ex-showroom) and it goes up to ₹76 lakh (ex-showroom). Read moreAhan Shetty, son of actor Suniel Shetty, is all set to make his acting debut with Tadap. The newcomer looks all beefed up in the film's teaser that was released on Tuesday. Read moreBollywood star Kareena Kapoor Khan was snapped by the paparazzi outside her home in Mumbai today. Kareena's husband, Saif Ali Khan, and sons Jehangir and Taimur Ali Khan accompanied her. The family left for the airport from their home and wore casual attires for their flight out of Mumbai. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-arvind-kejriwal-prays-to-ram-lalla-in-ayodhya-and-all-the-latest-news-101635232159483.html
26-10-2021||India||Kolkata Police step up action against those without masks as Covid-19 cases rise||The Kolkata Police have intensified their crackdown on instances of people not wearing face masks with Covid-19 cases in the city rising after the Durga Puja festivities. They said 446 people were booked on Sunday and 419 on Monday. Police penalised around 750 people daily in the first week of September. The number dropped by half to around 300-350 daily in the first week of October. Then it declined further to around 200-250 during the Durga Puja festival.“We have stepped up our vigil against offenders. The night curfew from 11pm to 5am, which was withdrawn for 10 days for the Durga Puja, has been re-imposed, and checking at nights has been tightened. Bars and restaurants have been asked to close by 10.30pm. Over 800 people have been booked for not wearing masks over the last 48 hours,” said an officer with Kolkata Police.Health experts have blamed violation of safety protocols during the Durga Puja for the rising Covid-19 cases. “The protocols were rampantly flouted during the festive season. Many were not wearing masks, leaving aside social distancing and sanitising. Two weeks following the Durga Puja would be very crucial,” said Sukumar Mukherjee, a member of an expert committee set up last year to advise Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on matters related to the Covid-19 pandemic.Also Read: With 12,428 Covid-19 cases, India’s daily tally drops to lowest in monthsTen days after the Durga Puja, Bengal’s biggest annual festival, ended, the daily count of Covid-19 cases has been hovering around the 1,000-mark after a three-month gap. A total of 974 Covid-19 cases were detected on Saturday and 989 on Sunday. On Monday, the cases declined a little, falling to 805.In Kolkata, Covid-19 cases have doubled since the first week of September. On September 1, Kolkata registered 106 cases.The Durga Puja festival was celebrated from October 11- 15, while immersion ceremonies went on till October 17. A shopping spree and festivities had started much earlier.The state administration has started to reintroduce containment zones to check the spread of the Covid-19 virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kolkata-police-step-up-action-against-those-without-masks-as-covid-19-cases-rise-101635230353815.html
26-10-2021||India||'Mehbooba Mufti's DNA is defective': Haryana minister Anil Vij on PDP chief's tweet on India-Pak match||Haryana health minister Anil Vij has lashed out at former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti who spoke out on Twitter against the criticism of those celebrating Pakistan's win against India in the T20 World Cup. The Babar Azam-led Pakistan team defeated India by 10 wickets in Dubai on Sunday to get off to a winning start in the tournament.The result of the match, like always, triggered a flurry of reactions on social media - understandably of anger from India and that of celebrations from Pakistan. There were reports that some people criticised those who slammed India. To this, Mehbooba Mufti, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chief, said there is no need to show so much anger."Why such anger against Kashmiris for celebrating Pak's win? Some are even chanting murderous slogans- desh ke gadaaron ko goli maaro/calling to shoot traitors. One hasnt forgotten how many celebrated by distributing sweets when J&K was dismembered & stripped of special status," Mufti said in her tweet on Monday.Why such anger against Kashmiris for celebrating Pak’s win? Some are even chanting murderous slogans- desh ke gadaaron ko goli maaro/calling to shoot traitors. One hasnt forgotten how many celebrated by distributing sweets when J&K was dismembered & stripped of special status pic.twitter.com/dCKQtj5Uu7"Lets agree to disagree & take it in the right spirit like Virat Kohli who was the first to congratulate the Pakistani cricket team," Mufti further said in her subsequent tweet.Reacting to this, Haryana minister Vij said Mufti's DNA is "defective". "Mehbooba Mufti's DNA is defective, she has to prove how much of an Indian she is," Vij was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.A few hours ago, he had expressed similar sentiments on Twitter. Vij said that the DNA of those who are celebrating Pakistan's win in T20 World Cup “cannot be Indian” and asked people to careful of "traitors" hiding in their own country.He had in the past too criticised Mufti for demanding that India should restart the dialogue with Pakistan. Referring to the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan, Mufti had said the Centre should act before it's too late.Lashing out at PDP chief, Vij had called her "ignorant" and said if she loves Pakistan so much, the she should go there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mufti-links-pak-win-against-india-with-j-k-status-vij-calls-her-dna-defective-101635228951475.html
26-10-2021||India||Four members of a family die after fire breaks out at their home in Delhi||Four members of a family died after a fire broke out at their home in northeast Delhi’s Old Seemapuri in the early hours of Tuesday, police said. The cause of the fire was being ascertained.Delhi fire services chief Atul Garg said household materials kept in a room caught fire. “All four died of smoke inhalation,” said Garg. Atul Garg added the fire control room received a call at around 4am about the inferno. Four fire tenders were rushed to the spot to douse the flames and rescue the occupants. The fire was brought under control and the house was inspected.“Four bodies, including those of two women, were found on the floor. They all belonged to the same family,” said Atul Garg.Deputy police commissioner (Shahdara) R Sathiyasundaram said the family resided in the building that had four floors. A fifth member of the family, identified as Akshay, 22, was sleeping on the top floor. He survived as the fire did not reach that floor. The dead were identified as Horlilal, 59, his wife Reena, 55, and their children, Ashu,24, and Rohini,18. Horilal worked as a peon at Shastri Bhawan, while his wife was a sanitation worker. Ashu wasn’t working while his sister, Rohini, was a Class 12 student, Sathiyasundaram said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-members-of-a-family-die-after-fire-breaks-out-at-their-home-in-delhi-101635228733659.html
26-10-2021||India||In Ayodhya, Arvind Kejriwal prays to Ram Lalla, Lord Hanuman||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal prayed to Ram Lalla at the Ram Janmabhoomi temple site in Ayodhya on Tuesday morning. Acharya Satyendra Das, the head priest of the makeshift Ram temple, performed puja with Vedic rituals.At around 9am, the Delhi chief minister reached Hanuman Garhi, where a section of saints not aligned with the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) led by Nirvani Ani Akhada head Mahant Dharam Das accompanied him. The same saints organised the Saryu aarti for Kejriwal on Monday evening when he arrived in Ayodhya.  Earlier in the day, Delhi chief minister Kejriwal went to the Hanuman Garhi temple to worship Lord Hanuman. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief reached Lucknow on Monday morning and left for Sultanpur, from where he reached Ayodhya on a two-day visit. Sanjay Singh, the AAP's Uttar Pradesh in-charge and Rajya Sabha MP, was accompanying the Delhi chief minister.Reacting to the development, BJP MLA from Ayodhya Sadar assembly constituency Ved Prakash Gupta said, “AAP was earlier opposing the Ram Mandir. The Delhi chief minister had even suggested that a university be made instead of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. Now they are talking about Lord Ram and seeking his blessings.”Continuing his critique, the BJP leader said, “People are not fools. They are well aware of the divisive politics of the AAP”.Notably, Arvind Kejriwal-led AAP has announced that it would contest the state assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh due to be held early next year. The party has said that it would contest all the 403 assembly seats in the 2022 elections.The AAP formally kicked off its poll campaign in September this year, with its senior leaders Manish Sisodia and Sanjay Singh offering prayers at the Ram Janmabhoomi and the Hanuman Garhi temple in Ayodhya. The party also took out a ‘Tiranga Yatra’ in Ayodhya on September 14 from the 18th-century mausoleum of Nawab Shujaudaulah to the Gandhi Park.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-ayodhya-arvind-kejriwal-prays-to-ram-lalla-lord-hanuman-101635227411797.html
26-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: 'Hundreds of farmers, why only 23 witnesses?' SC asks UP govt||The Supreme Court asked the Uttar Pradesh government why are very few witnesses in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case when hundreds of farmers were present at the rally? It also directed the UP government to grant protection to the witnesses in the case. The court made the observation while holding a suo motu hearing on the matter.Senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for UP government, told Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana-led bench that out of 68 witnesses, statements of 30 witnesses have been recorded under and 23 persons claim to be eyewitnesses of the incident.The court then said that there were hundreds of farmers in the rally and asked why only 23 eyewitnesses are there. It asked the UP government to identify more witnesses.“There was a crowd of 4,000-5,000 persons who are all local people and even post-incident most of have been agitating. This is what has been reported. Then, the identification of these people should not be a problem,” the bench said.The state government, in its reply, said people have seen the car and the people who were inside the car.The court then told UP government that if the eyewitness is more credible than a bystander then it is best to have first-hand information.The bench further ordered protection of witnesses in the Lakhimpur Kheri case and directed the Uttar Pradesh Police to expedite recording of eyewitnesses' statements before a judicial magistrate.“We direct the District judge concerned to entrust the task of recording of evidence under section 164 of the CrPC to the nearest judicial magistrates available,” said the bench which also comprised justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli.The court also sought a separate status report on death of four people, including a local journalist, in the incident and posted the matter for hearing on November 8.As many as eight people, including four farmers and a journalist, were killed on October 3 during a farmers' protest in Lakhimpur Kheri district. An SUV, belonging to Union minister of state for home affairs Ajay Mishra's convoy, ran over them. Thirteen people, including Ashish Mishra, the prime suspect in the case and the Union minister’s son, have so far been arrested in connection with the incident.In its last hearing, the court had rapped the Uttar Pradesh Police for “dragging its feet” in the investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-hundreds-of-farmers-why-only-23-witnesses-sc-asks-up-govt-101635227389085.html
26-10-2021||India||Climate change: India lost $87bn due to natural disasters last year, says WMO||India lost $87 billion last year due to natural disasters such as tropical cyclones, floods and droughts, according to the World Meteorological Organization’s (WMO) “State of the Climate in Asia” report released on Tuesday. The development came just days before a UN-led summit on climate change, COP26, starts in Glasgow, Scotland.The disasters that hit India resulted in an average annual loss (AAL) of several hundred billion dollars, as estimated by the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP), which the WMO referred to in its report.China recorded the highest loss, at $238 billion, followed by $87 billion in India and $83 billion in Japan. The highest AALs were associated with drought, the WMO said. The report also highlighted the impact of climate change days ahead of the COP26 UN summit that begins on October 31, saying that last year was the warmest year on record in Asia with a mean temperature 1.39 degrees Celsius above the 1981-2010 average.Also Read: Disha Ravi features on cover of Guardian’s weekend magazineThere were many heat extremes, including an all-time record of 38 degrees Celsius at Russia’s Verkhoyansk, which is the highest temperature recorded anywhere north of the Arctic Circle, according to the report.The South and East Asian summer monsoons were both unusually active last year, combined with frequent tropical cyclones, caused floods and landslides, leading to loss of life and displacement in many countries.Cyclone Amphan, one of the strongest cyclones recorded in recent times, hit the Sundarbans region in India and Bangladesh in May 2020, displacing 2.4 million people in India and 2.5 million people in Bangladesh, the report said, adding that intense cyclones, monsoon rains and floods hit densely populated areas in South Asia and East Asia, and led to the displacement of millions of people in India, China, Bangladesh, Japan, Pakistan, Nepal and Vietnam last year. Last year, average sea surface temperatures reached record highs in the Indian Ocean, Pacific Ocean and the Arctic Ocean. Sea surface temperatures in and around Asia are increasing more than the global average at three times the rate in the case of the Arabian sea, the WMO pointed out in its report.Sea surface temperatures in parts of the Arctic Ocean have also been warming at three times the global average during the 1982-2020 period, the WMO said, identifying Barents Sea in the northern Arctic as a climate change hotspot.Arctic sea ice minimum extent after the summer melt in 2020 was the second lowest on record since 1979. The Eurasian shelf seas and the Northern Sea Route were completely ice-free in summer, yet again pointing to the deepening impact of climate change.Also Read: Developed nations fail to meet climate fund targetProgress on food security and nutrition has also slowed down, the report says. Last year, 48.8 million people in Southeast Asia, 305.7 million in South Asia and 42.3 million in West Asia are estimated to have been undernourished.“The true impact of Covid-19 on food security and nutrition are yet to be established. But compared with 2019, the number of undernourished people in 2020 increased 6% in Southeast Asia and West Asia, and by 20% in South Asia. Climate-related disasters compounded the problem,” the report said.“Weather and climate hazards, especially floods, storms and droughts, had a significant impact in many countries of the region, affecting agriculture and food security, contributing to increased displacement and vulnerability of migrants, refugees and displaced people, worsening health risks, and exacerbating environmental issues and losses of natural ecosystems,” said WMO secretary-general Petteri Taalas in reference to the report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/climate-change-india-lost-87-billion-to-natural-disasters-last-year-says-wmo-101635226813893.html
26-10-2021||India||6 civilians injured in grenade attack in J&K's Bandipore||At least six civilians were injured in a grenade attack in Jammu and Kashmir's Bandipore district on Tuesday, people familiar with the development said. They added that the attack, which took place in the Sumbal bridge area of Bandipora, was aimed at security forces.The security forces are currently present at the site of the incident. All the injured have been rushed to the hospital.A civilian was allegedly killed in cross-firing after terrorists attacked a battalion of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) in the Union territory's Shopian district on Sunday, PTI reported citing the police. The incident evoked strong reactions from mainstream political parties in the Kashmir valley, who demanded a probe into it.This month, at least 11 people have been killed in shootings targeting civilians, mostly non-locals, in Jammu and Kashmir.Recently, Union home minister Amit Shah discussed various security issues, including the recent killing of civilians, in a meeting with state police and central armed police forces chiefs. Citing people familiar with the matter, news agency PTI reported the overall security situation in the country, including the recent incidents of targeted killings of civilians in Kashmir, were discussed in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/few-civilians-injured-in-grenade-attack-in-j-k-s-bandipore-101635225226258.html
26-10-2021||India||Mukul Rohatgi to represent Aryan Khan's bail plea hearing in drugs case at Bombay HC today||Former attorney general of India Mukul Rohatgi will represent Aryan Khan, the son of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan, when his bail plea in the cruise ship drugs case is heard by the Bombay high court on Tuesday.Along with Aryan Khan's bail application, the high court is scheduled to hear the pleas of co-accused Arbaaz Seth Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha later in the day, too.Apart from Mukul Rohatgi, a battery of advocates, including celebrated lawyer Satish Maneshinde, Amit Desai and Anandini Fernandes and partners of law firms Karanjawala & Co and Desai Desai Carrimjee & Mulla, will be representing Aryan Khan in the case at the high court.Aryan Khan has been in jail since October 7 following arrest in the aftermath of the Narcotics Control Bureau officials led by its zonal head Sameer Wankhede raiding a Goa-bound luxury cruise ship off the Mumbai coast to seize a cache of drugs on October 2.Following the raid, Aryan Khan was arrested on October 3 and was sent to judicial custody on October 7. So far all his bail pleas have been rejected even though he was not found with any drugs. Along with Khan, at least eight people, including his friend Arbaaz Seth Merchant and model Munmun Dhamecha, were detained by NCB officials.ALSO READ | Don't imprison small-time drug offenders, ministry suggests change in NDPS ActA special NDPS court rejected the bail plea of Aryan Khan on October 20 and extended his judicial custody till October 30. The special court ruled that certain WhatsApp chats showed Aryan Khan's “involvement in illegal drugs activities" and his “nexus with peddlers and suppliers of banned drugs”.The NCB even hinted at the use of darknet in transactions for procuring drugs.The NCB argued before the special NDPS court last week that Aryan Khan was in “conscious possession” of illegal drugs as the agency found at least 6 grams of charas from Arbaaz Merchant, who allegedly admitted to the investigators that they intended to use it for “consumption and enjoyment.”ALSO READ | Is Aryan Khan's bail plea dismissal normal? Top defence lawyer answersOn Sunday, Prabhakar Sail, a key witness in the cruise ship drugs raid case, made a revelation in an affidavit about a ₹8 crore pay-off to Wankhede. Sail was hired as a bodyguard by private investigator KP Gosavi, whose photo with Aryan Khan inside a NCB office went viral earlier this month. Gosavi reportedly accompanied the NCB team during the raid on the cruise ship and is now absconding. ALSO READ | 'Put a bomb of ₹25 crore': What KP Gosavi's ex-aide 'exposed' on Aryan Khan caseThe affidavit has now given a surprising twist to the case with several prominent leaders, including Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut and Maharashtra minister Nawab Mallik accusing the NCB of conducting “bogus raids” to tarnish the image of the state led by Uddhav Thackeray government.The NCB has ordered a probe into the allegations of extortion after a local court in Mumbai refused to dismiss the affidavit of Sail. Wankhede refuted the charges and said he was ready to face probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mukul-rohatgi-to-represent-aryan-khan-in-bail-plea-hearing-at-bombay-hc-today-101635222989965.html
26-10-2021||India||Navy ready to push Predator drone acquisition with Modi govt||With the India-US two plus two dialogue scheduled in December, all eyes are on the Indian Navy to move the Defence Acquisition Council (DAC) for possible announcement of the $3 billion procurement of armed Predator drones from Washington to strengthen India’s beyond the horizon capabilities.According to officials based in New Delhi and Washington, defence minister Rajnath Singh and external affairs minister S Jaishankar will meet their US counterparts, secretary of state Antony Blinken and defense secretary Lloyd Austin, in December in Washington with both sides on verge of finalisation of dates.While the stabilisation of drought facing Taliban-ruled Afghanistan and the Indo-Pacific in light of Chinese aggressive postures will be top of the agenda, there is a possibility of the two sides announcing the Predator deal provided the due government processes are completed. It is understood that the Indian Navy is ready to move the DAC for Acceptance of Necessity (AON) for acquisition of 30 MQ 9A Predator drones from General Atomics with each of the three services getting 10 Hell-Fire missile firing drones. As the Indian Navy is already operating two leased Predator drones for maritime domain awareness beyond the Straits of Malacca to Gulf of Aden, the acquisition process is being handled by them for both the Indian Air Force and the Indian Army. Despite initial reservations of the Indian Air Force, all services are on board on Predator acquisition.“The process is on. It involves the concurrence of the Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) after DAC clearance. The announcement can be done provided the process is complete before the two plus two dialogue or else it will be announced later,” said a top South Block official with the Indian Navy confirming that the US had clarified to their satisfaction about the project.Incidentally, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had met the CEO of General Atomics, which is the leading US manufacturer of armed drones, during his visit to Washington on September 23.In the context of the US getting permission to use Pakistani air space for maintaining beyond the horizon capabilities to target terrorists in Afghanistan, India also needs to strengthen its drone capabilities as the indigenous development of armed drones has miles to go. “Pakistan denial on allowing the US the use of its air space for beyond the horizon operations in Afghanistan must be taken with a pinch of salt, just as its denial of the presence of al Qaeda chief Osama bin Laden in the past. One of the key reasons why the US did not want India to respond to Islamabad after the Parliament and Kaluchak terror attacks was due to the presence of US special forces in Pakistan after the 9/11 attacks. This was conveyed by then defense secretary Donald Rumsfeld to India in 2002,” said a Pakistan watcher.The Indian requirement for Predator armed drones has grown with China not only acquiring the capability but selling the Wing Loong armed drone to Pakistan, which can launch up to 12 air to surface missiles. Islamabad close ally Turkey has also acquired the armed drone capability with Bayraktar series of drones being used in Libya and Syria theatres and by Azerbaijan against Armenia in the 2020 Nagorno-Karabakh war.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navy-ready-to-push-predator-drone-acquisition-with-modi-govt-101635223209305.html
26-10-2021||India||M Venkaiah Naidu to filmmakers: ‘Avoid showing violence, vulgarity, obscenity’||Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu on Monday called upon filmmakers to avoid depicting violence, “gross vulgarity and obscenity” in films. Speaking at the 67th National Film Awards ceremony, he said “a film should be a vehicle with a higher purpose - a carrier of social, moral and ethical message”. M Venkaiah Naidu said films must refrain from “highlighting violence” and should “voice society’s disapproval of social evils”.He added that a good film should have the power to touch hearts and minds, and urged filmmakers and artists to use the medium for the betterment of society and nation. Also Read: Sardar Udham not sent for Oscars as it ‘projected hate towards British’“Apart from entertainment, cinema also has the power to provide enlightenment,” he said. M Venkaiah Naidu added that “cinema should usher in positivity and happiness and not be restricted to plain entertainment”.The vice-president advised the film industry to not do anything that “weakens the great culture, traditions, values and ethos of our grand civilisation”. M Venkaiah Naidu spoke about India’s soft power as the largest producer of films in the world, adding that Indian films are watched across the world. “Films are among our foremost cultural exports and serve as a key link in connecting the global Indian community to the rhythms of life back home,” he said. India’s vice-president added that since films made in the country have a viewership worldwide, they should portray “Indianness”’ and need to be ambassadors of cultural diplomacy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/m-venkaiah-naidu-to-filmmakers-avoid-showing-violence-vulgarity-obscenity-101635222613214.html
26-10-2021||India||With 12,428 Covid-19 cases, India's daily tally drops to lowest in months||India's daily tally of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) dropped 13.12 per cent with 12,428 fresh cases--lowest in months--according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. The nation's total infection tally now stands at 34,202,202, while the death toll climbed to 455,068 with 356 daily fatalities, according to the health ministry.Out of the 14,306 new cases and 443 deaths in the country, Kerala reported 8,538 infections and 71 fatalities, on Monday. India has been recording a downward surge of Covid-19 cases with 14,306 fresh infections recorded on Monday and 15,906 new cases on Sunday.Active cases fell by 3,879 to stand at 163,816 in the same period, according to data released by the health ministry at 8am. Active cases constitute 0.49 per cent of total cases and the national Covid-19 recovery rate stands 98.18 per cent, the ministry data also showed.As many as 11,31,826 Covid-19 tests were conducted on Monday, taking the total number of tests conducted so far to 60,19,01,543. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 33,583,318 while the case fatality rate stands at 1.33 per cent, it said.More than 1072.2 million Covid-19 vaccine doses have been provided to states and Union territories so far, the Union health ministry said on Monday. More than 127.5 million balance and unutilised vaccine doses are still available with states and UTs, it said.The vaccination drive has been ramped up through availability of more vaccines, advance visibility of vaccine availability to states and UTs for enabling better planning by them, and streamlining the vaccine supply chain, the ministry said. As part of the nationwide vaccination drive, the Centre has been supporting the states and UTs by providing them Covid-19 vaccines free of cost, it said. The new phase of universalisation of vaccination began on June 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-12-428-covid-19-cases-india-s-daily-tally-drops-to-lowest-in-months-101635220773042.html
26-10-2021||India||Assam bye-elections: EC sends model code violation notice to Himanta Biswa Sarma||The Election Commission (EC) has issued a notice to Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, seeking an explanation for alleged violation of the model code of conduct during campaigning for assembly bye-elections.The EC issued the notice on Monday following complaints by Assam Congress president, Bhupen Kumar Borah, and leader of Opposition in the state assembly, Debabrata Saikia. Sarma has been directed to “explain his position” by 5pm on Tuesday. Both Borah and Saikia alleged that the CM, a top campaigner for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), had made announcements at election meetings promising the construction of medical colleges, roads, bridges, stadiums, development projects and financial grant to self-help groups of tea garden workers. “The commission is of the view that by making the above statements, you have violated the said provision of the model code of conduct,” said the notice issued by EC secretary NT Bhutia. Also Read: Assam to form religious tourist circuit of places travelled by spiritual guru“The commission gives you an opportunity to explain your position in this regard on or before 1700hrs of 26.10.2021. If no explanation is submitted within the said time limit, the commission shall take a decision without any further reference to you,” it added. The notice said that after going through the English transcripts of Sarma’s speeches, it was “confirmed” that he made promises and announcements while addressing gatherings at various places in the constituencies that will hold bye-elections on October 30. Bye-elections will be held for five assembly seats - Bhabanipur, Mariani, Thawra, Tamulpur and Gossaigaon – after two legislators died due to Covid-19 complications, and an All India United Democratic Front and two Congress MLAs resigned and joined the ruling BJP. As per the model code of conduct, once elections are announced, the party in power is not allowed to announce projects or promise financial grants that could influence voters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-bye-elections-ec-sends-model-code-violation-notice-to-himanta-biswa-sarma-101635220453072.html
26-10-2021||India||17.2°C: New Delhi wakes up to a chillier morning on Tuesday||New Delhi woke up to a slightly chillier morning on Tuesday, with the mercury recording a temperature of 17.2 degrees Celsius. It is expected to go up to 29 degrees Celsius later in the day.The minimum temperature on Tuesday was likely to be 16 degrees Celsius; it was 16.4 degrees Celsius on Monday, which is normal for this time of the year. The maximum temperature on Monday was 28.4 degrees Celsius, three degrees below normal.Delhi’s air quality deteriorated and was in the “moderate” category on Tuesday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am was 122. On Monday, the average 24-hour AQI was in the ”satisfactory” category at 82.An AQI of 0-50 is considered “good”, 51-100 “satisfactory”, 101-200 “moderate”, 201-300 “poor”, 301-400 “very poor”, and 401-500 “severe”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/172c-new-delhi-wakes-up-to-a-chillier-morning-on-tuesday-101635219073309.html
26-10-2021||India||Apollo Hospitals to provide free Covid jabs to kids with certain co-morbidities||A leading private healthcare group on Monday said it will provide Covid-19 jabs for free to children with “specified co-morbidities”, even as the Centre is yet to announce its approval to it. Apollo Hospitals, in a statement, said, however, it is an “indicative list” and the "final list of co-morbidities eligible for free vaccination would be as per the list published by the government".Zydus Cadila's Covid vaccine ZyCoV-D has already received Emergency Use Authorisation from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) in the country and will be administered to those aged 12 years and above. It is yet to be introduced in the nationwide Covid vaccination programme.As for the emergency use approval for Bharat Biotech's Covaxin in the 2-18 years age group by the DCGI, it is under expert evaluation, official sources had earlier said.On October 12, the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) on Covid-19 of the central drug authority had recommended granting emergency use authorisation to Covaxin for children and adolescents in the 2-18 years age group with certain conditions."It is anticipated that approval will soon be granted for vaccinating children with specified co-morbidities and immediately post-approval, and details of the age-group permitted for vaccination, the free vaccination initiative would be launched by Apollo Hospitals across its units," the statement said."The list is expected to include children with haematological, neurological, cardiac, liver, gastrointestinal, rheumatic, cancer, respiratory, genitourinary and developmental disorders," it said.Dr Prathap C Reddy, Chairman, Apollo Hospitals Group, said, "Adults have been the focus of vaccination till now as by and large, children have been spared from severe Covid infection. However, this is not the case in children with co-morbidities. These children continue to be at high risk of developing a severe infection. In addition, children with comorbidities have also seen a significant psychosocial impact as the lockdown resulted in their missing out on the personalised attention and specialised treatment and care that they require."The government's approval of vaccination for children with co-morbidities, when it comes through, will be a "welcome step in the right direction", he was quoted as saying in the statement."Realising the criticality of this vaccination, we will be extending the Covid vaccines completely free of cost to children with co-morbidities and giving them the necessary 'kavach' (shield) against Covid," Reddy said.Both vaccines would be available at Apollo Hospitals' vaccination centres across the country once all approvals by the government are in place and the vaccines are made available, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/apollo-hospitals-to-provide-free-covid-jabs-to-kids-with-certain-comorbidities-101635217427665.html
26-10-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9am: Cong meet today to discuss strategy for internal polls and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9AM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Congress meet today to discuss strategy for internal pollsCongress leaders will meet on Tuesday to strategise the membership drive for internal organisational elections at various levels next year, besides registering a protest against the Centre over the rise in prices of essential items and fuel. Read more24-hour water cut in Mumbai from todayMumbai's water supply will be affected on Tuesday and Wednesday owing to repair works to be taken by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) at its water pumping station at Bhandup and Pise Panjrapur Complexes. Read moreAngelina Jolie in strapless black dress gives another jaw-dropping moment at Rome Eternals photo callHollywood star and humanitarian Angelina Jolie has been giving back-to-back bombshell looks on the red carpet. And now, she had yet another jaw-dropping moment in Rome when the Eternals actor stepped out for the Marvel film's photocall. Angelina posed in front of the shutterbugs wearing a form-fitting black dress worthy of the red carpet. Read more'It was a big mistake playing him': Hogg names India player who should not have played against Pakistan in T20 World CupFormer Australia spinner Brad Hogg lashed out at Team India's selection for their T20 World Cup opening encounter against Pakistan. The Virat Kohli-led side lost the marquee clash by 10 wickets in Dubai on Sunday and Hogg named one India player whose selections, according to him, was ‘a big mistake.’ Read moreHuawei Band 6 Review: Comfortable, looks good and gets the basics rightThe Huawei Band 6 comes with all the bells and whistles you would expect to see on a budget fitness tracker under the ₹5,000 mark. This fitness tracker has a lot of competition in this price segment, so should you pick the Huawei Band 6 over the rest? Here’s what we think. Read moreSalman Khan twins with Iulia Vantur at Aayush Sharma's birthday bash, Isabelle Kaif also attends. See picsSalman Khan and Aayush Sharma unveiled the trailer of their upcoming film, Antim: The Final Truth on Monday, a day before the latter's birthday. Read moreTesla market value breaches $1 trillion mark for first time ever. Details hereTesla may still only be present in a handful of countries across the world but the EV giant has further consolidated its dominance and lead in the world of electric mobility with its market value recent crossing the $1 trillion mark for the first time ever. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9am-cong-meet-today-to-discuss-strategy-for-internal-polls-and-all-the-latest-news-101635215609889.html
26-10-2021||India||Disha Ravi features on cover of Guardian’s weekend magazine||Bengaluru-based climate activist Disha Ravi, who was arrested in February on sedition charges over an online document or toolkit about the farmer protests, has featured on The Guardian Weekend magazine cover. The magazine carried Ravi’s first-person account as part of a series titled: “Wrong side of the law. Right side of history: the activists arrested in the name of the planet.”Ravi, 22, is a member of Greta Thunberg’s Fridays for Future movement for awareness over the climate crisis. A Delhi court granted her bail calling the evidence against Ravi for allegedly fomenting trouble “scanty and sketchy evidence” amid outrage over her arrest. Ravi featured on the magazine cover days before the Glasgow Climate Change Conference (COP 26) is scheduled to begin in Glasgow on October 31.In the feature, Ravi recalls how her grandparents, who were farmers, struggled against a water crisis, which eventually motivated her to take interest in the climate crisis and become an activist.“When I was 18, I realised that this is the reality for millions in my country. The fact that it wasn’t front-page news was baffling,” she told the Guardian.Ravi referred to the uproar after her arrest and expressed concern over what she called the suppression of activists and journalists. “People are being punished for what are essentially thought crimes,” she told the Guardian. She added she receives “death threats daily” and that she is used to it.In a tweet, Ravi said: “I’m very honoured to be on the cover of the @guardian Weekend Magazine alongside 20 amazing people including @GeorgeMonbiot @Janefonda @orlamurphy_k @JackHarries @TedDanson and others who I can’t seem to find on Twitter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/climate-change-disha-ravi-featured-on-cover-of-guardian-s-weekend-magazine-101635217692725.html
26-10-2021||India||Amit Shah pays tribute to 40 CRPF jawans killed in 2019 Pulwama terror attack||Union home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday paid tribute to the 40 personnel of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), who were killed in the terror attack in 2019, at a memorial at Lethpora in the Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir. J-K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha also laid a wreath at the memorial and paid his tributes to the personnel killed in the 2019 Pulwama terror attack.On Monday, Amit Shah visited the CRPF camp and interacted with the security personnel at Lethpora. Shah spent the night at the CRPF camp and along with Sinha also had dinner with the paramilitary forces."I wanted to spend time with the soldiers of the paramilitary forces, meet them, know their experiences and difficulties and see the spirit to work. That's why we had lunch with our brave soldiers at Lethpora CRPF camp in Pulwama and will also take rest of the night with the soldiers in the camp.@crpfindia," tweeted Amit Shah.Also read | Will rather talk to people of Kashmir than Pakistan: Amit ShahShah said that the law and order situation has improved a lot in Jammu and Kashmir, adding that he was hopeful "we will be able to realise a peaceful Jammu and Kashmir as envisaged by Prime Minister Modi during our lifetime".“Stone-pelting incidents are only seen when we try to look for them. There was a time when stone pelting was common in Kashmir. Such incidents have decreased to a huge extent. But, I want to say that there is no need to be satisfied,” Shah said, according to news agency ANI.Also watch | Amit Shah shares his phone number with villager in J&K border area“The Narendra Modi government has a zero-tolerance policy towards terrorism. We cannot bear it. It is against humanity. It should be our priority to save the people of Kashmir from the persons who are linked to this heinous crime against humanity,” he said.A suicide bomber of the Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) rammed an explosive-laden vehicle into the bus -- one of the 78 buses in the convoy in which around 2,500 personnel were travelling from Jammu to Srinagar -- leaving 40 CRPF personnel dead. India then launched a counter-terror airstrike against a JeM training camp in Balakot on February 26.Also read | Amit Shah has bulletproof shield removed, tells J&K crowd want to speak frankly The memorial with the names of all the 40 jawans killed in the attack was inaugurated on February 14, 2020, at CRPF's Training Centre at the Lethpora camp in Pulwama. The memorial also has their photographs and CRPF's motto -- "Seva and Nishtha" (Service and Loyalty).The Union home minister, who extended his three-day visit from October 23-25, offered prayers at Kheer Bhawani Durga temple in Ganderbal district earlier on Monday. On Sunday, he visited forward areas at the Makwal border in Jammu and Kashmir with Sinha and interacted with jawans and local residents. He also met with the delegations of Kashmiri Pandits, those from the Gujjar-Bakarwal and Pahadi communities and Jammu and Kashmir Chamber of Commerce in Jammu.On Saturday, he met families of soldiers and civilians killed this month in a spate of terrorist attacks in Jammu and Kashmir. This was his first visit to the Union territory since the abrogation of Article 370 in August 2019.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-pays-tribute-to-40-crpf-jawans-killed-in-2019-pulwama-terror-attack-101635216896227.html
26-10-2021||India||Indians can finally travel to Singapore again from today. Check details here||Indians can finally travel to Singapore again from Tuesday as the country has announced the resumption of travel for South Asian countries, including India, Nepal and Bangladesh. “All travellers with a 14-day travel history to Bangladesh, India, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka prior to departure to Singapore will be allowed to enter and transit through Singapore from 11.59 pm on Oct 26," Singapore's Strait Times reported, quoting its health ministry.Travellers from these countries were previously barred from entering Singapore. The new development is likely to have come after reviewing the Covid-19 situation in these countries.However, Singaporean authorities have stated that the travellers will still be subjected to strict quarantine rules. “Travellers from these countries will be subject to Category IV border measures. They will still be required to serve their 10-day stay-home notice (SHN) at dedicated SHN facilities,” the statement from the ministry added.The change in rules come at a time when Singapore has switched to a new model of dealing with the coronavirus pandemic. Unlike Indians, fully-vaccinated travellers from 15 countries -- including Indonesia, Malaysia, Vietnam and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) -- will not have to undergo the mandatory quarantine when they land in Singapore.Singapore has been witnessing more than 3,000 daily Covid-19 infections recently. It reported 3,174 new Covid-19 cases and 14 deaths on Monday.Singapore is also extending some of its Covid-19 restrictions in preparation for the potential influx of tourists, workers and business travellers. The country’s Covid-19 task force said that the current restrictions will be extended till November 21.From January 1, 2022, only employees who are fully vaccinated or have recovered from Covid-19 in the past nine months, can return to the workplace.“Unvaccinated employees will not be allowed to return to the workplace unless they have tested negative for Covid-19 before returning, and they will need to pay for the costs of these tests," said the country's health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indians-can-finally-travel-to-singapore-again-from-today-check-details-here-101635214461147.html
26-10-2021||India||Farmers call for nationwide protests today to seek Union min Ajay Mishra's arrest||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) has given a call to organise nationwide protests on Tuesday to press for the dismissal and arrest of Union minister Ajay Mishra in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri violence and also to mark the completion of 11 months of farmers' agitation against the three central agricultural laws."The SKM has now put out a call to all constituents to mark October 26 with country-wide protests, to intensify the demand for Ajay Misra Teni's dismissal and arrest, and to mark the completion of 11 long months of peaceful struggle. On that day, between 11am and 2pm, there will be sit-ins and marches," the SKM said in the statement on Friday, reports news agency PTI.The SKM, a joint forum of farmer unions, demanded from the central government the fulfilment of its "legitimate demands" - repeal of the three anti-farmer laws, making minimum support price (MSP) into a legal entitlement for all produce and all farmers, and sacking as well as the arrest of Mishra.Farmers from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh have been camping at Delhi borders -- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur -- since November 26, 2020, to oppose the three contentious farm laws.Four of the eight people who died in the violence on October 3 were farmers, allegedly knocked down by a vehicle carrying Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers. The farmers then allegedly lynched some people in the vehicles. The other dead included two BJP workers and their driver.Farmers have claimed that Ajay Mishra's son Ashish was in one of the vehicles, an allegation denied by him and his father who say they can produce evidence to prove he was at another event at that time. Ashish Misra was arrested in the case on October 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-call-for-nationwide-protests-today-to-seek-union-min-ajay-mishra-s-arrest-101635212860397.html
26-10-2021||India||Congress meet today to discuss strategy for internal polls||Congress leaders will meet on Tuesday to strategise the membership drive for internal organisational elections at various levels next year, besides registering a protest against the Centre over the rise in prices of essential items and fuel. The meeting will be attended by all party general secretaries, in-charges and state unit chiefs to be held at 10:30am at the Congress headquarters, according to a communication sent in this regard, reports news agency PTI.During the meeting the leaders would discuss the membership campaign and the preparation for Jan Jagran Abhiyan and the proposed continuous training programme, reported PTI citing people familiar with the matter.In a letter to all state Congress chiefs, All India Congress Committee general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal asked them to turn the membership drive for organisational polls into a “mass campaign process”.The Congress has formed a panel to strategise agitations and protest programmes across states. “The Congress Working Committee (CWC), in its last meeting on October 15, had decided to launch a massive people’s protest against the price rise of essential commodities and the spiraling fuel prices. This meeting on October 26 will decide how to take this forward,” a senior leader aware of the developments told Hindustan Times, seeking anonymity.The emphasis on a proper strategy and synergy in highlighting key issues among the people assumes significance in view of the elections in states such as Uttar Pradesh and Punjab, which are due next year, besides the 2024 general elections.The meeting comes two days after the Congress released its membership requisites. According to the Congress’ membership form, any person wishing to join the party will have to make sure that they never consume alcohol and drugs or criticise the party and its programmes on public forums.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-meet-today-to-discuss-strategy-for-internal-polls-101635209386800.html
26-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Supreme Court to continue hearing today. Here's what happened in last proceeding||The Supreme Court will continue hearing the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case on Tuesday, a week after it rapped the Uttar Pradesh police for “dragging its feet” in the investigation. Noting that the special investigation team (SIT) probing the violence needed to get more witnesses to record their statements, the top court adjourned the proceedings last week to October 26. The bench asserted that the SIT must identify the vulnerable witnesses, provide them protection and record their statements under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), as it will have more evidentiary value.Also Read | Lakhimpur Kheri case key accused Ashish Mishra tested for dengue, hospitalisedAs many as eight people, including four farmers and a journalist, were killed on October 3 during a farmers' protest in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri district. An SUV, belonging to Union minister of state for home affairs Ajay Mishra's convoy, ran over them. Thirteen people, including Ashish Mishra, the prime suspect in the case and the Union minister’s son, have so far been arrested in connection with the incident.In its hearing last week, the Supreme Court asked the Uttar Pradesh government why the statements of only four witnesses had been recorded till then. Senior advocate Harish Halve, appearing for the government, sought to dispel the query by saying the police have arrested a number of those accused in the incident and that the statements of other witnesses were being recorded when the courts had shut due to the Dussehra break.The Supreme Court also asked the government why police custody of other accused was not sought, noting, “Until and unless they are interrogated by police, you won't find out.”Also Read | What happened in Lakhimpur Kheri: Sequence of events according to both sidesEarlier, too, the top court expressed its dissatisfaction over the steps taken by the Uttar Pradesh government in the “brutal murder” of the eight men in Lakhimpur Kheri. On October 8, the top court said it was “not satisfied” with the action taken in the violence and also questioned the Uttar Pradesh government regarding the delay in arresting accused Ashish Mishra.Ashish, who was taken into police remand, has in the meanwhile contracted dengue and was sent to the district jail on Saturday evening for treatment at its healthcare facility, according to police officials familiar with the development. On Friday, he was taken into two-day police custody along with three others for further interrogation in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-supreme-court-to-continue-hearing-today-here-s-what-happened-in-last-proceeding-101635207156249.html
26-10-2021||NA||Breaking: WHO seeks further clarification from Bharat Biotech on Covaxin||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:TN chief minister MK Stalin announces ex gratia for kin of deceased, injured in cracker shop fireTamil Nadu CM MK Stalin announces an ex gratia of ₹5 lakhs each for the kin of those deceased in the cracker shop fire in Kallakurichi, and ₹1 lakh for those who were injured and are being treated in the emergency wards, ANI reported.WHO seeks further clarification from Bharat Biotech over CovaxinThe World Health Organisation (WHO) has sought further clarification from Bharat Biotech on the emergency use authorisation of Covaxin. The health agency expects to get the added data by the end of this week “The WHO technical advisory team to reconvene on November 3."3 Kashmiri students suspended from engineering college in Agra over alleged anti-national WhatsApp chatsAs many as three Kashmiri students have been suspended from an engineering college in Agra in Uttar Pradesh for allegedly sharing anti-national chat on WhatsApp.Mumbai NCB summoned Prabhakar Sail for questioning tomorrowMumbai NCB has summoned Prabhakar Sail, a witness in the cruise ship drugs case, for questioning tomorrow. He will be questioned by the NCB team reaching Mumbai from Delhi tomorrow pertaining to his allegations of corruption, ANI reported citing the central agency.Demonitised notes with face value of ₹80L seized in BengaluruDemonitised notes with face value ₹80 lakh has been seized in Bengaluru after a police team conducted raids. “We have also seized fake Indian currency notes with the face value of ₹5 crores,”  Sharanappa SD, DCP east Bengaluru City told ANI.‘No action' against Sameer Wankhede for allegations made by Nawab Malik: NCBThe Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Tuesday said that it will initiate no action against Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede “as per guidelines of Central Vigilance Commission” for the allegations made by NCP leader and Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik. NCB deputy director general Mutha Ashok Jain said that the letter has not been marked in Mumbai for inquiry yet. “An inquiry and appropriate action will be taken if we have received,” he added.Punjab govt allows fire crackers for 2 hours on Diwali and GurupurabPunjab government has allowed fire crackers for two hours on Diwali and Guruparab on November 4 and 19, respectively.7 times more emission cuts needed to hit 1.5 degree Celsius goal: UNThe United Nations has said that seven times “more emissions' cuts” are needed to reach 1.5 degree Celsius climate target, AFP reported.Accused Manish Rajgaria, Avin Sahu become first to get bail in Mumbai cruise ship drugs' caseOne of the accused in Mumbai cruise ship drugs' case, Manish Rajgaria, has been granted bail by city-based special NDPS Court. Avin Sahu, another accused, have also been granted bail. They are the first persons to get bail in this case. Aryan Khan's bail hearing adjourned till tomorrowBombay High Court has adjourned Aryan Khan's bail plea hearing till tomorrow 2.30pm.Sudan's top general Burhan says he is keeping ousted PM at his own house for “safety”Sudan's top general Abdel Fattah al-Burhan on Tuesday said that he was keeping ousted Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok at his own house. According to Reuters, Burhan told a news conference in Khartoum that Hamdok was “safe and kept away for his own safety."‘Unsavoury controversy between political people and NCB officials can’t be rubbed on me': Aryan tells court via lawyerIn his ongoing bail application hearing, Aryan Khan via his lawyer told the Bombay High Court that “unsavoury controversy” between politicians and the officials of NCB “cannot be rubbed” on him.‘WhatsApp chats have nothing to do with cruise incident’: RohatgiAryan Khan's lawyer Mukul Rohatgi told Bombay HC that WhatsApp chats recovered from the 23-year-old's phone by the NCB have “nothing to do with the cruise terminal incident.” The former Attorney General of India said that these chats are from before the raid happened, which the central agency is using to say that Aryan had knowledge of the presence of drugs on the ship and was also dealing with relevant people. 'Approach is not to keep people behind bars'‘Approach is not to keep people in jails, the social justice ministry is talking about reforms’, Khan's counsel tells court. Aryan Khan's bail plea hearing starts in Bombay High CourtThe bail plea hearing of Aryan Khan in cruise ship drugs' case has begun in Bombay High Court. Justice Nitin Sambre is hearing the bail application.Two more arrested in Lakhimpur Kheri violence caseTwo more persons have been held in connection with the killing of four people, including two BJP workers and a journalist in Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh. Read full report.Ex-Attorney Gen of India Mukul Rohatgi arrives in Bombay HCFormer Attorney General of India, Mukul Rohatgi arrives at Bombay High Court. He is appearing for Aryan Khan in his bail matter today in connection with drugs on a cruise ship case. pic.twitter.com/jF4rK9C7PEMukul Rohatgi, the former Attorney General of India, was seen arriving at the Bombay High Court a few minutes before, according to an image shared by ANI. Notably, he is appearing for Aryan Khan in the 23-year-old's bail application hearing today in connection with the drugs case on a Mumbai cruise ship.NCB opposes Aryan Khan's bail plea, says can influence witnessesThe Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has opposed Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's son, Aryan Khan's bail plea in Mumbai cruise ship drugs' case. The central agency said that his bail can influence witnesses and tamper with evidence.Full vaccination mandatory for travel in Mumbai local trains for essential workers, govt employeesFull vaccination mandatory for travel in Mumbai local trains for essential workers and government employees: Government of Maharashtra.Pegasus snooping case: SC to deliver order in setting up probe panelSupreme Court will deliver at 10.30am tomorrow its order on setting up a probe panel to inquire into the Pegasus snooping case.India, UK take part in maiden bilateral tri-service exercise 'Konkan Shakti 2021'The sea phase of the maiden bilateral tri-service exercise 'Konkan Shakti 2021' between the UK and Indian Armed Forces commenced off the Konkan coast in the Arabian Sea.Team investigating new Covid-19 variant AY.4.2: Mansukh MandaviyaA team is investigating the new Covid-19 variant AY.4.2 ... ICMR and NCDC teams study and analyse the different variants: Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya.Gujarat court asks Rahul Gandhi to appear on Oct 29 in defamation caseA magistrate court in Surat has directed Congress leader Rahul Gandhi to appear before it on October 29 to record his statement in connection with a criminal defamation case against him over his remark on the "Modi surname".China locks down Lanzhou, city of 4 million, over Covid-19China locks down Lanzhou, city of 4 million, over Covid-19, reports AFP.Assam issues new SOPs relaxing Covid-19 curfew timingsAssam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) issues a new SOPs relaxing Covid-19 curfew timings in the state; Night curfew between 11pm and 5am, shops and dine-in restaurants to remain open till 10pm.Singapore has just 60 ICU beds left as severe Covid cases riseThe number of seriously ill Covid-19 patients in Singapore has risen to such an extent that there are 60 empty beds currently left in intensive care units.There's paramount need for discipline and unity: Sonia GandhiI would like to re-emphasise the paramount need for discipline and unity. What should matter to each and every one of us is the strengthening of the organisation. This must override personal ambitions: Congress interim President Sonia Gandhi.All telecommunications interrupted in Sudan - al-Hadath TVAll telecommunications were interrupted in Sudan, the Saudi-owned Dubai-based al-Hadath television channel said on Monday, a day after the country's military seized power in a coup.SC orders protection of witnesses in Lakhimpur Kheri violence caseSupreme Court orders protection of witnesses in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case. It has also directed the Uttar Pradesh police to expedite recording of eye- witnesses' statements before a judicial magistrate. The court further seeks a separate status report on death of four others, including a local journalist, in the incident. The next date if hearing is November 8.Former South Korean President Roh Tae-woo has diedSeoul hospital says former South Korean President Roh Tae-woo has died.Few civilians injured in grenade attack in J-K’s BandiporeFew civilians injured in grenade attack in J-K’s Bandipore.Mercury settles at 19.2 degree Celsius in DelhiMercury rose by a few notches in the national capital on Tuesday, as the minimum temperature settled at 19.2 degrees Celsius, officials said.China vows to help Taliban ‘rebuild the country’ in Doha meetingChina pledged to help the Taliban “rebuild the country” while reiterating calls for the US to lift sanctions against the new leaders of Afghanistan as the economy worsens.India logs 12,428 new Covid-19 cases, 356 deaths in last 24 hoursIndia recorded 12,428 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, which pushed the nationwide tally to 34,202,202, while the death toll climbed to 455,068 with 356 daily fatalities, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Tuesday. 7 killed, 140 injured as Sudan's military fires on anti-coup protestersThousands of people who joined the anti-coup protest were fired upon by the Sudanese military resulting in the death of at least seven people while injuring 140 people.US announces new Covid-19 international air travel rulesThe Biden administration on Monday (local time) announced new Covid-19 international air travel rules starting from November 8.Farmers call for nationwide protests today to seek Union min Ajay Misra's arrestThe Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) has given a call to organise nationwide protests on Tuesday to press for the dismissal and arrest of Union minister Ajay Misra in connection with the Lakhimpur violence and also to mark the completion of 11 months of farmers' agitation.Amit Shah pays tribute to 40 CRPF jawans who were killed in 2019 Pulwama terror attackUnion minister Amit Shah pays tribute to 40 CRPF jawans who were killed in 2019 Pulwama terror attack.4 dead after fire broke out in Delhi's old Seelampuri areaFour person found dead after a fire broke out at top floor of three-storey building in Old Seemapuri area early in the morning: Delhi Police.Arvind Kejriwal to visit Ram temple site todayDelhi CM Arvind Kejriwal will pay obeisance to Ram Lalla at the Ram Janmabhoomi site and to Lord Hanuman at Hanuman Garhi temple on Tuesday.WHO to consider emergency use listing of Covaxin in meet todayThe World Health Organization (WHO) will meet on Tuesday to consider much-coveted emergency use approval to Covaxin, India's indigenously-made vaccine against coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Bombay HC to hear Aryan Khan's bail plea todayThe Bombay High Court will on Tuesday hear the bail application of Aryan Khan, the son of Bollywood star Shah Rukh Khan, in the Mumbai cruise drugs raid case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-october-26-2021-101635209128422.html
26-10-2021||India||WHO to consider emergency use listing of Covaxin in meet today||The World Health Organization (WHO) will meet on Tuesday to consider much-coveted emergency use approval to Covaxin, India's indigenously-made vaccine against coronavirus disease (Covid-19). According to WHO chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan, the global health body's technical advisory group will meet on October 26 to consider the emergency use listing (EUL) for Covaxin, which is already being used nationwide in the inoculation campaign against the pandemic.Also Read | Centre writes to states over delay in giving second dose of Covid-19 vaccineBharat Biotech, the Hyderabad-based pharmaceutical company which developed Covaxin, has now been waiting for months for the specialised United Nations (UN) agency to provide a formal nod to its Covid-19 vaccine. It had submitted the Expression of Interest (EOI) for the emergency use approval as far back as April 19, but WHO has said it needs more data from the company before showing the green light.Last week, a top official of the global health body said the process of thoroughly evaluating a vaccine for use and recommending it sometimes takes a long time but it has to be ensured that the right advice is given to the world “even if it takes another week or two.”Also Read | As Covaxin awaits nod, WHO official says, ‘it takes longer sometimes’Dr Mike Ryan, the executive director of the WHO Health Emergencies Programme, said that the UN agency is “very clear” that it wants all countries to recognise vaccines that have been given a EUL by the WHO advisory process. “But it is also very important that WHO, when it makes a recommendation like that, is making that globally,” Ryan added.WHO has said it “cannot cut corners” to recommend Covaxin’s inclusion in the EUL for vaccination against Covid-19. The agency said it is expecting one additional piece of information from the Covaxin manufacturer which has been submitting data on a rolling basis.The WHO nod for Covaxin’s emergency use authorisation is a much-anticipated one for its widespread acceptability as a safe and effective vaccine. Presently, India is using Covaxin in its nationwide inoculation drive against Covid-19 as one of the six vaccines approved by the Drugs Controller General of India for the same, including the Oxford-AstraZeneca’s Covishield and the Russian-made Sputnik V.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-to-consider-emergency-use-listing-of-covaxin-in-meet-today-101635204897421.html
26-10-2021||India||BJP, Cong keeps up pressure on Odisha’s Naveen Patnaik govt over Kalahandi case||BHUBANESWAR: Odisha’s ruling Biju Janata Dal continues to face the onslaught from the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party and the Congress, who have been demanding dismissal of minister of state for home Dibya Shankar Mishra on grounds that he was close to the school president arrested for the murder of a 26-year-old school teacher Mamita Meher of Kalahandi district.On Monday, BJP mahila morcha activists staged a sit-in at the busy Master Canteen square of Bhubaneswar - their mouth covered with a black band - to demand that Mishra be sacked from the Naveen Patnaik council of ministers over his alleged patronage of Gobind Sahu, president of Sunshine School managing committee in Mahalinga panchayat of Kalahandi district Sahu was arrested last week later on charges of killing Mamita Meher, burning her body and burying the remains in an under-construction stadium in the school campus.While Sahu was sent to judicial custody at the end of his 5-day police remand on Monday, minister Mishra and the Naveen Patnaik government have continued to be on the firing line of the opposition who are attempting to make women’s safety a campaign point ahead of the panchayat polls scheduled in February next year. Senior BJP leader Bijoy Mohapatra has alleged that an effort was made to reach a compromise between the teacher and Sahu at the Raipur residence of Mishra.“This has been going on for the past two months and efforts were made to settle issues between Mamita and the accused, Gobinda Sahu. The call records of the minister, main accused Sahu and Meher can easily be retrieved and verified to ascertain the minister’s involvement in the case. Police have examined some call records of Mishra and informed the chief minister about the findings,” Mohapatra claimed.The BJP, which organised two bandhs in Kalahandi and Balangir districts last week, on Monday insisted that police should also arrest the minister. “If no action is taken, then the party will hold protests in front of all the district police offices across the state on October 26 and 27 for justice to Meher,” said Irasish Acharya, Odisha BJP youth wing president.Congress spokesperson Debasish Patnaik said it was a surprise that chief minister Naveen Patnaik hasn’t spoken yet in context of allegations against his minister.Minister Mishra did not comment on the demands of opposition parties seeking his removal.The BJD, which is on the backfoot over the teacher’s murder and subsequent allegations against minister, has refused to take any action insisting that he is not to be held responsible for any crime by Sahu.“Members of educational institutions generally have photographs with guests visiting schools or colleges. But can the political leaders be held responsible for the activities of the members of managing committees of the schools or colleges,” said BJD spokesperson Lenin Mohanty, hitting out at the BJP and Congress alleging that they were trying to derail police investigation into the murder case.“Many Congress leaders also visited the college managed by Sahu. Former Kalahandi MP and senior Congress leader Bhakta Charan Das visited the college more than once and sanctioned ₹36 lakh from his MPLAD Fund for the college between 2009 and 2014. Congress MLA from Khariar, Adhiraj Panigrahi had also visited the college as a guest.”Political observers and women activists say there may have been a shift in Naveen Patnaik’s stance towards atrocities on women.“Naveen Patnaik was a prime beneficiary of the public anger towards the JB Patnaik regime after several cases of women atrocities including the Chhabirani gangrape case as well as Anjana Mishra gangrape case in 1980s and late 1990s. In the initial years of his chief ministership, Naveen promptly took action against any minister at the slightest hint of impropriety... But in the case of Mishra, there has been a clear shift as the party thinks it can ride over the storm without much political loss,” said political observer Rabi Das.“But this is not the first case. In January this year, law minister Pratap Jena was named along with 13 others over his alleged involvement in the double murder of a 75-year-old BJP leader and his 80-year-old associate in Cuttack district. Yet he was not asked to put in his papers.”Noted women’s activist Tapasi Praharaj said while the Naveen Patnaik government has been assiduously seeking women votes by empowering women self help groups, his government was oblivious to their safety.“As per the NCRB report the rate of crime against women in Odisha was second only to Assam in 2020. Starting from the rape of a 14-year-old Dalit girl in Koraput in October 2017 to the murder of a woman teacher in Rayagada district in October 2013, women in Odisha continue to be at the receiving end. While it is still not clear about the involvement of the minister in the murder case of the woman teacher, he should have stepped down from the ministry in the fairness of things. But as we have seen in the past several cases including the Pratap Jena case, the ruling party is choosing to brazen it out.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-cong-keeps-up-pressure-on-odisha-s-naveen-patnaik-govt-over-kalahandi-case-101635192549958.html
26-10-2021||India||Satya Pal Malik’s ‘corruption’ remark ignites Oppn attack on Goa’s Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant on Monday evening came under a piercing attack from opposition parties in the state who demanded the chief minister step down, citing Meghalaya governor Satya Pal Malik’s remarks that he saw first hand “corruption in everything the Goa government was handling”.Malik was Goa governor from November 2019 to August 2020 before he was sent to Meghalaya’s Raj Bhavan.“I am a Lohia-ite. I get very angry when it comes to corruption. I do not take it kindly. On the day when the lockdown was announced, the government said that even the stores selling basic essentials would not be allowed to open but that they would supply door to door. Which was impossible, but there was one company that had given money. Then people from the Congress, others approached me and told me about it. So I informed the Prime Minister,” Satya Pal Malik said in an interview to India Today TV.He also said, “There was corruption in the Goa government in handling everything. because of that I was sent away from there”.Chief minister Pramod Sawant hasn’t spoken yet on the former Goa governor’s comments but the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) defended him, saying Malik’s statements were ‘misinformed’.“Governor Satyapal Malik has erred in his statements. We will bring this to the notice of the central leadership,” Goa BJP president Sadanand Shet Tanavade said.In his interview, Malik also frowned at Pramod Sawant’s handling of the lockdown, and recalled how he spoke against the Sawant government’s “unnecessary” plan to build a new Raj Bhavan in Goa.Goa’s opposition parties rushed to demand that Pramod Sawant step down. Congress leader and leader of Opposition in the assembly Digambar Kamat said Sawant has “no moral right to continue” after the governor’s indictment.
26-10-2021||India||Only marriage between man, woman valid, says Centre in Delhi high court||Decriminalizing homosexuality has nothing to do with same-sex marriages and a valid marriage can take place only between a biological man and a biological woman, the Union government told the Delhi high court on Monday.“The law is settled, either with or without the Navtej Johar case (a reference to the judgment decriminalizing homosexuality). The law is settled, personal laws are settled and marriage, which is contemplated, is between a biological man and biological woman,” solicitor general Tushar Mehta told a bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh.The court was hearing a clutch of pleas seeking legal recognition of same sex marriages under the Special Marriage Act and Foreign Marriage Act, including those by Abhijit Iyer Mitra, Gopi Shankar, Giti Thadani and G Oorvasi.The bench was also hearing a plea by three persons, Joydeep Sengupta, an OCI (overseas citizen of India), Russell Blaine Stephens, a US citizen, and Mario D’Penha, an Indian citizen and queer rights academic and activist pursuing a PhD at Rutgers University, for allowing a foreign-origin spouse of an OCI cardholder apply for registration regardless of gender or sexual orientation.The petitioners, through advocate Karuna Nundy, said all same-sex or queer marriages should be legally recognized in India under the applicable statutes, rules and policies that are in force.The government is yet to respond on this aspect, said Nundy, appearing for Sengupta and Stephens, while pointing out that the couple were married in New York and the laws applicable in their case are the Citizenship Act, 1955, Foreign Marriage Act, 1969, and the Special Marriage Act, 1954.Section 7 A (1) (d) of the Citizenship Act does not distinguish between heterosexual, same-sex or queer spouses, she said. It provides that a person married to an OCI, whose marriage is registered and subsisting for two years, should be declared eligible to apply as a spouse for an OCI card.However, Mehta contended that “spouse” means husband and wife; “marriage” is a term associated with heterosexual couples; and thus there is no need to file a specific reply with respect to the Citizenship Act.“Everything would turn whether your lordship recognizes the submission…on the question of marriage and registration of marriage. Whether it has to be between a biological man and biological woman....Then the entire matter depends on that. There appears to be some miscommunication based on Navtej Johar, which merely decriminalizes 377….But it has nothing to do with marriage,” the central government’s lawyer said.Lawyer Saurabh Kirpal, appearing for one of the petitioners, disagreed with Mehta’s submission of marriages between biological man and woman, and said he would argue against it.The parties said they were ready with their pleadings and the matter could be fixed for final hearing.Following this, the court posted the matter for November 30 for a final hearing, while granting liberty to the parties to file written submissions.The first plea filed by Mitra, Shankar, Thadani and Oorvasi, through counsel Raghav Awasthi, had contended that the Hindu Marriage Act does not distinguish between heterosexual and homosexual marriages if one were to go by how it is worded. The act clearly states marriage can be solemnised between “any two Hindus,” the petition argued.The second petition was filed by two mental health professionals, Kavita Arora, 47, and Ankita Khanna, 36, seeking legal recognition of their marriages under two different civil laws, the Special Marriage Act and the Foreign Marriage Act.The third plea was filed by two men, Vaibhav Jain, an Indian citizen, and Parag Vijay Mehta, an OCI, who were married in the United States, where same-sex marriage is legal, in 2017. They sought the same relief as Arora and Khanna, stating that an Indian consulate refused to register their union this year under the Foreign Marriage Act.Another set of petitioners, Sengupta, Stephens and D’Penha, contended that Sengupta and Stephens been in a loving relationship for nearly 20 years and were married in New York on August 6, 2012, which is recognised in the US, France and Canada.Since Stephens wished to apply for OCI status under Section 7 A (1)(d) of the Citizenship Act in order to be entitled to multiple entry lifelong visa for visiting India, the couple approached D’Penha to file right to information (RTI) applications to ascertain the legal position on Stephen’s eligibility.The three moved the high court after “the ministries kept transferring the RTIs back and forth” and no effective response was received.The Centre has opposed the pleas, saying a marriage in India can be recognised only if it is between a “biological man” and a “biological woman” capable of producing children, strongly opposing the validation of same-sex marital unions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/samesex-marriage-plea-only-marriage-between-man-woman-valid-says-centre-in-delhi-high-court-101635188830742.html
26-10-2021||India||Dabur pulls out ad with lesbian couple after MP minister’s warning||Bhopal: Consumer goods company Dabur India Limited on Monday tendered an apology and withdrew an advertisement featuring a lesbian couple celebrating the Hindu festival of Karwa Chauth after Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra criticised it for showing “objectionable content” and said that legal steps would be taken if the advertisement was not withdrawn. “Today, they are showing two women celebrating Karva Chauth. Tomorrow, they will come up with an advertisement that shows two men getting married. We cannot allow anyone to show such objectionable content,” Mishra told reporters in a press conference in Bhopal on Monday morning.“Fem’s Karwachauth campaign has been withdrawn from all social media handles and we unconditionally apologise for unintentionally hurting people’s sentiments,” Dabur India said in a statement released on its official Twitter handle in the afternoon.The Fast Moving Consumer Goods (FMCG) company dropped the advertisement for Fem Crème Bleach over various social media platforms on October 23, a day before the festival. The 1.06-minute advertisement showed two women getting ready for the ritual of the festival in which traditionally, a woman is expected to maintain a day-long fast for her husband and break it after viewing the moon at night.“I had asked to send a warning to withdraw the advertisement before registering an FIR for hurting religious sentiments. It’s good that they withdrew the advertisement and also tender apology for that,” Mishra later told HT. The advertisement drew strong reactions over the social media platform as many users applauded it for infusing a traditional festival with a queer storyline. However, the hashtag “BoycottFem” also began to trend as many complained that the advertisement was meant to hurt religious sentiments. This prompted Dabur India to release a statement on Sunday evening clarifying their stance:“Dabur and Fem as a brand strive for diversity, inclusion, and equality and we proudly support these values in our organisation and within our communities. Our campaign too reflects the same. (…) Our intention is not to offend any beliefs, customs and traditions, religious or otherwise. If we have hurt the sentiments of any individual or group, it was unintentional and we apologise. We are also humbled by everyone who have showered their support for the brand and the campaign.”The controversy comes at a time when there are a clutch of petitions seeking recognition of same-sex marriage before the Delhi and Kerala high courts. On Monday, the Centre told the Delhi high court, which is hearing four petitions seeking legalisation that a valid marriage can only take place between a biological man and a biological woman. The court will begin final hearing on the matter on November 30.The advertisement also received flak from various quarters within the Lesbian Gay Bisexual Transgender Queer and Intersex (LGBTQI) community.“Some of our biggest crusaders for queer rights in the country today are transwomen of Dalit and non-Savarna identities. We do disgrace to their labour if we thought this ad could go viral in our name. The ad’s final tagline clearly says that our queerness will be acceptable as long as we are cis-passing, fair-skinned and following certain traditions of living,” Tejaswi, Digital Editor, Gaysi Family, a digital platform that publishes queer content, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dabur-pulls-out-ad-with-lesbian-couple-after-mp-minister-s-warning-101635188829270.html
26-10-2021||India||IMD: Southwest monsoon withdraws from country||The southwest monsoon withdrew from the entire country on Monday, making it the seventh-most delayed retreat since 1975, and with the setting in of north-easterly winds, northeast monsoon commenced over south peninsular India, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).“In view of significant reduction in rainfall activity over most parts of the country, the southwest monsoon has withdrawn from the entire country today (Monday). Simultaneously, with the setting in of north-easterly winds in the lower tropospheric levels, the northeast monsoon rain has commenced over extreme south peninsular India today,” IMD said.“The withdrawal of the southwest monsoon 2021 from the entire country is the seventh-most delayed withdrawal (on or after October 25) during 1975-2021,” it said.The southwest monsoon had completely withdrawn from the country on October 28 last year; October 25 in 2017; October 28 in 2016; October 29 in 2010; October 25 in 2000 and October 27 in 1975. Interestingly, the southwest monsoon retreated on or after October 25 five times between 2010 and 2021 — in 2017, 2010, 2016, 2020 and 2021, the IMD data showed.DS Pai, scientist and head of climate research and services at IMD Pune, said the past 10 years have shown delayed withdrawal of monsoon from the country. “Southwest monsoon should withdraw from the country around October 15 and northeast monsoon should commence over peninsular India by October 20. But there is some delay. This may be linked to a prolonged summer in the northern hemisphere. It is also linked to climate change, which the intergovernmental panel on climate change (IPCC) has also recognised in its latest report,” Pai said.Unseasonal rain in October triggered by western disturbances caused flooding and landslides in different parts of northwest India earlier this month. Uttarakhand in particular was badly impacted. “…Delayed monsoon withdrawal from the country (has) provided adequate moisture for intensification of rainfall episodes,” Pai added.In October so far (till October 25), the country has witnessed 42% excess rainfall, with 212% excess rain over northwest India; 22% excess over east and northeast India; 19% excess over central India and 28% excess over south peninsula. Against a normal of 21.4 mm rainfall, northwest India has recorded 66.8 mm rain. Uttarakhand and Delhi, for example, have recorded 525% and 444% excess rain, respectively.Meanwhile, Met department said that a cyclonic circulation is likely to develop over southeast Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood by Tuesday. It is likely to move westwards and under its influence, a low-pressure area is likely to form over central parts of South Bay of Bengal during subsequent 48 hours.Isolated heavy rainfall is likely over Tamil Nadu and Puducherry till October 29, over Kerala till October 27; over south interior Karnataka till October 26; over coastal Andhra Pradesh and Rayalaseema on October 28 and 29, IMD said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-southwest-monsoon-withdraws-from-country-101635188293093.html
26-10-2021||India||In Ayodhya, Kejriwal performs Saryu aarti, to visit Ram temple site today||Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) convener Arvind Kejriwal attended the ceremonial aarti on banks of the river Saryu in Ayodhya during his visit to the temple town on Monday, and began his address with the chant of “Jai Sri Ram” in an event organised by Mahant Dharam Das, the head of Nirvani Akhada, Ayodhya.Addressing a gathering after the Saryu aarti, Kejriwal said: “I am fortunate to be in Ayodhya. I seek blessings from Ma Saryu for prosperity of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and rest of the country... The country is facing the corona pandemic. But for the last few days situation in under some control. With blessing of Ma Saryu and Lord Ram, soon we will be free from this pandemic.”He added that he prayed to Lord Ram to make the country “number one”.“We together, 130 crore people of this country can make this possible,” said Kejriwal. “I am much younger to many people present here. But with my experience of running Delhi government in the past five years I can assure that 130 crore people this country together can make this happen if they work like family.”Kejriwal reached Lucknow on Monday morning, and reached Ayodhya on a two-day visit in the evening, accompanied by the AAP’s Uttar Pradesh in charge and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh.According to Vaibhav Maheshwari, AAP’s state spokesperson, the Delhi CM will pay obeisance to Ram Lalla at the Ram Janmabhoomi site, and to Lord Hanuman at Hanuman Garhi temple on Tuesday.The ruling BJP slammed the visit. “AAP was opposing Ram Mandir. They wanted a university instead of Ram Mandir at Ram Janmabhoomi. Now, in Ayodhya they are talking about Lord RamThey have no political base in Uttar Pradesh,” said Ved Prakash Gupta, BJP’s MLA from Ayodhya Sadar assembly constituency.The AAP has already said it will contest the assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh due in February-March next year. The party took out a Tiranga (tricolour) Yatra in Ayodhya in September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-ayodhya-kejriwal-performs-saryu-aarti-to-visit-ram-temple-site-today-101635188110252.html
26-10-2021||India||Reconsider PC appeals of 5 women officers: Supreme Court to Army||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Union government and the Army to reconsider the case of five women short service commission officers (WSSCOs), who were denied permanent commission after being assessed from 1999 to 2005 on annual confidential report (ACR)-based assessment system, and failed to get over 60% marks, the threshold for grant of PC as fixed by the apex court in March.The officers in question approached the top court, complaining against the unit assessment card (UAC) system that prevailed till 2005. This system was discontinued by the Army in September 2005 and replaced by ACR-based assessment policy for grant of PC. However, their plea to be considered for PC was rejected by the Delhi high court on September 17 against which the officers had filed appeals. The petitioner officers were discharged from the Army in July.Senior advocates Huzefa Ahmadi and V Mohana, appearing for the officers, sought to challenge the denial of PC on the faulty UAC system and the failure of Army to consider their exceptional achievements beyond the stipulated ACRs of the fifth and tenth year of service. “If the UAC assessment marks are eschewed, these officers will get far above 60% marks required by them to get PC,” Ahmadi said.Mohana pointed out that the apex court’s March 25 judgment specifically named two of the petitioners — Gopika Bhati and Sonali Singh — for their exemplary achievements and suggested their entire track record be taken into consideration for grant of PC.Bhati was the only officer to receive General Officer Commanding-in-Chief (GOC-in-C) commendation card for rendering emergency duties in Northern Command Sector and was part of Operation Parakram and Operation Vijay, besides being a national-level squash and tennis player. As regards Sonali Singh, the judgment noted that she was the first woman officer to be convoy commander for Pathankot to Leh in 1999 and was the first woman to be the officer in-charge of Ammunition Dump, Amritsar, during Operation Parakram.Additional solicitor general (ASG) Sanjay Jain and senior advocate R Balasubramanian were present in the court, representing the Centre and Army, respectively. “We have gone as per the court’s decision. The direction was to review the method of evaluation for future batches. If a better system has replaced an old one that does not mean that the old system is condemned,” said Jain, while arguing that any concession will mean dipping the merit below 60% marks.The bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and BV Nagarathna told the Centre to have a considerate view as the matter involved a small group of officers affected by UAC system. “These are officers who have made achievements. This cannot be ignored. You must add up their achievements while computing 60%. If there are vigilance and discipline grounds on which they have been rejected, we would be the last to interfere,” the bench observed.Both Jain and Balasubramanian sought time to confer with the authorities and proposed to get back by November 12, the next date for hearing the matter.Recently, the court had directed the Army to reconsider the case of 72 WSSCOs, who were denied PC. On a nudge by the Supreme Court, Army reconsidered the list and agreed to grant PC to 39 officers. The court appreciated the Army for its fair stand even as it called for reasons for refusing PC to the remaining officers. This matter too is listed for November 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reconsider-pc-appeals-of-5-women-officers-supreme-court-to-army-101635188109121.html
26-10-2021||India||Army brass holds key meet amid LAC row||The army’s top brass on Monday kicked off a biannual conference to deliberate on key organisational and operational issues, including the prevailing situation along the country’s northern border with China where the two armies are negotiating disengagement of rival troops from friction points on the Line of Actual Control (LAC), officials familiar with the development said. Infrastructure development in the border areas and induction of niche technologies will also be discussed during the four-day conference chaired by army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane. The conference began a fortnight after the 13th round of military talks to cool tensions in Ladakh between India and China reached an impasse on October 10, with PLA not agreeing to suggestions made by the Indian Army. The military dialogue took place more than two months after the last round of talks that led to disengagement of forward deployed troops from Gogra, or Patrol Point-17A, which was one of the flashpoints on LAC in Ladakh. If the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) is there to stay in the Ladakh theatre so is the Indian Army, Naravane said on October 9, referring to the military buildup and infrastructure development across LAC. India and China have been locked in a border standoff for over 17 months and despite two rounds of disengagement at friction points this year, the two sides still have 50,000 to 60,000 troops each in the Ladakh theatre. Outstanding problems at Hot Springs and Depsang are yet to be resolved to lay the groundwork for the de-escalation of the Ladakh border row. The conference also comes days after Naravane visited Jammu & Kashmir for a security review after several soldiers were killed in a counterterror operation, and renewed infiltration attempts by Pakistani terrorists are being witnessed along the Line of Control after a temporary lull following the renewal of a ceasefire pact with Pakistan in February 2021. “The apex leadership of Indian Army will brainstorm on current/emerging security and administrative aspects to chart future course in the backdrop of the situation along the borders and challenges imposed by Covid-19 pandemic,” the defence ministry said in a statement on Sunday. The current theaterisation model, a long-awaited military reform with the full backing of the government, seeks to set up four new integrated commands for synergy in operations --- two land-centric theatres, the Air Defence Command and the National Maritime Theatre Command. The creation of theatre commands could take two to three years, with senior officers from the three services being assigned key responsibilities to finalise the joint structures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-brass-holds-key-meet-amid-lacrow-101635187876716.html
26-10-2021||India||Never indulged in any money politics: Kumaraswamy||JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy on Monday turned emotional as he recalled efforts behind building a regional party, and asserted that he has never indulged in money politics.“Building a regional party is not that easy, we don’t have contact with big and rich people while going for every election. Our contact is with you- innocent village people, we have grown from you,” an emotional Kumaraswamy said.Addressing a gathering at a party event at Gubbi near here, he said, “In our family, we have never done politics with money. We have worked with the support of lakhs of workers like you, and with your blessings.” “...some great people are talking about me asking for a suitcase (containing money), if god is there, he will take care of them,” he added.The former Chief Minister was referring to allegations levelled against him during a campaign for Sindagi and Hangal by-polls by his former confidant and now Congress MLA B Z Zameer Ahmed Khan of indulging in “suitcase politics.” Stating that he has gone through lot of pain and has put in all efforts to build the party despite ill-health, Kumaraswamy said, “ I would have died during my Israel visit (2017), but I survived because of the good deeds of my parents...after going through heart surgery for second time, within one month I travelled across the State to build the party.” Questioning as to which leader has travelled with him across the state to build the party other than party supremo H D Deve Gowda despite his old age, he said, “In this part (old Mysuru region) you show affection to me as people belonging to my community are there, but I will have to go to north Karnataka and build the party. I will go there as well. Despite all these efforts, today we are in a position to win 28-40 seats.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/never-indulged-in-any-money-politics-kumaraswamy-101635187875539.html
26-10-2021||India||Karnataka CM Bommai hits back at Cong bypoll jibe, says ministers performing responsibilities||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday rebutted the Opposition’s allegation that Vidhana Soudha has been locked and all ministers were busy campaigning for BJP candidates for the upcoming by-elections. Speaking to media in Vijayapura district during his election campaign, he called the allegation baseless and said no government work has suffered as ministers have been campaigning for two or three days. “We know what Congress leaders did when the party was in power. All ministers are performing the responsibilities given to them,” he said, adding that nothing is wrong with ministers campaigning in bypolls, since it was their duty towards the party. On Sunday, Karnataka Pradesh Congress president DK Shivakumar had leveled allegations of government work being sidelined due to bypoll work. “People will teach a lesson to the BJP, whose ministers and CM have locked up Vidhana Soudha and are camping in Hangal and Sindagi ahead of the bypolls,” Shivakumar said on Sunday. In Hangal, the chief minister claimed that the BJP candidate Shivaraj Sajjanar will triumph with a massive majority. Bommai also defended the release of the vision document speaking about the government’s achievements during the election campaign. He contended that the ruling party has to speak about its achievements and its commitments. Meanwhile, with the infrastructure in Bengaluru crumbling following heavy rains since October and with the Bommai busy campaigning for the October 30 bypolls, angry residents on Sunday took to social media to apprise the chief minister of the problem they are facing. Several users even challenged the chief minister to accompany them on a city tour to get a sense of the trouble people are going through.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-cm-bommai-hits-back-at-cong-bypoll-jibe-says-ministers-performing-responsibilities-101635187871602.html
26-10-2021||India||Centre puts NEET-PG counselling on hold||Counselling for admission to postgraduate medical and dental courses have been put on hold by the central government since some doctors have challenged the government’s July 29 decision to reserve 27% of the all-India quota seats for other backward classes and economically weaker sections. Counselling for candidates who have cleared the National Eligibility Entrance Test – Post Graduate (NEET-PG) 2021 will not take place till the Supreme Court decides on the matter, additional solicitor general KM Nataraj told a bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and BV Nagarathna on Monday. The October 22 notice to that effect was not meant for candidates, but for colleges to verify the seats, the government’s lawyer said. The health ministry has issued a clarification to allay the concerns of the candidates, Nataraj said. The petitioners had expressed concern over the notification issued by the Directorate General of Health Services that informed candidates about counselling from Monday. “We were taken aback by this notice and so had to mention it before the court,” said Arvind Datar, lawyer for the petitioners. “All candidates participating in the NEET-PG Counselling, 2021 are hereby informed that the PG Counselling is scheduled to commence from October 25,” the notice had said. “The National Medical Commission (NMC) and National Board of Examinations (NBE) have informed that new letter of permission and accreditations will be issued by November 15.”“We will go by your word,” the court told Nataraj on Monday. “Please make sure, otherwise students will be put to great difficulty.” After the court proceedings, the health directorate issued another notification. “All the candidates/participating colleges are informed that the counselling for NEET-PG 2021 has been put on hold due to the pending court case before the Supreme Court of India,” the fresh notice said. “Once clarifications are sought or received from the Court, the counselling for NEET-PG 2021 shall commence.”The Court is hearing a clutch of petitions challenging the July 29 decision of the government on several grounds, chief among them being breach of the 50% threshold for providing reservations laid down in 1992 by a ruling by an apex court bench of nine judges, lack of justifiable criteria to identify economically weak beneficiaries, and arbitrary announcement on reservation after the registration process for the postgraduate courses had begun.Last week, the court had directed the central government to file an affidavit pointing to the study that went behind fixing an annual income cut-off of ₹8 lakh for identifying EWS. The court had noted that EWS quota was meant for financially poor families, as compared to OBCs, who are socially and educationally backward. The Court had observed that the criteria of ₹8 lakh to identify the socially advanced among OBCs, known as the creamy layer, cannot be the yardstick to identify EWS beneficiaries. It also questioned having a single yardstick for the entire nation, when stark differences exist in purchasing power and per capita GDP from state to state and in rural and urban settings within states.The EWS quota was introduced in 2019 through the 103rd Constitution Amendment Act by which a new clause was introduced in Articles 15 and 16 of the Constitution, providing for EWS quota in admissions and employment. The challenge to this law is pending consideration before a five-judge bench of the Supreme Court. The Centre had told the bench hearing the NEET-PG aspirants that the issues about EWS quota fall squarely for consideration before the constitution bench.“This court is not embarking upon any issue of policy but this court must be apprised of the nature of criterion for EWS category,” the two-judge apex court bench has said. The Court also asked the Centre to say how the implementation of both OBC and EWS quotas was justified as reservation for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, which amount to 22.5%, is already earmarked within the all-India quota seats.The July 29 decision applies to 50% postgraduate seats and 15% undergraduate seats under the all-India quota seats. The decision would benefit every year nearly 1,500 OBC students in MBBS and 2,500 OBC students in postgraduate courses and also around 550 EWS students in MBBS and around 1000 EWS students in postgraduate programmes, the central government has said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-puts-neet-pg-counselling-on-hold-till-supreme-court-decides-on-obc-ews-quota-101635187870362.html
26-10-2021||India||Karnataka logs 290 new Covid cases, 10 deaths||Karnataka on Monday logged 290 new cases of Covid-19 and 10 deaths, taking the total number of infections to 2,986,276 and death toll to 38,017.The day also saw 408 discharges, pushing the total number of recoveries to 2,939,647, leaving 8,583 active cases.Bengaluru Urban accounted for 137 new cases, as the city saw 206 discharges and 6 deaths.While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.32 per cent, case fatality rate (CFR) was at 3.44 per cent.Apart from Bengaluru Urban, Belagavi, Bengaluru Rural, Dharwad and Ramanagara recorded one death each.After Bengaluru Urban, Dakshina Kannada reported the highest of 30 fresh cases, Tumakuru 26, Hassan 20 and Mysuru 18.Bengaluru Urban district now has a total of 1,250,844 positive cases, followed by Mysuru 178,951 and Tumakuru 120,726.Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 1,228,172, followed by Mysuru 176,235 and Tumakuru 119,339.Cumulatively a total of 50,238,852 samples have been tested, of which 89,964 were tested on Monday alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-logs-290-new-covid-cases-10-deaths-101635187869087.html
26-10-2021||India||Karnataka resumes classes for 1 to 5 with strict Covid norms after 18 months||After a long gap of 18 months. schools in Karnataka re-opened for students of classes 1 to 5 from Monday. As per the government orders, schools have to follow strict Covid-19 precautions and a parental consent letter for physical classes is mandatory. According to the department of education, 27.39% attendance was reported in class 1, while class 2 reported attendance of 24.69%. Classes 3, 4 and 5 reported attendance of 23.58%, 24.14% and 23.95% respectively. Karnataka government took the decision to reopen primary schools since the number of Covid-19 cases in the state is showing a consistent decline. Following a meeting with Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) on October 18, the government had announced the reopening of schools for students of classes 1 to 5. Strict Covid norms were issued by the Department of Primary and Secondary Education following the meeting. The government has laid down rules such as screening for Covid-19 symptoms on entry points, 50% of the capacity in a classroom, provision of hand sanitisers, the physical distancing of a minimum of one meter as practically feasible, no crowding, particularly at school entry and exit and disinfecting classrooms and restrooms daily using 1% sodium hypochlorite solution, as part of the plans to reopen primary schools. The government has also made it mandatory that only teachers and staff who have been fully vaccinated would be allowed in classes 1 to 5. The government guidelines also mandated that there shall be additional use of face shields by teachers who are over 50 years of age. Primary and secondary education minister BC Nagesh said classes will be held for half a day during the first week and had asked parents to send children to school without any fear. The government had reopened schools for students of classes 6 to 8 from September 6 and for students of classes 9 to 12 from August 23. Despite the schools reopening, several private schools in Bengaluru and in different places across the state, have decided to reopen schools for these students only after Deepavali. R Manjunath Srivatsa, joint secretary and legal cell head, CBSE, ICSE & State Board Private School Management Association (CISPMAM) said that private schools will reopen after November 15 since there will be a break for Deepavali. “Schools are now conducting mid-term examinations. So, most want to delay reopening for primary sections,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-resumes-classes-for-1-to-5-with-strict-covid-norms-after-18-months-101635187812182.html
26-10-2021||India||90% population in six Karnataka districts given one dose: Data||Six districts in Karnataka have administered 90% of its population with the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccination, the Karnataka’s Department of health and family welfare said. According to their data, Bengaluru district (excluding BBMP), Kodagu, Udupi, Ramanagaram, Uttara Kannada and Hassan have achieved the landmark.Special Commissioner (health) Trilok Chandra said that across the state, the first dose coverage stands around 86% and the second dose has been administered to 52% of the population, while 16 districts have achieved a higher first dose coverage than the state average. Despite the good performance by the six districts, the state government’s target for vaccinating the state by the year end still remains a distant goal. The Karnataka government has reiterated its goal to inoculate at least 70% of its over 70 million population with two doses of Covid-19 vaccine and around 90% with the first by the year-end. Experts had opinioned that at least 75% of the state’s population should be given the first dose to blunt the effects of a potential third wave. “There is no doubt that if we don’t vaccinate enough population, the third wave will be as bad, or even worse, than the second,” said CN Manjunath, Karnataka Covid-19 task force member and director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research. “Only if are able to build enough herd immunity can we blunt the impact of the third wave. But it is going to be a challenge,” he said. According to Dr Vishal Rao, a member of the expert committee on Karnataka’s Covid task force, the state should vaccinate at least 70% of the population to control the third wave. “Quick vaccination is crucial. So far, we have been vaccinating those above 45 years of age. But in the state, the majority of the population falls in the 18-44 age category. With multiple variants that are being reported, this age group is one of the most vulnerable sections,” said Rao. The second wave has shown an increase in the number of deaths in the 30-45 age group. A comparison of the numbers of the first and second wave shows that in the first wave, around 11 out of 100 deaths were reported in the 30-45 age group, while in the second wave, 16 out of 100 deaths were reported in this category. For the under 30 years age category, in the first wave, 2.2% of deaths belonged to those under 30, while in the second wave, it increased to 2.9%, according to state data. Karnataka government has been receiving praises for the large vaccination campaigns it has conducted. Of the 1 billion doses that India achieved on Thursday, Karnataka has administered 62 million doses. However, data shows that Karnataka has seen sharp fluctuations in its vaccination drives, designed in a way that there are high on selective occasions and then a sudden dip as if doses are hoarded to make these events a success. According to experts, at the current rate, the target required to avoid a third wave may not be achieved. According to data, Karnataka has seen a sharp fluctuation in its vaccine drives since September 17 when it administered a record 3.17 million doses in a single day as part of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday. Since then, the state has administered around one million doses just three times and sometimes as low as below 30,000. One of the biggest hurdles for the government is the fact that 14 other districts have to catch up in vaccination drives. For example, Kalaburagi district has achieved the least coverage — only 69% of the eligible population has been jabbed with the first dose so far. The state health and family welfare department have begun a house-to-house survey to identify the unvaccinated. A member of the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), who didn’t want to be named, pointed out the disparity in the vaccination in the rural areas of north Karnataka. The districts with the lowest vaccination coverage are in the underdeveloped northern part of the state. “Bengaluru city (BBMP and Bengaluru urban) has the highest number. Naturally, the capital with the highest population will get preference, but the state of North Karnataka is concerning, especially many districts share the border with Maharashtra,” he added. Chandra said that efforts are underway to increase vaccination coverage in rural areas by setting up more centers across the state. He added that to increase the vaccination drive in the city, block and lane-level vaccination has been taken up. “Whoever has not taken the vaccine will be identified and will be vaccinated through special vaccination drives throughout the city on Friday, and it is urged that citizens take complete benefit of this arrangement,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/90-population-in-six-karnataka-districts-given-one-dose-data-101635187809237.html
26-10-2021||India||Kerala: Colleges reopen amid strict Covid protocols||After one-and-a-half-year, the college campus in the state came back to life again as normal classes resumed on Monday. Big banners and cut-outs were visible outside prominent colleges to welcome students after a pandemic-induced long break, but with Covid norms in place. After college, schools will also resume physical classes from November 1. “I could not control my tears as I stepped in. I was enrolled in the college as a first-year BA student but now I am in my final year. Back to campus, we will have to compensate for the lost days, fun and frolic is galore, but of course with Covid-19 norms, ” said Aswati Nair, a student of the Government Women’s College in the capital. Earlier, the government was planning to open colleges on October 18, but it was deferred given heavy rains. State higher education minister R Bindhu said the education sector will become vibrant with the reopening of schools as well. The government had instructed students above 18 to take at least one dose of the vaccine but the majority of them said they are fully vaccinated. Many educational institutions said attendance was more than 80 per cent, higher than routine days. “Before opening, we have asked all schools to convene parent-teachers meetings to ensure smooth running. A helpline will be there for each school. There is no compulsion to attend classes, and parents can take appropriate decisions,” said education minister V Sivankutty, adding that online classes will also continue. The state education department has allotted ₹2.85 crore for schools for buying sanitisers and soaps. The state had been witnessing maximum Covid-19 cases in the country for more than four months. On Monday, it reported 6,664 cases whereas the country’s caseload was 14,306. According to the serosurvey conducted in October, at least 82 per cent of people above 18 years have antibodies against Covid-19 and over 40 per cent of children in the 5-17 age group are also exposed to the virus in Kerala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-colleges-reopen-amid-strict-covid-protocols-101635187271864.html
26-10-2021||India||Madras HC upholds relief for kin of driver killed in 1992 bus fire||Nearly three decades after the death of a bus driver in a fire, the Madurai bench of Madras high court has provided relief to the family of the deceased by confirming the compensation awarded previously. Private bus driver, Nainar, was operating between Aruppukkottai and Rajapalayam in Virudhunagar district (the hub of the firecracker industry) in May 1992 when he and the bus conductor permitted some passengers to carry unlicensed explosives in the vehicle. Soon after, the bus caught fire and more than 30 people died, including the driver. In 2004, his legal heirs claimed a compensation of ₹3 lakh. However, the insurance company challenged the compensation awarded by the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal, a sub court in Srivilliputtur, in 2010. The high court recalled that during the trial, the tribunal analysed all evidence and held that the accident occurred due to an ‘Act of God’, and directed the insurance company to pay compensation to the claimant. The orders were passed by Justice V Bharathidasan of the high court on October 8 and the copy of the judgment was made available this week. The insurance company, in its present appeal, contested the claim petition stating the accident took place due to the negligent act of both the driver and conductor for permitting the passengers to carry unlicensed explosives, against the policy conditions. Besides, the insurance company also raised a technical issue pointing that the claimants could not seek compensation under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, and the claim could only be made under the Workmen’s Compensation Act, 1923. The tribunal had fixed the monthly income of the deceased driver at ₹1,350 per month and after deducting 1/3rd towards his personal expenses, calculated his annual income to ₹10,800. By applying multiplier ‘11’, the tribunal awarded ₹118,800 as loss of income, the high court noted. In addition, the tribunal had awarded ₹10,000 towards loss of love and affection, ₹3,000 towards funeral expenses and ₹1,000 towards transport expenses. The total compensation came down to ₹132,800 along with interest at the rate of 7.5% per annum. While the counsel for the insurance company, D Sivaraman, contended that the accident had happened only due to the negligent act of the driver, the counsel of the claimants, D Venkatesh, said it wasn’t a driver’s job to check what passengers carry into the bus. After listening to arguments from both sides, the high court said, “Considering the fact and circumstances of the case, and the compensation awarded by the tribunal is just and fair compensation, this court inclined to confirm the award amount of ₹132,800.” Further, the court agreed that the claim can be made only under the Workmen’s Compensation Act. “However, considering the fact that the claim was made in the year 2004, and the tribunal awarded only a meagre compensation of ₹132,800, and also considering the fact that all the other claims were processed and the insurance company already paid the compensation to other claimants, at this distant point of time, the claimants need not be driven to file a fresh claim under the Workmen’s Compensation Act. In such circumstances, this court converts the claim as one made under Workmen’s Compensation Act,” the court said in its orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-hc-upholds-relief-for-kin-of-driver-killed-in-1992-bus-fire-101635187270349.html
26-10-2021||India||Three Maoists gunned down in Telangana encounter||Three Maoists belonging to the banned Communist Party of India (Maoist) got killed in an exchange of fire with the police at Venkatapur village in Mulugu district bordering Chhattisgarh on Monday morning, the police said.The encounter took place when the district police, along with Greyhounds (elite anti-Maoist special police force), were combing in Tekulagudem forest areas abutting Chhattisgarh border areas under Peruru police station limits of the Vajedu block, the police said.Mulugu Superintendent of Police G Sangram Singh Patil confirmed that three CPI (Maoist) party members were gunned down, and the police have seized multiple arms and ammunition. “We have recovered a self-loading rifle (SLR), an AK-47 rifle, a machine gun, gadgets and explosive materials from the encounter spot,” he said.The deceased Maoists are yet to be officially identified, and their bodies have been shifted to a government hospital in Bijapur, Chhattisgarh, the SP added.However, a police official familiar with the encounter said one of the deceased Maoists was suspected to be Muchakki Ungal alias Raghu alias Sudhakar, a prominent leader working as the area commander of the Maoist party’s Venkatapuram unit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-maoists-gunned-down-in-telangana-encounter-101635187268970.html
26-10-2021||India||Huzurabad assembly bypolls: BJP banks on Rajender’s popularity to make inroads||The Bharatiya Janata Party will hope to cash in on Eatala Rajender’s popularity in Huzurabad, set for by-elections on October 30, but faces stiff competition from the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), which will look to consolidate its hold in the constituency once dominated by Maoists and left-wing groups. Rajender has been drawing impressive crowds for his roadshows and meetings during his campaign, which will come to an end on Wednesday, but it is mostly because of his image, as he had been representing the Huzurabad constituency for the last four terms. There has not been much response from the crowd at the meetings organised by star campaigners, including Union minister for tourism G Kishan Reddy, state BJP president Bandi Sanjay, Nizamabad MP Dharmapuri Arvind, BJP national vice-president D K Aruna and ex-MP Vijayashanti, which could hurt the saffron party’s chances. In the last assembly elections held in December 2018, the BJP secured a meagre 1,683 votes accounting for 0.95 per cent of the polled votes, which is less than the number of votes (2,867) polled under NOTA (None Of The Above).Rajender, who contested on the TRS ticket, got 104,000 votes (59.34 per cent), while his nearest rival P Kaushik Reddy of the Congress secured 61,121 votes (34.60 per cent). Despite knowing that the BJP is a virtual non-entity in Huzurabad, Rajender chose to join the saffron party after being hounded out of the ruling TRS in May this year on the charges of land encroachment.“There was no alternative for him as he needed some protection from the witch-hunt by the Telangana government. He had met leaders of various parties before deciding to join the BJP. Though Congress was a better option, it was suffering from a leadership crisis those days. The BJP leadership assured him all help during that crisis period,” a senior leader close to Rajender told HT on condition of anonymity.The TRS, which is going all out to defeat Rajender in the by-elections, quickly grabbed the opportunity and lured all his associates in the constituency, who were not happy with him joining the BJP. As a result, Rajender is forced to bank on his image in the constituency.Throughout his campaign, Rajender focused only on the good work done by him in the constituency in the last seven years and how he was subject to harassment by the TRS president and chief minister K Chandrashekar Rao.“I thought I would continue in the TRS all through my life, and after my death, I wished that my body would be draped in the pink flag. But KCR would never allow any leaders to grow independently and hound them out if they raised their voice. There is no democracy in Telangana but only a monarchic rule of KCR,” Rajender said at his roadshow in Veenavanka village on Sunday.Interestingly, Rajender is avoiding invoking the names of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah or the Central schemes in his speeches, unlike other campaigners of the BJP. He is also ending his speeches with the “Jai Telangana” slogan, whereas the other BJP leaders are raising the “Bharat Mata Ki Jai” slogan.On the other hand, the TRS is trying to capitalise on the people’s disgruntlement towards the BJP government at the Centre over steeply rising prices of petrol, diesel and LPG gas cylinders. “Why should you vote for the BJP? Is it because the prices of petroleum products have skyrocketed? Is it because the Modi government is privatising ports, airports, railways and steel factories? Remember, soon after the Huzurabad by-elections, the LPG cylinder price would go up to ₹1200,” said TRS star campaigner and state finance minister T Harish Rao at a rally in Jammikunta recently.Another worrying factor for Rajender is the election symbol. All these years, he had been a TRS legislator, and the people in the rural areas identified him with the “car” symbol (of TRS) during the elections. For the first time, he is contesting on the “lotus” symbol of the BJP, which is not a voters’ favourite in the constituency.“We are struggling to convince the people that Rajender’s election symbol is lotus and not car. We are hopeful to bring awareness among the people about the changed election symbol of our leader,” a close associate of Rajender said.BJP state official spokesperson Palwai Rajani said the party has been growing strongly all over the state, and Huzurabad is no exception. “The fact that Rajender has preferred to join the BJP than the Congress itself shows that we are emerging stronger. His victory in Huzurabad would certainly boost the prospects of the BJP across Telangana and prove nemesis for the TRS,” Rajani said.TRS working president K T Rama Rao on Saturday said: “Rajender might be contesting on the BJP ticket in Huzurabad, but within a year, he will join the Congress party. He has an understanding with PCC chief A Revanth Reddy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/huzurabad-assembly-bypolls-bjp-banks-on-rajender-s-popularity-to-make-inroads-101635187210810.html
26-10-2021||India||Financial aid to be given after assessing rain damage: Kerala CM Vijayan||Time-bound financial assistance would be provided to those who suffered loss of life and property in the landslides and floods in various parts of Kerala during the recent heavy rains after assessment of the damage by the various departments, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Monday.The chief minister’s statement came during the Assembly session. He said emergency financial assistance has already been provided to the dependents of the deceased and missing persons.Apart from this, various schemes -- including disaster management plans -- worth ₹7,800 crore are also being implemented at the local body-level, he said. The schemes have already been given administrative sanction and have been at various stages of implementation, he said.Besides these, flood mitigation initiatives like ‘Room for River’ are also being implemented, he said.He said as part of the flood mitigation efforts, the depth of Pampa and Achankovil rivers -- which are one of the main causes of floods in Kuttanad region -- has been increased by widening their beds by around 360 metres.The chief minister said the detailed project report for the next phase of the ‘Room for River’ project is being prepared and as part of that, steps would be taken to increase the depth and width of the canals to ensure smooth flow of water.The Chengandayar has been deepened from Vembanad Lake to Manikandan River and projects, including ‘Room for Vembanad’, are being implemented to avoid standing water.He further said 380,000 volunteers have been trained and equipped for community-based disaster mitigation and in addition to that the Department of Fire and Rescue has trained Civil Defence volunteers and deployed 50 Civil Defense Forces comprising 6,450 personnel at 129 fire stations.Besides these, under the Re-Build Kerala initiative -- launched in the aftermath of the 2018 floods -- steps are being taken to rebuild the State in a manner which is environment-friendly and ensures the State is resilient to future natural disasters, the Chief Minister said.With the help of the State Disaster Management Authority, the Co-operation Department is implementing the ‘Care Home’ scheme for those who have lost their homes in the 2018 floods, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/financial-aid-to-be-given-after-assessing-rain-damage-kerala-cmvijayan-101635187154560.html
26-10-2021||India||₹64k cr health scheme brought under ambit of Ayushman Bharat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the PM Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission from his parliamentary constituency Varanasi, during his visit to poll-bound Uttar Pradesh on Monday. While the scheme worth more than ₹64,000 crore was initially named as Pradhan Mantri Atmanirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojana (PMASBY), it was later renamed to bring it under the ambit of Ayushman Bharat or National Health Protection Scheme. The Ayushman Bharat scheme aims to cover over 100 million vulnerable families (approximately 500 million beneficiaries) and provide health cover up to ₹5 lakh per family per year. “Through the PM Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission, an entire ecosystem for services, from treatment to critical research, will be created in every corner of the country,” Modi said. The scheme with an outlay of around ₹64,180 crore over six years (till financial year 2025-26) was announced by the Centre during the Budget session in February this year. This scheme will be in addition to the National Health Mission, the statement said. The PM Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission is the second central health scheme to be renamed this year. The National Digital Health Mission, which was launched on September 27, was renamed as Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission. The measures under the new scheme focus on developing capacities of health systems and institutions across the continuum of care at all levels — primary, secondary and tertiary — and on preparing healthcare systems for responding effectively to the current and future pandemics, and disasters, a government statement said. The long-pending demand of experts to strengthen India’s healthcare system is expected to be met through the scheme as it aims to fill critical gaps in the public health infrastructure, especially in critical care facilities and primary care in both urban and rural areas. Under the scheme, government support will be provided to 17,788 rural health and wellness centres in 10 high-focus states. At least 11,024 urban health and wellness centres will be established in all states. Besides these, critical care services will be available in districts having more than 500,000 population, through exclusive critical care hospital blocks, while the remaining districts will be covered through referral services. The scheme will also allow people to have access to a full range of diagnostic services in the public healthcare system through a network of laboratories across the country. Integrated Public Health Labs will be set up in all districts. “Under PMASBY, a National Institution for One Health, 4 New National Institutes for Virology, a Regional Research Platform for WHO South East Asia Region, 9 Biosafety Level III laboratories, 5 New Regional National Centre for Disease Control will be set up. PMASBY targets to build an IT enabled disease surveillance system by developing a network of surveillance laboratories at block, district, regional and national levels, in Metropolitan areas. Integrated Health Information Portal will be expanded to all States/UTs to connect all public health labs,” a note by the press information bureau said.The infrastructure augmentation proposed under the scheme sounds major for a developing country like India, whose public health spend mostly hovers around a meagre 1-1.4% of the gross domestic product (GDP). Experts believe that the first step ideally should be to make use of the existing medical infrastructure optimally, even if it means roping in the private sector at a higher level. “Ayushman Bharat is a good example under which several already existing private hospitals have been roped in to provide treatment to the poor beneficiaries of the scheme. The model seems to be working… It can be emulated as there are several large peripheral hospitals existing in the private sector but with bed occupancy of not more than 20-25%. Such health facilities can be made use of by the government, considering most of these facilities are well-equipped,” former director of All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi, Dr MC Misra, said. “It is time to get into public-private partnerships for changing the overall health care ecosystem. It will also help in increasing patient footfall in such hospitals and help better train their doctors, nurses, paramedics and other technical staff. It’s a win-win both ways,” he added. Another area of focus should be to strengthen the existing health care facilities at the primary level, which will eventually put pressure off many overloaded tertiary care hospitals, experts said. “There is no denying that there is unequal distribution of health care facilities in urban and rural areas but we must understand that health is a state subject and the ultimate responsibility of ensuring effective implementation rests with states. The Centre infusing money is a positive move but it is not only about the money. The implementation is a bigger issue. There needs to be better monitoring at the state level,” former PGI-Chandigarh director Dr KK Talwar said. “There is a reason why states such as Tamil Nadu and Kerala are doing well. Their model needs to be followed in other states as well. Otherwise, the Centre will keep pumping in money but the end result will not be as what’s expected,” Talwar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-atmanirbhar-swasth-bharat-yojana-renamed-brought-under-ambit-of-ayushman-bharat-101635187153399.html
26-10-2021||India||TRS marks 20th foundation day, KCR re-elected as president||Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) on Monday unanimously reelected chief minister K Chandrashekar Rao as the party president for the ninth consecutive term as over 6,000 delegates of the TRS attended the plenary held at Hitex here to celebrate the party’s two decades of formation.KCR said the state has become a role model for others in the implementation of welfare and developmental programmes within seven years of its formation.“We are now No. 1 in the country in terms of economic growth. We have created an irrigation potential that enabled the production of record quantity of paddy so much so that even Food Corporation of India has thrown up its hands for procurement,” he pointed out.The chief minister said the TRS had waged a prolonged battle for 13 years to achieve Telangana statehood, overcoming all the hurdles created by the rulers of the combined Andhra regime. “Drawing inspiration from Mahatma Gandhi during the Independence movement, we achieved the statehood through a non-violent struggle and showed a new direction to the people’s movements across the world,” he said.He said Telangana, which was once infamous for largescale migration of labour in search of livelihood to other states, was now witnessing reverse migration with labourers from other states coming to Telangana for work.“After we announced the Dalit Bandhu scheme, there have been requests from the villages of neighbouring states that they would like to merge with Telangana. I have been getting calls from Andhra Pradesh asking me to launch the TRS there so that our schemes could also be implemented,” he claimed.KCR allayed apprehensions over the implementation of the Dalit Bandhu scheme in Telangana. “The Election Commission of India might have stalled the scheme in Huzurabad constituency temporarily, but we shall implement it by all means before December and in the rest of the state by next year,” he asserted.The TRS plenary passed seven resolutions, including congratulating KCR on his re-election as the party president, achievements of the TRS government on various fronts, including irrigation, agriculture and strengthening rural economy; achieving welfare in Telangana; administrative reforms, development of power, industries, IT and infrastructure; Dalit Bandhu as a role model for nation; development of education and health; and TRS’s demands to the Centre.TRS working president KT Rama Rao, party secretary-general K Keshava Rao, state ministers, MPs, MLAs, MLCs, and other TRS leaders were present for the occasion. Nearly 6,000 party delegates from 10 districts, attended the meeting.Telangana agriculture minister S Niranjan Reddy said the TRS had achieved several historic victories in the last two decades of its formation, and the party would remain a success story in Indian democratic history. “KCR had sacrificed his ministry in the Union cabinet for the sake of Telangana and had even gone into the jaws of death for statehood,” he lauded while speaking on a resolution on the agriculture sector.State roads and buildings minister V Prashant Reddy, in his concluding remarks, said it was the fortune of the people of Telangana to have the leader of a mass movement as the first chief minister of the state. “KCR alone could understand the problems confronting the state and solve them after becoming the chief minister,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trs-marks-20th-foundation-day-kcr-re-elected-as-president-101635187152153.html
26-10-2021||India||Panneerselvam, AIADMK differ on Sasikala’s reinduction||Indicating a new round of fissures within the AIADMK, the party’s coordinator and former deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam on Monday said that expelled leader V K Sasikala’s reinduction will be discussed by their leadership, a statement which was refuted by the party later in the day. “Like I’ve said before in an interview, whether to take her (Sasikala) in, the office bearers of the party leadership will discuss and make a decision,” Panneerselvam told reporters in Madurai district. “Anyone can come into politics, and it is up to the people to accept them.” However, the party’s organisation secretary, D Jayakumar was quick to deny any such intentions. “We have already passed a resolution that Sasikala will not be taken back. We also made it clear that no one should have any links and contact with her, and if they do, we will take disciplinary action,” Jayakumar said. “Everyone has signed this resolution,” he added.Pannerselvam’s move comes at a time when Sasikala has renewed her fight to reclaim the AIADMK, following their loss in the rural local body elections in nine Tamil Nadu districts earlier this month. Sasikala had stepped away from politics briefly.After Sasikala’s release from prison, former chief minister Edappadi Palanswami had completely stonewalled her, but this isn’t the first time that Panneerselvam has softened his stance towards her . Before the assembly elections on April 6, Panneerselvam in an interview had said that the party would examine Sasikala’s reinduction into the party if she accepts the status quo of dual leadership. Panneerselvam and Sasikala also belong to the same Mukkalathor community, whose growth has diminished within the AIADMK given the dominance of Palaniswami’s Goudner community.Last Thursday, Jayakumar filed a police complaint against Sasikala on behalf of the AIADMK for unveiling a plaque at party founder MG Ramachandran’s (MGR) memorial on October 17 that referred to her as the AIADMK general secretary. Sasikala’s surprise move on a day the AIADMK was celebrating its golden jubilee year was seen as her renewed attempt to signal her supporters that she was still in the game to reclaim the party. The party’s official Twitter handle also released a statement signed by deputy coordinator K P Munusamy on the resolution against Sasikala. “There is no room for talk of reinstating Sasikala in the AIADMK under any circumstances,” said Munusamy. Panneerselvam on Monday morning added that the AIADMK is functioning as a cadre-based party as envisioned by founder MGR and is presently led as a dual leadership with him and Palaniswami and joint coordinators. Following J Jayalalithaa’s death in office in December 2016, her close aide Sasikala briefly held the reins of the party. However, she was imprisoned in February 2017 for four years in the disproportionate assets case.By then, Panneerselvam, who had officiated through Jayalalithaa’s illness, launched an offensive against Sasikala, which led to Palaniswami being picked as the chief minister in 2017. While she was in prison, Pannerselvam and Palaniswami merged their factions and ousted Sasikala from the post of interim general secretary and made Jayalalithaa the party’s permanent general secretary. During the party’s regime between 2017 and 2021, Palaniswami was the chief minister while Panneerselvam was the deputy chief minister. After their loss in the assembly election in May, the duo has continued as leader of opposition and deputy leader of opposition in the Tamil Nadu assembly. Political observers see this as Panneerselvam’s way of asserting himself. “Neither Panneerselvam nor Palaniswami will give up their authority in the AIADMK, and Sasikala will not be taken back,” said political analyst Raveendran Duraisamy. “Panneerselvam is making such statements to assert himself within the dual leadership. He wants to show that though the party has taken a stance, he has his views too. And in future, he could always utilise Sasikala for his political growth.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/panneerselvam-aiadmk-differ-on-sasikala-s-reinduction-101635187150463.html
26-10-2021||India||Centre to ask states and discoms to clear their dues to Coal India: Power minister RK Singh||The central government is going to ask all states and power distribution companies to clear their dues to Coal India, which stands at a staggering ₹16,000 crore, power minister RK Singh said on Monday. “States should understand that electricity is not free,” Singh told reporters on the sidelines of an event in the national capital. “Besides, central power generating companies (gencos) also have outstanding dues to Coal India. This is because states and discoms (distribution companies) do not pay the central gencos on time. The dues of all central gencos have spiralled up to ₹75,000 crore so far.” The large outstanding is making it difficult for the state-owned miner to pay for freight and other related expenses, Singh said. “So, we are going to write to all states now, asking them to clear their dues,” the power minister said. A few states had behaved “irresponsibly” during the recent coal inventory crisis at power utilities, Singh said, accusing them of raising false alarm on outages. “There was this one state which behaved very irresponsibly. It later turned out that they had missed renewing their agreement with GAIL (government-owned natural gas distributor) because of which the company said it would snap gas supply to its power plant,” minister Singh said. “This then triggered one of the discoms in the city to send alerts to its consumers. Then the chief minister and the state’s power minister started creating panic too, when it was the state government that failed to renew the gas supply on time. They should pull up the officials involved in this lapse.” Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and state power minister Satyendar Jain had earlierwarned of power outages. Kejriwal had asked the central government to intervene in the matter. The availability of coal has improved over the past one week, with total inventory at thermal power plants in the country at 8.1 million tonnes of coal on Monday, the power minister said. “The situation will only improve from here on. Thermal power plants will continue to get coal stocks on priority until the situation stabilises further,” Singh said. Forty nine coal-fired plants that are located away from coal mines had less than fours days of coal stock on October 24, down from 62 plants a week ago, Central Electricity Authority data showed. “The weather has helped as the power demand has remained low over the past one week,” a power ministry official said on condition of anonymity. “On Sunday, India had a shortage of 505 MW, with peak demand touching 154,437MW, of which 153,932 MW was met. The shortfall is usual, which often accounts for transmission and distribution losses, apart from local faults and scheduled maintenance.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-ask-states-and-discoms-to-clear-their-dues-to-coal-india-power-minister-rk-singh-101635186671824.html
26-10-2021||India||TMC releases ‘chargesheet’ against Goa govt, calls it a double engine disaster||The Trinamool Congress in Goa on Monday released a ‘chargesheet’ against the ruling BJP government accusing it of overseeing a “double engine disaster” in the coastal state. The party which has flown down a delegation of national level leaders including MPs Mahua Moitra, Saugata Roy and other leaders including Babul Supriyo addressed the media at the Azad Maidan in Panaji and released their ‘chargesheet’ accusing the government of wrecking the economy, public infrastructure, state sponsored environmental destruction, failure to restart mining and also pointing out the deteriorating law and order situation as part of an eight-point chargesheet. Led by the party’s newly inducted national vice president Luizinho Faleiro, the party listed out what it said were the failures of the government and claimed that it was only the TMC that had the will and resolve to take on the BJP juggernaut. “The Goa government has failed its people for the last 20 years whichever government has been in power. The government that is currently in power is not a government that is voted in by the people of Goa. It is the government that is sitting in power today because of the last minute late night machinations held in lobbies of five star hotels. It is not one that has been given the mandate by the people,” Moitra who released the ‘chargesheet’ said. “Even the CM of Goa was the Defence Minister of India; he was made to resign, and brought back as the CM of Goa... the people who were put in his place were not mandated by the people of Goa to be their chief minister. Goa and its people are suffering for a long time and that is the reason why we are here,” Moitra added. The chargesheet claimed that 25% people are unemployed and the average Goan cannot afford to buy a home in their own home state, which the party said it would work towards rectifying once in power. The event initially remained in doubt after the state administration told the organizers that permission for their event was not being granted on account of possible law and order and traffic problems that could be the result of a ‘large gathering’.Earlier in the day; Roy, Moitra, Supriyo as well as state leaders called on the family of Siddhi Naik, a young girl who was found dead on Goa’s Calangute Beach in what the police said was a case of drowning. A delegation of TMC leaders is camping in the state ahead of the visit of Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee later this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-releases-chargesheet-against-goa-govt-calls-it-a-double-engine-disaster-101635186668993.html
26-10-2021||India||Goenka takes IPL carnival to Lucknow, CVC to Ahmedabad||The Indian Premier League (IPL) got its two new teams on Monday for an unprecedented and staggering total of ₹12,715 crore, 318% over the base prize ( ₹2,000 crore per team) set when bids were invited.The RP Sanjeev Goenka Group (RPSG) made the highest bid of ₹7,090 crore and chose Lucknow to be their home base. Singapore private equity firm Irelia Company Pte Ltd, whose parent company is CVC Capital Partners, was the other successful bidder, with a bid of ₹5,625 crore. It chose Ahmedabad as its home city.Both teams will make their IPL debuts in 2022.While RPSG previously ran the IPL team Rising Pune Supergiant — the team had a two-year contract for 2016-17 to fill in for two suspended teams — CVC Capital owned Formula One before selling it in 2016, and has major investments in European rugby as well as Spain’s top tier football league, La Liga.The winners were announced after a seven-hour bidding process held at a luxury hotel across the Burj Khalifa in Dubai on Monday. Twenty interested parties had collected bid documents, of which nine submitted eligible bids.
26-10-2021||India||Past govts went slow on health infra: Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday accused the previous governments of dragging their feet on the issue of health care as he launched a ₹64,000-crore national medical infrastructure mission and nine new medical colleges during his visit to Varanasi and Siddharthnagar in Uttar Pradesh.The Prime Minister inaugurated various development projects worth more than ₹5,200 crore for his constituency, Varanasi.“All this work should have been done decades ago,” Modi said at a public rally in his Lok Sabha constituency, where he inaugurated the Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission meant to plug gaps in the health care system.Modi said the mission will also prepare the country to fight future pandemics.Earlier in the day, he inaugurated nine medical colleges virtually from Siddharthnagar. Built at a cost of ₹2,329 crore, these are in Siddharthnagar, Etah, Hardoi, Pratapgarh, Fatehpur, Deoria, Ghazipur, Mirzapur and Jaunpur districts.These nine medical colleges with 2,500 beds will serve people in the Purvanchal region and will create job opportunities for more than 5,000 doctors/paramedics, PM Modi said.“Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission has been launched to give strength to the health infrastructure of the country so that there are high-level preparations to prevent and deal with epidemics. This also aims at bringing self-confidence and self-reliance in our health system,” said Modi, adding that projects worth around ₹75,000 crore were launched in UP on Monday.Announced as the Prime Minister Atmanirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojana in the financial year 21-22 budget speech on February 1, with an outlay of about ₹64,180 crore over six years, the scheme was renamed during the launch. It is the second central health scheme that has been renamed this year after the National Digital Health Mission that was launched on September 27 as Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission. PM Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission will be in addition to the National Health Mission.The PM said good health was considered the basis of every action and investment to make the body healthy was considered good.“No other place could be better than Kashi for launching the mission as it is the abode of Lord Shiva and Shakti,” he said.“After Independence, for a long period, health facilities, infrastructure were not given much attention. The previous governments deprived the country’s healthcare system of facilities for a long time,” alleged Modi.“Corruption in medicines, ambulances, appointments, transfers and postings. In this entire game, some dynasts in UP flourished,” he said. “The cycle of corruption ran 24 hours but the ordinary families in Purvanchal and UP got crushed.” Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav later said that the BJP government was inaugurating new projects as it sensed defeat in the upcoming state elections. Uttar Pradesh will go polls next year.The PM said villages lacked hospitals while hospitals at block level lacked testing facilities and district hospitals didn’t have facilities for treatment of serious diseases. “In big hospitals, there were long queues and patients had to wait for long. There were shortcomings in the healthcare system,” he added.“To remove these shortcomings, the Ayushman Bharat Heath Infrastructure Mission has been launched. Under this mission, health and wellness centres are being opened in villages and cities. These will provide facilities for the early detection of diseases. Free medical consultation, free tests, and medicines will be available at these centres,” said Modi.The objective was to fill gaps in the public health infrastructure, especially in critical care facilities and primary care in both urban and rural areas. The mission will provide support for 17,788 rural health and wellness centres in 10 high focus states. Further, 11,024 urban health and wellness centres will be established in all the states.Through this, critical care services will be available in all the districts of the country with more than 500,000 population through exclusive critical care hospital blocks, while the remaining districts will be covered through referral services. “Today, our government understands the pain of the exploited, deprived and backward lot. Earlier, public money used to go into scams, but today it is being used for big projects,” said the PM, adding, “The speed with which new medical colleges are being opened in UP will have a great impact on the number of medical seats and doctors. Due to more seats, children of poor parents will also be able to dream of becoming doctors and fulfil it.” Modi said the condition of Kashi would have been different had the previous governments paid attention to its development. “The work done in Varanasi in the last seven years was not done in several decades,” he said. “At present, all-around development is taking place in Varanasi. From technology to health, all facilities are being created in BHU (Banaras Hindu University). Young friends from all over the country are coming here for studies,” added the PM. Modi said the country has achieved a major milestone of 1 billion vaccine doses in its fight against the coronavirus epidemic. “With the blessings of Baba Vishwanath, with the unwavering glory of Maa Ganga and with the unshakeable confidence of the people of Kashi, the free vaccination for all campaign is moving forward successfully,” he said. Modi took potshots at the previous government in Uttar Pradesh for “ignoring basic medical needs of the people of the Purvanchal region while filling coffers of their families”, and asserted that the region, which became infamous for deaths due to encephalitis, would now emerge as a medical hub under the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) rule. Modi attacked the previous United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government at the Centre and the Samajwadi Party government in UP, alleging that both neglected eastern UP (Purvanchal region). “Mere announcements of the establishment of dispensaries were made. For years, the buildings were not constructed, and if the buildings were constructed, the equipment was not installed. There was a crisis of doctors and paramedical staff,” he said. In an apparent attack on the erstwhile SP government, Modi said: “Their cycle of corruption ran 24 hours. There was corruption in medicine and ambulance procurement as well as in appointments. They had the priority of earning for themselves and filling the coffers of their families while for us the priority is to extend basic facilities to the poor.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/past-govts-went-slow-on-health-infra-modi-101635186310405.html
26-10-2021||India||No action taken on Rohingya, no deportation planned: Karnataka govt tells SC||The Karnataka governmenton Mondaytold the Supreme Court that it has not taken any action against the six dozen Rohingya refugees identified by the police, nor does it have any plan to deport them. “Bengaluru city police have not housed Rohingyas in any camp or detention centre within its jurisdiction. However, 72 Rohingyas identified in Bengaluru city are working in various fields and Bengaluru city police have not taken any coercive action against them as of now and there is no immediate plan of deporting them,” read the statement of objection filed by the Bharatiya Janata Party-led state government. The Basavaraj Bommai-government has also pressed for dismissal of the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by advocate Ashwini Upadhyay, who is also associated with BJP and has been a former spokesperson for the party in Delhi. Upadhyay, in his 2017 plea, asked for directions to the Centre and states to identify, detain and deport all illegal immigrants, including Rohingya refugees and Bangladeshis.According to the state government, Upadhyay’s petition is liable to be dismissed, for it is “devoid of merit” and is also “untenable in law”. Interestingly, the BJP-led Karnataka government’s response on the issue is in sharp contrast to what the BJP-headed Central government has been submitting in the Supreme Court in a clutch of cases related to deportation of Rohingya refugees. In March this year, in a separate batch of cases, where some of the Rohingya refugees sought protection from deportation and also their release from detention centres, the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) asserted  that India cannot become “the international capital of illegal immigrants” while terming the Rohingya “absolutely illegal immigrants” who posed “serious threats to the national security”. While the Karnataka government has said in its latest statement that it has not put any Rohingya refugee in a camp or a detention centre, the Union government has consistently opposed tooth and nail all pleas for release of Rohingya refugees detained in Assam, Jammu or in any other part of the country. In April this year, the Supreme Court had refused to stop the deportation of at least 150 Rohingya refugees detained in a Jammu prison to Myanmar in the wake of Centre’s submissions that Rohingyas cannot press for a fundamental right not to be deported and rather settle in India since right to residence is reserved only to the citizens of the country. The Centre’s affidavit filed in the apex court in March, seen by HT, had maintained that it has to first secure the interests of its own citizens before those of illegal immigrants who, it said, were casting a burden on the already depleting natural resources of the country in addition to posing a security threat.Following the Union government’s submissions advanced through Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, the Supreme Court on April 8 dismissed a plea to stop their deportation or release them from the detention centre.A similar stand was taken by the Union government in 2018 when the issue of detention and deportation of some Rohingya refugees from Assam had cropped up. The MHA had then submitted in the court that illegal immigrants had to be suspended out of the territory of India in national interest and that due process is being followed in deporting Rohingya refugees. In October 2018, the Supreme Court dismissed the plea to stop their deportation after taking on record the Centre’s stand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-action-taken-on-rohingya-no-deportation-planned-karnataka-govt-tells-sc-101635186249193.html
26-10-2021||India||Chinese PLA activity north of Tawang raises red flags||Tawang (Arunachal Pradesh): The Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has intensified patrolling in sensitive areas across the contested border in Arunachal Pradesh after a lingering standoff with India began last year in the Ladakh sector, and has ramped up area domination patrols for surveillance and orientation of newly inducted troops with a noticeable increase in visits by senior PLA officers to forward areas to supervise military activities, data accessed by Hindustan Times shows.The sectors across which the Indian Army has detected PLA’s increased operational tempo include Lungro La, Zimithang and Bum La — areas of high historical significance in the context of Chinese aggression in the eastern sector — and counter measures have been taken to boost India’s readiness to handle any contingency, three senior officers monitoring Chinese activities in the North-East said on condition of anonymity.An activity matrix prepared by the Indian Army to summarise the latest developments in the Lungro La sector showed PLA carried out 90 patrols in the area from January 2020 to October 2021 (hereinafter referred to as 2020-21) compared to about 40 between January 2018 and December 2019 (hereinafter referred to as 2018-19). This more than doubling of PLA patrols has been attributed by the army to the “current operational situation”.HT has reviewed the activity matrix.The duration of long-range patrols by either side along LAC can stretch from one week to four weeks in the Arunachal Pradesh sector, according to officers deployed in the area.Area domination patrols by PLA also spiked between the pre- and post-Ladakh standoff timeline, shooting up from barely 10 during 2018-19 to 35 in 2020-21 (till September), data from the activity matrix shows.A normal patrol is carried out by soldiers in unoccupied, remote areas to ensure there is no encroachment by the adversary and involves marking territory by physical presence, while area domination patrols are aimed at control over the area and suppressing any activity by the enemy, a senior officer said.Along with the increased Chinese patrolling and area domination activities, the Indian Army’s surveillance network has picked up a corresponding jump in visits by senior PLA officers to the Lungro La area north of Tawang — up from 10 visits in the two years before the Ladakh border row erupted to 40 in 2020-21 (till September), according to the activity matrix.In the Indian Army’s assessment, the increase in frequency of visits by top PLA officers is “due to the importance of the sector, current operational situation and familiarisation visits”, says an analysis in the activity matrix.Granular details of PLA activities have become known to the Indian Army because of heightened surveillance along LAC and in Chinese depth areas using satellites, long-range unmanned aerial vehicles, high-tech intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR) systems, superior network of radars and hi-tech night vision systems, said one of the officers cited above.Another document seen by HT analysed in detail the latest developments in the Zimithang sector, also north of Tawang.The Indian Army took up forward positions in the Lungro La and Zimithang sectors in 1986-87 to dominate the Sumdorong Chu valley during a tense standoff with PLA there.PLA patrols in the Zimithang sector climbed from eight in 2018 and 2019 to 24 from January 2020 to September 2021; area domination patrols rose from around 25 to 40, and visits by senior PLA officers went up from around 70 to 140, data from the second document shows.For the corresponding period in Bum La from where the Chinese forces made an ingress into Indian territory during the 1962 war, PLA patrols increased from 33 to 40, area domination patrols fell from 13 to 10, while visits by senior PLA officers went up from just one in 2018-19 to 25 in 2020-21 (till October), data from a third document shows.Indian surveillance also picked up increased vehicular movement due to infrastructure development activities and a large number of excavators and bulldozers to keep road axes open across the Lungro La, Zimithang and Bum La sectors, said a second officer.The Chinese actions across the three important sectors are part of a process to step up coercive posture against India, military historian and author Air Vice Marshal Arjun Subramaniam (retd) said.“We are no longer wet behind the ears. We have the necessary wherewithal to adopt a counter-coercive posture against China. Robust joint operations, including extensive air operations by the Indian Air Force, have helped strengthen our posture significantly,” Subramaniam said.He said that China was shifting its focus from Ladakh to other areas along LAC, including Arunachal Pradesh, to keep India unsettled on multiple fronts.Last week, Eastern Army commander Lieutenant General Manoj Pande said that China has ramped up the scale and duration of its military drills across LAC in Arunachal Pradesh, and the reserve formations mobilised by PLA are still deployed there. He said India deployed adequate forces in all sectors and the military is rehearsing and preparing for various contingencies that could arise.“In certain areas where our deployment was thin, steps have been taken to strengthen it,” Pande said, days after the 13th round of military talks between India and China to cool tensions in Ladakh reached an impasse on October 10, with PLA not agreeing to suggestions made by the Indian Army.The military dialogue took place more than two months after the last round of talks that led to disengagement of forward deployed troops from Gogra, or Patrol Point-17A, which was one of the flashpoints on LAC in Ladakh.The Asapila sector in Arunachal Pradesh is among the areas where the Indian Army observed infrastructure development by PLA close to LAC, and it had led to a corresponding increase in troop deployment there, Pande said on October 19.On face-offs between rival troops at Naku La in north Sikkim, he said that patrols came face-to-face in the area because of differing perceptions of LAC, and protocols were in place to resolve the situation even though sometimes confrontations lasted longer.Scores of Indian and Chinese soldiers were involved in a tense face-off in Naku La in May 2020, with rival troops suffering injuries in the confrontation. Another face-off took place in the same sector earlier this year, with the developments making the area a possible flashpoint in the east.The Indian Army has positioned formidable weapon systems in the eastern sector to strengthen its posture against PLA, including M777 ultra-light howitzers that can be swiftly deployed and redeployed in challenging mountainous terrain using the CH-47F Chinook helicopters and the 155 mm FH 77 BO2 guns, better known as the Bofors.“Eastern Command will have to remain prepared for all contingencies including additional deployment to strengthen the defensive posture. As long as disengagement and de-escalation remain stalled in Ladakh, the situation will remain tense,” former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd) said on October 19.Two mountain scribbles along the meandering lake-dotted route from Tawang to Bum La say it best about the army’s readiness and resolve to tackle any threat from the adversary — the Sikh Regiment’s motto “Nischay Kar Apni Jeet Karo” (With determination, I will be triumphant), and the more cavalier “Live Dangerously”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-pla-activity-in-key-sectors-on-eastern-front-101635186129027.html
26-10-2021||India||Mahant Ravindra Puri elected new Akhada Parishad president||The secretary of Shri Panchayati Akhara Niranjani (or simply, the Niranjani Akhara), Mahant Ravindra Puri, was elected the new president of Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP), the apex religious body of 13 recognised monastic Hindu orders of the country, on Monday.His election came in the wake of a split in the body, with only seven of the 13 bodies attending the meeting. Interestingly, last week, seven akharas met and chose their own head of ABAP (the math doesn’t add up because the Nirmal Akhara attended both meetings). The seven Akharas that met on Monday are: Juna, Niranjani, Nirmal, Agni, Avahan, Anand and Naya Udasin. The seven that met last week (on October 21) are: Nirmohi, Nirmal, Digamber, Mahanirvani, Atal, Bada Udasin, and Nirvan. Puri was elected in a meeting of seers convened by Akhara Parishad general secretary Mahant Hari Giri, also the chief patron of Juna Akhara. He will replace Mahant Narendra Giri who died by suicide on September 20. He will remain ABAP president till 2025, the original length of Giri’s tenure. Puri also claimed to have written support of the Nirmohi Akhara, which, like Nirmal Akhara, is part of the other group too. Nirmohi Akhara couldn’t be reached for a comment. On October 21, the seven akharas that met elected another Ravindra Puri, a Mahant of Mahanirvani Akhara (Mahanirvani) , as president of ABAP. A new executive committee was also formed The head of the Nirmohi Akhara, Shri Mahant Rajendra Das, was elected general secretary.Along with them, Damodar Das Maharaj was appointed as vice-president, Jaswinder Singh Shastri as treasurer, Ram Kishore Das Maharaj as secretary, Gaurishankar Das Maharaj as spokesperson and Dharamdas Maharaj and Maheshwar Das as patrons.Monday’s meeting was attended by akharas following the ‘Shaiva’ (sannyasin) tradition, including Juna Akhara (the largest in terms of number of seers as members).“I am happy that the seers have given me the responsibility of leading them and I will not disappoint them. There were representatives from seven akharas who have voted for me and I also have the support letter from one more Akhara. As a result, I have support of eight akharas. There will be efforts from my side to bring the others back in to the fold”, said Niranjani Akhara’s Ravindra Puri after being elected on Monday.Mahanirnavi’s Ravindra Puri could not be reached for comments. However, general secretary of the second faction of the ABAP, Mahant Rajendra Das said, “The election to the Akhara Parishad was held on October 21. The seers of all the akharas have got representation in the meeting and the election conducted in Shree Niranjani Akhara, Prayagraj (on Monday) is illegal and has no recognition”.As per the practice, two members from each of the 13 akharas are members of ABAP and its office bearers are elected from among them.  ABAP general secretary Mahant Hari Giri of Juna Akhara, dubbed the Haridwar election a malicious attempt to divide the ABAP and refused to recognise any of the members elected then. “I had already called for a meeting of ABAP on October 25, and if these akharas had any intention to prove their majority, they should have attended this meeting and got their leader elected. After all, ABAP elects its office bearers in a democratic way. So where is the need to shy away from contesting the elections? “The meeting of ABAP is usually held only when the serving general secretary calls for it. “Monday’s meeting was held with a single point agenda: To elect the new ABAP president. A meeting of the Akhada Parishad will now be called again after three months to select the rest of the executive members,” Mahant Hari Giri said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mahant-ravindra-puri-elected-new-akhada-parishad-president-101635186010134.html
26-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan drugs case: NCB probes extortion charge against Sameer Wankhede||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) started probing on Monday allegations that its Mumbai zonal director, Sameer Wankhede, was part of a ₹25 crore extortion racket after the arrest of actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son, Aryan Khan, in a drug raid.The vigilance inquiry is headed by NCB’s deputy director general (DDG) of northern region, Gyaneshwar Singh, who rushed to Mumbai to investigate the charges levelled by one of the agency’s own witnesses in the drug case, said people aware of developments. The independent witness, Prabhakar Sail, also claimed in an affidavit that the investigators made him sign blank sheets of paper.“We have started a vigilance inquiry on the basis of an affidavit available publicly and a report received from our south-west region DDG (Mutha Ashok Jain),” said Gyaneshwar Singh, who is also the agency’s chief vigilance officer.Asked if Wankhede will continue to head the probe during the course of inquiry, Singh said, “It is too early to say anything. We have just begun. Let us investigate the allegations first.” Wankhede, who landed in Delhi late on Monday, has denied the charges.The developments came on a day a Mumbai court refused NCB’s plea to dismiss Sail’s affidavit, and Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik accused Wankhede of forging his personal documents, a charge denied by the 2008-batch Indian Revenue Service officer.On October 2, Wankhede led an NCB raid on the cruise ship Cordelia, docked at Mumbai’s International Cruise Terminal, to bust a rave party. The next day, the agency arrested Aryan Khan and charged the 23-year-old with alleged consumption and conspiracy under the stringent Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. Aryan is currently in Mumbai’s Arthur Road jail and his bail petition will be heard by the Bombay high court on Tuesday.Wankhede said that 13 grams of cocaine, 5 grams of mephedrone, 21 grams of Charas, 22 pills of MDMA (ecstasy), and ₹1.33 lakh in cash were recovered from the ship. Since then, 20 people, including Delhi-based event management professionals, Nigerian nationals, and Mumbai-based drug peddlers, have been arrested under various sections of the NDPS Act. Investigators later visited Shah Rukh Khan’s house and called in actor Ananya Panday for questioning after her name showed up in Aryan’s WhatsApp conversations.The case took a dramatic turn on Sunday when Sail filed an affidavit saying he overheard his employer, KP Gosavi, talking on the phone to someone identified as Sam D’Souza after Aryan was brought to the NCB office. He claimed Gosavi talked about extorting ₹25 crore to settle the case and release Aryan, which could be negotiated to ₹18 crore, with ₹8 crore going to Wankhede. Gosavi had already made the news by being present during the raid, and seemingly assisting NCB officials, despite not being part of any law enforcement agency.Sail also claimed that he saw Gosavi meeting Shah Rukh Khan’s manager, Pooja Dadlani. and that he was asked to sign 9-10 blank pages in Wankhede’s presence after the raid. Gosavi, who is accused in a 2018 Pune cheating case and was seen clicking selfies with Aryan while the latter was in NCB custody, is on the run after Mumbai police issued a look out notice against him. He told NDTV late on Monday that he intended to surrender in Lucknow and dismissed the allegations against him.Wankhede, who has courted controversy during previous stints in the customs department, denied the charges and wrote to Mumbai Police commissioner to ensure no legal action was carried out against him in the matter.People familiar with the NCB inquiry, who didn’t want to be named, said a three-member vigilance team led by Singh will look into all aspects including role of Wankhede, other officers in the NCB unit and witnesses’ claims, considering “the allegations are of serious nature”. An officer said they are likely to call Sail, Gosavi, Wankhede and other officers in the team for recording their statement.The agency also suffered a setback in the NDPS court after its affidavit asking the court to stop anyone from taking cognizance of Sail’s affidavit was rejected. The court said it cannot pass a blanket order and noted that the case was before the Bombay high court. “Therefore, no such orders can be passed by the court as prayed. Hence, the applications are disposed of,” the court said.Wankhede also filed an affidavit categorically denying the allegations and claiming that the charges were “not only false but misleading, mischievous and maligning.”“I was threatened to be arrested and to be dispelled from my service. There is a lurking threat of arrest as it does not suit some vested interest just for conducting and honest and impartial investigation,” he told the court.The day began with Malik accusing Wankhede of using a fake caste certificate to get government job under reserved quota. Malik – who has previously accused the officer of travelling to Maldives and Dubai to extort money from actors – said Wankhede is Muslim but made a fake scheduled caste certificate. “Forgery by Sameer Dawood Wankhede started from here. The officer, who started his career with forgery, will never work with honesty,” Malik said.Hours later, Wankhede hit back. He said publishing personal documents was defamatory and an invasion on his privacy. “It is intended to malign me, my family, my father and my late mother. The series of allegations of Hon minister over the last few days have put me and my family under tremendous mental and emotional pressure. I am pained by the nature of personal defamatory , slanderous attacks by the Hon minister without any justification,” the officer said in a statement.He said his father Dnyandev Kachruji Wankhede was Hindu, and mother Zaheeda, Muslim. “I belong to a composite multi-religious and secular family and I am proud of my heritage,” the officer said.A copy of the birth certificate issued by Mumbai’s civic body and seen by HT showed the father’s name as Dawood Wankhede and the mother’s name as Zahera Bano.Malik earlier claimed that Wankhede was shifted to the NCB days after the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput in June 2020 to harass Bollywood actors – a charge denied by the officer. Wankhede led the NCB investigation after Rajput’s alleged suicide and questioned several Bollywood actors.The latest controversy also took a political turn with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) demanding intervention by the Central Bureau of Investigation and the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi backing the setting up of a special investigation team (SIT).State home minister Dilip Walse Patil said he met chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday about the issue.“I had a brief discussion on the entire issue of drug abuse and NCB’s action as I had met him to discuss some other issue. I have also read Sail’s affidavit. We have accepted his demand and provided police protection. If Sail files a complaint, police will take necessary action. He has visited Sahar police station today, ” Walse Patil told reporters. Sail had asked for police protection earlier, claiming a threat to his life.The BJP alleged that political figures were behind Sail’s revelations. “It needs to come to the light that who is behind Sail’s statement and in which hotel the statement of Sail recorded? Shielding the drug mafia is the real intention behind it? Is Sail being threatened to become part of the extortion gang of the ruling party? The entire episode needs to be investigated by CBI to check all these links,” said BJP leader Ram Kadam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aryan-khan-drugs-case-ncb-probes-extortion-charge-against-sameer-wankhede-101635185948888.html
26-10-2021||India||Comparing the 2021 festival season with the one in 2020||The festival of Diwali is just a couple of weeks away. Cultural and religious considerations aside, the biggest festival of the Hindu calendar is also a critical period for the economy as consumption demand peaks. Given the background of the pandemic’s impact, festive demand will be even more important for the economy. How does this year’s festive season look when compared to last year’s? Here are five charts that answer this question.The pandemic has ebbed ...,This holds no matter which indicator one looks at. India’s first wave of Covid-19 peaked in September 2020, if one takes seven-day average of daily new cases as the metric. The second wave of the pandemic peaked on May 9, and was far more severe. Since then, the situation has improved radically. Current levels of daily new cases and positivity rates (cases found per hundred tests conducted) are a third those between Dusshera and Diwali last year. The situation looks even better if Kerala is excluded from the comparison, as it accounts for more than 50% of daily new cases at the moment, but accounted for less than 20% of cases between Dussehra and Diwali last year.... mobility levels, especially for retail and recreation, are much higher...,What is especially encouraging about the pandemic’s situation is that cases have not gone up despite a significant rise in mobility levels. Data from Google Mobility Indices shows that mobility levels are significantly higher than what they were during the festive season last year. This holds for retail and recreation, transit stations as well as workplace mobility. That India has managed to partially vaccinate at least 75% of its adult population and has fully vaccinated around 33% has definitely played a role in this virtuous combination of high mobility levels and low daily new cases.... and concerns about inequality aside, the economy is looking good...,Whether one takes ultra-high frequency indicators such as the Nomura India Business Resumption Index (NIBRI) or RBI projections for GDP in the quarter ending December 2021, the economy’s prospects are definitely looking better compared to last year. NIBRI was at 105.3 in the week ending October 24 compared to 83.3 a year ago (week ending October 25, 2020).As per the latest projections of the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC), GDP growth in the quarter ending December 2021 is expected to be 6.8%. These numbers however do not mean that a broad-based jump in consumption demand is guaranteed. RBI’s Current Situation Index (CSI) has not had much of a recovery compared to last year. It was at 57.7 in the September 2021 round and 49.9 a year ago. Some of the divergence between indicators such as CSI and NIBRI is also on account of the fact that the latter mostly track the formal and well-off sectors of the economy.... but commodity prices are a much bigger problem at the moment ...,Headline numbers on retail inflation, as measured by the Consumer Price Index (CPI) might not show this. Annual growth in CPI was 7.3% in September 2020. This number was just 4.4% in September 2021. A lot of the relief in headline CPI numbers is because of a moderation in food prices. The situation changes when one looks at other measures of prices. For example, India’s crude oil basket was priced at $ 40.7 per barrel in October 2020. It reached $83.2 on October 22, latest data from the ministry of petroleum showed. The Bloomberg Commodity Price Index was at 72.01 on October 25, 2020. It has risen to 105.03 on October 25. If commodity prices continue to increase or even stay at their current levels, they will add to headwinds facing the Indian economy....,even as a short-term supply crunch adds to worries about long-term demand.The current commodity price spike is unlike what the world has seen in the past. This because it has been accompanied by a clogging of global value chains thanks to a shortage of critical inputs such as microchips, even shipping containers. This means that many businesses, such as those making cars and high-end personal gadgets, might not be able to meet demand for the festive season. A lot of the demand might dissipate if there are no supplies in the crucial window. This, when read with the fact there are long-term concerns about India’s growth potential – the IMF has slashed India’s potential growth from 6.25% to 6% -- is not exactly good news. While this is definitely a concern for the economy going forward, and needs concerted policy intervention, it does not take away from the fact that this year’s festive season is definitely better for the economy compared to last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/comparing-the-2021-festival-season-with-the-one-in-2020-101635179349558.html
26-10-2021||India||Elephant electrocuted in Kaziranga; another jumbo in Guwahati||Two elephants, a wild and a domesticated one, were killed due to electrocution in two separate incidents in Assam on Monday. A domesticated elephant belonging to the Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve (KNPTR), two wild boars and a swamp deer died in the park while a wild pachyderm died in Guwahati. According to KNPTR authorities, the male elephant named Oiravat, aged 18 years, died after the metal chain tied around his front legs got stuck in an electric pole, which fell on the animal. Carcasses of a swamp deer and two wild boars, all killed by electrocution, were found near the elephant. The incident took place in Hati Camp area under Burapahar range of the park, informed KNPTR director P Sivakumar. In another incident, the carcass of a wild elephant, which reportedly died due to electrocution, was found at Ahom Gaon locality in Guwahati on Monday. Forest officials said the carcass was sent for post-mortem to verify the exact cause of death. Last week, wildlife activist Rohit Choudhury had written to Assam chief secretary Jishnu Barua seeking creation of a task force to restore animal corridors connecting Rani and Garbhanga reserve forests with Deepor Beel (all located on the outskirts of Guwahati) to allow easy movement of wild animals, especially elephants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/an-elephant-2-boars-1-deer-electrocuted-in-kaziranga-another-jumbo-in-guwahati-101635171967519.html
26-10-2021||India||Will rather talk to people of Kashmir than Pakistan: Amit Shah||The government of India would rather talk to the youth of Jammu and Kashmir than Pakistan, home minister Amit Shah declared on Monday, adding that a new era of development has begun in the Union Territory under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“Farooq sahib has given some advice to the Union government – to talk to Pakistan. I want to tell Farooq sahib, who has been a former chief minister of J&K, that we will talk to the people of Kashmir. I will talk to the youth of Kashmir Valley,” Shah said, referring to Farooq Abdullah, leader of the National Conference party.“Why should we not talk to you?” Shah asked a gathering of delegates and representatives of Panchayati Raj institutions at the Sher-e-Kashmir International Convention Centre in Srinagar on the last day of his three-day visit to the troubled region, his first since the central government in August 2019 repealed Article 370 of the Constitution that conferred special status to Jammu and Kashmir.“With a firm belief, I want to convey to you that under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, a new era of development has begun in J&K and complete results of this development will be visible by 2024,” the home minister said, adding that he has spoken directly with the people of Kashmir, without bulletproof vests and additional security, to emphasise the progress and development in the newly formed Union Territory.Shah also said he was being asked why curfew was imposed and internet snapped on August 5, 2019, when Article 370 was done away with and the state was bifurcated into the Union territories of J&K and Ladakh.“By saying this, they want to misguide the youth of Kashmir Valley,” Shah said. “If internet was not stopped and curfew not imposed in J&K, then there would have been bloodshed and the youth of Kashmir would have been killed. We did not want people to be killed.”Shah said three families that ruled J&K for 70 years would never understand the pain of an elderly father who is forced to lift the coffin of his young son, referring to prominent political families without naming them.“Nearly 40,000 people were killed during their rule, but till date they have not condemned terrorism that is taking place in the Valley,” the home minister said. “We will not allow anybody to disturb peace here.”On the issue of land being taken away, the home minister said that after the abrogation of Article 370, many people said land belonging to the local people would be taken away. “Panchayat (village council) members are here, sarpanches (village chiefs) are here. Go and ask people in your villages how much land has been taken away from them in the last two years,” Shah said.Shah praised J&K’s Lt Governor Manoj Sinha, saying that he has provided jobs to more than 20,000 people. “Today also, six thousand people are being given jobs. Now, the corruption that the three families indulged in is a thing of the past,” the home minister said.He appealed to the youth to not be swayed by rumours. “I want to convey to the youth of Kashmir that those who handed stones and weapons to you, please tell them that there is electricity and hospitals in Kashmir,” Shah said. “Are there medical colleges and is potable water available over there? There is nothing,” he said, referring to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir.The three political families did not let ordinary people become panchayat members and sarpanches in the past 70 years, the home minister said. “Today 30,000 people got elected as the representatives of the people of Kashmir. I want to tell the youth of Kashmir that you can become a member of Parliament, or minister in the Indian government and can also dream of becoming the chief minister of J&K, and now nobody can stop you. The people of Kashmir have the same rights which I enjoy in our country.”Shah promised that not a single person in J&K will remain homeless by the end of next year. “In J&K, 20,000 have already got homes. By the end of 2022, nobody will be without a home in J&K,” he said. “We want them (the youth) to hold pens. They shouldn’t hold weapons but tools to assemble machines.”In a veiled attack on the Congress, the National Conference and the Peoples’ Democratic Party, Shah said while only three medical colleges were set up by the “three families which have ruled Jammu and Kashmir”, Prime Minister Modi has ensured seven new medical colleges will soon be established.“Earlier, 500 youths could become doctors. Now 2,000 youths can become doctors from these new medical colleges. Nobody will need to go to Pakistan to study medicine,” he said.The home minister inaugurated a 500-bed hospital at Bemina in Srinagar that was completed at a cost of ₹115 crore, laid the foundation stone for the Handwara Medical College, a ₹46-crore bridge over the Ferozepur Nallah in Baramulla district and road projects worth ₹4,000 crore, among others.Earlier in the day, Shah visited Kher Bhawani temple in Ganderbal and met delegates of a few Sufi organisations.Reacting to Shah’s attack on the Abdullah family, National Conference spokesperson Imran Dar said, “Farooq Abdullah and later Omar Abdullah became chief ministers only because people voted them to power. They were not coronated to power. Besides, National Conference has been in power for only 23 years, out of which half was in alliance. Bharatiya Janata Party has every agency at their disposal. If there is anything (wrong done by the National Conference), why don’t they bring to fore? This is all rhetoric with no factual support.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-talk-to-people-of-j-k-instead-of-pakistan-says-amit-shah-on-3-day-visit-to-valley-101635162066269.html
26-10-2021||India||Key witness in Mumbai cruise ship drugs raid case appears before Crime Branch||A key witness in the Mumbai cruise ship drugs raid case, Prabhakar Sail, whose startling claims gave a twist to the high-profile investigation, appeared before the crime branch officials in Mumbai on Monday morning and met the joint commissioner of police Milind Bharambe.Sail was hired as a personal bodyguard by private investigator KP Gosavi, who allegedly accompanied the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) officials to the raid on a cruise ship in Mumbai, is now reportedly absconding. In an affidavit filed before a local Mumbai court on Sunday, Sail claimed he heard Gosavi speak about a pay-off of ₹8 crore to NCB’s Mumbai-based zonal director Sameer Wankhede in the drugs raid case involving Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan. The top NCB officer, however, denied the allegations.However, Wankhede wrote to Mumbai police commissioner Hemant Nagrale on Sunday, seeking protection from any legal action being planned against him by unknown persons to “falsely frame him.”Saying that he fears for his life, Sail wrote in his affidavit, “KP Gosavi is missing now and I now fear that NCB officials and other persons involved may kill me or abduct me.”In his affidavit, Sail also claimed to have overheard Gosavi and one Sam D'Souza trying to settle the cruise ship drugs seizure case allegedly for ₹18 crore. ALSO READ | 'Put a bomb of ₹25 crore': What KP Gosavi's ex-aide 'exposed' on Aryan Khan case Sail also claimed that when he was called to the NCB office as an witness in the case, an officer took his signatures on “10 blank papers” on the instruction of Wankhede. Soon after Sail's signed revealations surfaced, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut shared a video of Aryan Khan talking to Gosavi in NCB custody, and urged the police to take suo moto cognisance of the allegations of demand for money.Witnes in #AryanKhan case made to sign on blank paper by NCB is shocking. Also thr r reports that thr ws demnd of huge money .CM UddhavThackeray said tht ths cases r made 2 defame Mah'shtra.Ths seems 2b comng tru @Dwalsepatil Police shd tk suo moto cognizance@CMOMaharashtra pic.twitter.com/zipBcZiRSmNCP leader and Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik accused the NCB of conducting “bogus raids” and said he would seek a probe by a special investigation team into the allegations. Meanwhile, Maharashtra Congress's chief spokesperson Atul Londhe claimed that the NDA government at the Centre has been misusing the central agencies against non-BJP governments and their leaders. “The statement by Prabhakar Sail has reestablished it. The central agencies were used in Sushant Singh Rajput's case for political gain and now being used in Aryan Khan case too for politics. We urge the judiciary to take a suo motu cognisance of the entire episode for the sake of Constitution as these cases have posed a challenge to democracy,” Londhe was quoted as saying.ALSO READ | Don't imprison small-time drug offenders, ministry suggests change in NDPS ActFollowing the raid on the Goa-bound Cordelia cruise ship off  Mumbai coast, Aryan Khan was arrested on October 3 and was sent to judicial custody on October 7. So far all his bail pleas have been rejected even though he was not found with any drugs. Along with Khan, at least eight people, including Arbaaz Seth Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha, were detained late by NCB officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/key-witness-in-mumbai-cruise-ship-drugs-raid-case-appears-before-crime-branch-101635142955712.html
