27-10-2021||India||Schools, colleges reopen in New Delhi for all from Nov 1, online option to stay||Schools in the Capital can resume physical classes for all standards from November 1, Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Wednesday, after a decision by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) that was based on the marked improvement in the Covid-19 situation in the city. Delhi added 38 new Covid-19 cases and there were no additional deaths on Wednesday, according to data from the state government’s daily health bulletin. The positivity rate of samples tested was 0.06 %, a level where it has remained for months now.Sisodia, who is also the Delhi education minister, said that suspension of in-person classes is “affecting the overall growth of the children”.“The government, the officials in the DDMA and experts are of the opinion that suspension or in-person classes in schools are tremendously affecting overall growth in children. The Authority feels it is now safe to restart schools fully. From November 1, all public and private schools will be allowed to open all classes for in-person attendance,” Sisodia said at a news briefing after the DDMA meeting.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, the vice chairperson of DDMA, and experts including Niti Ayog member (health), VK Paul, and National Centre for Disease Control director, Dr SK Singh, were also present at the DDMA meeting chaired by Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal. Sisodia said parents will not be forced to send their children to school and classes will continue in a hybrid mode. “No parent will be forced to send their children to schools. Online classes will continue,” Sisodia said, adding that all other educational institutions can also reopen from Monday. Schools in Delhi have been shut since March last year when Covid-19 cases first started rising in the country. Classes resumed for a brief period in January and February this year, but were suspended as the brutal second wave (fourth for the Capital) of Covid-19 took hold in March-April. The government allowed the resumption of physical classes for students of standards 9 to 12 and colleges from September 1, with strict Covid-19 protocols. Sisodia noted that while the Covid-19 situation in the Capital is under control, people should not become complacent during the upcoming festive season. “COVID situation is under control but considering the situation in few countries at present and the upcoming festivals, there is need to be cautious and not let our guard down,” he said. The government has directed schools to ensure there is not more than 50% attendance once physical classes resume. “Schools will have to ensure that not more than 50 percent of the students in a class should be called to schools and all the staff is required to be fully vaccinated as soon as possible,” Sisodia said. Citing figures shared in the DDMA meeting, Sisodia said that around 98% of the teaching and non-teaching staff has received at least of one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine.“Almost all schools staff in the city have taken at least one dose of the vaccine by now. We are trying to achieve 100% vaccination in this regard at the earliest,” he said.At present, India’s vaccination drive only covers adults, with just one vaccine – Zydus Cadila’s ZyCoV-D -- getting an approval for use in children above 12 years of age. Once the vaccination drive opens for children, those with comorbidities will be given priority, the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization (NTAGI) had said earlier.On the concerns about a possible third wave, Sisodia said, “If the situation turns bad, schools can always be asked to go back to online mode. It will depend on the situation.”At a DDMA meeting on September 29, a panel tasked with chalking out a detailed plan and standard operating procedures (SOPs) for reopening schools had noted that there has been no reported instance of any increased local transmission of Covid-19 in Delhi due to the reopening of schools for Classes 9 to 12.The panel had also suggested reopening schools from October 1 noting that the attendance of students from senior classes has increased up to 80 percent.However, in line with the suggestions of experts, DDMA decided not to reopen schools at that time in view of the upcoming festivals. Allowing only 50 percent students per classroom, mandatory thermal screening, staggered lunch breaks, an alternate seating arrangement and avoiding routine guest visits were among the guidelines announced by the DDMA for the reopening of schools and colleges from September 1.The decision to reopen schools drew mixed reactions from parents and teachers. Administrations of many schools said that it was unlikely schools will reopen next week. Madhulika Sen, senior adviser at Tagore International School, said arranging transport facilities will be a major problem. “If we are to call back students of all grades, arranging transport will be a major factor. We have to maintain physical distancing in buses as well and with 50% seating capacity in buses as well as classrooms, the expenses will go up. We have to see if parents can manage those expenses or not. If we have staggered timings for other classes, it will be challenging to run bus services. Logistically it will be quite difficult. Planning this will take time and reopening on November 1 is out of the question,” she said.“Primary classes could be started from December based on our experience of calling students of classes 6 to 8 from November. Many schools are also functioning as vaccination centres and that too should be phased out of school premises so that schools can function completely just as educational institutes. Due to reduced seating capacity, we cannot call all students together so we will have to call classes on alternate days. This way, students can attend classes at least thrice a week,” said Sukhbir Singh Yadav, president of the government school principals’ association.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-colleges-reopen-in-new-delhi-for-all-from-nov-1-online-option-to-stay-101635359019293.html
27-10-2021||India||Teacher held for pro-Pakistan post in Rajasthan||A private school teacher in Rajasthan’s Udaipur district was arrested on Wednesday, a day after she was terminated by the school management for allegedly posting a WhatsApp status celebrating Pakistan’s victory in a T20 World Cup match against India on October 24, police said, adding that she was released on bail by a local court. Narpat Singh, circle inspector, AmbaMata police station, said the teacher was arrested under Section 153 (B) (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national-integration) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) on Wednesday. She was later produced before a court and was released on bail. Her alleged WhatsApp status generated huge backlash on social media, after a school student’s parent questioned her patriotism. She was subsequently terminated by the school management. She released an apology, claiming her WhatsApp status was misunderstood and taken out of context. “As the message [from the parent] had emojis and it was in light moments, I replied in Yes. But it doesn’t mean anywhere that I support Pakistan. I am an Indian and I love India. I love India as much as everyone else,” the teacher said in her apology. She further said, “As soon as I realised that I had made a mistake, I deleted the status message... realising it was giving a wrong message. I am sorry if I have hurt anybody’s sentiments.” Senior Congress leader Archana Sharma said it was a legal issue and law will take its own course.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/teacher-held-for-pro-pakistan-post-in-rajasthan-101635358358899.html
27-10-2021||India||Stalin responds to Kerala CM’s request, assures him of help to tackle floods, landslides||Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin on Wednesday said that the state is drawing the maximum quantity of water from the Mullaperiyar Dam through a tunnel in Vaigai Dam, as requested by Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Stalin was responding to Vijayan’s letter received on October 24 raising the issue of floods and landslides and fearing that the water would accumulate in the dam as rainfall intensified. He had said that there was an urgent need for the gradual release of water from the dam through the tunnel to Tamil Nadu.Stalin in his response said that the water level as of 9.00 am on October 27 is 137.60 feet, with an inflow of 2300 cusecs. “We are already drawing the maximum quantity of water through the tunnel in Vaigai Dam, as requested in your letter. Currently, 2300 cusecs of water is being drawn through the tunnel to Vaigai basin since 8.00 am today,” Stalin said. “The current water level is well within the storage level compliant with the upper rule levels approved by the CWC (Cauvery Water Commission).”The Tamil Nadu CM said that the state is monitoring the water level closely and the officials are in constant touch with the team from Kerala. “I have discussed the position with the concerned officials and have directed them to continue to closely monitor the water levels and regulate the outflow accordingly,” he said. “In addition, I have specifically asked them to share in advance, all the necessary information on water position and release, if any, so that your government can initiate such precautionary measures needed before the release of water.” The construction of the Mullaiperiyar Dam started in the 1880s following a famine, and is considered an engineering marvel. The dam was opened in 1895 but the water and issues over the dam continue to be a dispute between Tamil Nadu and Kerala to this day.Stalin assured Vijayan that the TN government will ensure that the interests of both states and people are well safeguarded in an effort to strengthen the ties between the neighbouring states. “The Government of Tamil Nadu and our people are very concerned about the floods and the resultant damage suffered by Kerala and its people in the last 10 days. I wish to assure you that we will stand with you during these difficult times and will extend any help that is needed for alleviating the sufferings of the people,” he said. “In this regard, I have already instructed the Collectors of the border districts of our state to extend all help and ensure the supply of all items needed for flood relief.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stalin-responds-to-kerala-cm-s-request-assures-him-of-help-to-tackle-floods-landslides-101635357880199.html
27-10-2021||India||BJP welcomes Amarinder Singh’s intervention in resolving ‘deadlock’ with protesting farmers||Following former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh’s announcement about his new political outfit, BJP general secretary Tarun Chugh on Wednesday said that Singh’s intervention in solving the ongoing deadlock with the protesting farmers was welcome. The BJP leader also hailed Singh’s efforts to resolve the farmers’ issues, who have been protesting at Delhi’s borders against the Union government’s three farm laws.“The Centre has been always open to talks with farmers and has welcomed any intervention to resolve the deadlock,” news agency PTI quoted Chugh as saying in a statement.Expressing his appreciation for Singh’s support to the extension of the Border Security Force’s jurisdiction in the state, Chugh said, “Amarinder Singh is [a] soldier and taking an appropriate stand on the issue of national security. We understand Punjab Congress chief Navjot Sidhu's sympathy for Pakistan but it is tragic that he is not sensitive to the national security concerns of a border state.” Earlier, Singh had expressed his backing for the BJP government’s move to extend the jurisdiction of the forces, PTI reported.Also read | Punjab Congress chief Sidhu calls Capt Amarinder ‘spent cartridge’The remarks from the BJP general secretary came as Singh had earlier in the day confirmed that he is in the process of forming his own political party. “Yes, I will be forming a new party. The name will be announced once the Election Commission clears it, along with the symbol. My lawyers are working on it,” news agency ANI quoted the former CM as saying.Singh had already expressed his willingness to have an alliance with the BJP in the assembly polls slated for next year in the state, conditional that the farmers' issue was resolved. The BJP too had reciprocated that the party would wait for him to announce his party, however, said it was open to alliance with anyone who puts the nation’s interest first.Notably, he also said that he would meet with Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday to discuss the three contentious laws. “Tomorrow we are taking some people with us, around 25-30 people, and we will be meeting the Home Minister on this issue,” he said. The meeting would be the second between the two, with the first meeting that happened last month regarding the same issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-welcomes-amarinder-singh-s-intervention-in-resolving-deadlock-with-protesting-farmers-101635356223730.html
27-10-2021||India||HT This Day: 28 Oct 1947 – Kashmir accedes to India||- PLEBISCITE SOON ON RULER'S DECISION- SHEIKH ABDULLA TO FORM INTERIM GOVT.- UNION TROOPS RUSHED FOR PROTECTION OF STATE  New Delhi- In view of grave emergency the Maharaja of Kashmir has acceded to the Indian Dominion. In a letter to Lord Mountbatten he declares that "the other alternative is to leave my State and my people to freebooters." He adds: "This alternative I will never allow to happen so long as I am the Ruler of the State and I have life to defend my country."The Maharaja has also stated that he has decided to invite Sheikh Abdulla to form an Interim Government to work with-the Prime Minister.Lord Mountbatten, accepting the accession, has stated: "It is my Government's wish that as soon as law and order have been restored in Kashmir and her soil cleared of the invader, the question of the State's accession should be settled by a reference to the people." Lord Mountbatten added that Indian troops had been sent to defend the State and "to protect the lives, property and honour of your people."That Kashmir has been thus saved is the result of quick moves on the political chessboard. Indian troops left by air in batches for Srinagar this morning. They immediately took position at the aerodrome and in the capital of Kashmir and thereafter proceeded to Baramula where they engaged the raiders. It is generally agreed that the troops have shown great enterprise and done, a fine piece of Job.Mr. Mehrchand Mahajan, Mr. V, P. Menon and Sheikh Abdulla left early this morning for Jammu to see the Maharaja. Mr. Menon returned this evening with the Instrument of Accession duly executed by the Maharaja, and immediately thereafter met the Governor-General, the Prime Minister and the Minister for States. The first news of the accession was announced over the radio and it caused widespread relief since there has been a great deal of anxiety about the safety of the people in Srinagar.Pakistan Leaders OutwittedApparently, the Pakistan leaders have been outwitted. Mr Jinnah's arrival in Lahore and the Pakistan Defence Secretary visit to Peshawar were timed to coincide with the startling developments in Kashmir.It is said that the attitude of Sheikh Abdulla and his colleagues and followers of the National Conference has been the most heartening aspect of the situation. The great leader of Kashmiris set his face sternly against the invaders and pledged his party's full support to the Maharaja to throw out foreigners. He did not bargain in the crisis but placed his services unreservedly at the disposal of the Maharaja.The Government of India, too, has set a fine example by declaring that even though Kashmir had acceded to the Indian Dominion it would still stand by the wishes of the people. This stand further strengthens its case in regard to Junagadh and Hyderabad and considerably enhances its moral stature.Coloured Version By B.B.C.Considerable surprise is expressed in New Delhi at the one-sided version that is being daily put out by B.B.C. of developments in Kashmir. Even today it stated that the revolt is of the local Muslim population of Kashmir, whereas the emergency has been caused by the attack from outside and as stated by the Maharaja, "the people of my State, both Muslims and non-Muslims, generally have taken no part at all."Pt. Dwarkanath Kachru, Private Secretary to Pandit Nehru, is flying tomorrow morning for Srinagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-28-oct-1947-kashmir-accedes-to-india-101635356076783.html
27-10-2021||India||Talks with China to resolve border crisis to continue, says Rajnath Singh||Dialogue with China for a peaceful resolution of the border crisis in Ladakh will continue with Indian troops standing firm in the sensitive sector, defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Wednesday even as the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has stepped up its activities not only in the Ladakh area but also in the eastern sector including Arunachal Pradesh. He made the comments on the situation along the northern borders while addressing the army brass during the ongoing commanders’ conference, which is focused on a raft of issues with border developments being right at the top.“It is our national responsibility to ensure availability of best weapons, equipment and clothing to our troops braving extreme weather and hostile forces to defend our territorial integrity,” he said. India and China have been locked in a border standoff for over 17 months in the Ladakh sector, and in the midst of that row PLA has scaled up its military activities in the east. PLA has intensified patrolling in sensitive areas across the contested border in Arunachal Pradesh after the lingering standoff with India began last year in the Ladakh sector, and has ramped up area domination patrols for surveillance and orientation of newly inducted troops with a noticeable increase in visits by senior PLA officers to forward areas to supervise the military activities, as previously reported. The sectors across which the Indian Army has detected PLA’s increased operational tempo include Lungro La, Zimithang and Bum La -- areas of high historical significance in the context of Chinese aggression in the eastern sector -- and counter measures have been taken to boost India’s readiness to handle any contingency. The 13th round of military talks between India and China to cool tensions in Ladakh reached an impasse on October 10, with PLA not agreeing to suggestions made by the Indian Army. The military dialogue took place more than two months after the last round of talks that led to disengagement of forward deployed troops from Gogra, or Patrol Point-17A, in early August. Despite two rounds of disengagement at friction points this year, the two armies still have 50,000 to 60,000 troops each deployed in Ladakh. The bi-annual army commanders’ conference is focusing on several issues including the situation along the country’s borders, security scenario in Jammu and Kashmir, organisational restructuring, logistics, administration and human resource management, the defence ministry said in a statement. Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane is chairing the four-day conference that ends on Thursday. If the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) is there to stay in the Ladakh theatre so is the Indian Army, Naravane said on October 9, referring to the military build-up and infrastructure development across LAC. The conference also comes days after Naravane visited the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir for a security review after several soldiers were killed in a counter-terror operation, and renewed infiltration attempts by Pakistani terrorists are being witnessed along the Line of Control after a temporary lull following the renewal of a ceasefire pact with Pakistan in February 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/talks-with-china-to-resolve-border-crisis-to-continue-says-rajnath-singh-101635355058675.html
27-10-2021||India||‘No in-camera hearing for appeal against Tarun Tejpal for now but…’: Bombay HC||PANAJI: The Bombay High Court on Wednesday will on November 16 hear arguments on the maintainability of the appeal filed by the Goa government against the acquittal of former Tehelka editor Tarun Tejpal in a case of rape and sexual harassment of a junior colleague. On Wednesday, Tejpal told the court of justices Revati Dere and MS Jawalkar that he was challenging the maintainability of the plea and also pressing his application that the appeal hearings be heard in-camera and not in open court as has been the case so far. However, the court was not inclined to consider the application for the in-camera hearing “at this stage” and decided to hear arguments on the appeal’s maintainability on November 16. In his written response, Tejpal’s lawyer Amit Desai said, “We have raised that squarely the maintainability of the appeal is defective, not in consonance with the requirement of 378 CrPC,” Desai said, referring to the criminal procedure code that relates to the filing of appeals in case of acquittal.Desai said the appeal was filed prematurely even before a copy of the written order of the trial court judgement was made available and the prosecution bypassed due procedures in filing its appeal in the rush.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who is arguing the case on behalf of the prosecution, told the court that there were no irregularities in the filing of the appeal and that he will provide a detailed response on Mehta, the central government’s second most-senior law officer, also reiterated his opposition to an in-camera hearing and went on to criticise the May 21 verdict by additional sessions judge Kshama Joshi, arguing that it was archaic, belonged to the 5th century and was deeply unfair to the survivor who he said, was subjected to naming and shaming in the judgment.The high court, which made it reluctance clear to go for in-camera proceedings, however, ordered the lawyers not to read out the sensitive portions of the trial court judgement or statements by witnesses and the rape survivor in open court but told them to restrict themselves to written arguments when it comes to sensitive portions.Tejpal was accused of raping a junior colleague in an elevator of a five-star hotel in Goa during the THiNK festival in November 2013. The complainant alleged that Tejpal raped her in a lift of the hotel on November 7 and attempted to assault her again on November 8. Tejpal, who refuted the charges in court, was acquitted by the fast-track court which delivered its verdict this year.In her ruling, the judge gave Tejpal, who faced charges of sections 376 (rape), 354A (sexual harassment), 354B (criminal assault with intent to disrobe a woman), 341 (wrongful restraint) and 342 (wrongful confinement) of the Indian Penal Code, the benefit of the doubt and acquitted him on the ground that the prosecution did not produce sufficient evidence to back up its charges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-in-camera-hearing-for-appeal-against-tarun-tejpal-for-now-but-bombay-hc-101635353380312.html
27-10-2021||India||The curious mix of power subsidies and politics||As the next election cycle nears, politicians are once again promising cheap, even free electricity, to voters. After he assumed charge as the chief minister of Punjab, Charanjit Singh Channi burnt copies of electricity bills and announced restoration of power connections which were disconnected for non-payment of bills. And the Aam Admi Party (AAP), which used the free-power promise effectively in Delhi, is making similar promises in states such as Punjab and Uttarakhand. While there are some benefits to these policies, they can be detrimental in the long term. Here’s why.Who pays for power subsidies in the end? There really is no such thing as a free lunch. Power distribution companies (Discoms) which buy electricity from electricity producers (Gencos) are obliged to pay for it at commercial rates. When governments offer cheap or free power to households or farmers, they have to compensate Discoms for the residual amount. This is done in two ways. State governments subsidise or end up taking over the debt of Discoms. This is what happened in the Ujjwal Discom Assurance Yojna (UDAY) when state governments floated bonds worth ₹2.32 lakh crores to retire the accumulated debt of Discoms. Another way in which governments recover the costs of cheap tariffs is by cross-subsidising, which means they raise the price of power for other consumers. In the end, it is the consumer who ends up paying, as commercial users pass on these costs. An October 13 research note by Pranjul Bhandari and others from HSBC Capital Markets and Research has given estimates of this cross-subsidisation of electricity prices in India. The note shows that cross-subsidisation is not enough to recover the costs, creating the burden of large unpaid dues.See Chart 1: cross-subsidy in electricity Outstanding dues to Discoms are worth more than the yearly cost of MGNREGS Latest data from ministry of power portal (PRAAPTI) shows that total non-disputed payment owed by Discoms in various states to Gencos stood at ₹1.01 lakh crore on October 22. This was ₹79,112 crore at the beginning of the fiscal year. This is more than what is spent on the Mahatma Gandhi Rural Employment Guarantee Programme in a year. The total overdue payments are divided into two categories: those due for a maximum of 60 days; and those pending for over 60 days. This classification matters because the Discoms are given 60 days credit by Gencos . After that the latter charge penal interest on the outstanding dues in most cases. The electricity portal data shows share of overdue payments which are delayed by more than 60 days has increased by 8 percentage points since the beginning of this year and now account for 80% of the total dues. See Chart 2A and 2B: Dues owed to Gencos and their break-up by 60-day threshold What is causing this delay in payments by Discoms? According to Sabyasachi Majumdar, Senior Vice President & Group Head - Corporate Ratings, ICRA , the delays in payments to Gencos can be attributed to weak operating efficiencies and financials of the Discoms. Various factors contribute to this. Power tariffs are inadequate in relation to their cost of supply because they are set lower . Sometimes, this is because of inadequacy of tariffs in relation to their cost of supply because of delays in the approval of tariff orders by regulators. There is also the inadequacy of and delays in subsidy payments by state governments, he added. According to a March report from ICRA, subsidy payments by governments were estimated to comprise 16% of discom revenues at an all -India level in 2021-22. A recent Economic and Political Weekly paper by Amandeep Kaur and others on state level performance of Discoms shows a worsening of financial parameters of over the years. The paper points out that the gap between the average cost of supply (ACS) per unit of power and the per unit average revenue realised (ARR) by utilities increased from ₹0.27 in October 2018 to ₹0.58 per unit Kwh in January. Also, the average aggregate technical and commercial losses (AT&C) by Discoms increased from 19.93% of total energy input received in May 2017 to 26.15% in January(compared to the intended target of 15% under UDAY scheme). The HSBC note referred to earlier notes that a turnaround in financial health of Discoms is a must for India’s transition to a low carbon-emission economy. “Transmission networks need to be upgraded with ancillary services and storage to successfully raise the share of renewable energy over time (this is needed to manage the sudden change in frequencies and supply associated with renewable power). The weak financials of the Discoms also impact other players in the energy arena. Because the Discoms don’t want to let go of paying customers such as corporates, they impose restrictions via policy flip-flops and ad-hoc charges to discourage the private sector from directly sourcing renewable power.” See Chart 3: AT&C and ARR-ACS gap for Discoms Which states are the worst offenders? Data for October shows that Discoms in Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Rajasthan have the highest share of overdue payments to Gencos. While these three states comprise 50% of overdue payments, they are not the ones that have the highest share in overdue payments that are delayed for more than 60 days. Discoms owe over 50% of their overdue amount to independent power producers (IPP) followed by central public sector undertakings (CPSEs). The highest overdue amount is owed to Adani Power (25,611 crore) which comprise around 25% of overall dues to Gencos. See Chart 4: Share of states in pending payments to Discoms How do such moves affect state finances? According to Aditi Nayar, chief economist at ICRA ratings, “Waiver of electricity bills or other forms of subsidy provided by a state government add to its revenue expenditure, thereby widening the fiscal deficit”. The amount owed by Discoms in 27 states (for whom 2019-20 domestic product and fiscal data is available on CMIE) accounted for 18.4% of the total fiscal deficit of these states. This is a burden which will ultimately show up in state government’s ability to spend money on other heads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-curious-mix-of-power-subsidies-and-politics-101635353079921.html
27-10-2021||India||Sameer Wankhede's sister approaches Women Commission, Police against Nawab Malik||Advocate Yasmeen Wankhede, the sister of Narcotics Control Bureau Mumbai zone director Sameer Wankhede has approached the National Commission for Women and the police against Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik. Yasmeen wrote to the Women Commission requesting to "safeguard her constitutional rights as a woman" as Nawab Malik has been sharing her photos from her social media profiles to substantiate his allegations against Sameer Wankhede.In connection with the ongoing drugs-on-cruise case in which Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan was arrested among around 20 others, Nawab Malik has brought allegations of extortion, document forgery against Sameer Wankhede. And in each of the allegations, Yasmeen Wankhede has been linked.
27-10-2021||India||North Tripura violence: Section 144 imposed in Dharmanagar, mosques given police protection||Following the violent clashes during a rally by the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP), Section 144 was imposed in the Dharmanagar of north Tripura district on Wednesday. “Dharmanagar Administration imposes 144 CrPC in the district to maintain peace and harmony in the district,” news agency ANI reported quoting the SDM Dharmanagar, North Tripura.The decision from the administration came after a mosque was allegedly vandalised and several shops were set ablaze in the Chamtilla area in North Tripura district during a rally by the VHP against the recent events of violence against Hindus in Bangladesh.The North Tripura District Police said that such incidents were happening in the last one week, however, said that the situation was under control. Also, the police urged the people to maintain peace, ANI reported.Meanwhile, security has been ramped up in the district following the violence and all mosques have been provided with police protection, news agency PTI reported citing the police. “All the mosques across the state are under security cover now. We are keeping a vigil on the situation,” PTI quoted Director General of Police VS Yadav as saying. The official also said that the situation was “peaceful” in North Tripura except for some stray incidents.He also said that miscreants had tried to disrupt the state’s communal harmony by attacking places of religious worship but could not succeed due to deployment of security forces. “Some miscreants were active to disrupt the communal harmony and malign the image of the government. But the police always remained active,” he said.North Tripura superintendent of police Bhanupada Chakraborty said that three houses and a few shops, reportedly owned by members of the minority community, were also vandalised during the violence in Rowa Bazar, near Chamtilla. “Now the situation in North Tripura district is peaceful. We have beefed up security and police protection for all mosques in the district. Prohibitory orders under Section 144 CRPc was promulgated at Panisagar and Dharmanagar subdivisions for an indefinite period,” he further said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/north-tripura-violence-section-144-imposed-in-dharmanagar-mosques-given-police-protection-101635351614091.html
27-10-2021||India||Latest Agni-V launch successful, boosts deterrence against China||India on Wednesday announced that it carried out the latest test of the 5,000 km range Agni-V missile from the APJ Abdul Kalam Island off the Odisha coast, a significant step towards boosting the nuclear deterrence against China. The successful test of the Agni-V missile is in line with India’s stated policy to have credible minimum deterrence that underpins the commitment to no first use, the defence ministry said in a statement. The missile, which is being inducted into the Strategic Forces Command (SFC), will put India’s credible minimum deterrence on a firm footing as no missile in the Indian arsenal has the range to strike targets deep inside China. “The missile, which uses a three-stage solid fuelled engine, is capable of striking targets at ranges up to 5,000 km with a very high degree of accuracy,” the statement added. The missile has been tested several times after its maiden launch almost a decade ago. The latest test comes at a time when India and China are locked in a border row in the Ladakh sector, and the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has also scaled up its military activities in the eastern sector, including Arunachal Pradesh. India completed its nuclear trial in 2018 when the indigenous nuclear-powered ballistic missile submarine, INS Arihant, successfully completed its first deterrence patrol. India has the capability to carry out nuclear strikes with fighter planes, land-launched missiles and from the sea. The Agni series of ballistic missiles and warplanes such as Rafales, Sukhoi-30s and Mirage-2000s can deliver nuclear warheads. The 6,000-tonne Arihant, which means destroyer of enemies, is armed with 12 B-05 submarine-launched ballistic missiles (SLBMs) capable of delivering nuclear warheads up to 750 km away. India is also developing a new class of ultra-modern weapons that can travel six times faster than the speed of sound (Mach 6) and penetrate any missile defence. In September 2021, the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) carried out a successful flight test of the hypersonic technology demonstrator vehicle (HSTDV) for the first time from the Odisha coast. Only the United States, Russia and China have developed technologies to field fast-manoeuvring hypersonic missiles that fly at lower altitudes and are extremely hard to track and intercept.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/latest-agni-v-launch-successful-boosts-deterrence-against-china-101635350318419.html
27-10-2021||India||Where are Aryan Khan case witnesses KP Gosavi and his ex-aide Sail? NCB says ‘unreachable’||Narcotics Control Bureau deputy director-general Gyaneshwar Singh, who is heading the vigilance probe into the extortion allegations against Sameer Wankhede on Wednesday said the investigators could not reach KP Gosavi and Prabhakar Sail, the two key persons linked with the case. Many other people have been served notice to appear before the investigating team, but Gosavi and Sail were not available on the contacts on NCB's record, Singh said."We have tried our best to contact them but could not. Through the media I would like to tell them they are free to join in two days and give evidence to special inquiry team which has been staying at CRPF mess at Bandra (West)," Singh said.Sameer Wankhede quizzed for 4 hours; drugs case probe to continue under himKP Gosavi was a witness of the NCB in the Aryan Khan case. After Aryan was arrested from the cruise rave party, Gosavi clicked a photo with him and shared it on social media, which went viral. Since then, Gosavi who claims to be an independent investigator and NCB's independent witness in the Aryan Khan case is in the news. His former aide Prabhakar Sail claimed that he was made a witness in the Aryan Khan case where he was made to sign on blank papers by Sameer Wankhede. Citing some telephonic conversation between Gosavi and another person that he overheard, Sail said there was an arrangement of getting ₹25 crore in exchange for Aryan's release. Of the amount, Sameer Wankhede was supposed to get some, Sail had alleged.After making the allegations, Sail met a senior Mumbai Police official on Monday and sought police protection. Minister Dilip Walse-Patil said Sail was accorded police security.Meanwhile, KP Gosavi created a stir on Monday as he announced that he would surrender at Mandiaon police station in Lucknow 'any moment'. He also said that he was feeling threatened in Mumbai. However, he did not surrender and, according to the NCB, both are now untraceable."We tried to contact both Sail and Gosavi, one house was closed while the other address could not be verified. We also tried to contact one witness through his advocate but could not trace him," Singh said.While the NCB team said Sail was not reachable, the Mumbai police's team which has started an inquiry against Sameer Wankhede claimed it has recorded Sail's statement on Wednesday. Sail claimed he was not approached by the NCB and that he was ready to share all information with them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/where-are-kp-gosavi-and-his-ex-aide-sail-ncb-says-unreachable-101635348673085.html
27-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: Officials took my sign on blank papers, says 2nd NCB witness in drugs case and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Officials took my signatures on blank papers, says 2nd NCB witness in drugs caseShekhar Kamble is the second NCB witness in three days to have alleged that agency officials made him sign blank papers that were later used to draw up the panchnama of the search and the seizures. Read more‘India will have whole of Kashmir someday,’ says top IAF officialA high-ranking Indian Air Force (IAF) official on Wednesday expressed hope that India will be able to govern the entire Kashmir, including the Pakistan-occupied territory. Read moreDespite 10-wicket defeat to Pakistan, Virender Sehwag makes bold prediction for Team India: 'Will win T20 World Cup'Former India captain Virender Sehwag still believes Team India can lift the World Cup trophy. He just believes Kohli & co. have to play a lot better to achieve the goal. Read moreAmar Upadhyay reveals how Kyunki Saas Bhi Kabhi Bahu Thi overtook KBC ratings after starting at ‘zero point something’Actor Amar Upadhyay, who initially played the role of Mihir Virani in Kyunki Saas Bhi Kabhi Bahu Thi, has said that a WhatsApp group with the show's cast and crew still exists. Read moreMrunal Thakur slays a body hugging silhouette in ₹7.8k strappy nude midiMrunal Thakur recently raised the fashion bar with her hotness quotient at the trailer launch of her and Kartik Aaryan's upcoming film, Dhamaka, and we are not getting over her sizzling look anytime soon. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-officials-took-my-signatures-on-blank-papers-says-2nd-ncb-witness-in-drugs-case-and-all-the-latest-news-101635346079744.html
27-10-2021||India||Party drugs worth ₹2 crore seized in south Bengal||Yaba tablets worth around ₹2 crore were seized from Madhyamgram in North 24 Parganas district near Kolkata on Wednesday. Three people were arrested. Acting on a tip-off customs department officers apprehended two people from Madhyamgram and recovered around 28,000 Yaba tablets. Both of them were arrested. Later, 8000 more tablets were seized from another place and one more person was arrested. “The total value of the seized Yaba tablets is around ₹2 crore. Also known as madness drug, crazy medicine and Nazi speed, these are psychotropic substances prohibited under the NDPS Act 1985,” said an official. A mixture of methamphetamine and caffeine and sold as red or pink pills, Yaba originated in Myanmar and entered the Bangladesh black market in early 2000 and gained instant popularity due to the paucity of such stimulants locally. The fact that it was cheap also helped. This is, however, not the first time that such drugs were seized from the city and its outskirts. In August this year, Heroin and Amphetamine tablets worth ₹55 crore in the international market were seized by the special task force of the Kolkata Police in West Bengal’s Malda district. Four drug peddlers, two of whom are from Manipur and Bihar, were arrested. A consignment was also seized in Kolkata in July 2020. Smuggling of Yaba tablets has shot up since 2019 across the porous Indo-Bangladesh border in south Bengal, after the Border Security Force (BSF) cracked down on cattle smuggling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/party-drugs-worth-rs-2-crore-seized-in-south-bengal-101635348280171.html
27-10-2021||India||Har ghar dastak: Govt to launch door-to-door Covid vaccination drive next month||Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Wednesday the government was going to launch a mega vaccination campaign next month against the coronavirus disease.As part of the 'Har Ghar Dastak' drive, healthcare workers will conduct door-to-door vaccinations of people eligible for second dose as well as those who are yet to be administered their first jab as a shield against the virus, the health minister said.He added that special focus will be laid during the drive on 48 districts across the country where less than 50 per cent of the eligible population has been vaccinated against Covid-19. We're going to launch a mega vaccination campaign 'Har Ghar Dastak'. We're decided that for the next one month, healthcare workers will go door-to-door to vaccinate people eligible for second dose & also those who have not taken the first dose: Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya pic.twitter.com/2jwgib3uTXMandaviya made the announcement after holding a meeting with his counterparts and representatives from states and Union Territories to discuss scaling up of the vaccination drive in the country.He further said 77 per cent of the eligible population in India has been vaccinated against Covid-19 with the first dose, while another 32 per cent have been fully inoculated.However, more than 10 crore people have not yet taken the second dose of the vaccine, the health minister said, while urging them to go ahead with completing their course.The minister also asked officials at the meeting to focus on such beneficiaries who are overdue for their second dose.According to government data, over 3.92 crore beneficiaries are more than six weeks overdue for their second dose, around 1.57 crore are up to four to six weeks late, and more than 1.50 crore are up to two to four weeks overdue for their second shot of either Covishield or Covaxin.Also, over 3.38 crore people are up to two weeks overdue to becoming fully vaccinated.The gap between the first and second dose is 12 weeks for Covishield and four weeks for Covaxin. Both doses are needed for adequate protection against severe Covid-19 infection and hospitalisation.The 11 states and UTs that have completed administering both doses to more than half of their eligible beneficiaries are Lakshadweep, Sikkim, Goa, Ladakh, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh, Mizoram, Daman and Diu, Arunachal Pradesh, and Jammu and Kashmir.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/har-ghar-dastak-govt-to-launch-door-to-door-covid-vaccination-drive-next-month-101635347599435.html
27-10-2021||India||‘India will have whole of Kashmir someday,’ says top IAF official||A high-ranking Indian Air Force official on Wednesday expressed hope that India will be able to govern the entire Kashmir, including the Pakistan-occupied territory. Air Officer Commanding in Chief (AOC-in-C) of Western Air Command, Air Marshal Amit Dev said there was no plan to capture Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK). Dev was speaking to the media at the 75th anniversary of Indian troops' Budgam landing.He also pointed out that people in PoK were not treated fairly by Pakistan.“All the activities which were carried out by the Indian Air Force and the Army (on October 27, 1947) resulted in ensuring the freedom of this part of Kashmir. I am sure that someday, the Pakistan-occupied Kashmir will also join this part of Kashmir and we will have the whole of Kashmir in years to come,” Dev said.“Entire Kashmir is one, the nation is one. People on both sides have common attachments. Today or tomorrow, history will witness that nations come together. We do not have a plan at the moment, but, God willing, it will always be there because people in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir are not being treated very fairly by the Pakistanis,” Dev further added.Following the signing of the instrument of accession with India by then ruler of Jammu and Kashmir Maharaja Hari Singh, Indian troops landed in the Valley on October 27, 1947 the very next day after Pakistani tribals carried out raids.The AOC-in-C of the Western Air Command also highlighted that the IAF faces many challenges, but the basic challenge it faces is technology.“The rate of change of technology is so fast in the world today that we have to keep pace with that. If any nation which is to grow economically has to have a strong military, we must fulfil our obligation to the nation in the years to come and we are always ready for the challenge,” he said.He, however, said that the IAF has become a very capable force.“After the instrument of accession was signed, we moved in our troops quickly and Srinagar airfield was saved and thereafter we launched further offensive and pushed the Pakistani military, which came as Kabalis (tribals), further back,” Dev said.Dev claimed that if the United Nations did not intervene the entire Kashmir would have been India’s.He said the IAF and the Army carried out many small missions including the operations in Poonch after an airstrip was laid there in a short span of a week, attacks on the Srinagar airfield, in Skardu on ammunition dump and in Leh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-will-have-whole-of-kashmir-someday-says-top-iaf-official-101635343247515.html
27-10-2021||India||At East Asia Summit, PM Modi reaffirms India's focus on free and open Indo-Pacific||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday reaffirmed India’s focus on a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific and the principle of “ASEAN Centrality” in the region.Modi made the statement at the 16th East Asia Summit hosted by Brunei via video conference.India remains committed to strengthening respect for shared values of multilateralism, rules-based international order, international law and sovereignty and territorial integrity of all nations. I look forward to participating in the 18th ASEAN-India Summit tomorrow.An ANI report said, during his speech, the PM also emphasised the importance of a resilient global value chain and reiterated India's commitment to providing Quad-sponsored vaccines to Indo-Pacific countries. He recalled India’s support of $1 million to the ASEAN Covid-19 Recovery Fund. Taking to microblogging platform Twitter, the Prime Minister further wrote India remained committed to strengthening respect for shared values of multilateralism, rules-based international order, international law and sovereignty and territorial integrity of all nations. “I look forward to participating in the 18th ASEAN-India Summit tomorrow,” the PM wrote as part of a series of tweets.The PM also raised the idea of developing global standards on cyber security.The East Asia Summit is a premier leaders-led forum in the Indo-Pacific region. Since its inception in 2005, it has played a key role in the strategic and geopolitical evolution of east Asia.Apart from the 10 ASEAN member states, East Asia Summit includes India, China, Japan, the Republic of Korea, Australia, New Zealand, the United States and Russia.India, being a founding member of the East Asia Summit, is committed to strengthening the East Asia Summit and making it more effective for dealing with contemporary challenges.ASEAN-India summits are held annually and provide the opportunity for India and ASEAN to engage at the highest levels.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-east-asia-summit-modi-reaffirms-india-s-focus-on-free-open-indopacific-101635344705918.html
27-10-2021||India||Delhi HC issues summons to Baba Ramdev on lawsuit filed by doctors’ association for alleged misinformation||The Delhi high court on Wednesday issued summons to Yoga guru Ramdev in connection with a lawsuit filed by many doctors' associations for his alleged spreading of misinformation against allopathy during the times of Covid-19 pandemic. The court said that the plea was not frivolous and there was “definitely a case for the institution of the suit,” news agency PTI reported. The Delhi HC has also given four weeks time for Ramdev to file his response.“I have seen the video clips (of Ramdev). From the perusal of the video clips, your client is scorning the allopathic treatment protocol. He has literally gone to scorn at the prescription of steroids, people going to hospitals. From the perusal of the clips, there is definitely a case for the institution of the suit. They (plaintiffs) may have nothing for an injunction but the case is not frivolous,” Justice C Hari Shankar told senior counsel Rajiv Nayar, who appeared for Ramdev.Also read | ‘India-Pakistan T20 World Cup match not in the interest of nation’: RamdevFurther, the judge also said he was “not expressing any opinion” regarding the merits of the allegations in the complaint against Ramdev and noted that any relief for him -- interim or otherwise -- would subsequently be looked into.Meanwhile, Nayar opposed the allegations made in the case, however, also noted that he had no objections to his client being issued summons regarding the matter."There are three parts to the suit-- Coronil, defamation, and hesitancy against vaccination. The court may restrict notice to only defamation," he further urged the court. In response, the judge said, “I am not passing any order. You file your written statement. Say there is no case.”“Permission to institute the suit is allowed. Let the plaint be registered as a suit. Let summons be issued in the suit,” the court ordered. The court posted the next hearing regarding the issue for January.Earlier this year, the Resident Doctors’ Association of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences at Rishikesh, Patna and Bhubaneswar, the Association of Resident Doctors, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education & Research, Chandigarh, Union of Resident Doctors of Punjab (URDP), Resident Doctors' Association, Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial Medical College, Meerut, and Telangana Junior Doctors' Association, Hyderabad had moved the high court regarding the alleged remarks by Ramdev. The bodies had alleged that he was misleading the public that allopathy was responsible for the deaths of several people infected by Covid-19.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-issues-summons-to-baba-ramdev-on-lawsuit-filed-by-doctors-association-for-alleged-misinformation-101635343202232.html
27-10-2021||India||Sameer Wankhede quizzed for 4 hours; drugs case probe to continue under him||Deputy director-general of the Narcotics Control Bureau, northern region, Gyaneshwar Singh on Wednesday said Sameer Wankhede, the zonal chief of the Mumbai zone, will remain the investigating officer of the drugs-on-cruise case until substantial information is found against him. The agency has recorded Wankhede's statement in connection with the departmental vigilance probe into the extortion allegations brought against Wankhede.A five-member vigilance probe team reached Mumbai on Wednesday and began its probe. It has collected some documents and recordings from the Mumbai office of the NCB. "The statement of Wankhede is being recorded...it is a sensitive inquiry and it is not possible to share real-time information related to the probe, and we will not be able to share all the details," Singh said. Sameer Wankhede was questioned today. He submitted case related documents that were sought. If needed, he'll be questioned further. He'll remain the investigating officer in the drugs-on-cruise ship case until substantial information is found against him: DDG NCB Gyaneshwar Singh pic.twitter.com/lleD8UvJN5The central agency has initiated a vigilance inquiry into the claims made by Prabhakar Sail, who claimed that Wankhede made him sign blank papers in connection with the Aryan Khan case. He also claimed alleged that an extortion bid of ₹25 crore was made by some agency officials, which he claimed based on overhearing some conversation. It has been claimed that Wankhede was supposed to get some money from that ₹25 crore.Singh said Prabhakar Sail and KP Gosavi will also be interrogated but they could not be contacted through the contact numbers or addresses. "We have tried our best to contact them but could not. Through the media I would like to tell them they are free to join in two days and give evidence to the special inquiry team which has been staying at CRPF mess at Bandra (West)" said Singh.The questioning comes as another witness of the central agency claimed that he was made to sign blank papers by the agency and by Wankhede in connection with a different case. The witness, Shekhar Kamble, a resident of Navi Mumbai, said he was made to sign on 10-12 blank papers by Wankhede and others, which were later used as panchnama in connection with a Nigerian national’s arrest from Mumbai's Kharghar in August this year. This witness claimed that no drugs were recovered from the Nigerian national, but the NCB falsely showed that some amount of MD drug was found on him.The DG did not comment on the fresh case of the allegation and said the NCB team is aiming at a fair investigation. That is the reason the investigators are not operating from the NCB office in Mumbai but from CRPG Mess in Bandra. "We tried to contact both Sail and Gosavi. One house was closed while other address could not be verified. We also tried to contact one witness through his advocate but could not trace him," Singh said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sameer-wankhede-will-remain-the-probing-officer-in-cruise-rave-party-case-ncb-101635342992411.html
27-10-2021||India||Oman adds Covaxin to approved list of Covid-19 vaccines||Indians travelling to Oman will not be required to undergo quarantine upon arrival as its government has added Covaxin as well to the country's approved list of Covid-19 vaccines, the Indian embassy informed on Wednesday. “All passengers from India who have received two doses of Covaxin at least 14 days before the estimated arrival date will now be able to travel to Oman without the requirement of quarantine,” the embassy, located in Muscat, shared in a press release. 📢 COVAXIN has now been added to the approved list of #COVID19 vaccines 💉 for travel to Oman without quarantine. This will facilitate travelers from India vaccinated with COVAXIN. Please see Press Release 👇@PMOIndia@DrSJaishankar @MEAIndia @IndianDiplomacy pic.twitter.com/3lfXPrjHGcHowever, the release clarified that the remaining Covid-19 related protocols, such as pre-arrival RT-PCR test, shall continue to be applicable. “This notification will significantly ease travel to Oman for Indian nationals who have taken Covaxin. Passengers who have taken AstraZeneca/Covishield are already permitted to travel without quarantine,” the statement noted further.Oman's Civil Aviation Authority issued a notification on October 27 in this regard, the Indian embassy said.The development comes even as the World Health Organization (WHO), on Tuesday, further delayed its approval for the vaccine, asking its developers, the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited, for some “clarifications.” Covaxin will next be taken up for review on November 3, the world health body said.Also Read | No WHO approval for Covaxin yet as panel wants more detailsCovaxin and Covishield--the Indian variant of Britain's AstraZeneca jab--are the two most widely used vaccines in India's inoculation drive, which began on January 16, days after both shots received emergency use authorisation (EUA) from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI). Since then, four other jabs have received EUA from the top drugs regulator.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oman-adds-covaxin-to-approved-list-of-covid-19-vaccines-101635339044363.html
27-10-2021||India||CPM drops Jayachandran from party panels in Kerala; daughter calls it ‘eyewash’||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Kerala’s ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) on Wednesday removed PS Jayachandran from all party posts and committees after he was accused of kidnapping his daughter’s newborn child and later handing it over to the state council for child welfare-run orphanage for adoption. The party has also decided to conduct an inquiry into the case.Jayachandran was a Peroorkada local committee member and a senior leader of the party trade union wing Centre for Indian Trade Unions.A party leader said the decision to strip Jayachandran was taken by the local committee in Peroorkada on the direction of the district committee.Former student activist Anupama S Chandran, who struggled to get the party to act against her father for months, said the belated move is an eyewash and demanded a state committee-level probe the missing child’s case.“Nothing will emerge if the case is investigated by the local committee. I want a high-level inquiry, and women leaders should be part of it,” she said in state capital Thiruvananthapuram on Wednesday. Jayachandran was not available for comment. Earlier, he said the party was aware of everything, but it disowned him when issue took the national stage.A senior CPM leader, who did not want to be quoted, said further action will be taken against Jayachandran and officials of the child welfare committee, who allegedly colluded with him in the adoption.A Thiruvananthapuram court will hear the anticipatory bail petitions filed by Jayachandran and five others on Thursday.In a police complaint filed last week, Anupama S Chandran alleged that her father took away her child born in October last year and handed over the newborn to a state child welfare council-run orphanage. She alleged the child was reportedly given to a family from Andhra Pradesh in violation of adoption rules. But Jayachandran said he sent the baby to the government-run children’s home in Thiruvananthapuram with his daughter’s consent and contended that his daughter also signed a legal document to this effect. His daughter rebutted him, insisting that she was forced to sign the document.Chandran’s one-day fast before the state secretariat on Saturday for her child attracted national attention. Many senior leaders of the CPM including politburo members Brinda Karat and MA Baby decried inaction in her case. Despite the senior leaders’ intervention, the party failed to take action against him. The issue also figured prominently in the state assembly. Opposition leader V D Satheesan termed it an “honour kidnapping” while state health minister Veena George insisted that all procedures were followed when the baby was given for adoption. A family court has stayed the baby’s adoption till Nov 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cpm-drops-jayachandran-from-party-panels-in-kerala-daughter-calls-it-eyewash-101635340724677.html
27-10-2021||India||Kranti extends support to Sameer Wankhede, terms Malik’s allegations baseless||Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) zonal head Sameer Wankhede’s wife criticised Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Nawab Malik on Wednesday for making allegations that the NCB zonal head took the job by falsely claiming that he belong to the Scheduled Caste community.Kranti Redkar Wankhede said that the Wankhedes never denied anything but pointed out that they will not let lies prevail, referring to the tweet by Nawab Malik where he posted pictures of Wankhede and Dr Shabana Quraishi, Wankhede’s first wife.“Sameer Wankhede knew that he was a Hindu and hence he understood that his marriage would be registered under the Special Marriage Act. He did that and we have legal documents to prove that. You can see that both of them are aware that they belong to different religions and both of them have signed these documents,” Kranti said.“Sameer Wankhede was not involved in any wrongdoing. He is an honest person and has always spoken the truth. The more people try to smear him with false accusations it will only help emerge stronger. His father and his wife are with him,” she further added.The tussle between Malik and Wankhede intensified after the former shared a picture of Wankhede with his first wife Dr Quraishi. Malik also claimed that Wankhede got an IRS job by allegedly showing false documents citing that he was from the SC community.“"I want to make it clear that the issue I am exposing of Sameer Dawood Wankhede is not about his religion. I want to bring to light the fraudulent means by which he has obtained a caste certificate to get an IRS job and has deprived a deserving Scheduled Caste person of his future,” the NCP leader said via a tweet. Malik accused the NCB zonal head several times of extortion and arresting people on false cases following the arrest of actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan. Aryan Khan was arrested earlier this month in a drugs bust case from a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kranti-extends-support-to-sameer-wankhede-terms-malik-s-allegations-baseless-101635339305314.html
27-10-2021||India||Chhatisgarh man pushes wife, 2 children into well, then dies by suicide: Police||RAIPUR: A man in Chhattisgarh killed his wife and two children following an altercation in Rajanandgaon district before dying by suicide, police said on Wednesday. The incident took place in Karamtara village under Lalbagh police station limits on Tuesday evening. Lalbagh police station chief Shivendra Rajput said the dead man was identified as Doman Sahu, 32.“According to preliminary investigation, the man thrashed his wife Vedica Sahu, 28, and then pushed her into a well. Later, Doman Sahu also threw his three-year-old son and two-year-old daughter in the same well. After killing his wife and children, he hanged himself in his house,” said the SHO. Police sent the bodies for an autopsy. There were injury marks on the woman’s body believed to have been sustained before she was thrown into the well. “Investigation in the case is going on,” Shivendra Rajput added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhatisgarh-man-pushes-wife-2-children-into-well-then-dies-by-suicidepolice-101635338857808.html
27-10-2021||India||Congress’ Harish Chaudhary says want to quit as Rajasthan minister for new role as party’s Punjab in-charge||Rajasthan revenue minister Harish Chaudhary on Wednesday conveyed his intent to leave his post as a minister, a few days after being appointed as the Congress’ in-charge for its Punjab unit. Chaudhary also said that he has expressed it to the party’s high command and Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot. He met with Congress MP Rahul Gandhi in Delhi and discussed various organisational issues.“I have informed the party high command including party president Sonia Gandhi, former president Rahul Gandhi, our state in-charge and the chief minister,” news agency PTI quoted the minister as saying earlier in the day.Chaudhary also said that he believed in the ideology of ‘one person one post’ and wanted to fulfil the new responsibility of Punjab Congress in-charge with dedication, PTI reported. However, he said that he did not want to fuel any speculations or controversies about his resignation as a minister and said, “This is my opinion, which I have conveyed to the party high command.”Also read | Punjab Congress chief Sidhu calls Capt Amarinder ‘spent cartridge’When asked about the upcoming assembly elections in Punjab, Chaudhary expressed confidence that the Congress will win the polls with a majority and retain power in the state. He also said that he has been observing the party’s organisation in Punjab for the past few months.With Punjab assembly elections scheduled next year, Chaudhary, reckoned to be close to Rahul Gandhi, replaced Harish Rawat as the Punjab Congress in-charge following a phase of turmoil for the party in the state. Rawat had requested the party high that he wished to concentrate on Uttarakhand assembly polls which is also slated for next year.Meanwhile, former chief minister Amarinder Singh, earlier in the day, said that he would create his own political party before the state assembly elections. “Yes, I will be forming a new party. The name will be announced once the Election Commission clears it, along with the symbol. My lawyers are working on it,” news agency ANI quoted Singh as saying in a press meet.Notably, he has earlier expressed his willingness for a seat-sharing agreement with the BJP, if the farmers issue was resolved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-harish-chaudhary-says-want-to-quit-as-rajasthan-minister-for-new-role-as-party-s-punjab-chief-101635337942471.html
27-10-2021||India||West Bengal allows green crackers on Kali Puja and Chhath; PIL seeks blanket ban||The West Bengal government on Wednesday allowed bursting of green crackers for around two hours during Kali Puja and Chhath Puja and for about 35 minutes on Christmas and New Year’s Eve. This comes at a time when the Centre has warned the state of rising Covid-19 cases in Kolkata after Durga Puja festivities. Recently a section of Kolkata’s leading doctors, environmental experts and medical associations jointly submitted a letter to chief minister Mamata Banerjee requesting a blanket ban on firecrackers. A PIL has also been filed in the Calcutta High Court seeking a complete ban on firecrackers. The matter will be heard on Friday. The order issued by the West Bengal Pollution Control Board says that there has been a complete ban on the sale and bursting of firecrackers, except green crackers in the state. During Kali Puja bursting of green crackers has been allowed from 8 pm to 10 pm, and on Chhath Puja it has been allowed from 6 am to 8 am. During Christmas and New Year green crackers have been allowed from 11:55 pm to 12:30 am. Diwali will be celebrated across the country on November 4 this year. In 2020, the Calcutta High Court had banned the use and sale of firecrackers on Kali Puja to curb pollution amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The state government too had appealed to the people to avoid bursting firecrackers during Kali Puja and Diwali in order to check air pollution. “Much damage has been caused by the rampant violations of Covid-19 safety protocols during Durga Puja. Cases have started rising once again in the city and across the state. We should at least show some restraint during Kali Puja by not bursting crackers and fireworks this time. The smoke and pollution would cause more harm to patients who are suffering from Covid-19 or are recovering from the disease,” said Manas Gumta, general secretary of the Association of Health Service Doctors in the state. The Durga Puja, the biggest festival in the state, ended on October 15 and the daily count of Covid-19 cases is once again hovering around the 1000-mark after a gap of more than three months. Nearly 974 new Covid-19 cases were detected in the state on Saturday, and on Sunday the number shot up further to 989. On Monday and Tuesday, it remained a little above the 800-mark. The Kolkata Police have started intensifying action against citizens for violating Covid-19 safety protocols as the daily count of cases has shot up in the city after the festivities.With the daily count of Covid-19 cases shooting up in West Bengal after the festive season, the state administration has started re-introducing containment zones to check the spread of the virus. Containment zones have already come up in Howrah, North 24 Parganas - the district with the highest number of daily cases after Kolkata, Jalpaiguri and Hooghly. In Kolkata, however, no such zones have been declared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-allows-green-crackers-on-kali-puja-and-chhath-pil-seeks-blanket-ban-101635337237597.html
27-10-2021||India||‘Political expediency’: BJD legislator critiques his boss Naveen Patnaik actions||BHUBANESWAR: Odisha’s Biju Janata Dal (BJD) lawmaker Soumya Ranjan Patnaik, who has occasionally taken a stand independent of the party line, on Wednesday said chief minister Naveen Patnaik’s first decade in the state’s top seat was marked by zero tolerance to crime and corruption but his latest actions are dictated by political expediency.The scathing observation in a front-page editorial in Odia daily Sambad edited by the legislator comes against the backdrop of the chief minister’s hands-off approach to the raging controversy around the minister of state for home Dibya Shankar Mishra for his proximity to the prime accused in the murder of a school teacher in the state’s Kalahandi district. The opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJD) and the Congress have stepped up attacks on the Naveen Patnaik government, saying they want the chief minister to sack his minister who was alleged to have been close to the murder accused, Gobind Sahu, president of the managing committee that runs the school where the teacher was employed.Chief minister Naveen Patnaik hasn’t spoken on the controversy yet.In the editorial, the BJD lawmaker said Naveen Patnaik’s USP during the first decade of his rule was zero tolerance to crime and corruption. “Probity in public life was the hallmark. And this is what endeared him to masses in Odisha. People saw him in a different league. But now, political expediency dominates. As the BJD has been in power for over a decade due to lack of a viable political alternative, ego is ruling the power corridor,” wrote Soumya Ranjan Patnaik, a reference seen to hint at inaction over the alleged proximity of the minister with murder accused Gobind Sahu.Also Read: Odisha school official accused of murder also got govt funds for his institutionsSahu strangled 26-year-old school teacher Mamita Meher in his car in Kalahandi district on October 8 after she allegedly threatened to expose him. According to the police, he cut her body into pieces, burnt it and then buried the remains in an under-construction stadium near his school, the Sunshine English Medium school. He was arrested on October 19 and is now in jail.“In his first 10 years of rule, Naveen received the admiration of people of Odisha through his work which is rare for most politicians. By 2024, Naveen may break the record of Pawan Chamling and Jyoti Basu as the chief minister with the longest tenure. But he has not done anything that would ensure that his name is written in history in golden letters. Now no one remembers the tenure of Jyoti Basu or Pawan Chamling. It is quite possible that Naveen Patnaik may meet the same fate,” he wrote.“The influence of big money in elections, winning at all costs, no ethical conformity et al have become the new normal. The outcome is then a spike in corruption cases and throttling of transparency. How many MLAs from the party can dare to come clean about not having any disproportionate assets,” he asked.This isn’t the first time that Soumya Ranjan Patnaik had questioned the party’s stand.In July this year, his signed editorial in his paper sought a white paper on deaths due to Covid-19 in the state, observing that there was a desperate race among states to keep the figures on the lower side. His advice to the chief minister was to display the courage to release the white paper, telling him that “people will love him more” even if the numbers are on the higher side.Odisha BJP leader Prithviraj Harichandan said Soumya’s comments described the BJD’s ‘home affairs’.BJD legislator Prasant Muduli challenged the picture painted by Soumya Patnaik, insisting that the state has seen a remarkable transformation in the last 20 years. Naveen Patnaik first became chief minister in March 2000 and led the party to victory in 2019 when he started his fifth term.The BJP, meanwhile, continued to amp up the pitch against the ruling BJD and constituted a three-member committee comprising MP Sunita Duggal, BJP Mahila Morcha’s national president Vanathi Sriniwasan and MLA Rupa Mitra to look into the murder of Mamita Meher. On Wednesday, BJP workers also gheraoed the Balasore SP office demanding the dismissal of Dibya Shankar Mishra. In Sundargarh, party activists led by Sundargarh MP Jual Oram submitted a memorandum to Sundargarh SP to seek a CBI probe into the case.The Odisha State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has issued a notice to Kalahandi SP to seek a report within seven days. The commission said it is under the impression that the guidelines issued by the Odisha Women and Child Development Department to ensure a safe environment in institutions where children study or live were not adhered to.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/political-expediency-bjd-legislator-critiques-his-boss-naveen-patnaik-actions-101635336757846.html
27-10-2021||India||7 booked, 4 in custody of UP Police for celebrating Pak's WC win against India: CMO||The Uttar Pradesh Police has booked seven persons from five districts and taken four others into custody for allegedly either raising pro-Pakistan slogans or celebrating the team’s win against their Indian counterparts in the T20 World Cup match that was held on October 24.The statement was shared by the chief minister’s office in the state on Wednesday.UP Police have booked 7 people in 5 districts and taken 4 people in custody for allegedly raising pro-Pak slogans or celebrating Pakistan's victory over India in the T20 Cricket World Cup match that took place on Oct 24: CMO pic.twitter.com/o1ceq5L7EDAccording to the statements, charges were levelled against under several sections, including 504/506 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and 66 (F) of the Information Technology Act.The Yogi Adityanath government’s statement came amid reports of penal actions being taken against similar celebrations in other parts of the country, including Jammu and Kashmir and Rajasthan.Also read | J&K Police file two UAPA cases for ‘celebrating’ Pakistan’s win in World CupWhile the Jammu and Kashmir Police have registered two first information reports (FIRs) under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) against students of two medical colleges in Srinagar for allegedly indulging in celebration of the Pakistan team’s win, in Rajasthan, a school teacher was expelled after her WhatsApp status over the match went viral on social media.The cases in J&K were filed after a few videos on social media claimed that people in Kashmir celebrated Pakistan’s win and also raised slogans after the match. Two celebratory videos, allegedly of MBBS students in two medical institutions in Srinagar, also went viral across social media platforms.The teacher of the privately run school in Rajasthan's Udaipur, Nafeesa Attari, had put up a picture of Pakistani cricketers from the match, with the caption “Jeeeet gayeeee… We wonnn", following which she was terminated by the school management. She later issued an apology via a video message. A case has also been lodged against the teacher under Section 153 of the IPC for provocation with intent to cause riot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-booked-4-in-custody-of-up-police-for-celebrating-pak-win-against-india-cmo-101635336253444.html
27-10-2021||India||Snap is about more immersive, personalised experiences: Murphy||Snap, an app you may remember as Snapchat, is a bit of everything including an instant messaging app, a social network and a strong creator community. Yet, Snap Inc. calls itself a camera company, because they say all the engagement emerges from the phone’s camera. The company has announced crossing the milestone of 100 million active Snapchat users in India at the second edition of Snap In India forum. This comes as the tech company has made significant push over the past few months towards localisation in India. Snap is embarking on a strategic partnership with online shopping platform Flipkart, to enable augmented reality (AR) via Snap’s camera kit on Flipkart’s store front on the smartphone apps. This will allow shoppers to experience a more immersive and personalised experience. The India localisation focus for Snap continues with the extension of the partnership with Samsung that adds AR powered lenses to native camera apps on Samsung Galaxy phones, which now extends to the M series phones too. Snap Map, a personalised virtual map of user surroundings, will now work with the Zomato app to include restaurant information and the ability to place orders from within the map. Snap has also confirmed that they will be launching a free, early-stage founder focused program in India called Yellow Tree Bootcamp. This is expected to help the Indian start-ups connect with experts to discuss fund raising, operations, growth, including how to leverage tools like Snap Kit and Snapchat Ads Manager for their businesses. Bobby Murphy, co-founder and chief technology officer at Snap, and in many ways the company’s secret weapon when it comes to developing new features and the experience on the Snapchat app, spoke with Hindustan Times to discuss why Snap calls it a camera company, the push for AR and the opportunities it provides apart from the usage trends from India and the engagement around unique applications such as Photomath. Here are the edited excerpts. Q. From the launch in 2012 to the introduction of Lenses in 2015 and the extensive AR focus from 2016, how has the journey been? We’ve seen incredible growth in India. I think our vision around augmented reality, which began many, many years ago, as we started recognising the special engagement around visual communication or this kind of frequency of interaction with our camera. It led us to invest early in creative effects through augmented reality which extends to efforts for building this platform around augmented reality. We have potential for augmented reality to really significantly change the way we engage with each other and with the world around us, because I think it represents a capacity to render or visualise software experiences in the way humans normally see the world and kind of imagine things in the world. And so, for us especially in India, it’s been incredibly exciting to see the growth of engagement. Our big milestone for 100 million Snapchatters in India is a real testament to the tremendous work our team in India has put in, as well as the support from team members outside of India. They have been working with local organisations, local creators, developers and companies to empower not just consumers to engage with reality in a strong way, which we have seen, but also the creators and developers on the other side of the platform. I think it is being recognized that AR has the potential to create new professional and career opportunities and for brands and companies to reach customers in highly differentiated, novel and new interactive ways. We’re very optimistic about the future of augmented reality in particular, and the growth momentum we are seeing in India. Q. How has the user engagement evolved with the AR features, which in a way bring overlays from post to pre-capture? Have the numbers been surprising? I think it reflects our own excitement of innovating around augmented reality because Snapchat is so rooted in visual communication. While capturing and sharing photos with close friends and family frequently, what I think originally began in some cases like simple post (photo) capture effects, things like geo-filters, drawing tools and captions really allowed us to think more actively about the potential use of advanced computer vision and graphics to bring more immersive effects into the pre (photo) capture experience. It is recognising that the live camera represents an even more interesting opportunity for us to not just help people express themselves creatively but also support their ability to learn about the world, and to try on products to shop in new ways. In India, it is just a tremendous amount of sustained and growing engagement around augmented reality. We have seen some really amazing engagement around the many holidays in India, and we have partnered with local creators who have reached huge numbers of engagement and created some really spectacular lenses. I think what’s exciting is that we are seeing success and momentum on both sides of our platform-- with Snapchatters engaging very heavily with augmented reality along with creators, brands and businesses recognising the opportunity to reach customers and audiences with brand new experiences. Also Read: ‘E-bikes are not just clean and green, they help people save more money’Q. You mentioned about shopping, particularly the partnership with Flipkart. Can you tell us a bit about what sort of features users can expect? So this is this is done through our product called camera kit, which we integrate into other companies applications to power AR with Snap’s AR technology. As with Flipkart, we have actually seen on our own service on Snapchat, some really positive engagement around commerce related lenses. We are excited about working with Flipkart to bring AR try-on to their service. Q. We’ve often wondered about Snap calling itself a camera company. With that as the background, where do Games and Maps fit in? Our idea of Snap as a camera company is a little bit abstract as Snap represent a service that reflects your personal view of the world including your close friends and family in your specific context, while this positioning is more literal in our investment in augmented reality and users looking at the world through our camera. In cases such as Games, our investment is really inspired by recognition that people socialise very strongly around games as many of us have experienced playing console games sitting on a couch with friends in the same room. The shared physical context and playing a game together was really the basis for our investment in the Games platform, but without having to be in the same room. Similarly Maps is an effort to reflect your personal view but through this new Canvas in a map. We have seen that most of the maps we engage with are fairly static and I will see the same map that you see, for example, but our perspective of our local environment should be tailored to our own unique personal tastes. And so, the Snapchat map being able to see who your friends are on the map, the places you kind of most visit and find to be most interesting, was where we saw an opportunity. Q. The partnership with Photomath to solve math equations is quite unique. How does that work, and what’s been the user engagement around that? Photomath is a fantastic partner for us, and they are a real great company. They built a really innovative product, using computer vision to understand and read a math equation and then help students and others solve those equations step by step. We as a company were extremely enthusiastic about this potential of the camera starting with creative expression but expanding into many more uses and Photomath is exactly one of these companies. Q. How has the user engagement in India been on the community side? I would say India represents a really great example of how powerful it is to partner locally, and very deeply. Our team and our community in India has done a great job. Empowering lens creators, educating new creators in ways that allow people in India to participate and lots of other people in their local communities through AR and through content and other features. We have seen that we are partnering deeply with local organisations and local creators, those are the kind of experiences that resonate most with our community in India. And that’s why we are so interested in continuing to invest in our lens studio workshops and the lens hackathon that we have done across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/snap-is-about-more-immersive-personalised-experiences-murphy-101635336397614.html
27-10-2021||India||Another night in jail for Aryan Khan as court adjourns hearing till tomorrow||The Bombay high court on Wednesday adjourned the hearing of the drugs-on-cruise case till Thursday afternoon after hearing the arguments of Amit Desai and Mukul Rohatgi. This was the second day of the hearing of the case in the high court. On Thursday, additional solicitor general Anil Kumar Singh will  present the NCB arguments. Former attorney general of India, Mukul Rohtagi, who appeared for Aryan Khan on Wednesday said the arrest memo did not give true and correct grounds for arrest. Referring to Section 50 of the CrPC Act, Rohatgi said, "Article 22 of the Constitution is more important than Section 50 of CrPC. It states that no person should be held without being informed about the grounds of arrest and the person shall have the right to consult a lawyer of his choice."‘Arrested for an offence not committed’: Senior lawyers contend in drugs caseRohatgi said the remand application was misleading as it projected that a large quantity of drugs was recovered from Aryan Khan. "Remand application must mention true and correct facts," Rohatgi said."Please look at the arrest memo of Aryan Khan. It is identical. What it refers to are items not recovered from me. There is a legal connotation for this. The law says you must give true and correct grounds for this. This takes us back to the CrPC section 50. Persons arrested have the right to be informed of arrest and grounds of bail," Rohatgi added.What Amit Desai said arguing from Arbaaz MerchantSenior advocate Amit Desai appeared for Arbaaz Merchant on Wednesday presented his argument at length and said there was no 'conspiracy' over the rave party. Aryan, Arbaaz and Munmun were arrested individually and at that time the charge of conspiracy was not imposed."Especially when the offences alleged are punishable with less than one year. A notice under section 41a of the CrPC should have been issued, asking them to join the investigation," Desai said terming the arrest illegal. "Bail is the rule and jail is the exception. Now it has become arrest is the rule and bail is the exception," Desai said.As Aryan, Arbaaz and Moonmoon were arrested for not consuming the drugs, Desai saod that they have been arrested for an offence which is not committed. The intention to consume should not apply as no medical test was done.Desai also cited the cases of two guests who were on the ship and were given bail."I am seeking bail in a case where the punishment is only one year. And where there is no evidence of conspiracy," Desai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-night-in-jail-for-aryan-khan-as-court-adjourns-hearing-till-tomorrow-101635335972673.html
27-10-2021||India||Fifth BJP legislator joins Trinamool Congress in less than six months||In another blow to the Bharatiya Janata Party in West Bengal, Krishna Kalyani --- the party’s MLA from Raiganj in north Bengal --- joined the ruling Trinamool Congress on Wednesday. Since the Mamata Banerjee-led party returned to power for the third consecutive time with a thumping victory in the West Bengal assembly polls in May this year, at least five legislators, including Kalyani, have joined the TMC. Last month, former Union minister and party MP Babul Supriyo also switched over to the TMC. “In BJP there is no audit of good performance. There is only conspiracy. You cannot win an election with just conspiracy. To win an election you need development,” Kalyani said after joining the TMC at a hotel in Kolkata. He had quit the BJP on October 1 after being slapped with a show cause notice by the party for publicly speaking against senor party leaders including BJP’s state president Sukanta Majumdar and former Union minister and Raiganj MP Debasree Chaudhuri. “This is his personal view. I don’t want to comment. He has been detached with the party for long. He is a businessman. Everyone knows what a businessman needs to do to prosper in the state. People of Raiganj will give him a befitting reply in future,” said Majumdar. Another BJP leader Firoze Kamal Gazi alias Babu Master also quit the party. Earlier an influential TMC leader and a strongman from Basirhat in North 24 Parganas, he had recently joined the BJP. He even apologized to TMC chief Mamata Banerjee. TMC’s national general secretary and Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee had recently said that several BJP leaders are willing to join the TMC but the ruling party hasn’t opened its doors for all. “The day we open our doors, the next day BJP would be wiped out in West Bengal,” Abhishek Banerjee had said while addressing a public rally last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fifth-bjp-legislator-joins-trinamool-congress-in-less-than-six-months-101635335437528.html
27-10-2021||India||‘Nikah wouldn’t have been performed if': What Qazi says on Sameer Wankhede's 1st marriage||Maulana Mujammil Ahmed, the Qazi who claimed to have performed the first marriage of Sameer Wankhede with Shabana Quraishi said at the time of the wedding, Sameer Wankhede belonged to a Muslim family. Otherwise, the 'nikah' would not have been solemnised as per Islam, news agency PTI reported.“I had performed the 'nikah' of Sameer Wankhede and Shabana Quraishi. Her father had approached me to perform the marriage in the Lokhandwala complex area of Mumbai. The groom's name was Sameer Dawood Wankhede who married Shabana Quraishi," the Qazi told a news channel, according to PTI. He also claimed that the "Mehar" amount mentioned in the nikah-nama was ₹33,000. "Mehar" in Islam is a security deposit which signifies a contract made by the groom and his family to his bride at the time of their nikkah.What is the controversy over Sameer Wankhende's 1st marriage? 5 pointsThe NCB officer's first marriage is in the news after Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik on Wednesday claimed that Sameer Wankhede's first marriage was performed according to Islamic rituals. Earlier, Nawab Malik claimed Sameer Wankhede is Muslim, which Wankhede refuted claiming that he is from a multi-religious family, where his father is Hindu and his mother was a Muslim.After the minister posted the purported photos of the 'nikah', Wankhede said his first marriage was under the Islamic ritual as that was his mother's wish. He never converted to Islam and that's why after the 'nikah', they got their marriage registered under the Special Marriage Act."Fulfilling the wish of one's mother in a secular country is not a crime. I am proud of secularism in our country. My mother was a Muslim and my father is a Hindu. I love both of them very much," Wankhede said.In the same year of his first marriage, he got divorced and the divorce too was completed under the Special Marriage Act.“I do not understand Urdu, hence I am not aware what my name was written in their documents (nikah nama). She (my late wife) might have mentioned my name as Dawood affectionately. People do call each other with different names out of love,” Wankhede's father Dnyandev Wankhede said.The Special Marriage Act has the provision for interfaith marriages. Had Sameer Wankhede already converted to Islam, then there was no need for the Special Marriage Act, Sameer's wife Kranti Redkar said on Wednesday.Apart from the allegation of extortion, Sameer Wankhede is now accused of forging documents to get the SC quota in UPSC.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nikah-wouldn-t-have-been-performed-if-what-qazi-says-on-wankhede-s-marriage-101635334741988.html
27-10-2021||India||SC’s Pegasus probe panel has experts in digital forensics, malware detection||The Supreme Court on Wednesday appointed a panel of cyber experts comprising Naveen Kumar Chaudhary, Prabaharan P and Ashwin Anil Gumaste to probe into the alleged use of Israeli spyware Pegasus for surveillance of politicians, journalists, and activists. Former Supreme Court judge RV Raveendran will oversee the functioning of the panel.Naveen Kumar Chaudhary is a professor of cyber security and digital forensics at Gujarat’s National Forensic Sciences University. He also specialises in e-governance, network security, and communication engineering. Chaudhary is a member of a University Grants Commission body that is developing an ecosystem for cyber security at the country’s higher education institutions.Also Read: Pegasus attempt to crush vibrancy of Indian democracy; welcome SC’s step: Rahul GandhiPrabaharan P is a professor at Kerala’s Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham. With over two decades of experience in computer science and security areas, Prabaharan’s expertise includes malware detection, critical infrastructural security, complex binary analysis, artificial intelligence, and machine learning. Prabaharan was given the Defence Research and Development Organisation’s Academy Excellence Award in 2018 for research.Ashwin Anil Gumaste of the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Bombay specialises in optical networks, broadband networks, access networks, dynamic optical networks, and other related technologies. He is the recipient of the 2018 Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Prize for science and technology.Former Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Alok Joshi and Sundeep Oberoi, chairman of a subcommittee at the International Organisation of Standardisation, will assist Raveendran in overseeing the panel’s work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scs-pegasus-probe-panel-has-experts-in-digital-forensics-malware-detection-101635335017876.html
27-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: China added 307 billionaires as new energy sector booms and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.China added 307 billionaires last year as new energy sector propels wealthChina added 307 billionaires in the past one year with the list of the country’s richest persons now headed by its “bottled water king”, followed by the founder of TikTok and then by the country’s “battery king”, the annual Hurun list of the wealthy revealed on Wednesday. Read moreT20 World Cup: 'Not South Africa of Nelson Mandela' - Salman Butt questions Quinton de Kock's actionsSouth Africa batsman Quinton de Kock has come under major scrutiny ever since his refusal to bend the knee in order to support the 'Black Lives Matter' movement. Read moreAdhyayan Suman on Aryan Khan: Don't know if he was a druggie, but was heartbreaking to see SRK going to meet him in jailAdhyayan Suman has extended support to Shah Rukh Khan as his son Aryan Khan continues to be in jail in a drugs case. Adhyayan has said that Shah Rukh Khan does not deserve to face scrutiny, “even if Aryan had taken drugs”. Read moreMaruti Suzuki may sell EVs before 2025. But ‘conditions apply’Maruti Suzuki has had a firm grip over the small passenger vehicle segment for decades but recent months have been a drive down choppy waters due to global shortage in semiconductor and rising prices of components. Read moreAthiya Shetty's strappy peach sharara set with pockets is every girl's dreamTaking pastel fashion to new heights this festive season, Bollywood actor Athiya Shetty dolled up for an advertorial in a strappy peach sharara set and the Internet was on fire. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-china-added-307-billionaires-as-new-energy-sector-booms-and-all-the-latest-news-101635333153837.html
27-10-2021||India||‘Infringement of constitutional guarantees’: Top advocates contend in drugs case||The Bombay high court on Wednesday resumed the hearing on the bail application of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's son, Aryan Khan, in connection to his alleged involvement in a cruise ship drugs case.Arguing before the high court, senior advocates called the custodial detention of Aryan Khan, Arbaaz Seth Merchant and Munmum Dhamecha a “direct infringement of constitutional guarantees” while assuring that the trio would cooperate with the investigating agencies if they were granted bail in the case.A single bench of Justice Nitin Sambre was hearing the applications for bail plea of Aryan Khan and his friend Arbaaz Seth Merchant, after the court adjourned the hearing on Tuesday evening.Aryan Khan was being represented by India's former attorney general Mukul Rohatgi and celebrated lawyer Satish Maneshinde among a battery of advocates, including partners of law firms Karanjawala & Co and Desai Desai Carrimjee & Mulla, while senior advocate Amit Desai represented Arbaaz Merchant.Meanwhile, additional solicitor general Anil Singh and advocate Advait Sethna argued on behalf of the prosecution.Aryan Khan is in jail along with Arbaaz Seth Merchant and model Munmun Dhamecha since October 7, following the Narcotics Control Bureau's (NCB) raid on a Goa-bound cruise off Mumbai’s coast on October 2.Beginning the argument on Wednesday afternoon, advocate Amit Desai said Arbaaz Merchant and the other youths were charged only with possession and consumption of small quantities of charas. “The trio — Aryan Khan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha — had come only for the purpose of consumption. There was no conspiracy,” Desai said, adding, “Even those who apprehended them, treated them as coming there individually. Punishment for which is one year.”The advocate argued before the court that instead of arresting the trio for what the NCB officials claimed was an “individual act” they should have instead given notice under 41A of the CrPC (notice of appearance before police office) and asked them to join the investigation.Invoking the 2014 judgement in Arnesh Kumar vs State of Bihar case, Desai submitted before the court that “arrest itself was illegal", stressing that “in minor offences arrest is an exception.”“The judgement of Arnesh Kumar is a dictum in these kinds of matters. There is a change in rule for minor offences, rules are no arrest and arrest only under the exception,” Desai told the court.“Bail is the rule and jail is the exception. Now it has become ‘arrest is the rule and bail is the exception’”, Desai said. Stressing that the NCB didn't serve the trio any notice under Section 41A of the CrPC, the advocate argued that they should be released on bail. “First remand application does not talk about conspiracy. So the court, at the time of the first remand, was misled into believing that they were also charged under sections 28 and 29 of NDPS Act,” Desai said.“The magistrate's court was told later eight people were arrested for conspiracy though it was not what had happened. Because of these issues, we are in custody for the past 22 days. Till today there is no arrest for conspiracy and conspiracy is a separate offence,” he added.Desai further told the court that the trio is not accused of 'use' as defined under the NDPS Act as per the arrest memo. “No allegation in the arrest memo of 'use'. So there was a clear understanding that this was a case of nothing more than personal consumption,” he said.“If there was an intention to consume then Section 27 of the NDPS Act does not apply. We have been arrested for an offence that was not committed. Consumption is a verb that has not happened and, hence, even Section 27 of the NDPS Act should have not been applied.”“The special NDPS court rejected our application because of conspiracy. The WhatsApp chats don't support the conspiracy theory whatsoever," the lawyer said.A special NDPS court rejected the bail plea of Aryan Khan on October 20 and extended his judicial custody till October 30. The special court ruled that certain WhatsApp chats showed Aryan Khan's “involvement in illegal drugs activities" and his “nexus with peddlers and suppliers of banned drugs”.Reading a 2001 judgement of the Bombay high court, which observed that “meeting of minds is necessary to prove conspiracy,” Desai said, “Three people individually going on a vessel and deciding to consume is not a conspiracy.”Pointing out that a special NDPS court on Tuesday granted bail to two people in the same case, the advocate said “2.4gm of ganja was found from one of them.”He also said that the Whastapp chats don't support the “conspiracy theory” as claimed by the NCB. “What is abundantly clear is that there are no WhatsApp chats that connect conspiracy to the rave party…past events are connected asking for custody. Nobody stops investigation after bail. There are circumstances that show there is no conspiracy at all. But what is the need of custody when punishment is just one year."Desai assured the court that the investigation won't be stopped if bail is granted.Arguing before the court in Aryan Khan's plea next, Mukul Rohatgi said the arrest memo “did not give true and correct grounds for arrest”, as referred to Section 50 of the CrPC. “Article 22 of the Constitution is more important than Section 50 of the CrPC. It states that no person should be held without being informed about the grounds of arrest and the person shall have the right to consult a lawyer of his choice,” the former attorney general contended.Article 22 of the Constitution states that no person should be held without being informed about the grounds of arrest and the person shall have the right to consult a lawyer of their choice.Rohatgi further argued that the remand application was misleading and indicates that “large quantities mentioned in that were recovered from Aryan Khan.”Advocate Ali Kashif Khan, who appeared on behalf of Munmun Dhamecha, told the court that the 28-year-old model was invited on the cruise ship in lieu of payment. The advocate said Dhamecha was in the room along with one Somiya Singh and Baldev when the NCB came for the alleged search. No drugs were found on Dhamecha during the search.“The case is against Somiya Singh, not me. The rolling paper used to smoke was recovered from Somiya. It's in their own document,” the advocate informed the court, adding that the other two were allowed to go.“I am made a scapegoat as I was on the cruise… If I am arrested as suspect then all 1,300 people on a cruise should have been arrested,” the advocate argued on behalf of Dhamecha.The NCB argued before the special NDPS court last week that Aryan Khan was in “conscious possession” of illegal drugs as the agency found at least 6 grams of charas from Arbaaz Merchant, who allegedly admitted to the investigators that they intended to use it for “consumption and enjoyment.”During the hearing on Aryan Khan's bail plea on Tuesday, the 23-year-old star-kid's lawyers told the high court that he should be given bail because no drugs were recovered from him. They also said that WhatsApp conversations used by the NCB were not related to the cruise from where Aryan Khan was arrested three weeks ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aryan-khan-bail-hearing-arbaaz-merchant-ncb-cruise-ship-drugs-raid-mukul-rohatgi-101635330550343.html
27-10-2021||India||Pegasus attempt to crush vibrancy of Indian democracy; welcome SC's step: Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday welcomed that the Supreme Court formed a panel to look into the allegations of Pegasus spyware. He said that buying the Pegasus software was an attack on the ‘vibrancy of Indian democracy’. He also said that the product was either bought by the Prime Minister or the Union home minister.“This is illegal. No one is above the nation and its institutions,” Rahul said in a press conference.Rahul Gandhi also claimed that the government in Karnataka was toppled using Pegasus. “This is a deeper problem. It is one thing if you are using Pegasus for tackling terrorism or national security. That is completely a different issue but if the Prime Minister is using it as a personal tool and the data is arriving on the PM's desk, then that is totally criminal,” he said. “We will follow up on that. We will make sure of that… Government's have been dropped, right? In Karnataka, government was dropped using Pegasus,” Rahul Gandhi further added. He said if data regarding opposition leaders or even the ‘Election Commission’ is reaching the ‘Prime Minister’ with the help of Pegasus, then it is a criminal act. Rahul Gandhi said that the decision to buy the spyware from the Israeli firm NSO was an attempt to ‘crush the vibrancy of the democracy’ and the ‘discussions that happen in a democracy’. “It is a big step that the Supreme Court has taken and we hope that the truth will come out of this,” Rahul Gandhi said. He also expressed concern that if any other country accessed information of the people who were allegedly snooped upon using the spyware. “The list includes members of the judiciary, opposition leaders as well as BJP leaders. Did any other country have access to information of our people?" Rahul asked. Cyber experts comprising Naveen Kumar Chaudhary, Prabaharan P and Ashwin Anil Gumaste were appointed by the apex court on Wednesday to probe the alleged use of Israeli spyware Pegasus for surveillance of politicians, journalists, and activists. Former Supreme Court judge RV Raveendran will oversee the functioning of the panel, according to a report by HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pegasus-attempt-to-crush-vibrancy-of-indian-democracy-welcome-sc-s-step-rahul-101635333617625.html
27-10-2021||India||Nagaland minister says state has become a refuge for Nagas fleeing Myanmar||People from Myanmar have continued to seek refuge in India since the military in the neighbouring country seized power in a coup in February and sought to clamp down on resistance. Nagaland, one of the four states in the northeast that share borders with Myanmar, has become a refuge for Myanmar’s Nagas, said state minister Neiba Kronu. Naga people in Myanmar are mostly from the Sagaing region and Kachin state. Kronu said an assessment on how many refugees have crossed over to Nagaland from Myanmar is underway. Most of them entered Mon district, he said. Three more Nagaland districts share borders with Myanmar. Kronu said these are “our own (Naga) people” and added that civil society and church organisations were extending aid to them on humanitarian grounds.“We are yet to ascertain the exact number of people who have come into the state. We shall soon take a decision on this,” Kronu said.Since March, around 13,000 refugees, mostly from Chin state, have entered Mizoram for refuge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-minister-says-state-has-become-a-refuge-for-nagas-fleeing-myanmar-101635332617644.html
27-10-2021||India||November 25 elections: Left Front declares candidates for Tripura civic polls||The Left Front on Wednesday declared its candidates for the coming elections for Tripura’s 20 urban local bodies, including the Agartala Municipal Corporation. The polls will be held on November 25.Of the Agartala Municipal Corporation’s 51 wards, the Left Front has pitched candidates for 35. “ We have declared the party candidates today. We have already requested the state election commission to ensure peaceful polling as the law and order situation in the state is alarming,” said former CPI(M) legislator Ratan Das while announcing the list of candidates. “Democracy has been murdered. Many of our Left leaders and activists faced attacks during the past 40 months or so. People are facing crises of food and work, and the Covid-19 situation has become bad. We want the restoration of democracy, constitutional rights of people and the safety of our activists,” said Das. A total of 770 polling stations will be set up for the elections in which around 5,94,000 people are expected to cast their ballot. The filing of nominations began on Wednesday and will close on November 3, followed by scrutiny of papers on November 5. The last date of withdrawal of nomination papers is November 8. The counting of votes will be held on November 28, three days after the elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/november-25-elections-left-front-declares-candidates-for-tripura-civic-polls-101635331777654.html
27-10-2021||India||Had I been out of jail, Tejashwi would have formed govt in Bihar: Lalu Prasad||Making his first appearance after six years following incarceration at Tarapur, RJD chief Lalu Prasad on Wednesday took pot-shots at the Nitish Kumar-led government calling it a dispensation facing internal friction among allies. He also accused the JD (U) strongman of resorting to cheating before forming the government after the Bihar assembly polls held last year. “People of Bihar had made Tejashwi the chief minister. But Nitish Kumar formed the government through cheating and manipulation. Had I been outside, it would not have happened,” he said, amid thunderous applause from the crowd in a seven minute speech at Idgah Maidan in Tarapur where by-polls are scheduled along with the Kushweshwar Asthan assembly seat on October 30. The RJD chief has been making accusations that the RJD lost several seats owing to electoral manipulations carried out during the counting of the 2020 assembly polls in which RJD had got 75 seats and was close to the magic figure of 122 with the opposition led Grand Alliance scoring 110.Prasad, displaying his well-known wit made sharp comments laced with metaphor, and said the so-called ‘double engine’ government in Bihar- an euphemism for NDA ruling both the state and Centre-- had failed on all fronts as the engines were pulling each other in different directions. “Is sarkar ko koi idhar toh koi udhar se khich raha hai ( this government is being pulled in different directions),” the RJD chief said, an oblique reference to how there was growing friction between BJP and JD(U) in the state government apparently obstructing development initiatives. The RJD and JD(U) will face off in an intense battle in the upcoming by-polls which has become multi-cornered as the Congress too has fielded its candidates from both the seats. Prasad, who has started displaying his trademark sarcasm against his opponents, also mocked Kumar for saying that the RJD chief could get him shot. “I had told we will give visharjan (immersion) of the NDA government. Now, Nitish is saying I can get him shot. Why will I do that? He will himself die,” he said. Prasad took pot-shots at the state government over prohibition and the Chief Minister’s alleged failure to get the special status category demand fulfilled. “In Bihar, it’s rats that drink liquor,” he said, wearing a smile to make the point as how prohibition had opened channels of illegal liquor smuggling in the state. There have been media reports of how seized illegal liquor bottles have vanished from police stations with cops claiming that rodents drank up the liquor. The RJD chief, who visited Tarapur in a helicopter and is scheduled to address another meeting at Kushweshwar Asthan in the afternoon on the last day of campaigning in both the seats, also poked fun at the Chief Minister for not getting the special category status demand fulfilled despite re-aligning with the BJP. “Nitish had vowed he would prefer to bite the dust than join hands with the BJP. But he went back on his word and joined the saffron party. Did he get the special status for Bihar?” the 74-year-old former railway minister said, exhorting the crowd to vote for the RJD and oust the NDA from power. He also referred to how he had given unconditional support to Kumar to make him the CM after JD (U) had joined hands with RJD and Congress in the 2015 assembly polls. “But he chose to join the BJP. In Bihar, there is no development and unemployment is rampant,” Prasad said, trashing the NDA’s claim of making big strides on the development front. Besides, he also underlined his campaign for caste census would continue as it would give benefits to the poor and weaker sections in welfare schemes based on the numerical strength of the OBCs and backward classes. “I am now back in Bihar and will continue to be among you people. We have to fight,” he said. The RJD has fielded Arun Kumar from the Tarapur seat and Ganesh Bharti from the Kushweshwar Asthan seat. State president of the RJD Jagdanand Singh, former MP Jai Prakash Yadav and other senior leaders were present at RJD chief’s meeting. Leader of the opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav also addressed rallies at Tarapur and announced that there would be a big rally on the issue of unemployment early next year either in January or February at Gandhi Maidan in Patna. Tejashwi, during his rallies in election meetings last year, had promised to give 10 lakh jobs to youth if his party came to power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/had-i-been-out-of-jail-tejashwi-would-have-formed-govt-in-bihar-says-lalu-prasad-101635331597439.html
27-10-2021||India||Covid-19: Surat makes RT-PCR test mandatory for people returning to city||With a view to curb the rising number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, Surat has now made it mandatory for the people to carry an RT-PCR test report in order to enter the Gujarat city after the Diwali holidays, an official told news agency PTI on Wednesday.The direction comes in view of a huge number of people, specifically migrant workers in Surat's diamond factories, going back home during the festivals along with people going on vacation.As per the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC), people returning to the city after vacationing will have to produce an RT-PCR test report which is not older than 72 hours. Pradeep Umarigar, the municipal officer of health, SMC, told PTI that the test is mandatory for all, even if they have been administered with both vaccine doses against Covid-19.Umarigar said that the civic body will place its teams at bus stands, road-entry points and the airport to check the test reports of people before entering Surat. The SMC will also conduct the RT-PCR test for those who were unable to get it before, he added.Also Read| Eight Surat tuition centre students test positive for Covid-19, classes sealed"We also appeal to people to take their second dose of Covid-19 vaccine before going on vacations. Those who have recently tested Covid-19 positive will be given a relaxation," the above official also told the news agency on Wednesday.Surat is currently adding the most number of cases towards Gujarat's daily Covid-19 tally. On October 16, eight students of a tuition centre were detected positive for the viral disease which led to the closure of the premises.In total, Gujarat has recorded 826,464 Covid-19 cases since the beginning of the pandemic last year. The total cases include 816,205 recoveries, 171 active cases and 10,088 deaths.On Tuesday, Gujarat recorded 30 new cases, 18 discharges and zero deaths. This is the second time in October that the daily tally reached or crossed the 30-mark. Previously, the state saw 34 infections on October 14.Of Tuesday's case count, Surat and Ahmedabad added the most number of cases at 8 each, followed by Valsad (5), Vadodara (3).(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/returning-to-surat-post-diwali-holidays-here-s-what-is-mandatory-to-enter-city-101635326971949.html
27-10-2021||India||What is the controversy over Sameer Wankhende's 1st marriage? 5 points||Following Aryan Khan's arrest in the drugs-on-cruise case, Narcotics Control Bureau Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede has come under the attack of Nationalist Congress Party leader Nawab Malik, whose son-in-law was also arrested by the agency on the accusation of possessing drugs which the court said was some herbs. Nawab Malik has accused Sameer Wankhede of extortion, involving friends as witnesses in cases etc. A recent allegation against Wankhede is that he made a witness sign on blank papers, which is being probed. Meanwhile, Nawab Malik has revealed family details of Sameer Wankhede and claimed that despite being a 'Muslim', he got the IRS job in the SC quota. On Wednesday, Nawab Malik released the details of Sameer Wankhede's first marriage which was done according to Islamic tradition.Aryan Khan case: Nawab Malik posts photos of Sameer Wankhede’s ‘nikah’Here are 5 points about the ongoing controversy.1. Nawab Malik released photos and details of Sameer Wankhede's first marriage with Shabana Quraishi. The wedding was performed according to Islamic rituals.2. Sameer Wankhede accepted that it was an Islamic wedding but that was only because of his mother's wish he said.3. Sameer Wankhede's father Dnyandev Wankhede said he is Dalit and Sameer Wankhede never converted to Islam. Earlier, Nawab Malik claimed that the original name of Sameer Wankhede's father is Dawood, which he refuted. Reports said he was called Dawood in the area where he used to live.Not a crime, fulfilled my mother's wish: Wankhede on minister's 'Nikah' attack4. Sameer Wankhede's second wife Kranti Wankhede said Sameer was Hindu when the first marriage took place and that is why they were married under the Special Marriage Act.5. According to a PTI report, the Qazi who had performed the first marriage of Sameer Wankhede, the Mumbai zonal director of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in 2006, on Wednesday claimed the officer belonged to a Muslim family otherwise the 'nikah' would not have been solemnised as per Islam.“I had performed the 'nikah' of Sameer Wankhede and Shabana Qureshi. Her father had approached me to perform the marriage in the Lokhandwala complex area of Mumbai. The groom's name was Sameer Dawood Wankhede who married Shabana Qureshi,” Maulana Mujammil Ahmed told a news channel, according to the PTI report.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-is-the-controversy-over-sameer-wankhende-s-1st-marrige-5-points-101635329712531.html
27-10-2021||India||‘Consider displaying logo of Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’: I&B Ministry to media platforms||Media platforms may consider displaying the official logo of the Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav initiative, the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting said on Wednesday, as it issued an advisory in this regard for print, electronic and digital media orgnisations. Explaining the purpose behind the move, the ministry said that this was being done to make citizens aware of the "rich history of the country and its commitment to a bright future." .@MIB_India issues advisory to all print, electronic media, digital media, and private TV channels to display the #AzadiKaAmritMahotsav logo during news programmes, reports, and bulletins pic.twitter.com/pvW6ovwliC“As you would be aware, country-wide celebrations are being undertaken under the Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav campaign to commemorate the completion of 75 years of India's independence. The campaign celebrates the glorious history of our our freedom struggle and the journey of socio-cultural political and economic progress over the last 75 years,” a statement from the I&B ministry said. It also noted that events under the initiative were being organised by central/state governments, civil society and other organisations under the five pillars: The Freedom Struggle, Ideas@75, Achievements@75, Actions@75; and Resolve@75“In view of this, media platforms may consider displaying the official Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav logo during news programmes, reports and bulletins especially while reporting on matters relating to 75 years of India's independence so that the viewers may be informed about the campaign, and take over the spirit of public participation envisaged under the Mahotsav,” the statement further said.Lauding private media, the ministry said that the former has consistently taken the lead in celebrating the country's patriotic spirit and national achievements. The media, it said, should display the logo during the period of the celebrations.Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav on March 12 this year, on the 91st anniversary of the Mahatma Gandhi-led Dandi March. The initiative aims to commemorate 75 years of independence, which the country will complete on August 15, 2022. It will conclude on the same date the very next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/consider-displaying-logo-of-azadi-ka-amrit-mahotsav-i-b-ministry-to-media-platforms-101635327484198.html
27-10-2021||India||Gandhian SN Subba Rao passes away in Jaipur||Eminent Gandhian SN Subba Rao passed away in Jaipur on Wednesday of cardiac arrest. He was 92. Rao was admitted to Jaipur’s Sawai Man Singh Hospital. His condition deteriorated on Tuesday night and he passed away on Wednesday morning.Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot and state Congress chief Govind Singh Dotasra were among those who paid homage to Rao at Jaipur’s Vinoba Gyan Mandir. Gehlot said Rao inspired youths of the country for decades through his camps. He too attended several of his camps.“I visited him in Bengaluru last year when he was unwell. I told him that I have come to take you with me to Jaipur. Recently, he wrote a letter informing me that he is coming to Jaipur,” said Gehlot.Gehlot said Rao was admitted to the hospital and he met him several times there. “I came in contact with him when I was 10-year-old. I have also attended many of his camps in Jodhpur. His songs inspired many and I keep his songs on my mobile phone. I was listening to them on the way,” he said.Also Read |UP sanitation worker death: Kin meet Gehlot, seek protection from UP PoliceEarlier, Gehlot tweeted, “The death of the Gandhian ideologue, who inspired the youth of the country for more than 70 years continuously through his camps, is an irreparable loss.” He added Rao started a campaign to make the youth aware throughout his life, telling the new generation about the country even abroad. “I felt at peace while participating in his camps.”People close to Gehlot say Rao was the guiding force for Gehlot in setting up a separate department for peace and non-violence, and a Gandhi Museum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gandhian-sn-subba-rao-passes-away-in-jaipur-101635329437104.html
27-10-2021||India||Covid-19: ‘Jumla version’ of vaccine story won’t save lives, says Rahul Gandhi||Close to a week after India touched the 1 billion mark in Covid-19 vaccinations, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi criticised the Narendra Modi-led government on Wednesday, urging it to focus on those who are yet to be vaccinated instead of cherry-picking and celebrating only the positives of the inoculation drive.The Congress MP from Wayanad took to Twitter, sharing Congress president Sonia Gandhi’s article in an Indian newspaper and posting, “Jumla version of the vaccine story won’t save lives. Actual vaccination will.” Rahul Gandhi added the hashtag: “DutyToVaccinate”.Jumla-version of the vaccine story won’t save lives. Actual vaccination will. #DutyToVaccinate pic.twitter.com/oFRBWkHwMWThe word “jumla” in Hindi loosely means “false promise” and was popularised by Rahul Gandhi during a speech in the Parliament in 2018.In her article in the newspaper that Rahul Gandhi cited, Sonia Gandhi congratulated the country’s health and science community for achieving a billion Covid-19 vaccinations, but also pointed out that India has a long way to go when it comes to safeguarding the entire population against the Covid-19 pandemic.The Congress president also took a jab at PM Modi’s promise of seeking to fully vaccinate all eligible Indians by the end of the year, saying the target is unlikely at this stage.The PM likes to emphasize that vaccines are free, while conveniently forgetting that they have always been free. It is the BJP govt that moved away from India's universal free vaccination policy.: Congress President Smt. Sonia Gandhi #DutyToVaccinate pic.twitter.com/c4EbGJ0qf0The Congress party’s official Twitter handle shared Sonia Gandhi’s article and quoted her in a tweet, saying, “The PM likes to emphasise that vaccines are free, while conveniently forgetting that they have always been free. It is the BJP government that moved away from India’s universal free vaccination policy.”The post used the hashtag “DutyToVaccinate”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-jumla-version-of-vaccine-story-won-t-save-lives-says-rahul-gandhi-101635328837176.html
27-10-2021||India||NIA court convicts 9 of 10 accused in 2013 serial blasts in Modi's Patna rally||A special NIA court on Wednesday convicted nine out of 10 accused in the 2013 serial blasts in Patna's Gandhi Maidan. At least six people were killed and over 90 sustained injuries during the blasts that occured during a rally by the then prime ministerial candidate Narendra Modi at Patna's Gandhi Maidan on October 27, 2013. The court of additional district and sessions judge Gurwinder Singh Malhotra, which held the nine guilty of planting and detonating the explosions, is likely to pronounce the quantum of the sentence on November 1.According to multiple media reports, six of the explosions took place around the venue of the rally while two bombs went off within 150 metres of the dais from where Modi addressed the gathering. Another bomb went off some 20 minutes before Modi and top BJP leaders took the stage. Four live bombs were found near the spot of the rally later. A crude bomb reportedly exploded at a toilet near Patna railway station.However, Modi went ahead with the rally to “calm nerves” and prevent a stampede at the packed Gandhi Maidan.The National Investigation Agency (NIA) took over the case on November 6, 2013, and filed a chargesheet against 11 accused, including a minor, in August 2014. One of the accused, Tariq Ansari, succumbed to his injuries from the bomb that went off inside a toilet near the Patna railway station. Meanwhile, the minor accused was sentenced on October 12, 2017 for three years by the Juvenile Justice Board after being found guilty.The NIA nabbed alleged mastermind Haider Ali alias ‘Black Beauty’, Taufeeq Ansari, Mohammed Mojibullah Ansari and Numan Ansari in connection with the case in 2014.The NIA said the accused had planned the blasts at the Gandhi Maidan rally after they failed to get close to Modi at previous rallies in New Delhi, Chhatisgarh and Uttar Pradesh that year.The final hearing of the case started in June 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-court-convicts-9-of-10-accused-in-2013-serial-blasts-in-modi-s-patna-rally-101635322578825.html
27-10-2021||India||China's new 'land boundary law' can have implications on bilateral agreements: MEA||The ministry of external affairs (MEA) on Wednesday said China’s new legislation, titled ‘Land Boundary Law’ can have an implication on existing bilateral agreements on border management. Also, the boundary question is of concern to India as the same remained unresolved between the two nations, MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said in a statement.“Such unilateral move will have no bearing on the arrangements that both sides have already reached earlier, whether it is on the boundary question or for maintaining peace and tranquillity along LAC in India-China border areas,” the statement read, adding that India expected China to avoid undertaking any action under the pretext of the new law that could unilaterally alter the situation in the border areas.China’s unilateral decision to bring about a legislation which can have implication on our existing bilateral arrangements on border management as well as on the boundary question is of concern to us: MEA on China's new 'Land Boundary Law' pic.twitter.com/LpBE78l3gKRegarding the boundary question that the MEA said remained unresolved, the MEA said, “Both sides have agreed to seek a fair, reasonable and mutually acceptable resolution to the boundary question through consultations on an equal footing. We have also concluded several bilateral agreements, protocols and arrangements to maintain peace and tranquility along the LAC… in the interim”   “The passage of this new law does not in our view confer any legitimacy to the so-called China-Pakistan "Boundary Agreement” of 1963 which the Government of India has consistently maintained is an illegal and invalid agreement," Bagchi further said in the statement.According to the statement, the new law stated among other things that China abided by treaties concluded with or jointly acceded to by countries on land boundary affairs. It also has provisions to carry out reorganisation of districts in border areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinas-new-land-boundary-law-can-have-implications-on-bilateral-ties-mea-101635327311087.html
27-10-2021||India||9 convicted for role in 2013 Patna blasts at Modi rally venue||A special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Wednesday convicted nine people of their role in serial blasts at the venue of Narendra Modi’s election rally at Patna’s Gandhi Maidan in 2013. At least six crude bombs left six people dead and around 90 wounded before Modi, who was then the Bharatiya Janata Party’s prime ministerial candidate, addressed the rally. The explosive devices went off after a blast at a nearby railway station. Four unexploded devices were also found. Modi addressed the rally for around an hour after the blasts and called for unity between poor Hindus and Muslims.Additional district and sessions judge Gurwinder Singh Malhotra held Imtiyaz Ansari, Haider Ali alias “Black Beauty”, Mohammed Mujibullah Ansari, Umar Siddiqui, Azharuddin Qureshi, Ahmed Hussain, Nawaz Ansari, Mohammed Iftekhar Alam, and Feroz Aslam guilty of planting and detonating the explosions. A 10th accused, Fakruddin, was acquitted due to want of evidence. Malhotra will pronounce the quantum of the sentence on November 1 after hearing the arguments of the prosecution and the defence lawyers.Also Read | Modi government has zero-tolerance policy against terrorism: Amit Shah in PulwamaLawyer Lalan Singh, who represented the NIA, told reporters the nine were convicted under the Indian Penal Code, the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act and the Explosives Act. The Patna Police first probed the case before it was handed over to the NIA. Most of the accused belong to Jharkhand.Singh said they have demanded death sentences for the accused. He added the convicts were former Students’ Islamic Movement of India activists.The court pronounced the judgment in the presence of the convicts amid tight security at the Patna civil court complex. A heavy police force was deployed in and around the court building.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/9-convicted-for-role-in-2013-patna-blasts-at-modi-rally-venue-101635327337221.html
27-10-2021||India||Pegasus controversy: Opposition welcomes move as SC forms probe committee||The Supreme Court on Wednesday formed an expert committee that has been tasked to probe allegations of breach of privacy over the Pegasus spyware controversy. Opposition leaders welcomed the top court’s move.Congress leader Randeep Surjewala tweeted shortly after the Supreme Court announced the move, slamming what he called “pseudo nationalism”. “[I] welcome the Supreme Court order setting up a special committee to examine the misuse of spyware #Pegasus despite the Modi government’s embarrassing attempts to evade, avoid and divert attention in the name of national security,” he tweeted.Surjewala sought to draw parallels between Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s administration and British writer George Orwell’s novel 1984. Also Read: Tablets and smartphones to be distributed among youngsters by Nov: UP CM YogiSurjewala tweeted, “The mirror today for the Modi government is the quote from George Orwell’s ‘1984’- A dystopian state, where the government oppresses free speech, manufactures false propaganda on a daily basis, and violates the personal lives of its citizens through constant surveillance. #PegasusSnoopgate.”Trinamool Congress MP Derek O’Brien retweeted journalist Arvind Gunasekar’s tweet on the development and wrote, “BOOM. There you go. So the BJP (and not the Opposition) were solely responsible for DISRUPTING THE ENTIRE MONSOON SESSION of #Parliament.” Rajya Sabha MP John Brittas of the CPI(M) welcomed the Supreme Court order directing an investigation by a team of experts. “The [Supreme Court’s] directions to an expert committee to make recommendations to ensure the prevention of invasion of citizens’ right to privacy… is a leap forward in the area of privacy protection,” he said.Brittas, in a writ petition filed before the top court, had sought a court-monitored probe handled by experts.The Pegasus spyware row erupted on July 18 after an international consortium of media outlets and investigative journalists reported that the phones of Indian ministers, politicians, activists, businessmen and journalists were among 50,000 persons who were potentially targeted by Pegasus, Israeli company NSO Group’s phone hacking software. According to the consortium, Pegasus can switch on its target’s smartphone camera and microphone, as well as access data on the device.Responding to a petitions filed by lawyers, politicians, journalists and civil rights activists, the union ministry of electronics and IT filed a three-page affidavit on August 16 that refused to confirm or deny whether it had used Pegasus spyware to carry out a surveillance programme. The Centre instead offered to set up an expert committee to look into the controversy and “dispel any wrong narrative spread by certain vested interests”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pegasus-crisis-supreme-court-forms-probe-committee-opposition-welcomes-move-101635327036944.html
27-10-2021||India||Khadeda hobe: Akhilesh gives a UP twist to TMC's winning slogan in Bengal||Samajwadi Party president and former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday said the Yogi Adityanath-led BJP government would be driven away from the state following the next Assembly election.Addressing a rally of Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) chief Om Prakash Rajbhar in Mau, Yadav introduced a twist to the Trinamool Congress’ massively popular winning slogan in the Bengal election ‘Khela hobe’. “Like Khela hobe in Bengal, it will be 'khadeda hobe (driving away) in UP,” the SP leader said.He said the rally ground and the connecting road was packed in red and yellow (colours of SP and SPSP). “Soon, some people will be turning red and yellow in Delhi and Lucknow,” he added.Yadav said with Rajbhar having closed the doors from which the BJP came to power in UP (in 2017), the saffron camp would soon be wiped out from the state.“Together when we move forward, there would be no match to this strength. When people of the SBSP and SP have united, may be the public would help us win 400 seats in UP.”“This election is to make the future. This election is to restore the last honour.”“Our alliance is for restoring the rights and respect of the poor, OBCs and the downtrodden. There may be conspiracies, but don't forget inflation -- the rising petrol and diesel prices,” Yadav said.The SP chief said the BJP government did not provide any help to labourers during the Covid-19 pandemic. “This government left the poor to fend for themselves. It failed to provide treatment and oxygen during the crisis. The BJP government did nothing,” he said.“The governments in Lucknow and Delhi are lying. The youth is trying hard to find employment. There is starvation in the state. UP is lagging behind on the development front. Poor are committing suicide. The government sold out several factories.”“The BJP promised to double the income of farmers. I want to ask which crop price has been doubled. Will the farmers get double the price of their paddy? Prices of fertilisers have increased. Agricultural costs have only gone up. When the farmers asked for their rights, they were mowed down under the jeep by the son of a minister of this government.“So far that Union minister has not been removed. How can victims get justice?” the former chief minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/khadeda-hobe-akhilesh-gives-a-up-twist-to-tmc-s-winning-slogan-in-bengal-101635325852872.html
27-10-2021||India||EC warns Assam CM over model code violation, asks him to be careful||The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Wednesday warned Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma over the violation of the model code of conduct during campaigning for the assembly by-elections on October 30.The opposition Congress earlier lodged two complaints against Sarma, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s top campaigner for the polls. It sought a ban on him from campaigning. On Monday, the EC issued a notice to Sarma asking him to file an explanation by Tuesday. After Sarma’s “unconditional apology”, the commission said that he “acted in contravention” to the model code of conduct.Also Read: Assam eases Covid-19 curbs as situation improves, relaxes night curfew“Therefore, the commission issues warning to him and cautions him to be more careful and exercise restraint in future and strictly follow the provisions of the model code of conduct while making public utterances,” said the ECI in an order.By-elections to five assembly seats in Assam are being held after two lawmakers died of Covid-19-related complications and three others, two from Congress and one from All India United Democratic Front, resigned to join the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-warns-assam-cm-over-model-code-violation-asks-him-to-be-careful-101635325296783.html
27-10-2021||India||Covid-19: All Delhi schools to reopen from Monday, announces Sisodia||New Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday announced that schools in the Capital will be allowed to resume in-person attendance for all classes starting on Monday as Covid-19 cases continue to fall in the city and more people are getting vaccinated against the disease.Currently, schools in New Delhi are allowed to conduct in-person classes only for students of Class 9 and above.“The government, the officials in the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) and experts are of the opinion that suspension of in-person classes in schools are tremendously affecting overall growth in children. The authority feels it is now safe to restart schools fully. From November 1, all public and private schools will be allowed to open all classes for in-person attendance,” said Manish Sisodia after attending Wednesday’s meeting of the DDMA.“However, no parent will be forced to send their children to schools. Online classes will continue. And schools will have to ensure that there is not more than 50% in-person attendance in classes at any given time, in the light of Covid-19 protocols. Almost all staff in the city’s schools have taken at least one dose of the [Covid-19] vaccine by now. We are trying to achieve 100% vaccination in this regard at the earliest,” said Manish Sisodia, who is also New Delhi’s education minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-all-delhi-schools-to-reopen-from-monday-announces-manish-sisodia-101635325056735.html
27-10-2021||India||Not a crime, fulfilled my mother's wish: Wankhede on minister's 'Nikah' attack||Narcotics Control Bureau Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede on Wednesday said he indeed got married to his first wife Shabana Quraishi according to Islamic ritual as his mother was a Muslim and it was his mother's wish. "My father is a Hindu, My mother a Muslim. My mother had asked me perform the wedding as per Islamic rituals and I fulfilled my mother's wish, which is not a crime. The very same month in which Nikah was performed, we got our marriage registered under provisions of the Special Marriages Act. What I did is not a crime," Wankhede said after Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik tweeted a copy of his 'nikah nama' or marriage certificate t alleging that despite being a ‘Muslim’ Wankhede got IRS job in SC quota. Aryan Khan case: Nawab Malik posts photos of Sameer Wankhede’s ‘nikah’Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik has brought several allegations against Sameer Wankhede, including of false cases and extortions. What started as slamming each other in the aftermath of the arrest of Aryan Khan has now turned into a political storm with Nawab Malik bringing out personal details of Sameer Wankhede. "I want to make it clear that the issue I am exposing of Sameer Dawood Wankhede is not about his religion. I want to bring to light the fraudulent means by which he has obtained a caste certificate to get an IRS job and has deprived a deserving Scheduled Caste person of his future," the minister tweeted on Wednesday.
27-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri case: SIT urges witnesses to come forward, shares phone numbers||The Special Investigation Team (SIT), which is probing the violence triggered in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri after a car ran over a group of protesting farmers on October 3, has publicised contact numbers of its members. It has urged eyewitnesses to contact the team for recording statements, and provide digital evidence.Officials said the SIT will ensure the identities of eyewitnesses are kept confidential. If they want, they will be given security as well.The contact numbers, including that of SIT head Upendra Agarwal (9454400454). were shared through an advertisement. The Supreme Court on Tuesday ordered the protection of the eyewitness and directed Uttar Pradesh police to expedite the recording of their statements before a judicial magistrate.The other members of the SIT include Sunil Kumar Singh (9454400394), Arun Kumar Singh (9454401072), Vidyaram Diwaker (7017496741) and Sudhir Chandra Pandey (9450782977).Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni’s son, Ashish Mishra, the main accused in the violence, was separately moved back to the prison from a district jail hospital in Lakhimpur Kheri on Tuesday. He was hospitalised on Saturday after medical tests showed that his blood sugar had reached a “critical level” and he was diagnosed with dengue.Farming groups say Teni’s Mahindra Thar mowed down protesters from behind while they were returning from a demonstration. A video clip that is yet to be authenticated forensically shows the same. The minister and his son have denied the charge that the latter was in the vehicle, and say farmers stoned the car and the driver lost control of the vehicle.The Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday informed the Supreme Court that the accused have been identified by eyewitnesses. The court has taken up the matter on its own as a public interest litigation. It directed Uttar Pradesh police on October 20 to pull up its socks and record witnesses’ statements before the magistrate under Section 164 as quickly as possible to dispel the impression that the state is “dragging its feet”. The court said that the witnesses’ statements before a magistrate will have more evidentiary value.Ashish Mishra was arrested on October 9, a day after the Supreme Court came down heavily on the state government for its lenient handling of the main accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-case-sit-shares-phone-numbers-urges-witnesses-to-come-forward-101635324036819.html
27-10-2021||India||Delhi govt to start its anti-firecracker campaign from today||The Delhi government will start its anti-firecracker campaign “Patake Nahi, Diye Jalao” from Wednesday. As many as 15 teams are being deployed across each of the 15 Delhi Police districts to check the use and sale of firecrackers in the run-up to Diwali. Officials said each team will have five to seven members. Violators will be prosecuted under the Indian Penal Code’s Sections including 286 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) as well as under the Explosives Act, which entails a jail term of up to three years. The second component of the campaign involves reaching out to Resident Welfare Associations and market associations to discourage firecracker bursting and instead to associate diyas (lamps) with Diwali.The Delhi government has asked people to report the use and sale of firecrackers by calling on the number 112. Each of the 157 police stations across Delhi will have a dedicated team of two to deal with firecracker related issues.Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai said eight people were prosecuted for bursting firecrackers across the capital on Karva Chauth (Sunday).The government last year initially allowed green firecrackers to be burst or sold. It later also cancelled licences issued for their sale as Covid-19 cases began to rise across the capital. The government said a notification was issued to the police and district magistrates on September 28, prohibiting the issuance of licences for any kind of firecracker sales.Also Read: Only ‘green crackers’ permitted in Bengal for 2 hours during DiwaliThe bursting of firecrackers, coupled with low temperatures and stubble burning, lead to a sharp spike in pollution levels in the region. Last year, despite the ban on crackers, Delhi recorded numerous violations as the overall PM 2.5 levels spiked up to 33 times the safe standard at locations such as Vivek Vihar. A peak of 1,970 micrograms per cubic metre, as opposed to a safe limit of 60 micrograms per cubic metre, was recorded there.An environment department official said while the powers to penalise people lay with the police, they will receive daily action taken reports from them daily. In addition, teams from the Delhi Pollution Control Committee would also be visiting markets to penalise illegal firecracker sellers. “Leading up to Diwali, efforts have been intensified to ensure no firecrackers are burst sold anywhere. Data will be compiled each day over the number of people prosecuted and this will also give us an idea of which areas are possibly seeing more instances of firecrackers being burst or sold,” the official said, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-govt-to-start-its-anti-firecracker-campaign-today-101635323496539.html
27-10-2021||India||Expect India to pitch 450GW renewable energy target in Glasgow: Alok Sharma||Just days before a major UN-led summit on climate change opens in Glasgow, Alok Sharma, the president of the event popularly known as COP26, said he expects India to present its Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC) at the talks with a 450GW renewable energy target by 2030 incorporated in it. Saying that every country starts with a different energy mix, Sharma added that India’s informal goal of 450GW should be formalised in its NDC before the COP26 gets underway on October 31. “That is what I told Indian officials and ministers when I was there,” said Sharma at a virtual press conference organised on Tuesday by Covering Climate Now, a global collaboration of journalists and newsrooms to produce more informed and urgent climate change stories. HT is a part of the initiative.The COP26 annual summit on climate change action is also called the United Nations Climate Change Conference.There is no confirmation on what India’s submission at COP26 is likely to be. At an informal briefing on COP26 to select journalists last week, officials said details related to the submission and stance are yet to be approved by the union Cabinet. Also Read: India lost $87 billion to climate disasters in 2020: Report“These decisions are taken at the highest level and have to be passed by the Cabinet before they are announced,” said an official. Officials have not commented on whether India will present an updated NDC.In response to a question about the depleting carbon budget and if he sees developed countries taking up advanced net zero targets, Sharma said it’s an issue that was raised when he was in New Delhi. “The CBDR (Common But Differentiated Responsibilities) is part of the Paris Agreement. My consistent message to every country is that we all need to play our part. I am impressed with the target of 450GW. What I want is that should reflect in the NDC.”Over 120 world leaders, including Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, are expected to attend the summit on November 1 and 2. Sharma said Chinese President Xi Jinping has not confirmed his presence, but a Chinese negotiating team will be present in Glasgow.Sharma said Glasgow will be more challenging than Paris. “Our overarching ambition is to say at the end of Glasgow that we have kept [the Paris Agreement’s goal of limiting global warming preferably to] 1.5 degrees Celsius alive,” Sharma said. He said an agreement is likely at the end of Glasgow on how the world will keep global warming under 1.5 degrees Celsius. “Glasgow will be the biggest event for the UK since the 2012 Olympics, but there is the added complexity of looking to reach an agreement with 200 parties,” he said.Also Read: Ahead of CoP 26 meet: A Negotiation StrategySharma underlined the need to bend the curve towards 2 degrees Celsius. “But it is still not what the Paris Agreement said. If all the commitments made are not well below 2 degrees Celsius, then we have to reflect on how in this decade we need to come back and reappraise the commitments that have been made. Again, we have to build consensus around this. We have to look to reach some agreement.”A 14-15 member delegation with officials from the ministries of power, finance, earth sciences, agriculture, new and renewable energy, environment, and water will represent India at COP26. Environment minister Bhupender Yadav will head the Indian delegation.PM Narendra Modi and British Prime Minister Boris Johnson are expected to make a joint statement on a mission dubbed “Green Grids Initiative - One Sun One World One Grid (GGI-OSOWOG)” at COP26.The GGI-OSOWOG project will bring technical, financial, and research cooperation to help facilitate cross-border renewable energy transfer projects as part of the International Solar Alliance.Yadav is expected to lead India during the negotiations in the second week of COP26 when issues related to the Paris rulebook are likely to be deliberated. The rulebook is a set of guidelines for implementing the 2015 Paris Agreement.Officials have maintained it is not mandatory for India to update its NDC. “It can update it during the global stocktake in 2023. Whatever India announces will be on a voluntary basis,” said an official, requesting anonymity. “Developed countries have been pushing India to announce a net zero emissions target. But for us, our position is clear. Action has to be taken based on historical responsibility, which means they (developed countries) transition to net zero emissions first, leaving the carbon space for us to grow.”India is expected to push for climate change justice, and equity and contribution based on historical responsibility during negotiations with a similar stand as that of 24 other like-minded developing countries, including China.Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest oil exporter, has announced plans to reach net zero emissions by 2060. The UAE became the first Gulf nation to commit to net zero emissions by 2050. Russia and China have also announced plans to transition to net zero by 2060. According to the UN, 130 countries have set or are considering a net zero emissions target by mid-century.Centre for Science and Environment director general Sunita Narain said India should announce an enhanced NDC, not because of its responsibility or contribution to the greenhouse gas emissions, but because it is in the country’s best interest. “For us, climate action is for co-benefit,” Narain said. World Resources Institute director Ulka Kelkar said India is entitled to carbon space, but can consider a suitable target year for net zero CO2 emissions. “India is already putting in place the building blocks of a net zero future, such as scaling up renewable energy and investing in green hydrogen. Over time, it can also consider adding a carbon tax and retiring old inefficient thermal power plants, which will yield economic gains and health benefits.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cop26-alok-sharma-wants-india-to-pitch-450gw-renewable-energy-target-in-glasgow-101635322896499.html
27-10-2021||India||Wankhede let off an international drug lord in cruise ship raid: Nawab Malik||In his latest attack on the Narcotics Control Bureau’s (NCB) zonal director Sameer Wankhede, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik claimed on Wednesday that the NCB officer let an international drug lord, present in the rave party organised off the Mumbai coast on a cruise ship, off the hook and instead framed “certain individuals”. Bollywood star Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan was arrested in the case on October 3. Malik said he had proof that an international drug lord was present at the Cordelia rave party along with his girl friend but the NCB team led by Wankhede chose not to act against him since the drug lord was his “friend”. Malik claimed he has the pictures and video footage to corroborate this and could share them with the NCB, if the agency approached him.Aryan Khan was arrested by an NCB team that claimed to have busted an alleged drugs party on the Cordelia Cruise ship which was on its way to Goa on October 3 off the Mumbai coast. A total of 20 people, including two Nigerian nationals, have been arrested so far in the case. Aryan Khan has been denied bail in the case with the courts upholding NCB’s contention that there was enough material on record to suggest that Khan could have been involved in an international drugs racket. The defence has however argued that there was no proof of Khan’s involvement in any drugs racket and no basis for his arrest since drugs were not found in his possession. The high profile matter took a further twist when Prabhakar Sail, a witness in the case, alleged on Monday that Wankhede and some other NCB officials had sought ₹25 crore from Shah Rukh Khan as extortion money to release Aryan. Following Sail’s allegation, a vigilance probe was ordered into Wankhede’s conduct and Mumbai Police too announced a probe against the officer. Without naming Aryan Khan, Malik has now said that the party was organised with the mala fide intention of framing “certain” individuals.“A rave party was organised, drugs were sold, people enjoyed themselves there, but no action on the drug lord present at the party. Cruise was not stopped, over 1300 people were not scanned. Instead, NCB deployed people with pictures of certain individuals with the intention of wrongly framing them,” Malik said.“No seizure was made either from the cruise or the terminal. The pictures of seizure distributed by NCB are from Wankhede’s cabin based on which publicity was taken,” he continued.Also Read | Cruise drugs case: Police appoint officer to probe allegations against NCB investigator WankhedeMalik said that the rave party was organised without any permissions including from the Mumbai police or the state home department despite the Covid restrictions being in place. Only permission they had was from the director general (DG), Shipping.Posing further questions on Wankhede’s integrity, Malik also shared pictures of NCB officer’s Nikah with his first wife Dr Shabana Qureshi and the nikahnama (marriage contract) on his Twitter handle to claim that the NCB zonal director had “forged documents” to make a Scheduled Caste (SC) certificate in order to get into public service commission. “My point is to prove that Wankhede got a caste certificate with bogus documents and got a job as an IRS (Indian Revenue Service) officer. He has snatched away the right of a deserving Scheduled Caste (SC) candidate. I am trying to prove his fraud and not his religion,” he clarified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wankhede-let-off-an-international-drug-lord-in-cruise-ship-raid-nawab-malik-101635321636507.html
27-10-2021||India||Delhi's free pilgrimage scheme now includes Ayodhya, set to resume in a month||Ayodhya is now included in ‘Mukhya Mantri Teerth Yatra Yojna’, the Delhi government's free pilgrimage scheme for senior citizens of the national capital, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Wednesday. He added that the pilgrimage scheme, which was stopped for more than a year owing to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, is likely to resume within a month as the situation gradually normalises.Kejriwal had promised a day ago that the temple town of Ayodhya will be included in the Delhi government's free pilgrimage scheme for aged people. On Tuesday, Kejriwal visited the Ram Janmabhoomi and the Hanumangarhi temples in Ayodhya and said, “I was fortunate that I got the chance to bow before Ram Lalla, and I wish everyone must get this chance.”Also Read | In Ayodhya, Arvind Kejriwal prays to Ram Lalla, Lord HanumanThe Delhi chief minister vowed that he will do everything in his capability to “make more and more people have darshan here.”Under the Chief Minister’s Teerth Yatra Yojana (chief minister’s pilgrimage scheme), the residents of Delhi can travel to pilgrimage sites such as Vaishno Devi, Rameshwaram, Dwarka Puri, Haridwar, Rishikesh, Mathura, and Vrindavan free-of-cost.Meanwhile, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) reacted to the Delhi chief minister's trip to Ayodhya and indicated that it was just a "political gimmick" ahead of the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly polls. Speaking to Hindustan Times, Ved Prakash Gupta, the BJP MLA from Ayodhya Sadar, said, “AAP was earlier opposing the Ram Mandir. The Delhi chief minister had even suggested that a university be made instead of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. Now they are talking about Lord Ram and seeking his blessings.”Continuing his critique, the BJP leader said, “People are not fools. They are well aware of the divisive politics of the AAP."Notably, Arvind Kejriwal-led AAP has announced that it would contest the state assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, slated to be held early next year. The party has said that it would contest all the 403 assembly seats in the 2022 elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhis-free-pilgrimage-scheme-now-includes-ayodhya-set-to-resume-in-a-month-101635317881616.html
27-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: Case against Raj teacher who celebrated Pak's cricket win over India and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Case against Rajasthan teacher who celebrated Pak cricket team’s win over IndiaA private school in Udaipur district of Rajasthan terminated a teacher after her alleged celebration of Pakistan cricket team’s victory over the Indian cricket team in the T20 World Cup match played on Sunday generated huge backlash on social media questioning her patriotism and demanding her sacking. Read moreCruise drugs case: Police appoint officer to probe allegations against NCB investigator WankhedeThe Mumbai Police appointed an ACP-level officer to probe the allegations levelled against Narcotics Control Bureau's zonal head Sameer Wankhede, the lead investigator in the cruise drugs raid case in which actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan has been arrested. Read moreRajasthan man sentenced to death for raping, killing 11-year old girlA special court in Rajasthan’s Ajmer has awarded the death penalty to a man for raping and killing an 11-year-old girl in June. Judge Ratan Lal Moond held Surendra alias Santu guilty on Monday and awarded him the sentence a day later on Tuesday. Read moreWhy is Erdogan backpedaling in diplomatic row?Over the weekend, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan instructed his Foreign Ministry to declare the ambassadors of 10 states, including those of Germany and the United States, "persona non grata." Read moreApple Watch Series 7 review: Bigger and smarter than everIt’s all about a larger display, so large that it flows around the edges -- Apple has adamantly highlighted this point in all its marketing materials for the Apple Watch Series 7. Is that enough for the discerning smartwatch buyer? Read moreShoojit Sircar reacts to Sardar Udham not being sent for Oscars after jury member said it shows 'hatred for the British'Filmmaker Shoojit Sircar, who has directed the biopic Sardar Udham, has reacted to his film not getting selected as India’s official entry for Oscars. Calling the decision 'very subjective', Shoojit said that he ‘respects’ the decision of the jury. Read moreForget flying cars, watch the world's first flying bike that can also hoverYou may have seen flying cars in action in real life, or in videos. But Japan witnessed a flying bike whooshing past them, or hovering mid-air during a demonstration this week. Read moreAli Fazal and Richa Chadha's OTT look will sort out your Halloween couple costume, see all picsBollywood's cutest couple, Richa Chadha and Ali Fazal are giving the ultimate Halloween vibes with their latest photoshoot, and we are taking notes. Getting in the mood for the Halloween season, the couple dressed up in the most OTT ensembles to attend a bash. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-case-against-raj-teacher-who-celebrated-pak-s-cricket-win-101635317301616.html
27-10-2021||India||Mandaviya to meet state health ministers today over ramping up vaccine drive||The Covid-19 vaccination drive, pandemic emergency response package, and the Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission are among the key topics to be discussed as union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya will meet all state health ministers in New Delhi on Wednesday.The interaction will take place at Vigyan Bhawan, starting at 3pm, according to the Press and Information Bureau (PIB).“It will be an elaborate interaction with the states to know what they are doing for pandemic management, what is lacking, and how the central government can help in achieving their targets,” said a central government official aware of the matter, on condition of anonymity. “The health ministry has been conducting such discussions from time to time. It will be along similar lines, as the [Covid-19] pandemic is not over yet.”The Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission that Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched on October 25 and its implementation is expected to be discussed in detail with health ministers of the states and union territories.“This ambitious initiative was drafted in consultation with the states and will be implemented in collaboration with the states and the union territories. We will work together, with the Centre providing all necessary support to make this happen in the next five years,” health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said in Tuesday’s media briefing on the mission.Also Read: India committed to supplying affordable medicines to the world: Health ministerUnder the scheme, a national institution for “One Health”, four new National Institutes for Virology, a regional research platform for the World Health Organization’s (WHO) Southeast Asia region, nine bio-safety Level III labs, and five new regional national centres for disease control will be set up to help in conducting more research in the field.The project aims to build an IT-enabled disease surveillance system by developing a network of surveillance labs at the block, district, regional and national levels, and also in metropolitan areas. An integrated health information portal will be expanded for the states and union territories to connect with all the public health labs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-ayushman-bharat-mansukh-mandaviya-to-discuss-key-issues-with-states-101635317735745.html
27-10-2021||India||SC forms independent expert committee to probe Pegasus revelations||The Supreme Court on Wednesday set up a three-member expert committee, to be supervised by a former judge of the top court, to inquire into the alleged use of Israeli spyware Pegasus for surveillance of Indian citizens, as it noted that the issues raised directly concern “the potential chilling effect” on right to privacy and freedom of speech.A bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana, said that retired SC judge RV Raveendran will supervise the functioning of the technical committee, which will look into the “truth or falsity of the allegations” and will submit a report “expeditiously”. “We make it clear that our effort is to uphold the constitutional aspirations and rule of law, without allowing ourselves to be consumed in the political rhetoric. This Court has always been conscious of not entering the political thicket. However, at the same time, it has never cowered from protecting all from the abuses of fundamental rights,” stated the bench, which also included justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli.The members of the technical committee named by the court are: Dr Naveen Kumar Chaudhary, professor (Cyber Security and Digital Forensics) and dean, National Forensic Sciences University, Gandhinagar, Gujarat; Dr Prabaharan P, professor (School of Engineering), Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham, Amritapuri, Kerala and Dr Ashwin Anil Gumaste, institute chair associate professor (Computer Science and Engineering), Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay, Maharashtra.Former judge Raveendran, in supervising the work of the technical committee, will be assisted by former Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Alok Joshi and Dr Sundeep Oberoi, chairman, sub committee in (International Organisation of Standardisation/ International Electro-Technical Commission/Joint Technical Committee). Posting the clutch of cases for after eight weeks, the bench said that the technical committee will go into the issues relating to the right to privacy, procedure followed for interception and involvement of foreign agencies in surveilling Indian citizens.The CJI, while reading out the operative part of the order, asserted that the members of a civilised democratic society have a reasonable expectation of privacy. “Privacy is not the singular concern of journalists or social activists. Every citizen of India ought to be protected against violations of privacy. It is this expectation which enables us to exercise our choices, liberties, and freedom,” read the orderAlso Read: UP bar council to cancel licences of lawyers filing fake insurance claimsIt also highlighted that “in a democratic country governed by the rule of law, indiscriminate spying on individuals cannot be allowed except with sufficient statutory safeguards, by following the procedure established by law under the Constitution.”The court added that unlawful surveillance is of particular concern when it relates to the freedom of the press, which is an important pillar of democracy. “Such chilling effect on the freedom of speech is an assault on the vital public-watchdog role of the press, which may undermine the ability of the press to provide accurate and reliable information,” maintained the bench.The bench further rejected the Central government’s plea to let it set up a committee to look into the controversy, noting that it will violate the settled judicial principle against bias -- ‘justice must not only be done, but also be seen to be done’. In its order, the apex court has also pulled up the Union government for raising the issue of national security instead of filing a detailed affidavit to clarify various pertinent points raised by the petitioners, some of whom had complained that their phones were hacked using Israeli spyware Pegasus.The court said that national security cannot be used as a “bugbear” by the Centre and that the court will not give the Union government “a free pass every time the spectre of national security is raised.”“Union of India must necessarily plead and prove the facts which indicate that the information sought must be kept secret as their divulgence would affect national security concerns. They must justify the stand that they take before a court. The mere invocation of national security by the State does not render the Court a mute spectator,” said the court.It underlined that it would have been a different situation had the Centre opted to make its stand clear instead of filing a limited affidavit on August 16 that did not shed any light on their stand or provide any clarity as to the facts of the matter at hand.The bench held that the petitioners have placed on record certain material that prima facie merits consideration by the Supreme Court and the “omnibus and vague denial” by the Centre is not sufficient when there is no specific denial of any of the facts placed in the pleas. “In such circumstances, we have no option but to accept the prima facie case made out by the petitioners to examine the allegations made,” it concluded.The court, on September 13, reserved its order in the case after the Union government said that it could not make public whether its agencies used the Israeli spyware as such disclosure would be against national interest. With this statement, the government returned to a position it articulated on August 17, before suggesting on September 7 that it could reconsider its stand.The reiteration of its stand by the government also prompted the court to remark that the Centre was “beating around the bush”. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, however said at the time that the government was open to having a committee of independent domain experts to go into all aspects of the controversy and submit its report before the bench while adding that the use of a particular software “cannot be made a part of the public discourse in the larger national interest and in the interest of the security of the nation”.The SG requested the bench to allow the government to set up an expert committee. But most of the lawyers for the petitioners, including senior counsel Kapil Sibal, Shyam Divan, Rakesh Dwivedi, Dinesh Dwivedi, Colin Gonsalves and Meenakshi Arora, urged the court to reject the government’s proposal, contending that the “wrongdoer” could not be allowed to have the liberty of choosing the forum of inquiry. The lawyers submitted that the court should set up a panel consisting of members of its choice to go into the issue and report back.The Pegasus row erupted on July 18 after an international consortium of media outlets and investigative journalists reported that the phones of Indian ministers, politicians, activists, businessmen and journalists were among the 50,000 that were potentially targeted by Pegasus, Israeli company NSO Group’s phone hacking software. According to this consortium, Pegasus can switch on a target’s phone camera and microphone, as well as access data on the device, effectively turning the phone into a pocket spy.Responding to a bunch of petitions filed by lawyers, politicians, journalists and civil rights activists, the Union ministry of electronics and information technology filed a three-page affidavit on August 16 that refused to confirm or deny whether it had used Pegasus spyware for surveillance of Indians. The Centre instead offered to set up an expert committee to look into the controversy and “dispel any wrong narrative spread by certain vested interests”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-sets-up-committee-to-probe-pegasus-snooping-row-101635316896065.html
27-10-2021||India||Amarinder Singh says will form new party ahead of Punjab polls, targets Sidhu||Former Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday announced that he will form a political party of his own before the assembly elections in the state, but refused to divulge any more details about it. Singh was interacting with the media in Chandigarh."Yes, I am forming a party. My lawyers are working on it. But I can't tell you the name, I will tell you when the Election Commission approves it. We have made a request for a symbol also," said Singh.Also Read | Opinion:  In fratricidal mode, Congress is its own worst enemy in PunjabThe move is on the expected lines, as Singh had said last week that he would soon launch his own party, and was hopeful of a seat arrangement with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) provided the ongoing farmers' stir against farm laws was resolved in their interest."We are going to meet home minister Amit Shah on the issue of farmers' stir. I have met him thrice earlier," the Congress leader said today.Singh said he will meet the Union home minister in Delhi on Thursday "along with 25-30 people” to discuss the Centre's three farm laws. Those expected to accompany him include three-four state leaders and farm experts.Also Read | ‘No MLA would join him’: Navjot Kaur Sidhu on Captain Amarinder SinghThe two-time former chief minister also lashed out at current incumbent Charanjit Singh Channi, who said that the state government will move Supreme Court against the Centre's decision to increase the jurisdiction of Border Security Force (BSF)."Taking over Punjab is a total misconception. No one is taking over the states. This is to tackle drones. The technology is getting advanced and payloads of drones are increasing. To undermine these concerns is irresponsible," said Singh."I am not an alarmist but I know what is happening. Don't deny this, but tackle it," he added.Taking a jibe at deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa for the recent allegations against him on the security situation, the Congress leader said that he has been home minister for 9.5 years and knows the situation. "Someone who has been home minister for one month seems to talk as if he knows more than me.”Singh is still to formally quit the Congress. When asked about it at the press conference today, he said, "I have been in the Congress for 52 years, if I stay in it for 10 more days what will happen."He once again targeted Navjot Singh Sidhu, with whom he fought a long political battle.“Congress' popularity in Punjab has seen a drop of 25 per cent ever since Sidhu has taken over,” Singh said at the press conference today, quoting data from surveys got done by him.He also said that he will fight Sidhu in the Assembly elections “wherever he fights from”.Singh was made to resign as the chief minister on September 18 following months turbulence and tussle in the state unit during which Sidhu, who was appointed the state Congress president despite Singh's objections, and several ministers and legislators rebelled against him.Assembly elections are due in Punjab next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amarinder-singh-says-will-form-new-party-ahead-of-punjab-polls-targets-sidhu-101635315452682.html
27-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan case: NCB vigilance team may record Wankhede, Sail statements||A five-member vigilance team headed by deputy director Gyaneshwar Singh of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) will likely visit Mumbai on Wednesday. The team is expected to record the statement of key witness Prabhakar Sail in connection with a corruption allegation he made against his employer, Kiran Gosavi, also a witness in the Aryan Khan drugs case, and NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede, who is probing the case.“Sail was summoned by the vigilance team and there are chances that his statement will be recorded today. Apart from Sail, the vigilance team could also record the statement of Wankhede today” an NCB source said. Sameer Wankhede returned to Mumbai from New Delhi late on Tuesday after meeting a senior official at the NCB’s headquarters in the Capital, the source said. Sail is the bodyguard of Gosavi and in his notarised affidavit he also alleged overhearing a discussion between Gosavi and another individual about a deal worth ₹18 crore, of which ₹8 crore was to be paid to Sameer Wankhede. Also Read: Nawab Malik posts photos of Sameer Wankhede’s ‘nikah’He also alleged that following Gosavi’s orders, he collected two bags containing ₹50 lakh in cash from an individual after the raid on a cruise ship, and handed them over to Gosavi at his residence in Vashi. Sail was present near Mumbai’s Green Gate during the drug raid on a cruise ship that eventually led to the arrest of Aryan Khan, actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son.He also claimed that the NCB made him sign on blank papers. Sameer Wankhede has already denied the charges. He called them baseless, saying they were aimed at defaming him.Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik, meanwhile, has accused Sameer Wankhede of using a fake caste certificate to get a government job under a reserved quota. The minister tweeted a copy of a birth certificate, which he claimed is of Sameer Wankhede. The document showed his father’s name is “Dawood K Wankhede”, while it is “Dnyandev Wankhede” as per the NCB website.Responding to the allegation, Wankhede told HT, “The allegations levelled by Nawab Malik are baseless and are made solely to humiliate me and my family, and to divert my attention from the investigation [into the drugs case involving Aryan Khan].” Wankhede also released a caste certificate of several of his family members, including his father, uncles and first cousins, showing that all of them belong to Mahar people, a scheduled caste.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aryan-khan-drugs-case-ncb-vigilance-team-may-record-wankhede-sail-statements-101635316056237.html
27-10-2021||India||Rajasthan man sentenced to death for raping, killing 11-year old girl||A special court in Rajasthan’s Ajmer has awarded the death penalty to a man for raping and killing an 11-year-old girl in June. Judge Ratan Lal Moond held Surendra alias Santu guilty on Monday and awarded him the sentence a day later on Tuesday.The 11-year-old went missing after taking goats to graze to a hill on June 21. Her body was found on the top of the hill with multiple injury marks. Santu was arrested on June 22.Earlier on October 22, another convict Dinesh Jat, 26, was sentenced to death for raping and murdering a seven-year-old girl in Rajasthan’s Nagaur district.Also Read: Case against Rajasthan teacher who celebrated Pak cricket team’s win over IndiaOn October 5, a court in Jaipur sentenced a man to 20-year imprisonment and fined him ₹two lakh for raping a nine-year-old girl. Police said that they arrested the convict and completed the probe within 18 hours. The court sentenced the convict in five days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-man-sentenced-to-death-for-raping-killing-11-year-old-girl-101635315095561.html
27-10-2021||India||Case against Rajasthan teacher who celebrated Pak cricket team’s win over India||A private school in Udaipur district of Rajasthan terminated a teacher after her alleged celebration of Pakistan cricket team’s victory over the Indian cricket team in the T20 World Cup match played on Sunday generated huge backlash on social media questioning her patriotism and demanding her sacking.“As per the decision taken in the meeting, the teacher is expelled from the school from immediate effect,” stated the termination letter. The decision was also confirmed by the chairman of the school without stating the reason.However, school authorities aware of the developments said she was removed for her pro-Pakistan posts.The teacher in question later released an apology, claiming her WhatsApp status celebrating Pakistan’s victory was misunderstood and so was her proclaimed support for India’s arch rival nation, which was all done in jest. “Jeet Gaaye…We won,” her WhatsApp status, posted along with a picture of the Pakistan cricket team said after their 1st victory against India in 13 attempts in a world cup match. Her WhatsApp status drew the attention of a parent who asked the teacher if she supported Pakistan and she replied in the affirmative. Soon a screenshot of her WhatsApp status and purported admission of support to Pakistan spread on social media, inviting condemnation and also expulsion from her school.The teacher claimed her posts were taken out of context and she loved India as much as any other Indian. She said her family was divided into two teams over the match and each team was supporting one side in the contest. As her team was supporting Pakistan, she posted the celebratory status on WhatsApp. She added she thought it to be a “joke” when a parent asked her if she loved Pakistan. Also Read: Waqar Younis apologises for his ‘namaz’ comment after India-Pakistan match“As the message [from the parent] had emojis and it was in light moments, I replied in Yes. But, it doesn’t mean anywhere that I support Pakistan. I am an Indian and I love India. I love India as much as everyone else,” the teacher said in her defence. She further said, “As soon as I realised that I had made a mistake, I deleted the status message... realising that it was giving a wrong message. I am sorry if I have hurt anybody’s sentiments.”A local organisation has lodged a police complaint against her.Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) workers on Wednesday reached the school campus and hoisted the national flag to mark their protest against the teacher’s posts.Circle inspector, AmbaMata police station area, Narpat Singh said a local organisation has lodged a complaint against the teacher following which a case under IPC Section 153B (Imputations, assertions prejudicial to national integration) has been lodged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/case-against-rajasthan-teacher-who-celebrated-pakistan-cricket-team-s-win-over-india-101635314555636.html
27-10-2021||India||India committed to supplying affordable medicines to the world: Health minister||Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Wednesday said that India has a commitment to supply affordable medicines to the rest of the world since it has taken the oath of ‘Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam’ (“the world is our family”). He highlighted the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crisis and said that while India began at a point where it did not even have enough medicines of its own, the country became self-reliant on its needs and eventually supplied medicines and other related drugs to more than 150 nations across the world.“Today, India is the largest manufacturer and supplier of generic medicines,” Mandaviya said at the Invest India's Investors Summit on Wednesday. “We believe in ‘Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam’. We are seeing to it that the world gets affordable medicines.”The health minister, who also holds the chemical and fertilisers charge at the Narendra Modi cabinet, added, “When the first wave of Covid-19 hit, the world did not have enough medicines [for the coronavirus disease]. We not only brought our own situation under control and met our own medicine requirements but also supplied medicines to over 150 nations. This is our commitment.”The summit was a part of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's vision to further strengthen India's position globally in terms of pharmaceuticals and medical devices. Its theme was “Opportunities and Partnerships in Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices.”Later in the day, Mansukh Mandaviya is scheduled to chair a meeting with state health ministers to focus on ramping up the Covid-19 vaccination drive in the country.Meanwhile, India's inoculation coverage exceeded 103.53 crore as per a provisional report issued by the Union health ministry on Wednesday. “With the administration of 55,89,124 vaccine doses in the last 24 hours, India's Covid-19 vaccination coverage has exceeded 103.53 Cr (1,03,53,25,577) as per provisional reports till 7 am today,” the health ministry said.India has reported 13,451 new Covid-19 cases, 14,021 recoveries, and 585 deaths in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry further informed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-committed-to-supplying-affordable-medicines-to-the-world-health-minister-101635311963605.html
27-10-2021||India||Guidelines on Covid vaccination in children likely to be out soon||Government experts are finalising a list of comorbidities that will set the stage for making children in India eligible to take the Covid-19 vaccine, people familiar with the development said, adding that a paediatrician’s clearance could be required to take the anti-Covid shot.“Several top experts in the field are being consulted to see how best [Covid-19] vaccination among children can be introduced in the programme. People concerned are being thorough about it as it concerns children,” said a government official aware of the matter, requesting not to be named. “The guidelines on a list of specified comorbidities, and other procedural clarifications should be out soon.”The Covid-19 vaccination drive for children is likely to be introduced next month in a phased manner. It could start with giving anti-Covid shots to those aged 12 and above, much like there was a phased approach with the country’s adult population, with children considered vulnerable to Covid-19 getting the first jabs.Also Read: Mandaviya to meet health ministers of states over Covid vaccine administrationZydus Healthcare’s Covid-19 vaccine, ZyCoV-D, which received emergency-use authorisation last month, has been tested in those aged 12 and above.“The list of comorbidities will be specified as it was done in [the case of] adults. While age was a major criterion for adults, in the case of children, comorbid conditions are likely to be the deciding factor for eligibility. The specified condition may need confirmation from a certified doctor, and whether it’s okay to take the shot. The guidelines will clarify these things,” said the government official.Health-related conditions that are likely to be included on the list are all types of cancers, congenital heart disease, chronic liver and kidney diseases, and lung-related ailments. Children who have undergone an organ transplant will also be prioritised.Meanwhile, the national drugs regulator continues to analyse Covaxin data before granting approval for emergency use in children, said union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Tuesday, even though an expert committee of the Central Drugs Standards Control Organisation (CDSCO) already recommended its use in children two weeks ago.“This is a sensitive matter as it deals with children. Therefore, the government has been clear and taken a stand, from the start, to not interfere in the decision-making on this technical topic. Let technical experts handle it,” said Mandaviya. “However, according to the information that I have, the technical committee has granted its approval on the matter, and the data is being further analysed. Decision on the [Covid-19] vaccine’s use in children will be based on the outcome of that analysis. The analysis is not only based on local data, but also on what’s the global trend, as it deals with children,” the health minister said..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-soon-roll-out-guidelines-for-covid-19-vaccination-drive-for-children-101635313475445.html
27-10-2021||India||BJP to send 3-member committee to Odisha over Kalahandi teacher murder case||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has formed a three-member committee to look into the murder of a school teacher in Odisha's Kalahandi district, news agency ANI reported on Wednesday. The committee, comprising Sunita Duggal, Vanathi Sriniwasan and Rupa Mitra, is expected to visit the place of the incident and also hold an interaction with the people of the area.In an official statement, the BJP said that its national president JP Nadda condemned the ghastly incident in Kalahandi district.Also Read| BJP, Cong keeps up pressure on Odisha’s Naveen Patnaik govt over Kalahandi caseOn October 19, a partially-charred body of a 26-year-old teacher Mamita Meher was found in an under-construction stadium of a private school in Kalahandi.Meher had gone missing on October 8. Officials told the Hindustan Times earlier that the teacher accused Gobind Sahu, the president of Sunshine School's managing committee, of running a sex racket in the premises and had reportedly threatened to expose his wrongdoings.Gobind Sahu was arrested last week on charges of allegedly killing Mamita Meher, and was sent to judicial custody at the end of his five-day police remand on Monday.The BJP and the Congress, which are the main opposition parties in Odisha, have demanded the resignation of state home minister Dibya Shankar Mishra by alleging that he was close to Gobind Sahu.A 3-member committee has been constituted "to look into the kidnapping, burning & dumping of the body of a woman in Mahaling segment of Junagarh Assembly under Kalahandi Parliamentary constituency; committee to visit the incident place & interact with the people of the area": BJP pic.twitter.com/mDkSoVft2bThe BJP, meanwhile, alleged that the teacher was raped by Sahu during Mishra’s reported frequent school visits. The opposition party has also demanded the minister's arrest.“An innocent woman in the Kalahandi was murdered and her body was mutilated. We believe that the nation should come to know about this heinous murder,” BJP's national spokesperson Sambit Patra said on Tuesday, according to ANI.Highlighting that a sex racket was being operated from the school premises, Patra said that innocent girl students and teachers were being exploited, while alleging that Odisha home minister Mishra had prior information about this racket."Somewhere the police knew that a minister is involved in this. So, the police was hesitant to register the FIR. When there was pressure from the Opposition parties, the police had to register an FIR," the BJP leader further said.The ruling Biju Janata Dal in Odisha has refused to take any action against state home minister Mishra, and insisted that he should not be held responsible for any crime committed by Sahu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-to-send-3-member-committee-to-odisha-over-kalahandi-teacher-murder-case-101635309321507.html
27-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan case: Nawab Malik posts photos of Sameer Wankhede’s ‘nikah’||Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik on Thursday tweeted a copy of Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) zonal director Sameer Wankhede’s “nikah nama” or marriage certificate, and the officer’s photograph with his first wife, Shabana Quraishi, at their wedding.He maintained that his tweets about Sameer Wankhede were not about religion but to bring to light the fraudulent means that Wankhede allegedly used to obtain a caste certificate to get into the Indian Revenue Service (IRS).Nawab Malik has levelled a series of charges against the NCB zonal director. His fresh tweets about Wankhede came two days after he said the officer is a Muslim but obtained a Hindu caste certificate by forgery to get into IRS under the scheduled caste category.He tweeted a copy of a birth certificate, which he claimed is of Sameer Wankhede. The document showed his father’s name is Dawood K Wankhede, while it is Dnyandev Wankhede as per the NCB website.“I want to make it clear that the issue I am exposing of Sameer Dawood Wankhede is not about his religion. I want to bring to light the fraudulent means by which he has obtained a caste certificate to get an IRS job and has deprived a deserving scheduled caste person of his future,” Malik said in one of his tweets on Thursday.Photo of a Sweet CoupleSameer Dawood Wankhede and Dr. Shabana Qureshi pic.twitter.com/kcWAHgagQyHe said the wedding took place on December 7, 2006, in Mumbai and added that Aziz Khan, the husband of the officer’s sister, Yasmin, was witness No 2 to it.The focus in the drug case involving Bollywood star Shah Rukh Khan’s son, Aryan Khan, has shifted to Wankhede with Malik levelling charges against the NCB zonal director heading the probe in the matter.Nawab Malik on Tuesday cited a letter purportedly written by an anonymous employee of the agency alleging Wankhede framed innocent people in 26 fake drug cases.He also claimed that Wankhede engaged two private persons to tap the phones of the people to frame them. The letter claims the NCB allegedly planted drugs shown to have been seized in some of the cases.The NCB on Monday started probing allegations that Sameer Wankhede was part of an alleged ₹25 crore extortion racket after the arrest of Aryan Khan in the drug bust case. A vigilance inquiry was ordered after one of the NCB’s witnesses in the case, Prabhakar Sail, made the claim.Nawab Malik has also accused Sameer Wankhede of framing his son-in-law and two others in a drug peddling case in January and delaying the process for their bail. He said the NCB showed 200kg herbal tobacco as “ganja” and produced photographs of seizures taken at its office.The officer’s second wife, Kranti Redkar, and sister Jasmeen Wankhede on Tuesday denied all the allegations at a press conference, saying if Malik has proof, he should go to court instead of holding the media trial and targeting their family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aryan-khan-drug-bust-case-nawab-malik-posts-photos-of-sameer-wankhede-s-nikah-101635310955515.html
27-10-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccine deadline: Delhi govt departments issue reminders to staff||Delhi government departments have been issuing reminders to employees, saying that they should get at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine by October 15, failing which they will be prohibited from attending office and marked absent.The Directorate of Training and Technical Education, in its reminder circular, warned that violation of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority’s (DDMA) order can attract penal action - imprisonment of up to one year or a fine or both - under provisions of the Disaster Management Act. The circular was issued on Tuesday and HT has seen a copy of it.Violation of all DDMA orders involves penal action under the same provisions of the law. Most DDMA orders mention it in the last few paragraphs. It is a slightly unusual case for a government department apparently being a bit more stern by mentioning the penal provision in a circular meant to be a reminder.Also Read: India reports 13,451 new Covid-19 cases, recovery rate at 98.19%Other departments have issued similar reminder circulars, but without the line on penal action since October 16. They include finance, revenue, labour, health and civil supplies.There are around 300,000 employees in the Delhi government’s 100-odd departments.The DDMA on October 8 issued the order making it mandatory for all Delhi government employees to ensure that they have taken at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine by October 15.Currently, there is no work-from-home provision in government offices.An official said that a recent survey showed that over 95% of the Delhi government employees have taken one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccine-deadline-delhi-govt-departments-issue-reminders-to-staff-101635309815499.html
27-10-2021||India||IRCTC announces North Darshan Yatra from October 31. Check details||The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) has announced a special North Darshan Yatra package to cash on the festival rush. The eight nights/nine days package will start from October 31.The journey will start from Rajkot in Gujarat and cover Amritsar (Punjab), Haridwar and Rishikesh (Uttarakhand), Mathura (Uttar Pradesh), Vaishno Devi (Jammu and Kashmir) and Ujjain (Madhya Pradesh).IRCTC has Posted the details of the package on its website in which it has said that the passengers can board, de-board the trains at Rajkot, Surendra Nagar, Viramgam, Mehsana, Kalol, Sabartmati, Anand, Chayapuri, Godhra, Dahod, Ratlam and Nagda.The ticketing and tour agency further said in the description that this is one of the most affordable all inclusive tour packages. The tickets are available in Sleeper and Third AC categories.According to IRCTC website, the charge for sleeper class is ₹8,505 per person, while for third AC it is ₹14,175 per person. Booking is free for children below 5 years, but those above the age of 5 will be charged as per the adult fare, said IRCTC.The tickets for the package can be booked by visiting IRCTC's official website irctctourism.com.It has also mentioned the inclusions in the package on its website:• Night stay at Dharmashalas/Halls on sharing basis• Morning tea/coffee, breakfast, lunch, dinner every day• Non-AC road transfers on SIC basis• Tour escort and security on train• Travel insuranceHowever, these things won't be included in the package:• Items of personal nature, like laundry or medicines• Entrance fee for monuments• Service of tour guide||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/irctc-announced-north-darshan-yatra-from-october-31-check-details-101635309103995.html
27-10-2021||India||Focus on innovation: UIDAI to conduct Aadhaar Hackathon 2021 from tomorrow||In a push to promote innovation among India’s youngsters, a four-day event dubbed Aadhaar Hackathon 2021 will be conducted by the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI), a government body, starting on Thursday. The event was announced on Tuesday by the ministry of electronics and IT.“The UIDAI has initiated the Aadhaar Hackathon 2021 to enhance the experience of the residents and the way they interface with enrollment and authentication software platforms through technological innovation,” the ministry said. The event comprises problem statements categorised into two broad themes, “enrollment and authentication”, the ministry said.Highlighting that the Aadhaar Hackathon 2021 has already sparked a buzz, the ministry said, “The UIDAI has received more than 2,700 registrations from engineering students over the last few days, which shows the inclination of young minds in solving real-life challenges being faced by the residents.”Students from all categories of engineering institutes, including IITs, NITs, NIRF and top-ranked colleges, are set to take part in the hackathon.Also Read: UIDAI announces new centres for Aadhaar enrolment, update request. Check details“Innovation, with cutting-edge open source technology, can help in solving some of the challenges being faced by residents,” the UIDAI said, calling on more youngsters to participate in the Aadhaar Hackathon 2021.The UIDAI is also conducting online interactive sessions every day to assist youngsters “explain problem statements with appropriate use cases”. “These sessions cover problem statements, and details of UIDAI APIs and products, which would be required to build custom solutions,” the ministry of electronics and IT said. The ministry has chalked out an evaluation criteria for the submissions for the hackathon. It said that the evaluation involves a jury-based approach comprising top minds from the IT industry, academia, consultancy circles and the government.Saurabh Garg, CEO of the UIDAI said, “I wish all the best to the participants and hope that our young innovators… will surprise us with some outstanding approaches and solutions to strengthen the Aadhaar infrastructure.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/focus-on-innovation-uidai-to-conduct-aadhaar-hackathon-2021-from-tomorrow-101635308854947.html
27-10-2021||India||Two Chhattisgarh journalists arrested on charges of extortion||The Chhattisgarh Police have arrested two journalists in Raipur for allegedly publishing a “misleading and baseless report” in a web portal against two ruling Congress lawmakers and extorting money from them.Brihaspat Singh and Kuldeep Juneja, the lawmakers, on Monday filed a complaint against the portal. Madhukar Dubey, who is also the portal’s owner, and Avinash Palliwar, were arrested on Monday. They have been booked under the Indian Penal Code’s Sections including 189 (threat of injury to public servant), 384 (extortion), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), and 506 (criminal intimidation).Also Read | ‘It could’ve been avoided’: Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel on Jashpur incidentPolice superintendent Prashant Agarwal cited the complaint in the case and said the lawmakers alleged they got a call of extortion from one of the two. “The FIR (first information report) was registered on the basis of the complaint and arrests have been made. A primary investigation suggested the news was baseless and there no sting as the portal claimed.” Agarwal said as per the norm in cases involving journalists, a deputy inspector general-level officer will review the charge sheet before it is filed in the case.Dubey’s wife, Archna, alleged police arrested her husband under pressure and without any investigation. “How can you arrest a journalist without even investigating the complaint...? The police are under pressure of politicians and working as their tool.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-chhattisgarh-journalists-arrested-on-charges-of-extortion-101635308614887.html
27-10-2021||India||UP bar council to cancel licences of lawyers filing fake insurance claims||After the Supreme Court’s rap, the Bar Council of Uttar Pradesh has decided to terminate licences of lawyers involved in submission of fake claims under the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal and the Workmen Compensation Act. Earlier this month on October 5, a double judge bench of justice MR Shah and justice AS Bopanna of the Supreme Court had shamed the Bar Council of Uttar Pradesh for not acting against advocates found to be submitting fake claim petitions and said that the “unfortunate” situation reflected “callousness and insensitivity” on the part of the bar. Following SC’s castigation, the UP bar council said it will cancel all such lawyers’ licence for legal practice. “All directives of the Supreme Court will be followed in this regard,” said Prashant Singh, member–secretary of the UP bar council. “This act falls in the category of misconduct of lawyers,” he added. While fixing November 16 as the next date of hearing in the case, the apex court has ordered the Uttar Pradesh government to submit list of all such lawyers in a sealed envelope by November 15. A special investigation team of the Uttar Pradesh government has been investigating cases of lawyers causing loss of several crore to insurance companies by submitting fake claims under the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal and Workmen Compensation Act as per an October 7, 2015 order given by Allahabad high court. The cases of such fraudulent conduct were forwarded by private insurer ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company . Also Read: No precision to determine income cutoff for quotaThe Supreme Court noted that SIT had investigated 246 out of the 1,376 complaints and registered 83 criminal complaints so far against errant lawyers, policemen, and insurance agents, and it directed the state to file a detailed report on the matter. “The State of UP/SIT is hereby directed to file a better affidavit in a sealed cover with respect to complaints filed/enquiry completed, the names of the accused, where the criminal complaints are filed and in which criminal cases the charge sheets have been filed,” said the court. The court also ordered that the names of the advocates against whom cognizable offence is prima facie made out are disclosed in a sealed cover so that the list can be sent to the Bar Council of India for further action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/upbar-council-to-cancel-licences-of-lawyers-filing-fake-insurance-claims-101635307896267.html
27-10-2021||India||India reports 13,451 new Covid-19 cases, recovery rate at 98.19%||India crossed another milestone on Wednesday when Covid-19 recovery rate reached 98.19 per cent, the highest since the beginning of the pandemic. The country recorded 14,021 recoveries in the last 24 hours, according to Union health ministry data.India also recorded 13,451 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the said timespan, which pushed the nationwide tally to 34,215,653, while the death toll climbed to 455,653 with 585 daily fatalities, according to health ministry data.Active cases fell by 1,155 to stand at 162,661 in the same period, according to the ministry's data. Active cases constitute 0.48 per cent of total cases, it further said.As many as 11,31,826 Covid-19 tests were conducted on Tuesday, taking the total number of tests conducted so far to 60,19,01,543. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 33,597,339, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.33 per cent, it said.With the administration of 51,56,054 Covid-19 vaccine doses till 7pm on Tuesday, India's cumulative vaccine coverage has exceeded the 1.03 billion-mark, the Union health ministry informed.The ministry said on Tuesday that over 1.07 billion Covid-19 vaccine doses have been provided to states and union territories so far through the direct state procurement category. "More than 107.22 crore (1,07,22,96,865) vaccine doses have been provided to States/UTs so far through Government of India (free of cost channel) and through direct state procurement category," it said.Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya is scheduled to hold a meeting today with health ministers of states and union territories to discuss the issue.Meanwhile, the Centre on Tuesday urged the states and union territories to focus on beneficiaries who are waiting for their second dose of Covid-19 vaccine after their interval period gets over. Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya is scheduled to hold a meeting with health ministers of states and union territories to discuss the issue.The Covid-19 vaccination drive has been ramped up through the availability of more vaccines, advanced visibility of vaccine availability to states for enabling better planning by them and streamlining the vaccine supply chain. The new phase of universalisation of vaccination commenced on June 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-13-451-new-covid-19-cases-recovery-rate-at-9819-101635306305715.html
27-10-2021||India||NHRC asks govt to increase participation of women at international forums||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has urged the government to increase the participation of women at international forums and important events related to peace negotiations, global security, foreign trade, and climate change. It has asked the ministry of external affairs to have a gender-inclusive staffing pattern and, if required, through gender quotas. “For this, monitoring of foreign policies needs to be done for gender balancing of skewed ratios, wherever found,” the NHRC said.The recommendations were made by the NHRC’s Core Group on Women, which met on September 14 to discuss the dismal representation of women at international forums.Representatives from the ministries of external affairs, personnel, women and child welfare, and the NHRC attended the meet.The attendees noted that there has been no policy in the country on the participation of women at international forums. Even the Draft National Policy on Women 2016, does not have any component that encourages women’s participation and their representation at international forums, according to the minutes of meetings reviewed by HT.Also Read: At NHRC event, PM Modi warns against ‘selective interpretation’ of human rightsThe group asked the ministry of personnel to incorporate a specific policy component on women’s participation at the international level in the Draft National Policy and form a working group to identify structural issues.Some members pointed out that there’s a lack of opportunities for women from fields other than foreign service officers in representing India at the international level, such as at UN bodies. They said that women have not been nominated to date to the post of Sherpa at G20.Also, there is limited access for women entrepreneurs engaged in the MSME (micro, small and medium enterprises) sector to contribute to India’s foreign trade policy. The NHRC asked the MSME ministry to promote women entrepreneurs at the international level. It said the Prime Minister’s Office and the ministry of home affairs should realise their commitment and work towards obligations under Article 8 of CEDAW (Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women). The UN General Assembly adopted the convention in 1979. Article 8 of CEDAW says the “state parties shall take all appropriate measures to ensure to women, on equal terms with men and without any discrimination, the opportunity to represent their governments at the international level and to participate in the work of international organisations”.The NHRC said thrust should be put on a stronger commitment to mainstream gender at the policy level, especially in matters of security, since India is a Non-Permanent Member of the UN Security Council. It asked the ministry of education to introduce an updated curriculum to teach in schools and colleges about the contribution of 15 women, who were in the constituent assembly, to sensitise students about gender parity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nhrcasks-government-to-increase-participation-of-women-at-international-forums-101635306754756.html
27-10-2021||India||Drug case: How focus shifted from Aryan Khan to NCB’s Sameer Wankhede||The focus in the drug case involving Bollywood star Shah Rukh Khan’s son, Aryan Khan, has shifted to Sameer Wankhede as Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik has levelled a series of charges against the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) zonal director heading the probe in the matter. Here are the allegations that Sameer Wankhede faces:• Nawab Malik on Tuesday cited a letter purportedly written by an anonymous employee of the agency alleging Sameer Wankhede framed innocent people in 26 fake drug cases. He also claimed Wankhede engaged two private persons to tap phones of the people to frame them. The letter claims the NCB allegedly planted drugs shown to have been seized in some of the cases.• On Monday, Nawab Malik claimed Sameer Wankhede is a Muslim but made a Hindu caste certificate by forgery to get into the Indian Revenue Service under the scheduled caste category. He tweeted a copy of a birth certificate, which he claimed is of Wankhede. The document shows his father’s name is Dawood K Wankhede while it is Dnyandev Wankhede as per the NCB website. Wankhede has rejected the allegation.Also Read: Not just Aryan Khan, these Bollywood celebrities have faced Sameer Wankhede• The NCB on Monday started probing allegations that Wankhede was part of a ₹25 crore extortion racket after the arrest of Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan. A vigilance inquiry was ordered after one of the NCB’s witnesses in the case, Prabhakar Sail, made the claim.• Malik has also alleged that the day Aryan Khan was arrested, the NCB detained many others in connection with the same case but those linked to a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader were released. The NCB has insisted it detained around 14 persons on that day and six were released while the remaining eight, including Aryan Khan, were arrested.• Malik has also accused Sameer Wankhede of framing his son-in-law and two others in a drug peddling case in January and delaying the process for their bail. He said the NCB showed 200kg herbal tobacco as “ganja” and produced photographs of seizures taken at its office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drug-case-how-focus-shifted-from-aryan-khan-to-ncb-investigator-sameer-wankhede-101635305675055.html
27-10-2021||India||AY.4.2: At least 17 cases of new coronavirus lineage found in India. Details here||The AY.4.2 lineage of Covid-19, a subvariant of the Delta coronavirus strain, has appeared in at least six states of India, manifesting in as many as 17 cases reported so far, according to data uploaded on GISAID, an open-source database tracking the genomic signature of coronavirus variants. While the central government has said that a panel of experts was looking into this new coronavirus strain which is believed to be behind the recent infection explosion in the United Kingdom, British authorities have posited that AY.4.2 could possibly be even more transmissible than Delta, although there currently is no evidence suggesting that it caused more severe diseases or rendered vaccines ineffective.The most recent cases of AY.4.2 coronavirus variant reported in India was when two suspected cases were identified earlier this week and the samples were sent to a laboratory in Bengaluru for genome sequencing. As per data available on GISAID, the 17 samples of AY.4.2 found so far in India include – seven in Andhra Pradesh, four in Kerala, two each in Telangana and Karnataka, and one each in Maharashtra and Jammu and Kashmir.What is AY.4.2 sub-lineage?Matthew Bashton and Darren Smith, from Northumbria University in Newcastle, said that 75 AY lineages of the coronavirus have been identified till now, each with different additional defining mutations in their genome.Talking about these in The Conversation, the duo said one of these variants - the AY.4 - has been steadily growing in proportion in the UK over the last few months, accounting for 63 per cent of new cases in the last 28 days.“The defining change in AY.4.2 is the mutation A1711V, which affects the virus's Nsp3 protein, which plays a number of roles in viral replication. However, the impact of this mutation is unknown,” Bashton and Smith said in their article.Is there a need to be worried?Although the AY.4.2 coronavirus variant has entered several European countries at this point, experts believe that it has yet to take hold somewhere else other than the United Kingdom. It has dropped off the radar in Germany and Ireland, though it is lingering in Denmark.It is still too early to tell if this is the beginning of the next dominant lineage, and any ability this variant might have of escaping immunity needs to be confirmed by experimental work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ay42-at-least-17-cases-of-new-coronavirus-lineage-found-in-india-details-here-101635302760771.html
27-10-2021||India||Heavy, widespread rain likely over peninsular India till October 30||Widespread rain and thundershowers are likely over several parts of peninsular India till October 30, according to the India Meteorological Department.A cyclonic circulation is lying over southeast Bay of Bengal and it is likely to move westwards, forming a low pressure area over central parts of South Bay of Bengal on Wednesday. A trough in easterly is running from southeast Arabian Sea off Kerala coast to Eastcentral Arabian Sea off Karnataka coast in lower levels. Under the influence of these systems, isolated heavy rainfall is very likely over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Karaikal, Kerala, Mahe, south interior Karnataka, Rayalaseema and over coastal Andhra Pradesh till October 30, IMD said.Also Read | Chill in the air: Capital to see temperatures below 13 degree Celsius from Nov 1Barring Rayalseema and Andhra Pradesh, all the above mentioned regions were also likely to experience light to moderate, scattered to widespread rainfall with thunderstorm and lightning in the same period. Mainly dry weather is likely to prevail over most parts of Northwest, Central & West India and parts of East India during the next 6-7 days, the weather department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-widespread-rain-likely-over-peninsular-india-till-october-30-101635305074541.html
27-10-2021||India||New Delhi sees colder Wednesday; temperature likely to dip to 15°C||New Delhi woke up to a slightly colder morning on Wednesday, with the minimum temperature expected to drop to 15 degrees Celsius, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), which also said that clear skies were expected. The maximum temperature on Wednesday was likely to be 29 degrees Celsius. Tuesday’s minimum temperature was 16.2 degrees Celsius while the mercury recorded 28 degrees Celsius at its highest - four degrees below normal for this time of the year. According to IMD officials, New Delhi’s minimum temperature is expected to fall to around 14 degrees Celsius by October 30.New Delhi’s air quality was in the moderate category on Wednesday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 187. On Tuesday, the average 24-hour AQI was 139, which was in the moderate category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51-100 ”satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 ”poor”, 301 and 400 ”very poor”, and 401 and 500 ”severe”.On Tuesday, the ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR,) said, “Delhi’s AQI is in the moderate category. Fire emission is expected to increase due to dry weather over north India in the next three days due to which PM2.5 is likely to increase. Drier conditions tend to increase PM10. Thus, overall AQI is likely to degrade from moderate to poor category for the next three days. The effective fire count over the northwest region is 348 and its share in PM2.5 is 8% as westerly winds are partly favourable.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-delhi-sees-colder-wednesday-temperature-likely-to-dip-to-15c-101635304714739.html
27-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: Ex-Punjab CM Amarinder Singh likely to launch new political party today and all the latest news||Amarinder Singh likely to launch new political party todayFormer Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh is on Wednesday likely to launch a new political party, the Punjab Lok Congress, according to people familiar with the developments. Read moreNo fresh Covid cases in 9 of Maharashtra’s 36 districtsMaharashtra on Tuesday recorded 1,201 new Covid-19 cases, 786 of these from just five districts including Mumbai (island and suburban), Pune, Nashik and Ahmednagar. Read moreNo precision to determine income cutoff for quotaIn matters of reservation, there cannot be mathematical precision to determine an income ceiling to identify the poor, the Union government told the Supreme Court on Tuesday, justifying its decision to introduce 10% quota for people coming from families with annual income of less than ₹8 lakh. Read moreMore than 700 Olympic community members still in Afghanistan after US pulloutThe International Olympic Committee said on Tuesday more than 700 members of its community remain in danger in Afghanistan under the Taliban regime. Read moreMira Rajput's co-ord shirt and shorts worth ₹16k prove she is still in beach mode, see picsShahid Kapoor's wife, Mira Rajput Kapoor, is still not out of the Maldives state of mind. She took to Instagram on Tuesday to post pictures of herself dressed in beach-ready attire. Read moreKatrina Kaif and Vicky Kaushal visit their manager together amid rumours of December wedding, fans wonder what's cookingAfter sharing hugs at Sardar Udham screening, Katrina Kaif and Vicky Kaushal were spotted together at celebrity manager Reshma Shetty's office on Tuesday night. The two actors are rumoured to be dating. Read moreHarbhajan Singh, Mohammad Amir involved in ugly slugfest on Twitter over India-Pakistan matchesIn what appeared to be a banter at the beginning soon turned into an ugly slugfest between Harbhajan Singh and Mohammad Amir. The noted India spinner and the former Pakistan pacer launched a no-holds-barred verbal attack on each other on Twitter late on Tuesday night on the backdrop of Pakistan's 10-wicket victory over India in a T20 World Cup 2021 match in Dubai. Read moreRange Rover 2022, Land Rover's most luxurious SUV ever, breaks coverJaguar Land Rover has officially taken the covers off the fifth generation Range Rover SUV which now comes with a new look, new engine options and loaded with new technology with features galore. Read moreWatch| Daughter of former Indonesian president converts to Hinduism from Islam||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-amarinder-singh-likely-to-launch-new-political-party-today-101635304154831.html
27-10-2021||India||NIA verdict likely today on 2013 serial blasts at Narendra Modi rally in Patna||The verdict in the deadly 2013 Gandhi Maidan serial blasts at the venue of then prime ministerial candidate Narendra Modi’s “Hunkar” rally is likely to be delivered on Wednesday by the National Investigation Agency’s (NIA) special court in Patna.Six people were killed and over 90 injured in the serial blasts that rocked the capital city of Bihar on October 27, 2013. Modi, however, went ahead with the rally to calm nerves and prevent a stampede at the packed Gandhi Maidan. Nine Indian Mujahideen (IM) suspects and a Students’ Islamic Movement of India (SIMI) suspect were made accused in the case.The accused were identified as Numan Ansari, Haider Ali alias “Black Beauty”, Mohammed Mujibullah Ansari, Umar Siddiqui, Azharuddin Qureshi, Ahmed Hussain, Faqruddin, Mohammed Iftekhar Alam, and a minor, whose identity has been protected. The minor accused was sentenced on October 12, 2017 for three years by the Juvenile Justice Board after being found guilty of involvement in multiple blasts. Also Read: Special NIA court sentences 2 Hizbul operatives to 12-year jailMost of the accused are from Sithio in Ranchi, said a police official. Another accused Tariq Ansari died while trying to plant a bomb inside a public toilet at the Patna Junction railway station. Two of the accused were arrested from the spot.The accused are currently lodged in the high-security Beur Central Jail in Patna. They were slapped with various charges, including hatching a conspiracy, planting and exploding bombs, murdering, and spreading communal hatred. The NIA took up the case on November 6, 2013, and after probing the incident, it filed a charge sheet against the 11 accused on August 21, 2014. In the charge sheet, the NIA said the accused had planned the Patna blasts after they failed to get close to Modi at previous rallies in New Delhi, Chhatisgarh and Uttar Pradesh. Manoj Kumar Singh, public prosecutor of the NIA court, said the final hearing of the case started in June 2018. The arguments of prosecution witnesses and the accused have been concluded in the special NIA court. Altogether 250 prosecution witnesses deposed before the trial court for cross-examination, the officer said.A total of 17 IEDs - seven of them had detonated - were found in and around Gandhi Maidan. Five accused have already been convicted in the 2013 Bodh Gaya serial bombings case. Haider and Mujibullah were masterminds of the Bodh Gaya bombings, carried out as revenge for alleged atrocities against Rohingya Muslims in Myanmar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-verdict-likely-today-on-2013-serial-blasts-at-narendra-modi-rally-in-patna-101635303756062.html
27-10-2021||India||No fresh Covid-19 cases in nine of Maharashtra’s 36 districts||Maharashtra on Tuesday recorded 1,201 new Covid-19 cases, 786 of these from just five districts including Mumbai (island and suburban), Pune, Nashik and Ahmednagar. Of the 36 districts in the state, nine recorded zero fresh cases, while 24 recorded zero Covid related deaths on Tuesday. Mumbai logged 293 new cases followed by 217 in Pune district and 192 in Ahmednagar.State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate said the cases were high in urban areas due to the population density.“Mumbai and Pune have a high population density and hence they have a higher number of cases compared to other districts. However, we have been able to contain Covid across Maharashtra because of which many districts are now showing nil cases and deaths,” he said.On Monday, the state reported 889 new Covid-19 cases, which was the lowest in the last 511 days.Dr Ishwar Gilada. secretary-general, Organised Medicine Academic Guild, said this was due to the prevailing festive season.“Cases have reduced in rural pockets as there is lot of space and social distancing is possible. Opening of trains as well as theatres and amusement parks will also result in a minor surge. However, the situation is under control,” he added.Jalgaon, Nandurbar, Yavatmal, Bhandara, Gondia and Gadchiroli districts reported no new Covid-19 cases.Also Read: In Maharashtra, over 30 million people fully vaccinated against Covid-19Similarly, Thane, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, Jalna, Dhule , Jalgaon and Nandurbar logged zero Covid deaths. The state’s tally of Covid cases has reached 6,605,051, and the death toll has touched 140,060. Pune has recorded the maximum deaths (19,579), followed by Mumbai (16,225) and Thane (11,419).With 293 new cases and five deaths recorded on Tuesday, Mumbai’s case tally stands at 755,063 and death toll at 16,225. The state conducted 102,048 tests on Tuesday.The number of active cases in Maharashtra stands at 22,981, including 6,837 in Pune, the highest in the state, followed by Mumbai and Thane with 4,936 and 3,559 cases respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-fresh-covid-cases-in-9-of-maharashtra-s-36-districts-101635303754743.html
27-10-2021||India||No precision to determine income cutoff for quota||In matters of reservation, there cannot be mathematical precision to determine an income ceiling to identify the poor, the Union government told the Supreme Court on Tuesday, justifying its decision to introduce 10% quota for people coming from families with annual income of less than ₹8 lakh.These are matters of policy in which courts need not interfere, the Centre said. It was not necessary to have different income scales for different cities, states and regions as economic conditions keep changing with time, it told the SC. A broad criterion applicable to the entire country should be taken as the basis for providing reservation for economically weaker sections, the Centre said in an affidavit.The affidavit was filed in response to a bunch of petitions filed by some doctors who have opposed quotas of 27% for other backward classes (OBCs) and 10% for economically weaker sections (EWS) in the all-India quota seats for postgraduate medical and dental courses from this academic session. The response came ahead of the hearing on Thursday.The bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, Vikram Nath and BV Nagarathna had last week sought to know what study was done to arrive at an income threshold of ₹8 lakh to identify the poor uniformly across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-precision-to-determine-income-cutoff-for-quota-101635301629002.html
27-10-2021||India||Union ministers opt for carpool to attend ‘Chintan Shivirs’: Report||In an unique move, Union ministers have started practicing carpooling while going for meetings to improve efficiency, delivery of services and overall governance, news agency PTI reported on Tuesday. Four such meetings have already been held so far on efficiency, time management, focused implementation of projects and policies and dealing with stakeholders.One cabinet minister is usually accompanied by two ministers of state in the same car. Preferably, all three ministers will be from different ministries and states, the PTI report said. This exercise aims to increase interaction between ministers and has been implemented after suggestion from Prime Minister Narendra Modi.In previous meetings, or 'Chintan Shivirs', Union ministers Dharmendra Pradhan, Mansukh Mandaviya, Piyush Goyal, Gajendra Shekhawat, Narendra Singh Tomar and Hardeep Singh Puri gave presentations. These presentations were followed by free-wheeling discussions on various relevant topics, where Prime Minister Narendra Modi also gave suggestions, the report said.According to Hindustan Times's sister publication Live Hindustan, the Prime Minister had suggested that all the ministers of the concerned department should come together by car pool and also sit together during the meeting so that communication and coordination between them can be better. Even during the meeting, they should discuss among themselves issues related to their ministry for better communication.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-ministers-opt-for-carpool-to-attend-chintan-shivirs-report-101635298175754.html
27-10-2021||India||Indo-Pacific regional dialogue starts today with focus on maritime strategy||Indo-Pacific Regional Dialogue (IPRD), the apex international annual conference of the Indian Navy, is scheduled to be held as a three-day online event that commences today, i.e. on October 27, and lasts till Friday, October 29.According to a press statement by the ministry of defence, the dialogue has been held every year since 2018. This year's IPRD will focus on eight specific sub-themes under the broad theme of “Evolution in Maritime Strategy during the 21st Century: Imperatives, Challenges, and, Way Ahead”.Defence minister Rajnath Singh, minister of external affairs S Jaishankar, and petroleum minister Hardeep S Puri will address the sessions.Panel discussions on these sub-themes would be spread over eight sessions on three successive days thereby providing ample scope for varied perspectives to be considered.The aim is to encourage a free flow of ideas and views. The eight sub-themes are – Evolving Maritime Strategies within the Indo-Pacific: Convergences, Divergences, Expectations and Apprehensions, Adaptive Strategies to Address the Impact of Climate Change upon Maritime Security, Port-led Regional Maritime Connectivity and Development Strategies, Cooperative Maritime Domain Awareness Strategies, Impact of the Increasing Recourse to Lawfare upon a Rules-based Indo-Pacific Maritime Order, Strategies to Promote Regional Public-Private Maritime Partnerships, Energy-Insecurity, and Mitigating Strategies, Strategies to Address the Manned-Unmanned Conundrum at Sea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indopacific-regional-dialogue-starts-today-with-focus-on-maritime-strategy-101635297594204.html
27-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan's bail plea hearing to continue in Bombay high court today||The Bombay high court will on Wednesday resume hearing of the bail plea of Aryan Khan in connection with seizure of drugs on a cruise ship. The hearing will resume at 2.30pm today.During the hearing on Khan's bail plea on Tuesday - his third after being arrested on October 3 - the 23-year-old's lawyers told the high court that Aryan should be given bail because no drugs were recovered from him. They also said that WhatsApp conversations used by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) were not related to the cruise where Aryan Khan was arrested from three weeks ago.Former Attorney General Mukul Rohatgi was part of the high-powered legal team which sought bail for actor Shah Rukh Khan's son.Aryan Khan is currently lodged in Mumbai's Arthur Road Jail for alleged consumption and conspiracy under the stringent Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act.Rohatgi, representing Aryan, argued that his client was invited to the cruise as a special guest and there was no recovery of drugs from him, and no medical examination was conducted to show he consumed drugs. "No recovery, no consumption, I submit I am wrongly arrested," he stressed.Rohatgi also said in his arguments that Aryan Khan was a "young man" who should be sent to rehab rather than jail."Law provides that for small quantities, the maximum punishment is one year of imprisonment. For consumption, there is rehabilitation as per law," Rohatgi argued on behalf of Aryan Khan.He further said that six grams of charas was recovered from accused number 2 (Arbaz Merchant) and Aryan had no relation with him except for arriving with him there.Aryan Khan's bail plea was rejected by the special court on October 20 in the case following which his judicial custody in the case got extended till October 30. Khan approached the Bombay high court for an urgent bail hearing.He was arrested by the NCB on October 3, a day after the agency raided the cruise ship off the coast of Mumbai. A total of 20 people, including two Nigerian nationals, have been arrested so far in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aryan-khan-s-bail-plea-hearing-to-continue-in-bombay-high-court-today-101635296911519.html
27-10-2021||India||Drugs case: NCB to probe Prabhakar Sail today on allegations of corruption||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) will on Wednesday probe Prabhakar Sail, a witness in the drugs-on-cruise case, on allegations of corruption levelled by him against NCB witness Kiran Gosavi and Sameer Wankhede, the zonal officer in charge of the case. "Mumbai NCB has summoned Prabhakar Sail, a witness in the drugs on cruise case, for questioning tomorrow. He will be questioned by NCB team reaching Mumbai from Delhi tomorrow, in connection with his allegations of corruption," the NCB said on Tuesday.Sail is the bodyguard of Gosavi. He has alleged that Gosavi took ₹50 lakh from an individual after the raid at the cruise ship. He said, "I worked as a bodyguard of Kiran Gosavi. I assisted him during the Mumbai cruise drugs case." However, the NCB named Sail as a "hostile witness" in its affidavit in the court.Sail on Tuesday said that he stood by his allegation of extortion demand against Wankhede and others, and nobody had tutored him. Wankhede has already denied the allegation. Speaking to reporters in Mumbai, Sail showed some chats on mobile phone where Gosavi purportedly asked him to collect the extortion money from Haji Ali. "I have narrated everything chronologically and nothing is made-up. Nobody is asking me to speak about this issue," Sail said.On October 18, a case was registered against Gosavi, the man who was seen accosting Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan at the NCB office in connection with the drugs-on-cruise case.A team of the NCB busted an alleged drugs party on the Cordelia Cruise ship which was on its way to Goa at mid-sea on October 2. A total of 20 people, including Aryan Khan, have been arrested so far in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drugs-case-ncb-to-probe-prabhakar-sail-today-on-allegations-of-corruption-101635294309691.html
27-10-2021||India||Madhya Pradesh: Sachin Pilot to address 3 poll rallies today||Congress leader and former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot will address three election rallies in Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday. He will hold meetings in support of Congress candidates in by-elections in Madhya Pradesh on Friday, according to a statement.The Congress leader is scheduled to hold rallies at Chaigaon in Pandhana at 11am, at Sanawad in Badwah at 12:30pm, and at Mundi in Mandhata constituency at 3pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-sachin-pilot-to-address-3-poll-rallies-today-101635293206403.html
27-10-2021||India||Mandaviya to meet health ministers of states over Covid vaccine administration||Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya will hold a meeting with health ministers of states and union territories on Wednesday over ramping up of Covid-19 vaccination drive in the nation, according to news agency ANI. He will also discuss with the health ministers about PM Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission and the delay in administering second dose of the Covid-19 vaccines.The Centre on Tuesday urged the states and union territories to focus on beneficiaries who are waiting for their second dose of Covid-19 vaccine after their interval period gets over. The states and union territories have been urged to improve the momentum of vaccination and accelerate its coverage as the nation moves forward to vaccinate the eligible population by end of the year.India has covered 76 per cent of the eligible population for the first dose. "So far, 71.24 crore first doses, covering 76 per cent of the eligible population, and 30.06 crore second doses, covering 32 per cent of the eligible population, have been administered the Covid vaccines," according to a statement from the health ministry.The Centre wants to accelerate the inoculation drive as it has planned to vaccinate all the eligible population by the end of the year. India’s cumulative Covid-19 vaccination coverage exceeded 1.02 billion on Tuesday with over 6.475 million doses being administered in the last 24 hours.According to the health ministry, more than 1.07 billion vaccine doses have been provided to states and UTs so far through the government's free-of-cost channel and through direct state procurement category. "More than 12.37 crore (123.7 million) balance and unutilized Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs to be administered," the ministry said.Meanwhile, India continues to show declining trends on daily Covid-19 caseload trajectory. The nation on Tuesday reported 12,428 fresh Covid-19 cases which was the lowest in last 238 days. The active caseload is currently at 1,63,816, the lowest in 241 days. At present, active cases constitute 0.48 per cent of the nation's total positive cases which are at their lowest since March 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mandaviya-to-meet-health-ministers-of-states-over-covid-vaccine-administration-101635292901182.html
27-10-2021||India||Bombay HC to hear plea challenging Tarun Tejpal's acquittal in rape case||The Goa bench of the Bombay high court will on Wednesday virtually hear the state government's appeal against the acquittal of journalist Tarun Tejpal in a 2013 sexual assault case. The matter was earlier adjourned by the high court on September 20, when it said that a facility for virtual hearing will be set up by October 27, when the matter is to be heard. The development comes as Tejpal opposed the Goa government's plea challenging his acquittal in the case, and also requested an ‘in-camera’ hearing to keep the court proceedings private.Also Read | ‘No template of apt behaviour after assault’: Experts on Tarun Tejpal verdictTejpal, the former editor-in-chief of Tehelka magazine, was in 2013 accused of sexually assaulting a female colleague at an event. On May 21 earlier this year, a sessions court presided over by Justice Kshama Joshi acquitted him of all charges. The Goa government, however, filed an appeal against the acquittal in the high court.Last month, Tejpal made a submission before the Bombay high court, seeking ‘in-camera’ proceedings of the Goa government's petition challenging his acquittal in the case, and sought its dismissal while raising preliminary objections on its maintainability. However, Solicitor General of India Tushar Mehta, representing the Goa government, opposed Tejpal's requests to keep the proceedings private, saying the “country has the right to know how the institution dealt with the girl (victim).”Mehta will be participating in the court proceedings from Delhi today, owing to the virtual nature of the hearing. The matter was taken up physically at the court for the first time on August 31, in the wake of the Goa government relaxing several coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-related curbs. Thereafter, a request was pending before the chief justice for a hybrid (physical plus virtual) hearing into the matter, which was eventually granted.Also Read | Tejpal’s acquittal left ‘impression on victims of sexual violence’: Goa govtA former colleague of Tejpal had accused him of sexually assaulting her inside the lift of a five-star hotel in Goa in November 2013, where the both of them were attending an event. The matter received intense public attention and media scrutiny, especially owing to the fact that Tejpal and his magazine had previously been active in highlighting the issue of sexual violence in India through investigative journalism and sting operations. Tejpal later admitted “misconduct” and stepped down as the editor of the Tehelka magazine for six months. However, a Goa trial court acquitted him of all charges earlier this year, noting substantial investigative bias and lacunae by the investigating officer in the case, including the destruction of key evidence that would “conclusively corroborate the defense of the accused.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-hc-to-hear-plea-challenging-tarun-tejpal-s-acquittal-in-rape-case-101635291447069.html
27-10-2021||India||PM Modi to attend virtual 16th East Asia Summit today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will attend the 16th East Asia Summit to be held virtually on Wednesday that will discuss matters of regional and international interest, according to the Prime Minister's Office (PMO). Concerns on maritime security and terrorism will also be taken up during the summit, the PMO further said.About the East Asia SummitThe East Asia Summit is the premier leaders-led forum in the Indo-Pacific. Since its inception in 2005, it has played a significant role in the strategic and geopolitical evolution of East Asia. Apart from the 10 ASEAN member states, East Asia Summit includes India, China, Japan, Republic of Korea, Australia, New Zealand, United States and Russia, according to a release from the PMO.Objective of the summitIndia is committed to strengthen the East Asia Summit and make it more effective for dealing with contemporary challenges. It is also an important platform for furthering practical cooperation in the Indo-Pacific by building upon the convergence between ASEAN Outlook on Indo-Pacific (AOIP) and Indo-Pacific Ocean's Initiative (IPOI).Agenda of 16th East Asia SummitAccording to the PMO, leaders will discuss matters of regional and international interest and concern including maritime security, terrorism, Covid-19 cooperation at the 16th East Asia Summit. Leaders are also expected to accept declarations on mental health, economic recovery through tourism, and green recovery, which are being co-sponsored by India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-attend-virtual-16th-east-asia-summit-today-101635291481496.html
27-10-2021||India||India's first election: Pioneers blazed a trail for future generations||On June 16, 1949, Annie Mascarene rose from her seat in the cavernous Constitution hall — what is now the Central Hall of the Indian Parliament — and admitted to changing her mind about an article being debated by the Constituent Assembly. Article 289 in the draft constitution pertained to the formation of a commission that would be in charge of conducting free and fair elections in the country. To achieve this, the chief of the commission or the Election Commissioner would not report to the executive, and would also hold overview of the elections in the various provinces, a provision that Bhimrao Ambedkar, the chairman of the drafting committee, had argued for the day before.
27-10-2021||India||22 in 1951 to 78 in 2019: How has India fared in electing women?||Unlike most 19th century pioneers of democracy, where women were given the right to vote and stand for office much later than men, independent India granted women both these rights in its very first national election. Did this give women in India a good start in elections? Has it led to more parity with men in candidate selection? Let the numbers speak:
27-10-2021||India||IISER professor Rajesh Gokhale is new DBT secretary||Dr Rajesh S Gokhale, biology professor from Pune’s Indian Institute of Science Education and Research is the new department of biotechnology secretary of government.“The appointments committee of the Cabinet has approved the appointment of Dr Rajesh S Gokhale, professor, department of biology, Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Pune, to the post of secretary, department of biotechnology, for a period of two years or till attaining the age of 60 years...,” read the order. Dr Renu Swarup, who was originally secretary, department of biotechnology, has also been holding the additional charge of secretary, department of science and technology, since September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iiser-professor-rajesh-gokhale-is-new-dbt-secretary-101635285600399.html
27-10-2021||India||Analysis on for use of Covaxin in kids: Govt||The national drugs regulator continues to analyse Covaxin data before granting approval for emergency use in children, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Tuesday, as questions remain over why the clearance hasn’t come even though the subject expert committee of the central drugs standards control organisation recommended its use in children two weeks ago.“This is a sensitive matter as it deals with children; therefore, the government has been clear, and taken a stand, from the start to not interfere in the decision-making on this technical topic. Let technical experts handle it. However, according to the information that I have, the technical committee has granted its approval on the matter, and the data is being further analysed. Decision on the vaccine’s use in children will be based on the outcome of that analysis. The analysis is not only based on local data but also on what’s the global trend as it deals with children,” said Mandaviya.This is the first time the drugs controller general of India (DCGI), VG Somani, has taken this long to grant an approval following the SEC’s decision. The emergency use authorisation in all other six Covid vaccines that are approved for use in India, was granted in a day or two.A senior official familiar with the development earlier said about the delay, “We will have to be extremely careful when talking about Covid-19 vaccination in children as even the developed countries that have begun vaccinating their children, are treading cautiously. The whole world is watching and we cannot afford to slip.”On October 12, the expert group looking into vaccine approvals gave its clearance for the use of Covaxin in the 2-18 age group, raising the possibility that children could soon begin to receive doses since Bharat Biotech’s shot is already being administered in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/analysis-on-for-use-of-covaxin-in-kids-govt-101635284841730.html
27-10-2021||India||NCB decided not to act, Sameer Wankhede went ahead||Narcotics Control Bureau’s Operations Unit, based mostly in the anti-drugs enforcement agency’s HQ in Delhi was aware of the party planned on the Cordelia cruise ship on the night of October 2, but decided not to act on it because there was no big players involved and the quantity of drugs on board was likely to be insignificant, people familiar with the matter said.Sameer Wankhede , who is Zonal Director of NCB’s Mumbai unit and also had information about the party, went ahead with the raid with his team and independent witnesses, said an official at NCB, who didn’t want to be named. A second official, who too asked not to be named, said there was nothing untoward in Wankhede’s action because a zonal director in NCB has complete freedom to conduct operations independently on the basis of verifiable information.HT could not verify whether file was moved in the headquarters in connection with the tip-off on the rave.Director General of NCB S N Pradhan didn’t respond to text messages and repeated calls by HT.Wankhede said he was “not aware of such thing” in response to a specific query on the Operations Unit having information about the rave but deciding it wasn’t worth their time.The Operations Unit has pan-India jurisdiction, while a zonal office can only carry out operations in areas under its control – Maharashtra and Goa in Mumbai Zone’s case.With NCB now initiating a vigilance inquiry into the matter, chances are that the agency will look into Wankhede’s informer network and the kind of people whose assistance the zonal director seems to have taken, including a private detective KP Gosavi whose role has come under scrutiny, and who is currently on the run.The Mumbai team has alleged the drug bust involving 23-year old Aryan Khan, actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son has “international links”.Thus far, 20 have been arrested in this case, including Delhi based event management professionals, Nigerian nationals and Mumbai based drug peddlers, but only 13 grams of cocaine, 5 grams of mephedrone, 21 grams of Charas, 22 pills of MDMA (ecstasy) and ₹1.33 lakh of cash has been recovered by NCB Mumbai from the cruise ship and subsequent raids. On this aspect, the Operations Unit’s information does seem to have been accurate.On Tuesday, Wankhede met senior officials of NCB at the agency’s headquarters at R K Puram, Delhi. He reached Delhi late on Monday and his visit here comes in the backdrop of the NCB ordering a vigilance inquiry into the allegations made by a witness, Prabhakar Sail , who claimed Gosavi and Wankhede were part of an attempt to secure a ₹25 crore payoff to let Khan go.The federal agency’s deputy director general (DDG) of northern region , Gyaneshwar Singh, who is now heading the vigilance inquiry in the matter, told mediapersons outside NCB office he is yet to call anyone for the probe.“When it is required, I will call him (Wankhede),” Singh, an IPS officer, said. Singh is supposed to travel to Mumbai with a team for the inquiry.Wankhede claimed on his arrival in Delhi on Monday that he was not summoned by HQ because of the case but was here for some work, adding that he has been fair in the case. Interestingly, his wife and sister held a press conference in Mumbai to clear his name, even as Mumbai police said they were looking into all the allegations against Wankhede.The NCB is yet to clarify if Wankhede will continue to supervise the investigation in the Aryan Khan Case while the vigilance inquiry is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncb-decided-not-to-act-sameer-wankhede-went-ahead-101635280407731.html
27-10-2021||India||Goa Oppn demands CM Sawant’s resignation, inquiry into Satya Pal Malik’s charges||PANAJI: Opposition parties in Goa on Tuesday escalated the attacks on the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over former Goa governor Satya Pal Malik’s comments about corruption in the Pramod Sawant government.On Tuesday, a delegation of the Trinamool Congress and the Goa Forward Party led separate delegations to Goa governor PS Pillai urging him to dismiss Sawant in the wake of his predecessor’s allegations against him.The Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) held separate protests at the Azad maidan to demand the removal of the chief minister, who they said, has no right to continue in office. “The continuation of Pramod Sawant as the chief minister of Goa has become absolutely untenable, and the continued existence of his government, an impropriety and a mockery of all democratic, ethical and moral principles,” Goa Forward chief Vijai Sardesai said. “We see this as a befitting case to approach the high court for registering an FIR against the government, with a charge sheet to be filed within 90 days of FIR. Moving expeditiously in such matters of corruption will ensure that the people retain their faith in the Constitution of India,” he said.Sardesai has also demanded that the central government order an inquiry under a retired Supreme Court judge.Similarly, the Trinamool Congress delegation including Lok Sabha MP Saugata Roy, former union minister Babul Supriyo, TMC vice-president Luizinho Faleiro too called on the Governor to demand Sawant’s removal from office.“The BJP government must release a white paper on the purchases and expenditure made by the government during the Covid-19 pandemic. These are serious allegations and cannot be taken lightly,” Faleiro said. The party also submitted a memorandum to the Governor. The Congress’ Gaurav Vallabh, who is in the state, demanded that a high-level inquiry be conducted to probe the allegations.“We demand that the Prime Minister immediately dismiss the CM and entire council of ministers of Goa government who are directly/indirectly involved in such massive corruption and that too in the middle of Pandemic?” Vallabh said. The Congress also demanded the setting up of a “time-bound investigation under the supervision of a sitting Judge of the Supreme Court to find out what all other areas of Governance Goa Government are involved in corrupt practices.”“The PM should come out and answer why no action was initiated against the Goa CM when the governor informed him about the rampant corruption by the Goa government?” he said. Members of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) were arrested after they attempted to march towards the chief minister’s official residence to register their protest. In an interview with India Today TV broadcast on Monday, Satya PalMalik who spent a little under a year as Goa governor between October 2019 and August 2020 before being shunted out to Meghalaya, pulled up Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant for his handling of the lockdown, that happened when Malik was the Governor as well as Sawant’s “unnecessary” plans to build a new Raj Bhavan in Goa. “I am a Lohia-ite. I get very angry when it comes to corruption. I do not take it kindly. On the day when the lockdown was announced, the government said that even the stores selling basic essentials would not be allowed to open but said they would sell door to door. Which was impossible, but they allowed one company to sell basic essentials door to door which had given money to the Goa Government, when people from Congress told me about it, I informed PM Modi ji ,” Malik said.“There was corruption in the Goa government in handling everything… because of that I was sent away from there,” he also said.Malik who was the Governor of Jammu and Kashmir prior to the revocation of Article 370 and bifurcating the state into two union territories was posted to Goa in November 2019. His run-ins with chief minister Pramod Sawant, however, were followed by his transfer to Meghalaya.The ruling BJP accused the Meghalaya governor of crossing the line in violation of “ethics and propriety”. Goa BJP spokesperson Damodar “Damu” Naik said Malik should step down from his constitutional post if he wants to criticise “his own government”.“It is completely wrong for the governor to speak this way. There is ethics and propriety. He should behave within the limits of ethics and propriety. Did he act on it (corruption charge) when he was the governor? To speak about it now and to speak to the media while still being a governor is completely wrong and unconstitutional. He should have sent a report to the Union home ministry back then and then the senior leaders would have taken it forward,” Naik said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-oppn-demands-cm-sawant-s-resignation-inquiry-into-satya-pal-malik-s-charges-101635277456629.html
27-10-2021||India||Supreme Court to peruse 2002 Gujarat riots’ SIT closure report||The Supreme Court on Tuesday said it would like to peruse the closure report of the special investigation team (SIT) giving clean chit to 64 people in the 2002 Gujarat riots case, including then chief minister Narendra Modi, and the justification given by the magisterial court while accepting it.Zakia Ehsan Jafri, wife of late Congress MP Ehsan Jafri, on Tuesday told the SC that her plea to probe the larger conspiracy behind the riots was not a political issue as she did not intend to name any individual but to address the administrative lapses. “This is not a political issue. I do not want any person to be named, any person to be invited. I am only on the administrative failure of the state government...,” senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for Zakia, told the bench of justices AM Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and CT Ravikumar. Zakia moved the apex court after the Gujarat high court on October 5, 2017, dismissed her petition challenging the findings by the special investigation team (SIT), alleging a larger conspiracy behind the entire riots that led to her husband’s death.As notice is yet to be issued in the matter, which is pending before the Supreme Court since 2018, Sibal said he wanted the SIT to probe on Zakia’s complaint submitted to the additional director general of police in June 2006 and explore whether there was a larger conspiracy behind the riots.The SIT had found no prosecutable evidence against Modi, other members in the state government, bureaucracy and police. For this purpose, the court will examine the closure report of SIT on Wednesday as the arguments remained inconclusive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-to-peruse-2002-gujarat-riots-sit-closure-report-101635275800627.html
27-10-2021||India||Tamil Nadu governor seeks details about welfare scheme, stirs row||A month after taking over as the Tamil Nadu governor, R N Ravi has sought details on the functioning of various departments and the ongoing welfare schemes, a move that erupted into a political row with questions being raised if this is an overreach by the office of the governor. The matter came to light after chief secretary V Irai Anbu’s letter to heads of government departments asking them to prepare presentations for the governor. “The Honorable Governor of Tamil Nadu wishes to know about the functioning of certain departments in the State and its ongoing welfare schemes of both the State as well as the Union Government,” the chief secretary said in his letter dated October 18, which began circulating this week. The chief secretary requested them to apprise the governor about their departments. “Power-point presentation may also be prepared for the above said purpose. The power point prepared is to be discussed before the presentation,” he said in the letter, adding that a date will be informed to them soon. The ruling DMK’s principal ally, the Congress, criticised the governor’s move. Tamil Nadu Congress Committee chief K S Alagiri in a statement said the governor is overstepping his powers. “The Governor can only act on the advice of the Cabinet. He has no right to oversee or interfere with the plans and departments of the Government of Tamil Nadu,” Alagiri said, adding that the move raises doubts if the new governor is acting on behalf of the BJP in the state. “I warn that the BJP which has already been rejected by the people of Tamil Nadu will be further affected by the actions of the Governor. He will face consequences if he goes beyond his limits without complying with the Constitution.” Reacting to Alagiri’s statements, BJP spokesperson Narayanan Thirupathy asking why the Congress was shocked over the governor’s move. “Are they acting out of fear that they neither have plans nor activities going on?” Thirupathy asked. As the issue turned into a controversy, chief secretary Anbu released a statement on Tuesday evening, urging that the issue be not politicised. “It is customary for a newly-appointed Governor to learn about the schemes and development projects that are implemented in the state,” Anbu’s statement read. “It is unnecessary to politicise this issue. Those who are aware of the administrative process should be aware of this procedure.” Chairman of the State Minorities Commission and Congress leader Peter Alphonse also objected to the governor’s seeking a status report, but said chief minister M K Stalin will be unfazed by the move. “This chief minister will respect the powers of a Governor but at the same time if the Central government and the Governor go beyond their vested powers, he will not cow down like (the former chief minister Edappadi) Palaniswami,” Alphonse said. During the previous AIADMK government, Stalin who was then in the opposition had criticised then governor Banwarilal Purohit over his review meetings with government officials in various districts in 2017. He had called it an intrusion in the state government’s domain and the DMK had also alleged that the BJP-led union government was trying to rule by proxy in Tamil Nadu. Purohit had toured various districts to meet officials and conducted review meetings. In October 2017, Purohit was appointed as the Governor of Tamil Nadu when the state was reeling under a political crisis following J Jayalalithaa’s death in office as chief minister in December 2016. In September, Ravi was shifted from his post as the governor of Nagaland and replaced Purohit in Tamil Nadu who was appointed as the Punjab governor. After being sworn in last month, Ravi had said that he would function within the parameters of the Constitution when asked by reporters if he too would tour the state like his predecessor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-governor-seeks-details-about-welfare-scheme-stirs-row-101635275777920.html
27-10-2021||India||Tamil Nadu CM Stalin urges experts to help state overcome Covid pandemic impact||Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin has sought suggestions from his Economic Advisory Council, which includes global experts Esther Duflo, Raghuram Rajan, Aravind Subramanian and Jean Dreaze on the issues of debt, education, social justice and economic recovery, following the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. “We are implementing your recommendations effectively, and we want to know more from you. My foremost worry is about how we can strategise to bounce back from the impact of Covid-19,” Stalin is heard saying during the meeting from a video clip released by the government on Tuesday. “I’m also expecting to know about the specific departments that Tamil Nadu should focus on.” He added that he wants to utilise the state’s resources to help more youngsters with job opportunities. He reiterated that he wants to reduce the debt burden of the state and sought advice on the health of the state’s economy. Stalin held the second meeting with the council on Monday virtually after they met for the first time in July. Following the first meeting, Stalin said that the government followed their recommendations, and the state launched a healthcare scheme called ‘Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam’ (healthcare in search of people), which will provide testing, diagnosis and medication for Covid-19 to people in their homes. Stalin had also announced a scheme recently named ‘Illam Thedi Kalvi’ (education at your home) to help students of class 1 to 8 whose education was impacted by Covid-19. “In the state budget of 2021-22, we also increased pension for senior citizens based on your recommendations in the previous meeting,” Stalin told the council. He added that Tamil Nadu has made progress from three months ago in the status of its vaccination, having inoculated 72% of the adult population with at least one dose. The chief minister also spoke about the need to reduce debt and accelerate growth in the state. The virtual meeting was attended by all five members – Nobel laureate Esther Duflo, former RBI governor Raghuram Rajan, former chief economic advisor Arvind Subramanian, economist Jean Dreze, and former Union finance secretary S Narayan – of the committee constituted in June by finance minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan to advise Stalin on economic and social issues after the DMK formed the government in May. According to a statement from the government, Dreze had suggested for the state to come out with a Social Protection Scheme by integrating a few schemes. “Rajan suggested that the state needs to enhance the quality of higher education. He also stressed that the government should also be careful about debts,” a press release from the government read. Subramanian spoke on the need to implement Quasi Universal Basic Income, and Stalin said that he was keen to know how it can be specifically implemented for Tamil Nadu. Narayan spoke about the reforms needed in the Tamil Nadu Electricity Board (TNEB). Besides policy on economic and social aspects, the committee is providing the chief minister on human development-related issues that ensure social justice, equal opportunities for women and the well-being of underprivileged sections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-cm-stalin-urges-experts-to-help-state-overcome-covid-pandemic-impact-101635275776633.html
27-10-2021||India||Minor held for attempt to rape in Kerala: Police||A 15-year-old boy was arrested on Tuesday, a day after he attempted to rape a 21-year-old college student at Kondotty in Kerala’s Malappuram district, police said. Malappuram superintendent of police Sujith Das said the stalker was arrested after checking CCTV visuals of some houses in the area and recording the statement of the victim. “The boy has no criminal record and the victim also said he had not troubled her earlier. But his parents said he was addicted to watching horror films and adult videos,” Das told reporters. The SP said the girl escaped from the boy’s attempts after fiercely resisting his advances. The boy also received minor injuries and when his parents asked him about this, he said he was chased by a stray dog and fell in a ditch. “However when the police reached his home and questioned him, the boy confessed that he received injuries while assaulting the 21-year-old woman. In a hurry to escape from the spot, he left his slippers at the crime site and later his parents identified them,” Das said. According to the SP, the boy had followed the woman for some distance before attacking her close to a secluded banana plantation area. The accused had hit her on the head with a stone, tied her arms and pressed down on her neck to subdue her but the victim fought back and saved her life, Das said, adding the boy was a district-level judo champion. After escaping from the boy, the woman managed to reach a nearby house. The woman, in whose house the woman took refuge, told reporters that her hands were tied and she had injuries on her face and head, and bled profusely. The woman was discharged from the hospital on Tuesday. “She fought back valiantly and escaped. We have already seized the boy’s mobile phone and other gadgets,” the SP said, adding that the boy will be sent to a juvenile home after investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minor-held-for-attempt-to-rape-in-keralapolice-101635275716539.html
27-10-2021||India||Latvian woman moves Kerala HC to speed up trial in rape, murder of sister||Three years after the rape and murder of a Latvian woman in Kovalam, the victim’s sister returned to Kerala on Tuesday and has approached the high court to seek an order to speed up trial at the chief judicial magistrate court here. The sister, who also travelled with the 33-year-old victim in 2018, filed a petition with the high court on October 18 through her lawyer. The high court is likely to take up the matter on November 5, according to an official. The sister said she had sent many emails to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s office and state police chief Loknath Behra requesting intervention but to no avail. “I want justice for my sister. But things are moving at a snail’s pace. Many assurances were given to me earlier, but all fell flat,” she said, adding that she is expecting a favourable decision from the high court. The two sisters came to Kerala for an Ayurveda treatment in 2018, during which the elder sister went missing on March 14. The victim’s decomposed body was found from an isolated spot near Kovalam beach on April 21 and was later identified by the sister by her dress. Two weeks later, the police arrested two persons, an unauthorised tourist guide identified as P Udayan and one Umesh, a drug peddler, in connection with the rape and murder case. The police registered a case against the accused persons under 302 (murder) and 375 (rape) sections of the Indian Penal Code. They were later granted bail.According to the police, Udayan, fluent in many foreign languages, first spotted the victim sitting alone at the beach. He befriended her and promised to get her some drugs, after which he took her to a deserted spot in a fibre boat. There, Umesh joined him, the police said. The accused then raped her, and after she threatened to report the incident, strangled her to death. They later tied the body to a tree to make it look like a suicide, the police added. “It is a fact that the trial is yet to start in the case. After pandemic, physical trials are not happening, and it delayed many cases,” said an official of the district court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/latvian-woman-moves-kerala-hc-to-speed-up-trial-in-rape-murder-of-sister-101635275659142.html
27-10-2021||India||DVAC questions ex-AIADMK minister for 2nd day in graft case||Former AIADMK transport minister M R Vijayabhaskar on Tuesday appeared for the second round of questioning before the officials of the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti Corruption (DVAC) in a disproportionate assets case. He was raided by officials in July after they had filed a case against him during his tenure between 2015 and 2021.A case was registered against Vijayabhaskar, his wife Vijayalakshmi and his brother Sekar under Section 13(2) r/w 13(1)(b) and 12 r/w 13(2) r/w 13(1)(b) of the Prevention of Corruption (Amendment) Act, 2018 in July. On July 22, more than 20 places linked to Vijayabhaskar in his native Karur district and his Chennai residence were searched by the officials. The officials had seized ₹2,556,000 of unaccounted cash, sale deed documents, documents of investments made in insurance policies and documents related to transactions in the business firms, in which Vijayabhaskar is a partner and other incriminating documents. “Today, the former minister was enquired till 1.30 pm. After that, he requested that he be allowed to attend to a matter related to the writ petition filed by him in the honourable High Court of Madras related to the panchayat vice president elections in Karur and further requested to continue the inquiry after Deepavali,” said a senior DVAC officer not wishing to be named. The investigating officer questioned him for six hours on Monday. “Since this is the first time he is coming in, there aren’t too many details we gathered, but we will continue further questioning,” the official said. “He had also submitted a letter that he may be let go after six hours of questioning.” When DVAC had issued summons earlier, the former minister had sought time until local body elections were complete to appear before officials. Since the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) formed the government in Tamil Nadu in May, the crackdown on Vijayabhaskar was seen as the ruling party’s first strike against the opposition All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK). Since then, three other powerful AIADMK leaders were searched on charges of corruption – former municipal administration minister S P Velumani, former health minister C Vijayabhaskar and former commercial taxes minister KC Veeramani – all of them are known to be close to former chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami. On Friday, the second round of raid was conducted in four places linked to former health minister Vijayabhaskar and at 26 locations linked to R Elangovan, the chairman of the Tamil Nadu State Apex Cooperative Bank, who is also said to be an aide of Palaniswami as they both hail from Salem. One of the DMK’s election promises is to establish a special court to try graft charges against AIADMK ministers from the previous regime. When the DMK was in the opposition, they had levelled corruption charges against top cabinet ministers, including Palaniswami and O Panneerselvam to the then governor Banwarilal Purohit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dvacquestions-ex-aiadmk-minister-for-2nd-day-in-graft-case-101635275657869.html
27-10-2021||India||Amid Mullaperiyar row, Kerala governor calls for building new dam||A day after the Supreme Court directed Kerala and Tamil Nadu to discuss the water level in Mullaperiyar dam cordially and take a decision to cap it, Kerala governor Arif Mohammad Khan on Tuesday said it’s time to decommission the 125-year-old structure and build a new one.Talking to reporters, Khan said Mullaperiyar is an old dam and shared the concern of the people living downstream. “It is a fact, it is an old dam and efforts should be made to build a new one. Let the court deal with issues between two states over this and arrive at an amicable solution,” he said here, adding that upcoming talks between two states will break the ice.One of the oldest contentions between the two neighbouring states, the dam issue turned up again after a resident of Idukki, Joes Joseph approached the apex court with a plea that water level should not go above 139 feet because of heavy rains in the area, quoting the 2018 Supreme Court order when the state faced a similar situation. Tamil Nadu opposed it vehemently, saying the court had fixed the maximum water level at 142 feet in 2014, and there is no emergency to lower it. The Kerala government has been pressing for a new dam for many years, citing frequent tremors and changing rain patterns in the Idukki district where the old dam is situated, but Tamil Nadu opposes it fearing the loss of control over it. After the 2014 verdict, Tamil Nadu carried out repairs and retrofitted, but Kerala maintained that these measures were not enough to check the dam’s age and durability.During the recent floods and landslides in Kerala, many took to social media demanding a new dam because of recurring floods in the catchment and downstream areas of the dam. Some even termed it a “water bomb.” Actor Prithviraj Sukumaran also joined the bandwagon. His effigies were burnt at several places in Tamil Nadu. Mullaperiyar is an emotional issue for Tamil Nadu as many agrarian districts are heavily dependent on the dam.Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday dispelled any immediate threat to the dam but reiterated the state’s long-pending demand for a new dam. “On social media, some people are carrying out outright alarmist propaganda, but it is not good. This will create panic among people,” he said. Mullaperiyar dam was built under an agreement between the erstwhile royal family of Travancore and the British administration in 1886 to take water to Tamil Nadu for irrigation. Post Indian independence, the dam became part of Kerala, and since then, its main share of water flows to Tamil Nadu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-mullaperiyar-row-kerala-governor-calls-for-building-new-dam-101635275656586.html
27-10-2021||India||5 dead in cracker shop fire in Tamil Nadu’s Kallakurichi, 10 injured||Chennai: Five people died in a fire at a cracker shop in Tamil Nadu’s Kallakurichi district on Tuesday night.Several people were injured in the fire which quickly spread to the building where the shop was located.Authorities are yet to ascertain how the fire broke out.The accident took place in Kallakurichi district’s Sankarapuram area where rescue operations are underway.At least ten people have been admitted to the government hospital in Kallakurichi with burn injuries and are said to be in a serious condition.A police officer told news agency PTI that the five people who lost their lives in the accident at the firecracker shop are suspected to be its owner and his employees.Police said some more people who are reported to be trapped are expected to be rescued soon.A video clip of the fire that emerged on social media shows a massive explosion turning the night sky into bright orange even as people, taken by surprise, could be heard shouting in shock.Chief minister MK Stalin announced a compensation of ₹5 lakh each for the victims and ₹1 lakh each for those in intensive care from the chief minister’s relief fund.With a few weeks to go for Diwali, various shops have begun stocking up to sell firecrackers, most of them transported from Virudhunagar district’s Sivakasi, the manufacturing hub for firecrackers. This year, fire accidents have been reported in Virudhunagar in licensed and illegal fire-cracker making units where mishaps while mixing chemicals have led to explosions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-dead-in-cracker-shop-fire-in-tamil-nadu-s-kallakurichi-10-injured-101635275596574.html
27-10-2021||India||Cong MP booked over remarks on Kerala mayor||Senior Congress leader and Lok Sabha MP K Muraleedharan was on Tuesday booked by police for allegedly making derogatory remarks against Thiruvananthapuram city corporation Mayor Arya Rajendran, police said.Police said a case has been registered against the Congress leader under IPC sections 354A (Sexual harassment and punishment for sexual harassment) and 509 (Word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) on the basis of the complainant filed by Rajendran, a CPI(M) member, alleging that he had insulted her womanhood by making derogatory remarks against her during a protest in front of the corporation office on Monday.Addressing Congress workers during a protest seeking action against corporation officials allegedly involved in a revenue scam, Muraleedharan had said that the Mayor is looking beautiful but what comes out of her mouth was more terrible than the ‘Kodungallur Bharani songs’.The Kodungallur Bharani songs are folk songs mixed with abusive words sung at the famous Devi temple in Kodungallur in Thrissur district during the famous Meena Bharani festival there. Such songs are sung by thousands of oracles assemble at the temple as part of a ritual on the occasion. Meanwhile, Muraleedharan today expressed regret over his remarks, saying it was not meant to hurt anyone but slammed the Mayor for the alleged corruption in the Thiruvananthapuram corporation.“I regret if my remarks have caused mental distress to anyone personally. I do not hesitate to say it. I do not want any of my statements to hurt anyone personally”, the Vatakara MP said in a Facebook post.He, however, said he doesn’t see anything vulgar in saying that someone is beautiful. Muraleedharan alleged that the corporation was witnessing unprecedented corruption in the LDF rule and the Mayor could not shirk from her responsibilities. Both the CPI(M) and its youth outfit DYFI have flayed Muraleedharan for his remarks against 22-year-old Rajendran, one of the youngest Mayors in the country. She became the Mayor of Thiruvananthapuram at the age of 21 after the CPI(M)-led LDF swept the local body polls held last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-mp-booked-over-remarks-on-kerala-mayor-101635275537804.html
27-10-2021||India||No WHO approval for Covaxin yet as panel wants more details||An expected approval for Covaxin by the World Health Organization (WHO) has been delayed further after experts asked the vaccine’s maker Bharat Biotech for some clarifications, the United Nations health body said following a meeting on Tuesday.Millions of Indians and the Centre have been watching the process, which was expected to reach some sort of conclusion by the end of October. An approval will allow for a larger recognition of Covaxin by other countries to allow Indian travellers who have taken the dose to qualify for vaccine mandates. Conversely, a rejection could hurt confidence in the dose.WHO said it expects the clarifications to come in by the end of this week and it will meet again on November 3 to discuss the approval, technically known as an emergency use listing (EUL).“The Technical Advisory Group for Emergency Use Listing (TAG-EUL) is an independent advisory group that provides recommendations to WHO on whether a Covid-19 vaccine can be listed for emergency use under the EUL procedure. The TAG met today (26 October 2021) and decided that additional clarifications from the manufacturer are needed to conduct a final EUL risk-benefit assessment for global use of the vaccine,” said WHO in a written response to HT.“The TAG expects to receive these clarifications from the manufacturer by the end of this week, and aims to reconvene for the final risk-benefit assessment on Wednesday, 3 November.”The grant of EUL will also make the vaccine eligible for distribution to low and middle income countries under the COVAX facility.Earlier, during Tuesday’s media briefing, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said: “WHO has a system in place under which one technical committee observes the data, followed by another technical committee further analysing the data. The first committee has approved the data and the approval for Covaxin will be granted on the basis of what the second committee recommends.”On October 5, WHO announced through a series of tweets that emergency use approval for Covaxin was a week away. “We are aware that many people are waiting for WHO’s recommendation for Covaxin to be included in the COVID19 Emergency Use Listing, but we cannot cut corners - before recommending a product for emergency use, we must evaluate it thoroughly...,” tweeted WHO.The last set of documents WHO sought from the company was submitted on September 27. “All documents required for emergency use listing (EUL) of Covaxin have been submitted to WHO as of 9th July. The review process has now commenced with the expectation that we will receive EUL from WHO at the earliest,” Krishna Ella, chairman and managing director, Bharat Biotech, said last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-who-approval-for-covaxin-yet-as-panel-wants-more-details-101635275324804.html
27-10-2021||India||Two suspected cases of AY.4.2 Covid variant: Karnataka health minister||Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education Dr K Sudhakar on Tuesday said that there were at least two suspected cases of AY.4.2 variant of the novel coronavirus in the state.He said that the samples from these two individuals have been sent for genome sequencing. “Right now there are two suspected cases (of AY.4.2) and to confirm this, have sent it for genome sequencing,” Sudhakar said on Tuesday.The samples have been sent to the National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS).The two persons are from Bengaluru are asymptomatic, Sudhakar said. He further said that there will have to be stern measures taken regarding this but added that there was no need to panic or raise alarm over the situation.The statements come at a time when Karnataka’s Covid-19 infections appear to have stabilised, if government data is anything to go by. But fears remain of an impending third wave of infections that looms large over the state and its population.Countries like Russia and others are currently facing a third wave of infections and Sudkahar said that there are measures being taken to tackle this effectively, if and when it does arrive in the state.The minister said that those who have taken both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine are less likely to feel any effect of this variant or any other variant.He added that Karnataka has set up 6-7 genome sequencing labs and this is used to detect, diagnose and tackle any variant of the virus.Karnataka accounts for over 6% of India’s total Covid-19 vaccination coverage at over 63 million doses administered till about 9 pm on Tuesday of the total 1.03 billion administered across the country.The state government claimed that it has so far covered 84% of Karnataka’s eligible population with the first dose and 42% of the second dose, Hindustan Times reported on October 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-suspected-cases-of-ay-4-2-covid-variant-karnataka-health-minister-101635275184312.html
27-10-2021||India||Karnataka: Tour operator arrested for duping customers||A fly-by-night tour operator who duped many wannabe wanderers with his firm, finally landed in the police custody on Tuesday.According to Police, Prashanth B had introduced network marketing in his tour business where he offered up to 25 per cent share of profit to its members who brought in more people to join as members in his company, Royal Dream To Fly Private Ltd.He used to show lucrative tourist plans with an earning prospect to its members and would then flee after collecting money.The Chandra Layout police had first registered a case against Prashanth but leaving no trace of evidences he made good his escape.He again set up business in the posh Girinagar in the city, duped people and shut shop. A case was registered following complaints by his victims, they said.However, Prashanth ran out of luck when he recently opened an office in Visvesvaraya Layout and the police got a whiff of him.The economic offence wing of the Central Crime Branch of Bengaluru finally nabbed him and got a case registered against him at the Annapoorneshwari Nagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnatakatour-operator-arrested-for-duping-customers-101635275180807.html
27-10-2021||India||‘A tsunami in favour of BJP’: Bommai confident of win in Oct 30 Bypolls||Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday tried to play the emotional card as he projected himself as the chief minister from Haveri district as he continued his campaign in Hanagal constituency with just one day. Campaigning ends 48 hours prior to the polls on October 30. “I am the chief minister from your district, I am the chief minister from Haveri. I am the son of the soil always,” said Bommai during his campaign in Hangal. Bommai further said there is a tsunami in favour of the BJP which will have its effect on the party’s performance in the Hanagal Assembly bypoll on October 30.“There is a tsunami in favour of the BJP in the state and it will have an effect on Hanagal. There is massive support to the BJP in every village of Hanagal,” the chief minister said addressing the members of Bhajandri community in Hanagal town.With no evident wave or any defining indicators on which way the October 30 bypolls may go, all three major political parties --BJP, Congress and Janata Dal (Secular) --are making last ditch efforts to mobilize as much support for their respective outfits as possible during the campaigns. The BJP has sent most of its ministers and senior leaders to mobilize support while the other two parties are also campaigning vigorously in the two constituencies. The campaigns for the bypolls have intensified in Karnataka with senior party leaders making allegations and counters which at times have even gone personal. Hanagal and Sindgi bypoll constituencies fell vacant after their respective representatives died earlier this year. The bypolls act as the first test to the Basavaraj Bommai-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in the state since he took over from BS Yediyurappa in July. Hanagal constituency is also in Haveri, which is the home district of the chief minister that has turned it into a prestige battle between all three major political parties. The three parties have spared no opportunity to attack each other on various platforms and issues in an election which Bommai said would become an indicator of what the state can expect in the 2023 assembly elections. All three political parties are also using the opportunity to mobilise support from the grassroots to get a better result in the yet-to-be announced zilla and taluk panchayat elections, expected to be held early next year. While the Congress and JD(S) are trying to corner the BJP government in the state by projecting the saffron outfits failure in Karnataka and in the Centre, the latter has fallen back on pointing out the development or the lack of it when the other two parties were in power. The leaders of all three parties have also been making a beeline to visit influential seers from various communities in the hope to secure their support. BJP and Congress have reached out to their respective support groups and beyond while the latter has accused the JD(S) of trying to help the saffron outfit by attempting to split the minority vote. The Congress has continued with its allegations that JD(S) fielded Muslim candidates in both constituencies to split the support base of the former. Bommai held meetings with leaders of Bhovi and Lambani community while the Congress too, with caste-specific leaders, have targeted various groups. Congress leader and legislator from Chamarajpet Zameer Ahmed Khan on Tuesday said that JD(S) continues to cozy up to the BJP. “One vote to the JD(S) is like two for the BJP,” he said. He added that Kumaraswamy has used Muslims as the sacrificial persons to grow. The legislator even alleged that Kumaraswamy had taken “suitcases”, an inferences to bribes, from the BJP to speak against the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), the right wing organisation, to win over the Muslim community and split Congress votes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-tsunami-in-favour-of-bjp-bommai-confident-of-win-in-oct-30-bypolls-101635275179366.html
27-10-2021||India||Protest, outrage after KFC staff in Karnataka refuses to play Kannada music||Angry netizens took on to social media with hashtag #RejectKFC, after a video of an employee of the fast-food chain refusing to play Kannada music and claiming that Hindi was the national language of India went viral. In the 2 minutes and 20-second long video, a woman can be heard requesting to play Kannada music at the KFC outlet, instead of Hindi songs. The video was filmed by the woman and was posted on Twitter with a caption: “KFC has made a rule that no Kannada songs will be played in KFCs in Karnataka” In the video, a restaurant employee stated that Hindi was India’s native language and as a result, there will be no Kannada music played there. Following this, many Twitter users complained that the restaurant was disrespectful to Karnataka’s land and culture, while others said it was anti-Kannada. “Who taught you Hindi as national language can anyone say stop Kannada song in Karnataka. South Indians love their respective mother tongue, Hindi is a national language for only north Indians,” read one of the tweets which were trending. Another tweet said if a population of 55 million Koreans can be served in their language then why not 60 million population of Kannadigas in their language. In its response, a KFC spokesperson said, that the video is dated and is now being re-circulated. “KFC India has the highest respect for cultural values of all communities. As a brand with a presence across the country, it is our endeavor to ensure our consumers have the same KFC experience whenever and wherever they visit us, and hence at present, we have a common playlist that is licensed and purchased centrally, and played across restaurants nationwide,” read the statement. It further added that the food chain extends services in both English and Kannada. “…may it be at our restaurants or advertising through social, digital & print mediums. Additionally, with our programs as KFC’s India Sahyog and Kshamata we are looking at ways to give back to the community we operate in; extending support to local restaurants,” it added. Last week, in a similar instance a customer from Tamil Nadu had said that he was denied a refund by a food delivery app because he didn’t speak Hindi. Soon after, there was a major outcry on Twitter. The customer care executive was dismissed from service and was reinstated later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protest-outrage-after-kfc-staff-in-karnataka-refuses-to-play-kannada-music-101635275178021.html
27-10-2021||India||Karnataka struggles to bridge the digital divide among students||Even as physical classes for students above class 1 have resumed in Karnataka, however, the state government, parents, teachers and students are struggling to make up for the lost academic time for children who have been unable to attend schools for various reasons. Despite the additional hours being put in by teachers to impart daily classes to students who are not present in school, teething issues like basic access to technology have come back to haunt education that had been stalled for nearly 18 months on account of the Covid-19 pandemic-induced lockdown.Government school teachers said that they are going above and beyond the call of duty to impart some classes or supervision to online students but with little success.HK Manjunath, a government school teacher and president of the Karnataka Rajya Prouda Shaale Saha Shikshakara Sangha said that this is depriving at least 20-30% of students.“It has been over a year since students really got some classes. So it is difficult to make up for loss in the academic year for those who attend. And even more difficult for those who cannot attend classes for various reasons,” he said.There are over 10 million students in these classes, according to the primary and secondary education department, out of which a survey carried out in July among 9.3 million children to establish their access to technology.According to the survey, just over half of this number or 585,000 lakh students have access to a smartphone or tablet that leaves nearly 3.12 million students without any access to such devices. Similarly, while around 5.1 million have access to the internet, nearly 3.8 million students don’t have any access to technology to help them cope with the academic year, rendering the exercise of online classes as a redundant practice for these children, mostly from rural and backward regions of the state.Teachers said that they are trying to use their own resources and time to reach out to these children; but kids of daily wage labourers or others from poor backgrounds may not have such facilities.People aware of the developments said that there have been attempts to bridge this gap by distributing tablets and coordinating efforts between several groups in rural areas to reach and teach students.“If you look at the numbers, on average there are around 80-90% that we are covering. And we are exploring other ways to reach out to students who still do not have access to schools,” said one person from the primary and secondary minister’s office, requesting not to be named.In Bengaluru (rural, south and north), there are 178,612 students who have been accounted for out of the total 1,992,100. Of this, only 1,387,299 have a mobile number in which they can be contacted and just 1,452,207 have access to smartphones or tablets. Only 1,305,527 students have access to the internet and at least 401,269 have no access, data from the education department shows.The government appointed technical advisory committee (TAC), in its recommendations, argued that education is the fundamental right of the child and stated that reopening physical schools would optimise learning, physical and mental health as well as for nutritional aspects of children.“Any further delay in school reopening may push children into malnutrition, childlabour, child marriage, child trafficking, begging etc., making their condition worse,” according to the report, submitted to the BS Yediyurappa-led government on June 22.The mid-day meal programme has resumed, providing a life-line to many of these students but several who may have left for their villages or other parts of the state have no access to food or education.Even though the state government has begun teaching classes on television and has created over 300,000 videos, classes and other content, however, data shows that there are 865,259 students who do not have access to radio or television in their homes.Parents associations, at least in Bengaluru, have opposed the resuming of schools for children who are not yet eligible for vaccination, leaving them vulnerable to any infections especially with the third wave of Covid-19 infections looming large over the state. They have also alleged a collusion between private schools and the government to resume physical classes in order to ‘extort’ fees from parents and the pandemic-hit population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-struggles-to-bridge-the-digital-divide-among-students-101635275176699.html
27-10-2021||India||Experts to examine samples afresh as AY.4.2 worry grows||Experts spearheading the genome surveillance of the Sars-Cov-2 virus in India are analysing a set of 15-17 sequences for a second time to see if they fall under the classification of the AY.4.2 variant, days after authorities in the UK said they suspect it could be somewhat fitter (stronger) than its parent Delta variant, which in itself is one of the most dangerous versions of the coronavirus that causes Covid-19.Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya confirmed on Tuesday that experts are investigating the new variant, although he did not give more details.Variants of the coronavirus typically have several mutations. When scientists analyse their genome sequence, they add a classification based on whether the mutations are common with other samples. If too many samples begin returning the same mutations, it becomes a distinct variant.The AY.4.2 is an evolution of the Delta variant and largely has the same mutations as Delta, but with three additional ones that scientists say should be treated as a characteristic: A222V and Y145H in the Spike protein of the virus, and A2529V in a portion known as the ORF1ab.Researchers from the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Consortium on Genomics (INSACOG) told HT that 15-17 sequences contain one of these three mutations, and they will now be further analysed to check if they contain the others as well – this could determine if they are AY.4.2 or something like it.“AY4.2 is a new classification and the PANGO software used to assign lineages to sequenced samples is still being updated. There are two mutations on the spike protein of AY.4.2 and one on ORF region; a sequence is designated as AY4.2 if it has two of the three mutations. We have detected fifteen to seventeen samples across India that have at least one of the mutations. Now, we will go back and check whether they have one of the other two,” said Dr Saumitra Das, director of National Institute of Biomedical Genomics (NIBMG-Kalyani), which is one of the 28 central laboratories under INSACOG.INSACOG reports genomic surveillance of SARS CoV-2 across the country through sequencing of samples from sentinel sites and also detailed state-wise district analysis for some states under State memoranda of understanding (MoUs) including Maharashtra and Kerala.Dr Anurag Agarwal, director of the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB)-Delhi, which is also one of the INSACOG laboratories, said, “We have seen very few AY.4.2, but again there are classification problems.”The parent sub-lineage AY.4 has become one of the main variants being isolated by the INSACOG network after the Delta variant (which is also known as B.1.617.2.According to outbreak.info’s analysis of sequences submitted from India to a global repository known as GISAID in the last 60 days, AY.4 lineage made up for 29% of the samples. The largest proportion, 52%, were of the Delta variant.According to INSACOG’s dashboard that has data up to September, AY.33 is the most sequenced variant constituting 71%. Explaining the discrepancy, Dr Agarwal said, “AY.33 is a PANGO misclassification and will break up.”Dr Das, explained, “AY.33 is the new name that PANGO has assigned to what was previously reported as AY.4; the classifications and re-classifications keep on happening. In India, Delta still continues to be the dominant variant, followed by AY 4.”The scrutiny around AY.4.2 arose after the latest technical briefing by Public Health England (PHE) upgraded the variant as being under investigation. The PHE document, dated October 22, said the key decision is based on AY.4.2 having a modestly increased growth rate and a higher secondary rate of attack – the ability to pass the infection on to someone – was higher than Delta’s (12.4% versus 11.1%).If a variant spreads faster, leads to more severe disease or causes a repeat infection after a past episode of Covid-19 or vaccination, it is classified as a variant of concern (VOC). Delta was the latest VOC of the Sars-Cov-2 – the label is added only after detailed analysis involving lab findings, clinical evaluation and epidemiological studies.In India, of the 104,441 samples sequenced so far, 40,682 are either VOCs or VUIs. Of these, 26,043 are of the Delta variant, which was first found in India and is believed to have led to the devastating wave of infections in April-May..Dr Ekta Gupta, who heads the regional INSACOG laboratory at the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences in Delhi said, “We have not seen any AY.4.2 cases in Delhi as of now, but AY.4 has been reported for months now. These keep changing as per the re-classification, the important thing is that so far we have not seen any clinical significance of any of these variants. And, being close to Delta, they are unlikely to affect a high number of people who might already have been exposed to the Delta variant during the second wave.”Experts agreed that this might be the most crucial aspect to remember – and that none of the Delta sub-lineages have so far raised any concern.“There are no clinical implications that we have seen from any of the sub-lineages at present. The viruses will continue mutating slowly, but some increases in cases that have been reported are largely due to the human behaviour,” said Dr Rakesh Mishra, former director of Centre for Cellular & Molecular Biology (CCMB-Hyderabad).Dr Das said, “So far no clinicians have reported any change in symptoms or such. We have to keep an eye out for change in symptoms, more hospitalisations, infections in the vaccinated, and cluster formation and link it to the variant. Right now there is no such concern, but we have to keep an eye on things.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/experts-to-examine-samples-afresh-as-ay-4-2-worry-grows-101635274881841.html
27-10-2021||India||Alarm over rising water level of Karnataka’s KRS dam||Heavy rains in the catchment area of Krishna Raja Sagar (KRS)dam near Mysuru, about 140 kms from Bengaluru, has added to apprehensions in people living around the reservoir. “As there is heavy rain in the catchment area of KRS reservoir, where level in (the) reservoir is rising to its full storage level, there is likelihood of releasing surplus water varying from 10,000 to 20,000 cusecs and this may be increasing at any moment. Hence, all the people living on both banks of the river and on the low lying area of river Cauvery are hereby cautioned to move to a safer place and take all precautionary measures for safety and security to their lives and properties,” the KRS dam authorities said in a statement on Tuesday. Vijay Kumar, the superintendent of KRS dam told Hindustan Times on Tuesday that the water level was just one foot below the maximum capacity of 124.80 feet and stands currently at around 123.8 feet. The inflows were around 16,000-17,000 cusecs. “We are watching the situation. Now we are releasing around 3,411 cusecs (per second) which may go up to 5,000-10,000 cusecs which is minor,” he said, adding that the dam could release several times more and that the rains were subsiding which was a good sign. The statements come even as several parts of Karnataka remain inundated after heavy rains since October in which at least 21 persons are said to have died. The rain-related damages include the collapsing of homes, deaths of livestock and cattle, public infrastructure and other loss of personal and government property. Between October 1-18, 14 out of the 31 districts received surplus rains while just six received deficit rains, according to the Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority. At least 202 taluks or 89% of the state have received normal to excess rainfalls in this monsoon season while 25 or 11% have received a deficit, government data shows.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/alarm-over-rising-water-level-of-karnataka-s-krs-dam-101635275117846.html
27-10-2021||India||Year on, little impact of anti-superstition law in Karnataka||After doctors said that her brother will not recover from a paralytic stroke, 36-year-old Rashidunisa approached a black magic practitioner in Bengaluru. The practitioner Naseema convinced her that if they don’t sacrifice a 10-year-old girl in 45 days, the man will not survive. In the days that followed Rashidunisa and her brother Mohammad Wasil, along with a minor began searching for a girl. On March 1, 2017, they zeroed in on their neighbour and cousin Mohammad Noorulla’s daughter. The three of them went to their house around 8.30 pm and kidnapped her. She was taken to a building in an isolated location in Hosahalli on the outskirts of Magadi. After performing rituals for two days they strangled the minor with a ribbon she had used to tie her hair. On March 3, on Naseema’s instructions, they packed the girl’s body in a gunny bag and threw it by the road. The trio was arrested three days later. The incident led to outrage in the Silicon Valley, with rationalists pushing for an Anti-Superstition Bill. Years later, even after the Karnataka Prevention and Eradication of Inhuman Evil Practices and Black Magic Act, the Bill was formally notified in 2020. However, despite the law coming into force, a suspected case of black magic came into fore after a two-year-old girl was found abandoned at a sugarcane field at Halyala village in Belagavi district on September 3, 2021. “During the investigation, we realized the burns were made using camphor and almond oil. Since they were commonly used in black magic and the patterns on the body suggested the same, we are investigating the same,” said one of the investigating officers in the case. Just weeks after, Karnataka police arrested a doctor on October 18 for murdering his wife by injecting a high dose of drugs in a suspected case of a ‘black magic’ ritual in Davanagere district. Despite the outrage and law, finding a black magic practitioner in Karnataka takes only a Google search. In the rural parts of the state, especially in north Karnataka contacts of these practitioners are household names. Narendra Nayak, president of the Federation of Indian Rationalist Associations (FIRA) said that the practice of black magic in northern parts of Karnataka is decades old. “In the old regions of the Nizam’s Hyderabad (today’s Hyderabad Karnataka), the practice is called Banamathi, which is a form of black magic. Even now, there are those who follow this, and instances of human sacrifice too are reported in this practice. It was because of one such case of human sacrifice, where a child was killed, I left my job and began campaigning against such practices,” he said. Banamathi is among the practices that have been banned under the Karnataka Prevention and Eradication of Inhuman Evil Practices and Black Magic Act, but the practice continues in the state. “If you look at the numbers you find online or you get otherwise, the practitioners will claim that they are not into a black magic and they practice only non-harmful old rituals, but if you are really keen you will find people,” Nayak added. Another rationalist, who didn’t want to be named said that since former MLAs and a former chief minister were alleged to have participated in black magic rituals, some practitioners have got legitimacy and there is a confidence that there won’t be a crackdown from the police. “Political class is worried about playing with people’s believes, however heinous they could be. When the Anti-Superstition Act was introduced for the first time, it was watered down severely. Since lines between black magic and other practices are blurred due to the watering down of the act, there has been no active enforcement from the police, even as these practices are advertised in some parts of the state,” added the activist. A senior police officer admitted that a crackdown on black magic is high on the police’s priority list, however, all cases are investigated rigorously and police are acting on the information provided to them. Nayak however believes that police enforcement is not the solution to the problem. “When this new Act came into force, I said something is better than nothing. That is because, unless there is a change in people’s mindset, these practices would continue. Fear of punishment doesn’t stop crime,” he said. Meanwhile, police were unable to identify the 2-year-old who was subjected to black magic in Belagavi district on September 3. Police had circulated photographs of the child and requested people for any information about her or her family. She wasn’t able to give a statement to the police either since she was unconscious. Since no missing reports were found, police now suspect that the girl’s parents had sold her for black magic for price.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/year-on-little-impact-of-anti-superstition-law-in-karnataka-101635275116474.html
27-10-2021||India||EWS quota: No mathematical precision to determine income ceiling, Centre tells Supreme Court||New Delhi: In matters of reservation, there cannot be mathematical precision to determine an income ceiling to identify the poor, the central government told the Supreme Court on Tuesday, justifying its decision to introduce 10% quota for people coming from families with annual income of less than ₹8 lakh.These are matters of policy in which courts need not interfere, the government said. It was not necessary to have different income scales for different cities, states and regions as economic conditions keep changing with time, it told the apex court. A broad criterion applicable to the entire country should be taken as the basis for providing reservation for economically weaker sections, the central government said in an affidavit.The affidavit was filed in response to a bunch of petitions filed by some doctors who have opposed quotas of 27% for other backward classes (OBCs) and 10% for economically weaker sections (EWS) in the all-India quota seats for postgraduate medical and dental courses from this academic session. The response came ahead of the hearing on the petitions on Thursday.The bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, Vikram Nath and BV Nagarathna had raised queries last week on the implementation of the 10% EWS quota introduced in January 2019 by the 103rd Constitution Amendment Act. The Court sought to know what study was done to arrive at an income threshold of ₹8 lakh to identify the poor uniformly across the country. The bench asked whether per capita GDP, purchasing power, and cost of living index that varied across states was taken into account before arriving at this figure. The Centre was also asked to justify the introduction of OBC and EWS quotas that breached the 50% ceiling in reservation fixed by the Supreme Court’s 1992 decision in the Indira Sahwney case, as the all-India quota seats already provide for 22.5% reservation for Scheduled casts and Scheduled Tribes. The income ceiling was based on “the fact that this is the criteria for determining the creamy layer for OBCs,” the social justice and empowerment ministry said in its response. It relied on a 2010 report prepared by Sinho Commission that examined the determination of economic backwardness and concluded that the existing criteria for identification of the creamy layer could be extended to identify economically backward classes (EBC). The Sinho Commission report was not the sole basis to arrive at the ₹8 lakh figure, it said. The criteria for EWS reservation announced by an order on January 17, 2019, included many other exclusions, such as limitations on farm landholdings, and size of residential flats and plots.On the Court’s query whether variable income in rural and urban areas was taken into account, the Centre said: “The determination has to be made on broad probabilities and it is impossible to achieve perfection or mathematical precision.” The central government agreed that purchasing power differed from urban to rural areas, and even within cities and regions, but said that the sectors meant for EWS reservation – students in higher education institutions and those for employment – constantly migrate from rural to urban areas.“This factor of migration, especially for studies, would obviate the need for separate income criteria for rural and urban areas,” it said. “With efflux of time, economic situation of a district, region, state may keep changing…The cost of living within the state varies in different parts.” In this scenario, “the broad criteria as applicable to the country alone have to be taken into consideration.”Even the distinction between poor in metropolitan and other cities had been accounted for by identifying EWS as besides the income limit, a family should not possess over five acres of agricultural land, own a residential flat of 1000 sq. ft or more, or own a residential plot of 100 sq. yards and above for notified municipalities and 200 sq. yards for non-notified municipalities.“What cutoff criteria is to be provided is largely within the realm of government policy,” it said. “As long as the classification is based on some material, the same falls within the realm of policy and ought not to be interfered with.”The affidavit also questioned the right of the petitioners to question the EWS reservation, and said an attempt is being made by them to deprive eligible EWS candidates and to corner the seats contrary to the constitutional mandate and obligation under the 103rd Constitution Amendment.To ensure that EWS and OBC reservation does not deprive other general category candidates, the Centre said that in the last six years, the total MBBS seats have been increased by 56%, while post graduate seats were hiked by 80% to make up for the seats lost to reserved candidates. On the breach of the 50% ceiling, the Centre submitted that the Indira Sahwney judgment came in the context of reservation for socially and educationally backward classes, and not EWS.The decision of the government to introduce OBC and EWS reservation in medical and dental courses was made applicable to 50% postgraduate and 15% undergraduate all-India quota seats. The government’s announcement of July 29 had said, “This decision would benefit every year nearly 1500 OBC students in MBBS and 2500 OBC students in PG and also around 550 EWS students in MBBS and around 1000 EWS students in PG.” This decision was challenged in court by over 40 doctors aspiring to postgraduate admissions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ews-quota-no-mathematical-precision-to-determine-income-ceiling-centre-tells-supreme-court-101635274696605.html
27-10-2021||India||Centre planning separate cybersecurity policy||The National Security Council Secretariat, which works with the National Security Advisor in an advisory role to the Prime Minister on national security matters, is considering a stand-alone law for cybersecurity in India, and is working on a strategy document that will consider both the domestic and international implications of such a policy, people familiar with the matter said.The policy will be the first of its kind, even as provisions for cybersecurity exist under the information technology law and certain financial regulations mandated by the Reserve Bank of India. But India does not have a stand-alone law in the domain.The policy is being worked out by National Cyber Security Coordinator Lt Gen (retd) Rajesh Pant in the secretariat. “It is one of the deliverables of proposed National Cyber Security Strategy, and is required to cater for new age cyber crimes,” Pant said.The policy may have three broad pillars, the people added: national security, enabling businesses and individual security.“There is a need for cybersecurity to be a stand-alone law,” one of people cited above said on condition of anonymity. “It will be a policy document that will elevate the current position of the country to a whole new level, with a special focus on emerging technologies.”The secretariat has notified a list of trusted telecom vendors. The new policy is also likely to focus on critical infrastructure. “It will evaluate domestic as well as international needs,” the first person said. “It is likely to address India’s position on artificial intelligence, data sharing and data localisation.”India’s position on data sharing is currently covered by the personal data protection bill, which is awaiting a report by the joint parliamentary committee. It states that personal data, or critical data, has to be stored within the country, and cannot be shared with others without the explicit approval of the data fiduciary, which can be overridden by the government.“The policy is being worked on after a careful look at how other countries are approaching cybersecurity, including the US and the UK,” the first person said. “While in the US, the approach is more about economic empowerment, India needs to find a neutral ground between financial and national security considerations.”The law may also have enabling conditions for blockchain and cryptocurrency.Internet Freedom Foundation trustee Apar Gupta said: “The legislations under the IT Act are more principally inclined towards the creation of Cert-In. There is no legislative concept of technical control and oversight yet, but there are specific laws with respect to payments and settlements.” Cert-In is short for Indian Computer Emergency Response Team.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-looks-at-making-cybersecurity-an-independent-law-may-include-focus-on-emerging-tech-101635274397673.html
27-10-2021||India||Govt proposes helmet, harness for kids riding pillion||Children riding pillion on two-wheelers may soon have to wear a helmet and a safety harness attached to the rider, the Union transport ministry has proposed, a significant development in a country where three-quarters of all vehicles on roads run on two wheels.The speed limit for two-wheelers with children on them will be 40km per hour, the ministry said in a draft notification made public on Tuesday for comments and suggestions.At least 75% of the 277.1 million vehicles in India are two-wheelers, according to government data (Vaahan dashboard). In Delhi alone, of the over 10 million registered vehicles, at least 7.3 million are two-wheelers.Any violation of the proposed rules will invite a fine of ₹1,000 and the driver’s license will be suspended for three months.“For children below four years, safety harness shall be used for attaching the child to the driver of the motorcycle… Safety harness is a vest to be worn by the child, which shall be adjustable, with a pair of straps attached to the vest and forming shoulder loops to be worn by the driver. This way, the upper torso of the child is securely attached to the driver,” read the draft notification.The government should also fix accountability of adults carrying children precariously on two-wheelers, said Piyush Tewari, founder and chief executive of SaveLIFE Foundation, a non-profit working to improve road safety. “Each day, more than 30 children are killed on India’s roads, many of them as riders on two-wheelers. It had become imperative to enact appropriate provisions in the law for their protection,” Tewari said. “We, therefore, welcome this move by Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari, and suggest that adult accountability be fixed as well so that poor behaviour by those accompanying children can be discouraged.”The proposed rules make it mandatory for the driver to ensure that a child pillion rider aged between nine months and four years wears a crash helmet, failing which right-sized bicycle helmets complying with European standards will also be acceptable.The Bureau of Indian Standards has been asked to study and specify standards for the safety harnesses and crash helmets for children, a transport official said. “Till the time BIS comes out with the Indian specifications for these items for children, the European standards are to be followed,” he said, requesting anonymity. “BIS will come out with the prescribed specifications soon.”Till the time the BIS prescribes standards, the safety harness for children should be lightweight, adjustable, waterproof and durable, the ministry proposed. It should be made of heavy nylon or multifilament nylon with high density foam, and should be able to hold a weight up to 30 kg, it said.Countries such as Portugal, Luxembourg, Austria and Czech Republic do not allow children below seven years to ride pillion. While laws in many states of the United States forbid children under one year to be transported on a bicycle, a few states allow it by using an infant sling or trailer as an optional equipment to carry infants. In the European Union, children of nine months to five years of age are allowed to ride pillion only if the child is able to sit unaided, according to a report by the World Health Organization on child development and motorcycle safety.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-proposes-helmet-harness-for-kids-riding-pillion-101635274278563.html
27-10-2021||India||Supreme Court verdict today on setting up panel to probe Pegasus row||The Supreme Court will on Wednesday deliver its detailed order on setting up an expert committee to inquire into the alleged use of Israeli spyware Pegasus for surveillance of Indian citizens.A bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana, is expected to name the members of the expert committee and also lay down terms of reference regarding aspects to be gone into by the panel. The other members of the bench are justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli.On September 23, the CJI announced that the SC would set up a committee on the Pegasus row while pointing out that its constitution was taking time because some experts the bench had contacted expressed personal difficulties in being part of the panel. The CJI’s statement suggested that the court had virtually rejected the Centre’s plea to let it set up an “independent committee” to look into the controversy.The court, on September 13, reserved its order in the case after the Union government said that it could not make public whether its agencies used the Israeli spyware as such disclosure would be against national interest.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, said at the time that the Centre was open to having a committee of independent domain experts who could go into all aspects of the controversy and submit its report while adding that the use of a particular software “cannot be made a part of the public discourse in the larger national interest and in the interest of the security of the nation”.The SG requested the bench to allow the government to set up an expert committee. But most of the lawyers for the petitioners, including senior counsel Kapil Sibal, Shyam Divan, Rakesh Dwivedi, Dinesh Dwivedi, Colin Gonsalves and Meenakshi Arora, urged the court to reject the government’s proposal, contending that the “wrongdoer” could not be allowed to have the liberty of choosing the forum of inquiry. The lawyers submitted that the court should set up a panel consisting of members of its choice.While reserving its order on September 13, the bench said the court would pass an interim order shortly on the constitution of an expert committee and on other ancillary issues related to an independent inquiry after considering the materials placed by the petitioners. The reiteration of its stand by the government also prompted the court to remark that the Centre was “beating around the bush”.The Pegasus row erupted on July 18 after an international consortium of media outlets and investigative journalists reported that the phones of Indian ministers, politicians, activists, businessmen and journalists were among the 50,000 that were potentially targeted by Pegasus, Israeli company NSO Group’s phone hacking software. According to this consortium, Pegasus can switch on a target’s phone camera and microphone, as well as access data on the device, effectively turning the phone into a pocket spy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-deliver-verdict-on-setting-up-panel-to-probe-pegasus-row-101635273797787.html
27-10-2021||India||Navy commander, 2 retired officials among 5 arrested||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has arrested a commander-rank serving officer and two retired officials of the Indian Navy and two others for allegedly leaking confidential information related to an ongoing submarines project, people familiar with the matter said on Tuesday.The federal anti-corruption agency refused to divulge any other details of the case, including the name of the serving officer arrested for the leak. However, officials who didn’t want to be named said the investigation started last month and the matter relates to the upgrade of Russian-origin Kilo class submarines in the Indian fleet.At least 19 locations in Delhi, Mumbai, Noida and Hyderabad have been raided so far in the case and several people and recovered digital evidence are being examined, they added.It is alleged that the Commander shared crucial details about the ongoing modernisation project of Kilo class submarines with the two retired officers in return for money, said an official who asked not to be named.The Anti Corruption Unit of the agency, which handles sensitive and high profile corruption cases, was tasked with unearthing details of the leak, the people added.It wasn’t immediately clear how the navy got to know about the leak.Investigation is being carried out to unearth if the information had fallen into the wrong hands, the people said.The Indian Navy said on Tuesday an investigation related to alleged information leak of administrative and commercial nature has come to light and is being investigated by the appropriate government agency.The investigation by the agency is with complete support of the Indian Navy is in progress, it added.An internal inquiry by the navy is also underway and is being carried out by a vice admiral to find out how information leaked despite security protocols and advisories, and how lacunae, if any can be fixed, the people cited in the first instance said.India operates eight Kilo class submarines, four HDW German origin submarines and three Scorpene submarines built in India under technology transfer from France (three more Scorpenes will join the fleet in the future). The navy also operates an indigenous nuclear-powered ballistic missile submarine, INS Arihant.India is also pursuing a project worth ₹43,000 crore for building six advanced submarines under the government’s “strategic partnership” (SP) model to bolster the Indian Navy’s underwater force levels and counter the rapid expansion of China’s submarine fleet. The new submarines are part of the 30-year submarine-building programme approved by the Cabinet Committee on Security in 1999.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-arrests-serving-navy-commander-2-retired-personnel-and-2-others-in-alleged-submarine-project-data-leak-101635273319059.html
27-10-2021||India||Agra: 3 Kashmiri students suspended for celebrating Pakistan’s victory in World Cup||Three Kashmiri students at an engineering institute in Agra have been suspended for allegedly celebrating Pakistan’s victory over India in the ICC T20 World Cup on Sunday, people aware of the matter said.The students at RBS Engineering Technical Campus in Bichpuri were suspended following a police complaint by BJP Yuva Morcha leaders that the trio were praising Pakistan for their performance via WhatsApp, Vikas Kumar, SP (city), Agra, said.“The students have been accused of sharing chats that praised Pakistan. A case was registered on the basis of a written complaint at Jagdishpura police station,” the SP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/agra-3-kashmiri-students-suspended-for-celebrating-pakistan-s-victory-in-world-cup-101635273316354.html
27-10-2021||India||Chill in the air: Capital to see temperatures below 13 degree Celsius from Nov 1||As the country gears up for the winter season, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecasted a drop in temperature in north India, including Delhi and Haryana, by November 1 or 2.The Met department’s senior scientist RK Jenamani said temperature in the capital and Haryana will dip to 12-13 degree Celsius. “Delhi is likely to witness cloudy weather on November 2 and 3,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.On Monday, the Safdarjung observatory recorded a maximum temperature of 28.4 degree Celsius – three degrees below normal. The minimum temperature was recorded at 16.4 degree Celsius. At Palam observatory, the maximum temperature was recorded at 28 degree Celsius and the minimum was recorded at 18.2 degree Celsius.A senior Met official told Hindustan Times the national capital has begun receiving northwesterly winds from parts of Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand, which have been witnessing heavy snowfall for the past few days.“Cold winds from these states will blow into Delhi, bringing the temperatures down in the coming days,” the official said, adding the temperature will fall to around 14 degree Celsius by October 30. Also Read | Capital just 30mm rainfall away from eclipsing all-time recordInclement weather conditions along with heavy rain in the hill states of Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir and Uttarakhand have triggered landslides, shooting stones and collapse of houses.Several people have succumbed to extreme weather conditions in these regions. At least 10 people have lost their lives in Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh each, according to latest reports.Also Read | Struck by snowfall, Himachal's Kinnaur bans all treks, mountaineering activitiesJenamani said J&K and Himachal Pradesh will witness more rain and snowfall on November 2 and 3.According to the latest IMD bulletin, barring Bihar, Jharkhand and Gujarat, there will be no significant change in the minimum temperature over the remaining regions of the country in the next four to five days. The maximum temperature will also see no significant change over most parts of India in the same time period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chill-in-the-air-capital-to-see-temperatures-below-12-degree-celsius-from-nov-1-101635272479147.html
27-10-2021||India||Crumbling hills ground report: A week later, families count the cost||A week has passed, but Surinder Singh Chauhan, 47, can still hear the screams of his children. At 3:30am, the earth began to tremble, the low thuds of boulders and dirt grew louder, then a landslide crushed one of the two rooms in his modest house near Nainital town. It was the room where his 17-year-old son, and 23-year-old daughter slept. He heard his son first, crying out in pain. By then, people had collected around his home, and when they dug through the rubble, they found him half buried in the earth, his arms extended towards them. The rain and the gushing water were incessant, and pulling him out impossible. Two hours later, Abhishek Chauhan went quiet. Until then, the desperate father had already given up on his daughter, in the belief that she had been washed away. But at 6:30 in the morning, he heard his daughter’s feeble voice. She kept asking to be pulled out, asking her parents to find a way to remove the concrete slab that was crushing her neck. They told her to be brave, that help was on its way. Four hours later, Ritika Chauhan went quiet too. In five hours, both his children were dead.A week after record rains took the lives of 77 people in two days, October 18 and 19, HT travelled to the inner reaches of Nainital district that bore the brunt of the devastation, and found families unable to come to terms with their grief, rescue teams still struggling with the magnitude of the challenge in front of them, and those that lived to tell the tale in government shelters, worried that their damaged homes will collapse any moment.Chauhan’s children are among 35 killed in rain-related incidents in Nainital in the two days when parts of the district received the most rain in the past 124 years. Nainital’s Mukteshwar weather station reported 340.8mm rainfall in 24 hours between 8.30am on October 18 and 8.30am on October 19, the highest since the weather station was set up in 1897. Between October 1 and 20, Nainital district reported 406.2mm rainfall against an average of 41.4mm, recording 881% excess rainfall in this period.Chauhan sells flowers near the Kainchi Dham shrine in Nainital district, 18km away from the district headquarters, 4,500 feet above sea level. His home is a thin long rectangle, two rooms and a kitchen, and the Kshipra river flows nearby. When the flood hit, the geography made it a prison. “There was no electricity and no signal. We couldn’t call anyone. Approach roads on both sides, from Nainital and from Almora, were blocked with landslides. All we could do was call some young people from nearby for help,” he said. His son was in school, and just a few days before her death, Ritika had found work in a private company. “She was so happy. My whole life, I have sold flowers. And now I have had to put flowers on the bodies of my children. It should have been the other way round,” said Chauhan, unable to hold back his tears.Apart from the 77 killed, five people are missing and 24 injured; and 224 houses were damaged, state government officials said on Tuesday evening. Of the dead, 35 are from Nainital district, 11 from Champawat, 10 from Uttarkashi, six from Almora, six from Bageshwar, three each from Pauri and Pithoragarh, two from Udham Singh Nagar, and one from Chamoli district.What led to the calamityNainital is already one of the most landslide-prone areas in the state. In 1880, 151 people were killed in a major landslide in Nainital’s Sher Ka Danda area and such disasters have occurred in 1867, 1880, 1893, 1898, 1924, 1989, 1998, 2018, and 2021. Experts have long maintained that a seismic fault-line runs beneath the lake, which results in stress, shearing and pulverising of the rock formations in lake area, making the whole area vulnerable to major geological disturbances such as landslides.But two other factors have contributed to the damage: the climate crisis, and unchecked development and despoliation of the hillsides. The first has increased the possibility and frequency of extreme weather events (such as the rains many districts in Uttarakhand received on October 18 and 19). The second, evident in the mushrooming of holiday homes for the wealthy from the cities, the cutting of hillsides for resorts, and the development of resorts right next to rivers and streams has increased the chances of landslides and floods.Around 35km away from the Chauhan home, in the Chopra village of Jeolikote, as night fell on October 18, Jeevan Chandra, 45, knew something was wrong. His brother, Manoj Kumar, worked at a hotel less than 4km away in Jeolikote, among the many hotels that have begun to dot the mountainside in the village. He called him repeatedly, but there was no response. He called his hotel manager, who said Manoj had left at 5:30pm. The village was worried, and at night, 30 people set off with torches. “I had a bad feeling in my gut. With our torches, we started looking for him on the approach road. There was a landslide and we kept sifting through the rubble, but to no avail. The next day, we found his bike near a stream which had torn through the road with big boulders nearly 800m from our house. My neighbours went down and found his body in the stream at 11 am on October 19,” Chandra said.Heavy damageAcross Nainital district, the sight of streams in spate, bearing heavy rocks tearing through roads or homes became common across those two days. In Ramgarh, 34km away from Nainital town, entire roads caved in under the weight of boulders. A walk-through a week later showed that entire stretches of road have vanished. At other points, water pipes jut out, and naked electricity poles and wires are bent or mangled. The new challenges make even a journey by foot arduous.Nowhere is this more evident in the 7km road to the hamlet of Sakuna, from the Ramgarh main road. No motor vehicles can now access the area, and HT reached the village, where nine people died in one home, on foot, trekking through parts of the mountainside. At the village on Saturday, there were 20 NDRF personnel, as well as others from the SDRF, conducting a search for two missing bodies.Janardhan Joshi, who lives nearby, said that at 5:30am on October 19, the only surviving labourer arrived at his home, injured and needing attention. “He said they were ten people, nine labourers and one contractor, sleeping in the room when a flood with big boulders came crashing into the house they lived in together. He was sleeping on the extreme left and somehow managed to escape.”Rajesh Kumar Singh, heading the NDRF team at the site, said that with the damaged approach roads to Sakuna, his team was only able to reach the village at 11am on September 20, using ropes and trekking equipment over multiple stretches. “When we reached, we found boulders as large as 14ft by 5ft inside the mangled house. An arm was protruding from beneath the big boulder. There were already two JCBs (earthmovers) working near the home but no other vehicles could come there. We had no cutters. So we used these JCB machines, lifted the boulders with great difficulty, and retrieved bodies from under them.”Then some locals found some welding machines and a generator provided by locals. “On October 21, we retrieved two more bodies. Big boulders, mangled concrete and fast-flowing water made search operations difficult and challenging. On October 21, we retrieved three more bodies, one downstream nearly 1.5km away from the site. Then we sent a team of seven people downstream but couldn’t find the remaining two missing people.”Rescue continuesWith the area cut off, the search and rescue operations, on their fourth day when HT visited the spot on October 23 have been aided by enterprising locals, helping with food and water. Bittu Rawat, a resident of Sakuna, has been among those helping NDRF and SDRF personnel with rice and curry from his home every day. “They are working so hard in the most difficult conditions to hunt for these bodies . I think it is my moral duty to help with what I can.”The village has had no electricity since the 18th, and the one generator provided by locals to NDRF and SDRF for rescue is also the only way for everyone to charge their phones. Lal Singh Bisht, head constable and leader of the SDRF rescue team working in the area said it has been one of the most challenging search missions the team has carried out. “With road links broken and poor mobile connectivity, locating and reaching the hamlets on steep hillsides in the first place was the biggest challenge. We are now searching in the 15km stretch of the river downstream to find the remaining two bodies. ” The NDRF team left the Sakuna area on Monday, while SDRF personnel are continuing with the search.In the aftermath of the disaster, across villages in the area, the future of residents and their homes hang in balance, quite literally. Homes are cracked or are located perilously close to sites that flooded over or where entire slopes have vanished. HT found many villagers trying to build reinforcing walls or removing the big boulders themselves, despite the danger to their own lives. With help still unable to reach them, there are few options. “All the houses that have developed cracks on steep slopes have become houses of death and are unliveable. We don’t what to do with them,” Deepak Bisht from Kainchi Dham said.In Hari Nagar, just on the outskirts of Nainital town, at least 65 families now call the local government school compound, and a neighbouring dharamshala, home. They once lived above the Baliyanala mountainside, which has since witnessed multiple landslides. Looking out towards his home in the distance, Harish Chand sits in the compound of the government school on Saturday. One classroom holds three families. There is no electricity inside, and there is just one functional toilet in the entire school. “We don’t know when our houses will disappear with the landslides. We keep checking on them from here. But we also fear going back,” he said.Dhan Singh Rawat, minister for disaster management, acknowledged that heavy rains have caused wide scale damage to roads, houses, bridges and public infrastructure in general, apart from the loss of lives. “Kumaon, especially Nanital, has witnessed the highest rainfall in last 124 years. This has wreaked havoc. Our priority right now is to provide compensation to people affected and resume road connectivity, water supply and electricity in the affected areas as soon as possible.”Compensation enhancedRawat said that the compensation amount to the affected has been increased. “A high power committee has been formed for monitoring of relief and reconstruction work by the chief minister. The compensation to families whose houses have been fully damaged has been increased from ₹95,000 in plains and ₹1,01,900 in hilly areas to ₹1.5 lakh per house. Those whose pucca houses have been damaged partially will be now provided ₹7,500 instead of ₹5,200. In the case of partially damaged Kachha houses, the compensation has been increased from ₹3,200 to ₹5,000. Patwaris have been directed to ensure survey and distribution of compensation as soon as possible.”From the home on the unstable hill, Harish Chand’s wife Shanti Devi has only brought a few utensils from the kitchen. “We can’t live like this here for too long,” she said. “Government should do something for us, before it is too late.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-week-later-families-count-the-cost-101635272715656.html
27-10-2021||India||Accused in Lakhimpur case identified, Supreme Court told||The Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday informed the Supreme Court that the accused have been identified by eyewitnesses in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, which left eight people, including four farmers, dead on October 3.“All 16 accused have been identified,” senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for the Uttar Pradesh government, submitted before a bench headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana that is hearing the case registered by the top court on its own motion (suo motu) as a public interest litigation.The bench, which included justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli, on October 20, told the UP Police to pull up its socks and record witnesses’ statements before a judicial magistrate under Section 164 as quickly as possible to dispel the impression that the state is “dragging its feet”. The court underscored that the witnesses’ statements before a magistrate will have greater evidentiary value, and thus, more sanctity during the trial.Ashish Mishra, son of Union minister of state for home affairs Ajay Mishra ‘Teni’, who is named as an accused in the murder first information report (FIR) lodged by the farmers, was arrested on October 9, a day after the Supreme Court came down heavily on the state government for the police’s lenient handling of Mishra.The FIR named Ashish Mishra and “15-20” unknown people — at least 12 of whom were arrested over the past few weeks. They have been identified by police as Ashish Mishra, Luvkush Rana, Ashish Pandey, Ankit Das. Latif alias Kaale,Shekhar Bharti, Sumit Jaiswal,Shishu Pal, Nandan Singh Bisht,Satya Prakash Tripathi alias Satyam, Mohit Trivedi, Rinku Rana and Dharmendra. Three of the accused were killed in the violence that followed the incident.Salve, however, did not directly say if Mishra was among the accused identified by eyewitnesses. During the court proceedings, he did not take any names. The status report on the investigation is also not in the public domain and has been submitted to the court by the state government in a sealed cover envelope.Salve began his arguments on Tuesday by pointing out that statements of 30 out of 68 witnesses have been recorded before a magistrate under section 164 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) and that a large volume of video evidence has been sent to the forensic science laboratories. Salve was reading out from the status report on investigation submitted confidentially to the bench.At this, the bench pointed out that there should be more eyewitnesses in the case given the fact that the incident took place when a farmers’ rally, comprising around 4,000-5000 people, was going on.“You ask your agency how many more can be added as eyewitnesses. Eyewitnesses’ evidence is more credible. It is always better to have first-hand evidence in these types of cases. We have some apprehensions...we are a little concerned about these issues,” the bench told Salve.The court added that accessibility or identification of the people in the vehicle that fatally mowed down four farmers should not be a problem when there was a gathering of at least 4,000 people. “There has to be some witness who would stand and tell what the truth is. Identification is important,” said the bench.To this, Salve replied that “all 16 accused have been identified”, and added that steps will be taken to record statements of more eyewitnesses before a magistrate.The court then asked the state government about providing security to the witnesses in the case and later directed in its order to accord proper security to them. Seeking another status report by November 8, the bench further recorded in its order that the statements of all relevant witnesses will be recorded before a magistrate “expeditiously”.At this point, senior advocate Arun Bhardwaj registered a complaint on behalf of the widow of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) worker Shyam Sunder Nishad, who was among the three lynched allegedly by the furious crowd after the offending vehicle ran over four among the protesting farmers.Bhardwaj said that although Sundar’s widow has identified three assailants in the case, the UP Police has not bothered to register any first information report (FIR) against them while the deceased’s family is being threatened.Also, senior advocate Harshvir Pratap Sharma contended that there has been no investigation into the killing of journalist Raman Kashyap in the same incident.Responding, the bench said that it is “trying to balance everything” and asked the UP government to also file a status report on investigation regarding the FIR registered into the death of four persons, besides the farmers.Salve assured the court that the state would look into the second FIR as well and file an appropriate report.Hours later, the Uttar Pradesh Police arrested two people in connection with the deaths of two BJP workers and their driver in the violence at Lakhimpur Kheri three weeks ago. These are the first arrests made by the police in connection with a second FIR lodged in the case.The incident on October 3, which has led to a political uproar in the state that goes to the polls early next year, claimed eight lives. Farm groups say a Mahindra Thar owned by Ajay Mishra mowed down protesters from behind while they were returning from a demonstration in Tikunia village on Sunday afternoon. A video clip that is yet to be authenticated forensically shows the same.The minister and his son, however, deny the charge that the latter was in the vehicle and say farmers pelted the car with stones that led to the driver losing control of the vehicle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/accused-in-lakhimpur-case-identified-sc-told-101635272655772.html
27-10-2021||India||75% districts in India vulnerable to climate crisis, face risk of floods: Report||A new study has found that 25 of 35 Indian states and Union territories are highly vulnerable to climate crisis-induced “hydro-met” disasters (floods and drought), with Assam, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Bihar being the most at risk.The study based on climate vulnerability mapping of 640 districts in India (according to 2011 census; as of 2021, there were 748) based on rainfall and drought data said that 80% of Indians live in these climate disaster prone districts. The study estimates that over 75% of the Indian districts, including 95% of coastal ones, are extreme event hotspots. Around 45% of these districts have undergone unsustainable landscape and infrastructure changes, a reason for increase in climate vulnerability of these districts.The study was released on Tuesday, a week before the start of a United Nations climate conference, known as COP26, in Glasgow, where developing countries such as India are expected to demand ramping up of climate finance to help them adapt to climate change.Rich countries have failed to deliver on their promise of $100 billion every year by 2020, according to a UN report released on Monday.The developed world has now shifted the deadline to meet the promise to 2023, blaming Covid-19 induced economic slowdown, according to a Reuters report quoting a meeting of finance ministers of G20 countries.“Combating the rising frequency and scale of extreme climate events is fiscally draining for developing countries such as India. At COP26, developed countries must regain trust by delivering the $100 billion promised in 2009 and commit to stepping up climate finance over the coming decade,” said Arunabha Ghosh, chief executive officer of Council for Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW), a New Delhi-based think tank that conducted the study.Enhanced climate finance can also support India-led global agencies such as the Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure (CDRI) to further mainstream climate actions and adaption, Ghosh said.The study found that Dhemaji and Nagaon in Assam, Khammam in Telangana, Gajapati in Odisha, Vizianagaram in Andhra Pradesh, Sangli in Maharashtra, and Chennai in Tamil Nadu were among India’s most climate crisis vulnerable districts. The study also found that districts in the hill states of Uttarakhand, where 72 people had died in extreme rainfall events in mid October, and Himachal Pradesh, which has seen a 30% increase in extreme rainfall events this year till August, were more vulnerable than ever to climate crisis induced extreme rainfall events.Further, 59% and 41% of the total districts in the eastern and western states, respectively, are highly vulnerable to severe cyclones, the study said.Only 63% of districts have a District Disaster Management Plan (DDMP) and only 32% of them had updated the plans till 2019, the study found.“Our analysis suggests that India’s western and central zones are more vulnerable to drought-like conditions and their compounding impacts. The northern and north-eastern zones are more vulnerable to extreme flood events and their compounding impacts. India’s eastern and southern zones are highly vulnerable to extreme cyclonic events and their impacts and are also becoming extremely prone to cyclones, floods, and droughts combined,” said the study, titled Mapping India’s Climate Vulnerability: A District wise Assessment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/75-districts-in-india-vulnerable-to-climate-crisis-face-risk-of-floodsreport-101635272597188.html
27-10-2021||India||J&K Police file two UAPA cases for ‘celebrating’ Pakistan’s win in World Cup||Jammu and Kashmir Police have registered two cases against unknown persons under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) for allegedly celebrating Pakistan’s victory over India in the ICC T20 World Cup on Sunday, officials familiar with the developments said.The cases were filed after a few videos on social media claimed that people in Kashmir celebrated Pakistan’s win and also raised slogans after the match. Two celebratory videos, allegedly of MBBS students in two medical institutions in Srinagar, also went viral across social media platforms.HT could not confirm the authenticity of the videos.The officials cited above said the FIRs under UAPA and Indian Penal Code were filed at Soura and Karan Nagar police stations in Srinagar on Monday. “Yes, an FIR under UAPA has been registered after there were purported celebrations and slogans following a cricket match. But the case is not specific to videos on social media,” said an official.“HMs (home minister’s) Mann ki Baat with Kashmiri youth started with slapping UAPA against medical students for celebrating Pakistan’s win. Instead of trying to ascertain why educated youth choose to identify with Pakistan, GOI resorting to vindictive actions. Such steps will alienate them further,” PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti tweeted. Mufti’s tweet was in reference to home minister Amit Shah’s remarks that the Centre would rather talk to Kashmir’s youth than Pakistan, as suggested by National Conference chief Farooq Abdullah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jkuapacases-filed-for-celebrating-pakistan-s-victory-over-india-in-icc-t20-world-cup-101635272417546.html
27-10-2021||India||Promises of statehood meant to divide people of Darjeeling: Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday promised a permanent political solution for Darjeeling hills while it remains part of the state, even as she urged leaders in the hills to prepare a road map for the same by December.“Some political parties come to Darjeeling ahead of the elections and promise statehood. Their actual motto is to divide the people of the hills. You give me a plan on how to come to a permanent solution. I would help you even while Darjeeling remains a part of West Bengal.”Banerjee, who is on a four-day tour of north Bengal since October 24, held an administrative meeting in Kurseong.She asked Anit Thapa, former Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM) leader who recently floated a new outfit; Roshan Giri, secretary of the GJM; and Gautam Deb, senior TMC leader and former minister, to come up with a plan by the first week of December. Officials and representatives from the Gorkha Territorial Administration (GTA) — an autonomous body that manages Darjeeling and Kalimpong hills in north Bengal — have also been asked to join the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-promises-permanent-political-solution-for-darjeeling-without-nod-for-statehood-101635268576041.html
27-10-2021||India||Lack of clarity, cohesion in party: Sonia Gandhi||Congress chief Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday said there is “a lack of clarity and cohesion” among the party’s state-level leaders on policy issues , underlining the need for redoubling efforts to fight for the deprived sections of population.“To make this promise (of fighting for deprived sections) truly meaningful, we must also make our organisation more representative of this cross-section of society,” Sonia Gandhi said during an address to Congress general secretaries, secretaries, in-charges and state chiefs.She emphasised the need for discipline and unity within the party, adding that “the strengthening of the organisation must override personal ambitions”.Her comments come in the wake of a spate of defections from the party to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and also to the Trinamool Congress, and amidst internal criticism, especially by a group of senior Congress leaders, the so-called G23, that seeks changes in how the party functions, and a more democratic process of picking leaders for organisational posts.Gandhi referred to elections in five states next year and added that Congress workers and leaders were gearing up to take up these battles. “Our campaign must be founded upon concrete policies and programmes emanating from widespread discussions with all sections of society.”She said the party has to fight the “diabolical” campaign of the ruling BJP and its ideological fount, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) “ideologically” with “conviction and expose their lies” if it wants to win these battles. “We must do so with the people,” she addedGandhi also spoke of the need for an outreach within the party ahead of organisational elections. “The AICC (All-India Congress Committee) releases important and detailed statements almost every day on issues facing the nation... They do not percolate down to our grassroots cadres at the block and district levels. There are policy issues on which I find a lack of clarity and cohesion even among our state-level leaders.”Internal polls to elect the party’s next president are scheduled to be held between August 21 and September 30 next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-warns-of-lack-of-cohesion-on-policy-issues-at-key-congress-summit-101635235514141.html
