28-10-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: October 29, 1958 — Italian Cardinal Angelo Giuseppe Roncelli is elected new Pope||Vatican City- Cardinal Angelo Giuseppe Roncelli, Patriarch of Venice, has been elected Pope. The 76-year-old pontiff will take the name John XXIII. Cardinal Roncelli is an Italian. A peasant’s son, he was papal envoy in the Balkans and the Near East for nearly 20 years. He is a moderate and equally at ease in palaces and humble homes. He is noted for his sayings. His axiom for Government - “see everything, turn a blind eye on much of it, correct a little.” He is the author of a number of learned works. The successful ballot by the cardinals was the eleventh, on the third day of their secret conclave. The announcement was given to a widely cheering crowd outside St Peters’ basilica by Cardinal Nicola Canali. Bells of all Rome churches and Catholic church bells all over the world burst into joyful peals at the announcement. In Rome the Prime Minister immediately suspended the meeting of the Lower House of Parliament to enable the members to rush to St. Peters to see the new Pope. Exactly an hour after the first smoke signal was given, the new Pope appeared on the balcony and gave the solemn blessing: urbi et orbi (to the city and to the world).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-october-29-1958-italian-cardinal-angelo-giuseppe-roncelli-is-elected-new-pope-101635445128689.html
28-10-2021||India||India is concerned about situation in Afghanistan: Pentagon||Washington: India is concerned about the current situation in Afghanistan, a top Pentagon official has told US lawmakers here.“As I’m sure you’re aware, they (Indians) are concerned about the situation in Afghanistan. They’re concerned about the intersection between instability there and their counterterrorism concerns,” Colin H Kahl, Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, told members of the Senate Armed Services Committee during a hearing on Afghanistan, South and Central Asia Security.“They (Indians) want to work with us on those issues, sharing intelligence, cooperating where we can,” he said, adding that there is a tremendous convergence between US and Indian national interests right now “It provides a lot of opportunity for us to cooperate with India, not just on Afghanistan and counterterrorism, but on broader regional security questions, in the Indian Ocean and as it relates to the broader Indo-Pacific,” Kahl said.He was responding to a question from Senator Gary Peters.“India’s policies towards Afghanistan have been conceived largely through the lens of competition and proxy conflict with Pakistan. So it stands to reason that New Delhi should be no less concerned about the possibility that a Taliban government could benefit anti-Indian terrorist groups, especially those oriented towards Kashmir,” he said.“In view of our commitment to joint cooperation and interoperability with this critical partner, and the fact that India is the only designated major defence partner of the United States, I believe it’s important for us to understand how its view towards Afghanistan has and will evolve,” Peters said.Earlier this month, Kahl had co-chaired a US-India Defense Policy Group meeting.Responding to another question from Senator Jack Reed, Kahl said Pakistan is a challenging actor, but it does not want Afghanistan to be a safe haven for terrorist attacks or external attacks.“They continue to give us access to Pakistani airspace and we’re in conversations about keeping that airspace open and happy to talk about that more in the closed session. But for right now, counterterrorism cooperation with Pakistan is pretty good,” he said.“Our inability across multiple administrations to effectively deal with Pakistan is another example of the past being prologue. Managing the security relationship with Pakistan will remain important as we seek to successfully implement a regional counterterrorism strategy with other partners and allies,” Reed said.“That is why it is vitally important for us to reflect upon and study the entirety of the 20-year mission in Afghanistan,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-is-concerned-about-situation-in-afghanistan-pentagon-101635444889446.html
28-10-2021||India||De Kock apologises, says will take the knee in future||Much to the relief of South Africa in the midst of their T20 World Cup campaign, the storm surrounding wicketkeeper-batsman Quinton de Kock’s refusal to take a knee for the game against West Indies has been brought to an amicable end. In a statement released by Cricket South Africa (CSA) on Thursday, the 28-year-old has apologised for his actions and said that he will take the knee for the remainder of the tournament to show solidarity for the Black Lives Matter (BLM) movement. It means that de Kock will be available for selection for their next game against Sri Lanka on Saturday. “I would like to start by saying sorry to my teammates and the fans back home. I never ever wanted to make this an issue (about myself). I understand the importance of standing against racism, and I also understand the responsibility of us as players to set an example. If I taking a knee helps to educate others and makes the lives of others better, I am more than happy to do so,” de Kock said. The South African players and team management were locked in discussions with CSA’s top officials on Wednesday night. At the end of it, there was consensus that all the players will take the knee in unison from hereon. The controversy had erupted hours before South Africa’s game against West Indies on Tuesday after CSA issued a sudden directive that all the players must take the knee before every match. De Kock did not wish to comply and chose to pull out of the clash against the defending champions, which the Proteas eventually won by eight wickets. De Kock’s refusal was met with criticism from many quarters, especially considering the racial history of the rainbow nation and recent revelations that discrimination and name-calling on the basis of skin colour continued within the South African team well after the end of Apartheid. De Kock – who is a senior figure in the current set-up with 53 Tests, 124 ODIs and 58 T20Is under his belt — insisted that he was not a racist, going on to explain the background of the family that he comes from. “I was quiet on this very important issue until now. But I feel I have to explain myself a little bit. For those who don’t know, I come from a mixed-race family. My half-sisters are coloured and my step mom is black. For me, black lives have mattered since I was born. Not just because there was an international movement. I am not a racist. In my heart of hearts, I know that. And I think those who know me know that,” he maintained. De Kock made it clear that his displeasure was with the timing of CSA’s diktat and the need for all players to do as told when the message previously was that each individual could do as they wanted. “I felt like my rights were taken away when I was told what we had to do. We were previously told we had the choice to do what we felt we wanted to do. I won’t lie. I was shocked that we were told on the way to an important match that there was an instruction that we had to follow. I think it would have been better for everyone concerned if we had sorted this out before the tournament started. There always seems to be a drama when we go to World Cups. That isn’t fair.” De Kock’s rationale will remain open for vigorous debate. If he has a problem with symbolic gestures, after all, he has never objected to playing the ‘Pink ODI’ — an annual fixture in South Africa’s home season — to raise awareness about breast cancer. After scoring a century against West Indies in June this year, he raised his bat and showed the sticker of an organisation that is working for the cause of rhino conservation in South Africa. “I didn’t understand why I had to prove it with a gesture....” de Kock wrote in his statement/ “When you are told what to do, with no discussion, I felt like it takes away the meaning. If I was racist, I could easily have taken the knee and lied, which is wrong and doesn’t build a better society.” South Africa’s first black captain, Temba Bavuma, had in fact defended de Kock’s personal choice in a long press-conference after the West Indies match which centred almost entirely around the de Kock controversy. The wicketkeeper acknowledged that support in his statement.“I just want to thank my teammates for their support, especially my captain, Temba. People might not recognise, but he is a flipping amazing leader,” he said. “If he and the team, and South Africa, will have me, I would love nothing more than to play cricket for my country again.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/de-kock-apologises-says-will-take-the-knee-in-future-101635444650927.html
28-10-2021||India||Odisha constable’s richness stuns govt team. He turned 2-room flat into bungalow||BHUBANESWAR: An Odisha police constable in state capital Bhubaneswar who was arrested and dismissed from service on Sunday converted his modest government two-room flat into a lavish bungalow by unauthorised construction of 8 new rooms, vigilance department officials said on Thursday.Vigilance department officials who conducted Thursday’s raids at multiple locations linked to dismissed police constable Prasanna Behera said they were surprised to find how the former policeman upgraded his modest two-room government accommodation at Kalpana square in Bhubaneswar by constructing 8 more rooms including 3 bedrooms and 5 other rooms including separate drawing and dining rooms, kitchen, puja room and bathrooms.Behera, who was also president of Odisha’s Havildar and Constable Association, was arrested last week for running a bar on the outskirts of Bhubaneswar without a valid licence. It also transpired that he already had eight department proceedings and five criminal cases pending against him. The justice MN Patnaik commission of inquiry that probed into a hooch tragedy that led to 21 deaths in Khurda district back in 2001 had also castigated Behera over his links with liquor mafia.This time, the state government, in view of the evidence available against him, went ahead last week to sack him under Article 311 of the Constitution, a provision that implies he will not be entitled to get pension.A vigilance department official who raided his premises on Thursday said Behera was unlikely to miss the pension.The official said they discovered Behera has a 18,000 square feet furniture showroom in the city worth over ₹4 crore, a plot of land worth ₹45 lakh in Khordha, a flat in the name of his wife worth ₹24 lakh in Sundarpada, Bhubaneswar, insurance deposits over ₹50 lakh apart from some other movable assets such as four-wheelers and two-wheelers.HT reached out to the police constable’s family for his version on the vigilance team’s allegations but his father, Hemant Behera, declined to comment on the raids.Vigilance officials have located 21 bank accounts linked to the constable but are yet to put a number on his deposits.“The vigilance technical wing has also been deputed to carry out valuation of buildings while the finance wing and forest wing personnel along with professional furniture manufacturers have been roped in for valuation of costly furniture items in his showroom,” said an official of the department.Police officials said Behera made his money throwing his weight around as president of constable and havildar association to get better business deals.Behera was first suspended and then arrested for allegedly running a bar at Hotel South City in Patrapada area of the city after Manish Anurag, son of senior journalist Navin Das was allegedly murdered in the hotel on October 9. Manish Anurag was allegedly murdered by his friends, following an altercation with them over payment of a bill at the bar. The next day, his body was found floating in a village pond in the locality.During investigation of the murder case, police found that the license of the bar had expired. Besides, the bar had violated Covid-19 guidelines of the state government by functioning during night curfew in the city. As investigators dug deeper, it turned out that the hotel was owned by a police constable. The vigilance team was later brought into the picture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-constable-s-richness-stuns-raiding-team-he-turned-2-room-into-a-bungalow-101635444348678.html
28-10-2021||India||Equities tumble on RBI move to drain liquidity||Indian shares lost nearly 2% on Thursday in the biggest one-day fall since 30 April amid concerns over the recent Reserve Bank of India (RBI) move to drain cash from the banking system and a downgrade of Indian equities by Morgan Stanley.The Sensex lost 1,158.63 points, or 1.89%, to 59,984.70 while the Nifty fell 1.94% to close at 17,857.25. Both indices saw their biggest drop since 30 April. In intraday trading, the benchmark Sensex plunged as much as 2.23% while the Nifty shed 2.26%.Most Asian markets, too, fell on Thursday amid concerns that the recovery from the covid pandemic will slow as elevated inflation forces tighter monetary policy. Japan’s Nikkei lost 1%, while the Hang Seng in Hong Kong declined 0.3%. The expiry of monthly derivative contracts on Thursday exacerbated the losses.RBI on Wednesday said it will conduct seven-day and 28-day variable rate reverse repo (VRRR) auctions worth ₹1.5 trillion and ₹50,000 crore, respectively, on 2 November. The deployment of longer-term operations of 28 days will be the first since RBI governor Shaktikanta Das flagged the move in the 8 October policy.“This increase reinforces the central bank’s discomfort with excess liquidity and shift in strategy to address the surfeit in a more durable basis through longer-tenor VRRR auctions,” said Radhika Rao, an economist at DBS Bank.“This increase marks another incremental step towards an eventual hike in the reverse repo rate, which we suspect will happen in two tranches, and start as early as the December meeting.”The move highlights the RBI’s worries over excess cash in banks, which stands at more than ₹7.5 trillion and may increase inflation. The longer-term reverse repo may also be aimed at managing a potential gush of liquidity on account of a slate of initial share sales in the coming weeks.Nykaa owner FSN E-Commerce Ventures aims to raise ₹ 5,320 crore, while Paytm plans to raise ₹18,300 crore via their initial share sale early next month.Investors also appeared anxious after Morgan Stanley and Nomura downgraded India, citing expensive valuations.Morgan Stanley downgraded Indian stocks to equal weight.“The fundamental leading indicators are positive; we see valuations as increasingly constraining returns over the next 3-6 months, particularly as we head towards Fed tapering, absorbing the impact of higher energy costs and our expectations of a first RBI hike for the cycle in February 2022,” a Morgan Stanley report said.“Notwithstanding the already sharply upgraded consensus earnings through 2021, India’s 12-month forward P/E ratio has moved to an all-time high of 24.1x. As a result, India is the most expensive market in our model on EM-relative 5-year trailing Z-score of P/B and P/E. We believe this might see the index take a breather from here and look for some consolidation, with our India strategy team preferring consumer discretionary and financials while avoiding technology and healthcare,” it added.On 25 October, Nomura downgraded Indian markets to neutral from overweight, citing unfavourable risk-reward given high valuations, as several positives appeared to be priced in even as headwinds are emerging.Instead, the Japanese brokerage firm prefers China and Asean and will be looking for better entry points for India.On 20 October, UBS said that it has an underweight rating on India, calling it “extremely expensive”.Strategists at UBS find Indian equities to be the least attractive as valuations are rising with fading earnings momentum while there is less scope for an economic rebound this year.“This fall in the index has derailed the recent recovery, and we may see a further slide in the following sessions. We reiterate our cautious view on markets and suggest restricting leveraged positions,” said Ajit Mishra, vice-president of research at Religare Broking.Foreign institutional investors have sold Indian equities worth $1.47 billion in the last five sessions. Cumulatively, so far this month, FIIs are net sellers of equities worth $970.82 million.Bloomberg contributed this story.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/equitiestumbleonrbi-movetodrainliquidity-101635444107273.html
28-10-2021||India||Punjab CM Channi meets Congress’ Rahul Gandhi in Delhi, discusses Amarinder Singh’s new party, state issues||Amid the recent political turmoil in Punjab Congress, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Thursday met with party leader and MP Rahul Gandhi in Delhi. The two leaders discussed the political situation in the state, the upcoming assembly polls early next year and the launch of a new political party by former CM Amarinder Singh among other issues, news agency PTI reported earlier in the day.The meeting came a day after Singh had confirmed plans about floating a new political outfit, once it is approved by the Election Commission, earlier on Wednesday. The potential impact of this new party on the chances of Congress winning the assembly polls next year was also discussed during the meeting between Channi and Gandhi, the PTI report showed.Also read | Delhi CM Kejriwal says AAP working on ‘special plan’ for Punjab to make agriculture profitableFurther, the CM also informed Gandhi of the measures taken for public welfare by his government since he assumed the top post. Among other issues, the extension of the Border Security Force’s jurisdiction in border states, which the Punjab government has vehemently opposed, was also touched upon by them.A special session of the Punjab assembly has been called on November 8 to discuss the extension of BSF’s jurisdiction by the Centre, CM Channi announced on Wednesday after an all-party meeting on the issue. Also, a demand to repeal the three contentious farm laws, against which farmer unions have been protesting at Delhi’s border for the past several months, would be made during the session.Former CM Singh has backed the extension of the BSF’s jurisdiction and said, “They (BSF) are here to secure our borders, not take over the government. Nobody is taking over the state,” news agency ANI had reported earlier. Singh was also scheduled to meet Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi regarding the farmers’ issue, however, the meeting was later postponed.Meanwhile, senior Congress leader Sunil Jakhar took a jibe at Channi’s Delhi visit. “Punjab CM in Delhi, Delhi CM in Punjab, yet again ! Must say, at least one of them has got his timing right,” Jakhar said in a tweet, referring to Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal’s two-day visit to the poll-bound state.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-cm-channi-meets-congress-rahul-gandhi-in-delhi-discusses-amarinder-singh-s-new-party-state-issues-101635442999804.html
28-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan promises financial help to some prisoners' families: Report||Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan has promised financial help to the families of some prisoners he got acquainted with during his stay in the Arthur Road jail, news agency ANI reported on Thursday as the Bombay high court granted bail to the starkid along with two others in connection with the drugs-on-cruise case. The report said he was happy after he got the news of his bail at around 6pm and expressed his gratitude to the prison staff. Aryan has been lodged at the prison since October 8. He might have to spend another night or two inside the jail before all formalities are completed.Earlier it was reported that Aryan Khan was feeling anxious in the jail after his last bail plea got rejected. Seeing his mental state, the jail authorities suggested him to read books from the library and Aryan was reading a book on Ram and Sita. Reports said before this book he was reading The Lion's Gate.During his stay in the jail, Aryan Khan was not given any VIP treatment and was treated like any other prisoner, reports said. Shah Rukh Khan was allowed to visit Aryan Khan in person on October 14, when the prison authorities started allowing physical visits of family members of the prisoners. Before that, Aryan Khan was allowed a video call with his parents from the jail premises and a money order to buy food from the jail canteen.Aryan Khan's conduct has been well inside the jail, it has been reported. During a counselling session, Aryan reportedly told Sameer Wankhede that he will work for social and financial upliftment of the poor and the downtrodden and will never do anything that will bring him "publicity for the wrong reasons". He also promised Wankhede that he will make Wankhede proud one day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aryan-khan-promises-financial-help-to-some-prisoners-families-report-101635443029061.html
28-10-2021||India||Bengal law minister questioned by ED for 9 hours in coal smuggling case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday questioned West Bengal law minister Moloy Ghatak for around nine hours in connection with an alleged coal smuggling case. On September 6, the federal agency had questioned West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee in connection with the same case for around nine hours. Ghatak, however, refused to speak to the media after coming out of the ED’s office at Jamnagar House in Delhi late on Thursday night. Ghatak had skipped multiple summons by the agency in the last two months. It has been alleged that illegally mined coal worth crores have been sold in the black market over several years by a racket operating in the western parts of Bengal where the Eastern Coalfields Limited runs several mines. The ED had initiated a parallel investigation after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) launched a probe in the coal smuggling case last year. Abhishek Banerjee’s wife Rujira also came under the scanner of the central agency. Both, however, had moved the Delhi high court challenging summons issued to them. Previously, the ED asked Abhishek Banerjee to appear before it on September 6, while Rujira on September 1. Rujira had expressed her inability to appear before the ED on September 1 by citing the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and requested the agency officials to visit her residence in Kolkata. The Delhi high court had exempted the Trinamool Congress MP’s wife from personal appearance before a trial court, scheduled on October 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-law-minister-questioned-by-ed-for-9-hours-in-coal-smuggling-case-101635443147733.html
28-10-2021||India||Delhi CM Kejriwal says AAP working on ‘special plan’ for Punjab to make agriculture profitable||Delhi chief minister and national convenor of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said he would turn agriculture profitable if his party would be voted to power in the 2022 assembly elections in Punjab, scheduled for early next year. He also said that no farmer would have to die by suicide if his party was voted to power.Blaming the state government, he said, “Punjab has all required infrastructure to develop agri-based industry but due to ill-intentions of the present or past government, these could not deliver,” news agency PTI reported.Kejriwal assured that his government would not only provide compensation to farmers who were affected by natural causes but also enhance it in proportion to the production cost. Also read | Punjab polls: Kejriwal on two-day visit to meet AAP leaders, farmers, tradersHe also vowed to pay the compensation for crop failure by April 30, if his party wins the assembly election. “By April 30, crop loss compensation will be credited to the account of each affected farmer and labourer,” he said during an interaction with the farmers in the Mansa district in Punjab.As part of his announcements, Kejriwal also said that he would unveil a “special plan” next month, on which his party is currently working on, for the development of agriculture in the state.“Stubble would be used for power, cardboard and agro-based industries and DAP fertiliser factories, which would also provide employment to the youth of Punjab. Agriculture and all related occupations will be made profitable,” he added.The AAP chief is on a two-day visit to the poll-bound state and met with state party leaders namely, AAP Punjab chief Bhagwant Mann, leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema, party MLAs along with Delhi MLA Raghav Chadha. He met with the farmers in Mansa district and interacted with them and heard their problems along with the AAP leaders.Meanwhile, the party is yet to unveil its chief minister candidate for the upcoming assembly polls. However, Kejriwal has earlier said that the announcement would be made in due time. The party had already announced that it would contest from all the 117 seats in the election. In the 2017 assembly polls, the AAP finished in a distant second place with 20 seats after the Congress, which had won 77 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-cm-kejriwal-says-aap-working-on-special-plan-for-punjab-to-make-agriculture-profitable-101635442486195.html
28-10-2021||India||Why is Aryan Khan granted bail today? What will be bail conditions? | 10 points||Aryan Khan was granted bail on Thursday by the Bombay high court after the court completed hearing both the parties for the last three days. For Aryan, there were former AG Mukul Rohatgi, Amit Desai, Satish Maneshinde, Karanjawala & Co's Ruby Singh and Sandeep Kapur, while for the NCB, there were Anil Singh, Advait Sethna and Shreeram. Apart from Aryan Khan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha were also granted bail in the connection of the drugs-on-cruise case.Here are 10 points regarding Aryan Khan's bail.1. The high court has not yet issued the complete order with the reasons for granting the bail. Once the order is out, it will be clear what grounds the court considered to grant the three bail.2. Earlier, Aryan Khan's bail pleas were rejected as the NCB contested that the accused belong to influential families and they can tamper with evidence. This can be a likely bail condition for all three.Aryan Khan gets bail in drugs case after 3 weeks, to be back home by this week3. Apart from a fine, the bail conditions may bar all three to travel abroad, as they will have to cooperate with the ongoing investigation.4. These are, however, not the first bail in the high-profile drugs case. Manish Rajgaria and Avin Sahu were granted bail in the same case by a special NDPS court.5. They were granted bail as the NCB "failed" to produce on record any evidence to show that they were connected with any drugs network.6. The case against Aryan Khan was made stronger by the NCB as it connected Aryan Khan with the 6 gram charas found from Arbaaz merchant. The NCB contests that Aryan Khan was in "conscious possession" of drugs, though he himself was not carrying any drugs. The NCB claimed Aryan Khan and Arbaaz Merchant are old friends. The charas that Arbaaz Merchant was carrying was for their personal consumption.7. The NCB presented drugs-related old WhatsApp chats of Aryan Khan in front of the court, while Aryan Khan's lawyers argued that WhatsApp chats can't be admitted as evidence.8. Aryan Khan spent over 20 days in Arthur Road jail, while it has been 25 days after his arrest.9. Aryan Khan and 2 others will finally walk out of the jail once the jail receives the bail order and all the procedures are complete.10. Reports said Aryan Khan was informed about his bail by the jail staff as he was not present in the court on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-is-aryan-khan-granted-bail-today-what-will-be-bail-conditions-10-points-101635440664311.html
28-10-2021||India||Andhra govt to request Centre to take up caste-based census||The Andhra Pradesh Cabinet on Thursday decided to request the Centre to take up a caste-based census to enumerate other backward classes (OBCs), while conducting the national census for 2021.“The Cabinet authorised state backward classes minister Ch Venugopala Krishna to move a resolution in the coming assembly session requesting the Government of India to take up caste census of OBCs while conducting the general census of 2021,” state information and public relations minister Perni Venkaramaiah told reporters after the cabinet meeting.The Telangana government, too, adopted a similar resolution in the state assembly on October 8, requesting that the Centre take up enumeration of OBCs as part of the national census.The Andhra cabinet also approved the formation of a separate department for the welfare of economically weaker sections. The department was aimed at implementing welfare schemes for upper caste poor people.The Cabinet decided to create 4,035 new posts in the medical and health department, including 560 pharmacist posts in YSR Urban clinics and 2190 additional posts including teaching faculty, staff nurses and paramedical staff. “The state government has proposed to fill up 41,000 vacancies in the Medical Health department. So far, 26,917 posts have been filled in the last two and half years, and the remaining posts will be filled soon,” the minister said.The Cabinet has also approved the move to amend the Cinematography Act, 1965 and allow an online ticketing platform managed by AP State Film, Television and Theatre Development Corporation for issuing cinema tickets.Among other decisions, the Cabinet approved extension of the ban on Communist Party of India (Maoist) and other affiliated organisations for one more year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-govt-to-request-centre-to-take-up-caste-based-census-101635440747712.html
28-10-2021||India||Farmers protest: Barricades along Tikri border being removed||The process of removing blockades put up along the Tikri border on the Delhi side was reportedly underway to resume vehicular movement. The border has remained blocked for almost a year now since farmers launched their protest in the area against three centrally passed agri laws.According to the Delhi Police, while the blockades were being removed, there was still no confirmation on when exactly the movement of vehicles may resume.A PTI report said four of the eight layers of barricades at the border have been removed. However, the cement barricades are still there and the road remains closed for commuters, a senior officer was quoted as saying.According to ANI inputs, police said plans were underway to open emergency routes at Tikri border (Delhi-Haryana) and Ghazipur border (Delhi-UP) that were blocked due to ongoing farmers' protest. “The barricades placed at the borders will be removed after getting farmers' consensus,” the Delhi Police was quoted as saying. There are plans to open emergency routes at Tikri border (Delhi-Haryana) & Ghazipur border (Delhi-UP) that are blocked due to ongoing farmers' protest. The barricades placed at the borders will be removed after getting farmers' consensus: Delhi Police(Visuals from Tikri border) pic.twitter.com/Fzv76lSPy2The development came two days after senior officials of the Haryana government held a meeting with representatives of the protesting farmers over clearing the Tikri border area.  At the meeting, a farmer leader had said no road had been blocked from their side. "The entire responsibility to open roads is on the Delhi Police as the way has been blocked towards the other side," he said.Besides Tikri, Kundli, Ghazipur and Singhu are among the key borders along the national capital, besides other places, where the farmers have been staging a stir for the past 11 months.The Supreme Court had recently said the farmers had the right to protest, but cannot block roads indefinitely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-barricades-along-tikri-border-being-removed-say-reports-101635439320746.html
28-10-2021||India||India expects developed countries to do more at COP26 on funds to tackle climate change||India is expecting concrete outcomes at COP26 on developed countries providing more financing and technology for tackling climate change since the country is well on its way to meeting targets set under the Paris Accord, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said on Thursday. New Delhi is also looking towards “very concrete outcomes” at the upcoming G20 Summit in Rome in combating the Covid-19 pandemic and similar challenges in future, Shringla told a news briefing ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s participation in the G20 Summit and COP26 in Glasgow. In a departure statement ahead of his visit to Italy and the UK, Modi said India is taking “ambitious action” on expanding clean and renewable energy and “creating new records in collective effort for climate adaptation, mitigation and resilience”. Modi said he would highlight the need to “comprehensively address climate change issues, including equitable distribution of carbon space, support for mitigation and adaptation and resilience building measures, mobilisation of finance, technology transfer and importance of sustainable lifestyles” at COP 26. He also said he would join other leaders of the world’s largest economies at the G20 Summit in Rome to discuss global economic and health recovery from the pandemic, sustainable development, and climate change. The summit will allow the leaders to exchange ideas on how G20 can be an engine for “strengthening economic resilience and building back inclusively” from the pandemic, he added. India has been pushing developed countries to share more finances and technology to cope with climate change. On the other hand, the developed countries want India to frame updated Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) or targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Shringla told a news briefing ahead of Modi’s departure for the G20 Summit and COP26 that India has been “one of the best performers” in G20 as far as meeting the commitments of COP26 is concerned. “We are well on our way to meeting our NDC commitments and even doing better than that,” he said. In addition to commitments under the Paris Accord, India has made unilateral announcements that set much higher benchmarks. With developed countries announcing this week that they will miss by three years their promise of $100 billion a year as funding to developing countries to manage the climate crisis, Shringla said India wants clearly defined commitments in this regard. “The problem is that we would like to see such commitments converted into promises. The quantum of such financing is also, in our view, inadequate. You need much more financing in order to reach the goals that have been set...to collectively meet at a global level in order to achieve the 1.5 degrees that we are talking about,” he said. The means of delivering “green financing and green technology” is key to enabling developing countries to meet their climate action commitments, he said. “This is something that...will occupy the leaders and negotiators, this is something that we expect to see some outcomes on, not only in terms of commitments and NDCs...[and] a review of those commitments in Glasgow, but also a review of the financial backstopping that is very important for developing countries and small island states and countries like ours that have [small per capita emissions]...,” he said. India’s contributions to climate change have to be recognised and supported through appropriate finance and technology from the developed world, he added. “We are going to Glasgow with a positive mindset. India has always approached the issue of climate change in a manner that is constructive...We have set targets that far exceed the NDCs within our own country,” Shringla said. Shringla also said the management of current and future pandemics and the global health architecture will be key issues at the G20 Summit n Rome. “The G20 is going to come up with very concrete outcomes on this. There is a suggestion to create mechanisms that would cater to the requirements of future health pandemics...there is some fairly intensive discussions on the sort of architecture that the G20 could create that could supplement international cooperation and collaboration in dealing with future pandemics,” he said. India has been a strong voice for reforming the multilateral system, including the global health architecture with WHO at its centre, the trading system centred round WTO and the international financial architecture to make them more responsive, inclusive and reflective of contemporary realities, he said. New Delhi is also an advocate for equitable and affordable access to Covid-19 disease control tools, including vaccines, through technology transfers, diversification of supply chains and production hubs, Shringla added. Modi will participate in the G-20 Summit in Rome during October 30-31 at the invitation of Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi. From Rome, Modi will travel to Glasgow to attend the world leader’s summit of the 26th Conference of Parties (COP-26) to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change under the presidency of the UK. The prime minister will also hold several bilateral meetings in both countries. In Rome, he will meet the Pope, Saudi crown prince Mohammed bin Salman and Indonesian President Joko Widodo. India has backed efforts to create mechanisms for pandemic prevention, preparedness and response, including mobilisation of global financing for this purpose and better coordination between stakeholders for management of common resources to deal with future pandemics. One of the key outcomes of India’s initiative to push for a G20 extraordinary summit on Covid-19 was the Debt Service Suspension Initiative (DSSI) that benefited more than 45 countries by providing liquidity relief of more than $5 billion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-expects-developed-countries-to-do-more-at-cop26-on-funds-to-tackle-climate-change-101635437807619.html
28-10-2021||India||Mamata Banerjee lands in Goa on a 3-day outreach. 3 temple stops on her sked||PANAJI: West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee landed in Goa on a three-day trip, her first as chief minister, on a visit aimed at bolstering the Trinamool Congress’ profile in the state’s political landscape ahead of the state elections expected early next year. Banerjee’s visit is also aimed at signalling to the electorate that her party will make an all-out attempt to carve out space for itself in the state’s politics.Banerjee spent most of her time in Goa meeting party leaders on Thursday. Advance teams of the TMC comprising leader of the Rajya Sabha Derek O’Brien, MPs Saugata Roy, Mahua Moitra and the political consultancy group, Indian Political Action Committee (I-PAC) and its founder Prashant Kishor were already in the state.On Friday, she will reach out to fishermen and civil society members at separate interactions scheduled with them. Banerjee is also slated to visit three temples: Mangueshi Temple at Priol, the Mahalsa Narayani Temple at Mardol and the Tapobhoomi Temple at Cundaim in central Goa’s Ponda, an attempt to blur some of the cultural lines that are seen to divide Goa’s political space.The Congress and like-minded parties have traditionally wielded influence in parts of Goa referred to as the old conquests -- Bardez, Tiswadi, Mormugao and Salcete talukas -- territories that were first captured by the Portuguese. Since these are coastal areas and are comparatively more densely populated, these areas, which account for a larger share of Goa’s 40 constituencies, also have a greater share of minority Catholic voters.The Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which largely expanded in Goa at the expense of the MGP, have traditionally been strong in areas known as new conquests -- these were captured by the Portuguese only in the 1700s. According to historians, these areas, unlike the old Conquistas, remained predominantly Hindu because by then the Portuguese rulers had no appetite for conversions.To be sure, the BJP’s move to induct 13 Congressmen over the course of the last four and a half years has disturbed some of these patterns and people in constituencies traditionally represented by the Congress are split between the sitting MLA who has joined the BJP, the Congress who identified replacements of their MLAs who switched sides, and the Aam Aadmi Party which has so far been largely restricted to minority-dominated areas.With the Trinamool Congress mostly recruiting leaders from the Congress, the TMC’s strength appears to lie in areas that were traditionally Congress bastions. However, the party has also brought on board former members of the MGP and secured the support of an independent MLA from BJP and MGP strongholds in an effort to indicate that it intended to get support from both sides of the traditional political divide.It is in this context that Banerjee and her team has more than once over the last few days underlined that the Congress did not respond to its overtures to defeat the BJP.It is not clear how the TMC aggressive moves in Goa will impact the Congress performance. Banerjee’s visit will overlap with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s trip who is expected to reach the coastal state on Saturday.TMC leaders, who launched the party campaign with a sharp attack on the Pramod Sawant government this week, said the BJP was rattled about Banerjee’s visit.“Why hasn’t the BJP responded to Goa TMC’s nine-point charge sheet yet? Why aren’t they giving any answers on unemployment, poor healthcare and infrastructure? Clearly, they are rattled because Goa TMC is a formidable force. This is nothing but their classic diversionary tactic ahead of Didi’s visit,” TMC leader Lavoo Mamledar said, referring to his party’s allegations that ruling Bharatiya Janata Party(BJP) workers defaced billboards of Mamata Bannerjee in parts of the state.Chief minister Sawant dismissed the hype around Banerjee’s visit.“Everyone is free to contest elections from anywhere they want… Anybody can come here but that won’t affect us,” Sawant said on Banerjee’s Goa visit, according to news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-lands-in-goa-on-a-3-day-outreach-3-temple-stops-on-her-sked-101635437687485.html
28-10-2021||India||NEP won't be implemented in Tamil Nadu, says CM Stalin||Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin said on Thursday the National Education Policy (NEP), 2020, would not be implemented in his state. The chief minister added an expert committee would be formed by his government to prepare a new ‘state education policy.Stalin, who also heads the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), made the statement after the launch of the 'Illam Thedi Kalvi' (education at the doorstep) scheme. The project is being implemented to impart educational skills among the children who have been missing their classes since the lockdown was imposed from March 2020 to contain the spread of the coronavirus.National Education Policy 2020 will not be implemented in Tamil Nadu, says CM MK Stalin in a statement after launch of 'Illam Thedi Kalvi' (Education at the doorstep) Scheme"An expert committee will be formed by the state govt to prepare a new State Education Policy," he says pic.twitter.com/EUndf1X179"An expert committee will be formed by the state govt to prepare a new State Education Policy," the chief minister was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Stalin has been opposed to the policy ever since its announcement. Alleging that the Centre was making an attempt to “impose” Hindi and Sanskrit on all, he had vowed to fight against it by joining hands with like-minded political parties and chief ministers of other states.Tamil Nadu had earlier skipped a virtual meeting called by the then Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal with department secretaries of all states to discuss a range of issues, including implementation of New Education Policy (NEP), 2000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nep-won-t-be-implemented-in-tamil-nadu-says-cm-stalin-101635435987625.html
28-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: Gujarat eases night curfew, allows full capacity in cinemas and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19: Gujarat govt eases night curfew timings, allows cinemas to run at full capacityThe Gujarat government on Thursday announced a slew of relaxations in restrictions that have been in place to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state. Read moreShah Rukh Khan poses with team of lawyers after Aryan's bail in drugs caseBollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan on Thursday posed with the team of lawyers that has been fighting for Aryan Khan's bail in connection with the drugs-on-cruise case. Read more‘Pretending to be blind, deaf’: Rahul attacks BJP over Tripura violenceCongress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday criticised the government over the alleged attacks on mosques and Muslim neighborhoods in north Tripura on Twitter. Gandhi in a tweet said that the government was ‘pretending’ that there is no problem in the northeastern state. Read moreCovid-19 death toll crosses 30,000-mark in Kerala with 708 related fatalities on ThursdayThe Covid-19-related death toll in Kerala on Thursday crossed the 30,000-mark with 708 related fatalities reported in the last 24 hours, a bulletin from the state health department showed. Read morePakistan, Afghanistan gear up for the other growing cricket rivalryPakistan have faced Afghanistan only once before in a T20 match, which they won. But that was pre-Rashid Khan. In their last two ODIs, Afghanistan have run them close. Read moreAbRam Khan runs to balcony, waves at fans outside Mannat after brother Aryan Khan gets bail. See picsSoon after Shah Rukh Khan's elder son Aryan Khan was granted bail in the cruise-drug case, Aryan's younger brother AbRam Khan was spotted by the media at his home, Mannat, in Mumbai. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-gujarat-eases-night-curfew-allows-full-capacity-in-cinemas-and-all-the-latest-news-101635434545450.html
28-10-2021||India||Covid-19: Gujarat govt eases night curfew timings, allows cinemas to run at full capacity||The Gujarat government on Thursday announced a slew of relaxations in restrictions that have been in place to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state.According to the latest measures, the timings of night curfews have been brought down from 12 midnight-6am to 1am-5am for one month starting October 30.Also, cinema halls will be allowed to operate at full capacity, while hotels and restaurants can have patrons at 75 per cent capacity.Gujarat Govt also allows cinema halls to operate at full capacity and hotels & restaurants at 75% capacityThe easing of curbs came amid a significant improvement in the pandemic scenario in the state.The last updated health bulletin of the government showed 17 new cases of the virus were reported on Wednesday, while 15 patients were discharged during the same period. This took the active caseload to 173 and the cumulative tally to 8,26,481. Besides, no person died due to any related complication during the period and helped keep the fatality toll unchanged at 10,088.About seven crore doses of vaccines against the virus have so far been administered in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-guj-govt-eases-curfew-timings-allows-halls-to-run-at-full-capacity-101635433519884.html
28-10-2021||India||Kerala begins evacuation as Tamil Nadu set to release water from Mullaperiyar dam||After Tamil Nadu announced its decision to open spillways of the Mullaperiyar dam, Kerala on Thursday evacuated 800 families living in downstream areas of the age-old dam. The TN government has informed its counterpart that it will open spillways of the dam at 7 am on Friday. Later, Idukki district collector Sheeba George announced an alert in the district and ordered shifting of people living in areas near the dam. State water resources minister Roshy Augustine said all arrangements have been made and there is no need for any panic. Hailing from the district he has called a meeting of district officials on Friday to monitor the situation. “We will shift 3,220 people belonging to 884 families. We are keeping a strict vigil. We have opened enough relief camps. This is only a precautionary measure and there is no need for any panic,” the minister said adding the TN government hasn’t announced the exact quantum of water to be released. Districts officials said once the water is released it will reach the first downstream village Vallakadavu in 20 minutes and the Idukki reservoir will be filled by noon. Initially spillways of Idukki will be opened to ease the pressure and if needed shutters of Idukki will also be opened. Sluice gates of Idukki were opened two weeks back after catchment areas received heavy downpour. Fast floods and landslides induced by heavy rainfall claimed 40 lives in two districts, Kottayam and Idukki on October 17. The two neighbouring states, Kerala and Tamil Nadu, have been fighting over the water level of the reservoir for many years. Kerala wants a new dam citing frequent tremors and changing rain patterns in the Idukki district where the old dam is situated, but Tamil Nadu opposes it fearing loss of control over the dam. After the 2014 Supreme Court verdict, Tamil Nadu carried out repairs and retrofitted, but Kerala maintained that these measures were not enough to check the dam’s durability. The dam was built under an agreement between the erstwhile royal family of Travancore and the British administration in 1886 to take water to famine-hit Tamil Nadu for irrigation. Post- independence, the dam became part of Kerala, and since then, its main share of water flows to the southern districts of Tamil Nadu. The contentious issue came up before the apex court on Monday after a resident of Idukki, Dr Joe Joseph, approached it with a plea that water level should not go above 139 feet because of heavy rainfall in the area. The Supreme Court on Thursday ordered that the dam supervisory committee’s view to maintain water level at 139.5 feet till November 10 should be met. While hearing the case, the TN counsel said Kerala was whipping up fear unnecessarily but Kerala maintained that a new dam is the final solution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-begins-evacuation-as-tamil-nadu-set-to-release-water-from-mullaperiyar-dam-101635433787213.html
28-10-2021||India||‘Pretending to be blind, deaf’: Rahul attacks BJP over Tripura violence||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday criticised the government over the alleged attacks on mosques and Muslim neighborhoods in north Tripura on Twitter. Gandhi in a tweet said that the government was ‘pretending’ that there is no problem in the northeastern state.Rahul Gandhi’s tweet comes after the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) took out a rally in north Tripura’s Dharmanagar following which a mosque was allegedly vandalised in Panisagar sub-division and houses of people belonging to the Muslim community were also vandalised earlier this week. Police imposed Section 144 of the CrPC in the area following the events. The VHP was protesting the vandalism of Durga Puja venues and temples in Bangladesh. Police officials familiar with the developments told HT that few members of the VHP were involved in acts of arson.“Our Muslim brothers are being brutalized in Tripura. Those who do hatred and violence in the name of Hindu are not Hindus, they are hypocrites. How long will the government continue to pretend to be blind and deaf?,” Rahul Gandhi said in a tweet.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Thursday set up a five-member committee to probe into the incidents of violence. The party’s state in-charge Vinod Sonkar said that the committee contains people from minority communities.“The committee has been asked to visit the (violence-hit) areas and submit its report in the next two or three days. Since our political opponents accuse us of being biased, we asked the members of the minority cell to probe the incident,” Sonkar, a parliamentarian, told HT.The BJP, however, have blamed the Communist Party of India (Marxist) and the Trinamool Congress (TMC) for stoking violence for political gains. The opposition CPI(M) and TMC attacked the BJP for creating tension among communities and also accused the VHP of flaring tensions. “Few provocative programmes including one at Chamtilla in Panisagar happened, which is condemnable. I appeal to all sections of people to maintain communal unity and integrity,” leader of opposition and former chief minister Manik Sarkar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pretending-to-be-blind-deaf-rahul-attacks-bjp-over-tripura-violence-101635431959884.html
28-10-2021||India||Covid-19 death toll crosses 30,000-mark in Kerala with 708 related fatalities on Thursday||The Covid-19-related death toll in Kerala on Thursday crossed the 30,000-mark with 708 related fatalities reported in the last 24 hours, a bulletin from the state health department showed.However, only 56 of the 708 deaths were counted as daily deaths while 542 deaths could not be confirmed until June 18 last year due to non-availability of adequate documentation while 110 more deaths were added to the toll due to Covid following the appeals received based on the new guidelines set by the Union government according to the Supreme Court’s directions, news agency PTI reported citing a statement from the state government.Also read | MHA extends national Covid-19 guidelines till November 30“56 deaths in the past days were confirmed today due to Covid-19. In addition to this, as per the Supreme Court verdict, 110 deaths appealed according to the new guidelines of the central government and 542 deaths till last June 18 which were not confirmed due to lack of sufficient documents have been reported. With this, the total death toll in the state has reached 30,685,” state health minister Veena George said in her daily update about Covid-19 situation in the state, through a Facebook post.Meanwhile, as many 7,738 people in the state tested positive for the disease on Thursday and the total confirmed infections so far reached 4,936,341, the bulletin also showed. There were 9,445 new cases reported on Wednesday.The active caseload witnessed a significant jump of 1,568 from the 76,554 reported on the previous day to stand at 78,122 currently. Ernakulam with 12,277 cases and capital city Thiruvananthapuram with 10,698 cases contributed the most to the state’s active caseload tally.On the vaccination front, 94.58% of the eligible population has been vaccinated with the first dose while 50.02% are fully vaccinated, George said. The minister also said that Kerala is the state with the most vaccination per million in India with 1,081,056 vaccinations. As of 7am on the day, 38,492,170 doses of the vaccine have been administered in the state, the Union health ministry’s data showed.The Kerala government allowed the reopening of cinema halls, theatres and indoor auditoriums from Monday however mandated full vaccination for entry into the places and allowed only half the seating capacity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-death-toll-crosses-30-000-mark-in-kerala-with-708-related-fatalities-on-thursday-101635431034436.html
28-10-2021||India||India wants mutual recognition of vaccine documents to boost travel, economic recovery||India has taken up with G20 and partner countries the mutual recognition of Covid-19 vaccine certificates to promote both the resumption of international travel and economy recovery from the pandemic, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said on Thursday. The Indian government has been able to ease travel procedures, including recognition of vaccine certificates, with several countries, including the UK and members of the European Union (EU). Most of these measures are aimed at facilitating Indian professionals and students to return to jobs and educational courses around the world. Shringla told a news briefing that India’s proposal is based on facilitating international travel through the mutual recognition of national vaccine documents, and there was strong support for it in the emerging market economies of the G20, which brings together the world’s 20 biggest economies. “India has proposed to its partner countries, primarily countries that Indian citizens normally travel to, that we should have a mutual (mechanism) that you recognise our vaccine certification and we will mutually recognise your country’s vaccine certification,” he said. The advantage of such an approach is that India wouldn’t need to keep approaching other countries as it adds new vaccines to its stock of nationally approved vaccines. “You recognise the certification that we issue, you recognise its integrity and we will give you mutual treatment. I am happy to say that a number of countries have already agreed to that,” Shringla said. India is working with all its partner countries to have such arrangements to simplify and normalise international travel, he said. “It is an important objective [of] the G20 to not only effect recovery in terms of health but also economic recovery. So business travellers, tourists [who] contribute to the recovery of economies will be greatly benefited from this simplified international travel regime that we are proposing...,” he said. “We will continue to advocate this as a means of better and easier access to citizens travelling all over the world,” he added. Responding to a question on the process for the World Health Organization (WHO) to approve the Covaxin vaccine of Bharat Biotech, Shringla said WHO’s Technical Action Group had sought some more information from the Indian pharmaceutical firm at a meeting held on October 26. “We have information that Bharat Biotech will provide the responses soon. The approval for Covaxin should come quickly if TAG’s questions are responded to effectively. It is a technical and regulatory group,” he said. Emergency use authorisation of vaccines is decided on technical considerations and India is closely following the discussions at the global health body. “We are hopeful that Covaxin will get approval from WHO soon,” Shringla said. He reiterated India’s call for a TRIPS waiver for Covid-19 vaccines and therapeutics at the World Trade Organization (WTO). “We have advocated for technology transfer and diversification of supply chain and production hubs to ensure affordable and equitable access to Covid-19 disease control tools. I am happy to share that G20 has recognised extensive vaccination as a global public good...and I think that is where discussions in the G20 will be relevant,” he said. A proposal piloted by India and South Africa for waiver of intellectual property rights related to Covid-19 vaccines to give poorer countries access to jabs has been backed by the US administration. However, the move has been opposed by EU member states and pharmaceutical companies....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-wants-mutual-recognition-of-vaccine-documents-to-boost-travel-economic-recovery-101635431627004.html
28-10-2021||India||Shah Rukh Khan poses with team of lawyers after Aryan's bail in drugs case||Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan on Thursday posed with the team of lawyers that has been fighting for Aryan Khan's bail in connection with the drugs-on-cruise case. The photo was shared by the law firm where Shah Rukh Khan can be seen along with Amit Desai, advocate Satish Maneshinde and the entire legal team. Former attorney general, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, who was roped in to contest the case after the case went to the Bombay high court is not seen in the photo. Aryan Khan has ultimately been released on bail by Bombay HC. No possession, no evidence, no consumption, no conspiracy, right from first moment when he was detained on Oct 2! Satya Meva Jayate: Legal team of lawyer Satish Maneshinde who represented Khan in drugs-on-cruise case pic.twitter.com/nQ1YeaSVq0This is the first photograph of Sha Rukh Khan after his son Aryan Khan's bail following over three weeks in jail. SRK has not issued any statement while the hearing was going on and was snapped during his visit to the Arthur Road prison on October 14.Satish Maneshinde, who was also the lawyer of Rhea Chakraborty in the drugs case related to Sushant Singh Rajput's death, was appearing for Aryan Khan in the beginning. Later, senior advocate Amit Desai started presenting the arguments on behalf of Aryan Khan in court. After the case moved to the Bombay high court, Mukul Rohatgi was roped in.“Aryan Khan has ultimately been released on bail by Bombay HC. No possession, no evidence, no consumption, no conspiracy, right from the first moment when he was detained on Oct 2! Satyameva Jayate!” the legal team said.Since the beginning, Aryan Khan's legal team stressed the fact that Aryan Khan was not in possession of drugs when he was arrested from the cruise. The WhatsApp chats that the Narcotics Control Bureau based its allegations on have been misinterpreted, his legal team told the high court. Amit Desai also mentioned in the court that some of these chats might go back to a long time when he was abroad where many drugs are not legal.During Mukul Rohatgi's argument in the last three days, he questioned the power of the NCB officials as they are not police officers but exercise the same powers. He also reiterated that Aryan Khan was invited to the party and was not an organiser.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shah-rukh-khan-poses-with-team-of-lawyers-after-aryan-s-bail-in-drugs-case-101635431191201.html
28-10-2021||India||Wankhede's family members meet Kirit Somaiya, ‘They’re disturbed', says BJP leader||Sameer Wankhede's wife, sister and father on Thursday met BJP leader Kirit Somaiya amid the ongoing attack on the official of the Narcotics Control Bureau in connection with the Aryan Khan case. The BJP leader condemned Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik and his 'slanderous' campaign against Sameer Wankhede and his family members. "They are disturbed by the slanderous/dirty propaganda by the minister against their family members," the BJP leader wrote. #SameerWankhede 's Family Wife #KrantiRedkar Sister #YasmeenWankhede & Father Dnyandev Wankhede met Me today late afternoon. They are disturbed by the Slanderous / Dirty Propaganda by the Minister against their Family MembersI strongly condemn such efforts by #NawabMalik pic.twitter.com/ijlKwFz9NeAmid the allegations of extortion against Wankhede, alleged by Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik, now there are accusations of forgery against Wankhede, as Nawab Malik now claimed that Sameer Wankhede is a Muslim but applied for UPSC in SC quota by forging documents. In support of his claims, Nawab Malik has released the 'nikah nama' of Sameer Wankhede's first marriage which was done according to Islamic rituals.Wankhede and his family members refuted the allegations and said that though the nikah-nama is not fake, the claim that Sameer Wankhede is a Muslim is wrong as he never converted to Islam. The wedding was done according to Islamic rituals because of Sameer Wankhede's mother's wish, the NCB official said.Earlier in the day, Sameer Wankhede's wife Kranti Redkar Wankhede wrote to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray against the "continued attack into her family's personal life"."I grew up as a Marathi girl in view of Shiv Sena fighting for the justice of Marathi man since childhood. Learned from Balasaheb Thackeray and Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj that we must not do injustice to anyone, do not tolerate injustice on yourself...He (Balasaheb) is not here today but you are. We see him in you, we trust you. I believe that you will not allow injustice to my family and me. As a Marathi, I look towards you with hopes of justice. I request you for justice," the letter said.Sameer Wankhede's sister Yasmeen Wankhede has approached the police and the National Commission for Women."She (Yasmeen) has written a long letter. She mentioned that she has been stalked online and her pictures were downloaded from social media and circulated in the press. We are going to write to DGP Maharashtra about it. We will take up this matter on police apathy also," women commission chairman Rekha Sharma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wankhedes-family-members-meet-kirit-somaiya-they-re-disturbed-says-bjp-leader-101635429406144.html
28-10-2021||India||Will celebrate 2022 as 'India-ASEAN Friendship Year’, tweets PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who virtually attended the 18th ASEAN-India summit on Thursday, said 2022 would be celebrated as the year of friendship with the bloc having completed 30 years of ties. He further said India valued its strategic partnership with the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN).In a tweet, the Prime Minister wrote, “Attended the 18th ASEAN-India Summit today. Exchanged views with ASEAN partners on regional and global issues. India values its Strategic Partnership with ASEAN. To commemorate 30 years of ASEAN-India Partnership, we decided to celebrate 2022 as 'India-ASEAN Friendship Year'.”Attended the 18th ASEAN-India Summit today. Exchanged views with ASEAN partners on regional and global issues. India values its Strategic Partnership with ASEAN. To commemorate 30 years of ASEAN-India Partnership, we decided to celebrate 2022 as 'India-ASEAN Friendship Year'.Earlier in the day, addressing the summit, Modi focussed upon the historical ties between India and ASEAN, their shared values, traditions, languages, texts, architecture, culture, food and drink."History is witness that India and ASEAN have had vibrant relations for thousands of years. Their glimpses show our shared values, traditions, languages, texts, architecture, culture, food and drink. And that is why the unity and centrality of ASEAN has always been an important priority for India," said the Prime Minister.Also read | At East Asia Summit, PM Modi reaffirms India's focus on free and open Indo-PacificHe further said India-ASEAN cooperation in the Covid-19 era will keep strengthening relations in the future and form a base for goodwill between the two sides. "Due to Covid-19, all of us had to face a lot of challenges, this challenging time was also a test of the India-ASEAN friendship," he said.A dao ago, he virtually addressed the 16th East Asia Summit, where he reaffirmed India's focus on a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific and the principle of Asean Centrality in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-celebrate-2022-as-india-asean-friendship-year-tweets-pm-modi-101635429087396.html
28-10-2021||India||Congress ‘limiting itself to Twitter space’ instead of strengthening opposition alliance: TMC||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Thursday said that the Congress was “limiting itself to Twitter space” instead of strengthening the alliance of opposition parties against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The remarks were made in an editorial column in the TMC’s mouthpiece daily newspaper ‘Jago Bangla’, news agency PTI reported.“We want an alliance to be formed against the BJP. We have said this to the Congress, too. But it is least bothered and shows a lackadaisical approach,” PTI reported, citing an excerpt from the editorial.“The Congress is limited to Twitter space. The party has taken no initiative to build an opposition alliance. In 2014 and 2019, too, the Congress had done the same,” the editorial further said.Also read | BJP will remain powerful for decades, predicts poll strategist Prashant KishorThe TMC also reiterated that the party would expand its base to other states and put up a fight against the ruling BJP at the Centre. This came on the day party supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee began her three-day visit to poll-bound Goa, her maiden trip to the coastal state.“As I prepare for my maiden visit to Goa on 28th, I call upon all individuals, organisations and political parties to join forces to defeat the BJP and their divisive agenda. The people of Goa have suffered enough over the last 10 years,” Banerjee tweeted earlier in the week.Referring to the Bengal chief minister’s proposal during a meeting of opposition parties on August 20 this year for a joint steering committee, the editorial said there has been no progress on that matter since then. The meeting was convened by Congress' interim president Sonia Gandhi.However, the editorial also noted the TMC would “keep the doors of alliance with the Congress open,” and said, “We have never said that an opposition alliance will be forged without the Congress. But we will not waste our time for them by sitting idle.”Lately, the two parties that have been supportive of forming an united opposition alliance have been making similar remarks about each other. Earlier on Sunday, veteran Congress leader P Chidambaram, who is also the party’s election observer for Goa, told news agency PTI in an interview that the TMC and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) would be “marginal players” and the Congress was "best positioned" to defeat the BJP in the assembly polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-limiting-itself-to-twitter-space-instead-of-strengthening-opposition-alliance-tmc-101635426873480.html
28-10-2021||India||‘Waited 34,560 minutes…’: Arbaaz Merchant's father after son gets bail in cruise drug case||As the Bombay high court on Thursday granted bail to actor Shah Rukh Khan's son, Aryan, and two others--Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha--in connection with the drugs-on-cruise case, Arbaaz's father Aslam Merchant said that his family spent 34,560 minutes waiting for this moment, adding that Aryan too was like a son to him.Also Read | Aryan Khan gets bail in drugs case after 3 weeks, to be back home by this week“Not days, but we were waiting for this moment for the last 34,560 minutes. These children have been behind bars for so long. Aryan, too, is like my own son. My wife was counting in minutes, not days. So, you should remember the agony of these people. These children have been traumatised,” Aslam Merchant told the media, minutes after the high court's order, which will see the trio get released from jail after nearly four weeks.Also Read | Win some, lose some: Former AG Mukul Rohatgi on Bombay HC bail to Aryan KhanHe further called for the system to be improved to a “greater extent.” He said, “Going to jail is traumatic. Just imagine the plight of so many others who are in jail. Today, when our own children are on that side, we understand how agonising it is.” #WATCH | We've been waiting for this moment for 34,560 minutes. My wife was counting minutes not days. These children have been traumatized: Aslam Merchant, father of Arbaaz Merchant who got bail in drugs-on-cruise case by Bombay HC pic.twitter.com/1mfehaXCsZThough the high court has granted them bail, Aryan, Arbaaz and Munmun will not be immediately released. They are likely to walk out on Friday or Saturday, once the detailed court order is out, former attorney general of India, Mukul Rohatgi, who represented Aryan in court, said after the order.Also Read | Aryan Khan gets bail: R Madhavan 'relieved', Sonu Sood says 'When time delivers justice...'Aryan, who is 23, and his friends Arbaaz and Munmun, were part of a group which was detained on October 2, when a team of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), lead by its zonal director Sameer Wankhede, raided Goa-bound Cordelia cruise. A day later, eight people, including the trio, were formally arrested. After multiple rejections of their bail pleas, Aryan's legal team moved the Bombay HC on October 21.Also Read | As Aryan Khan gets bail, Nawab Malik says 'picture abhi baaki hai mere dost'The court heard the case for three days, from October 26 to 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/waited-34-560-minutes-arbaaz-merchant-s-father-after-son-gets-bail-101635424584751.html
28-10-2021||India||India, Asean agree to build on Indo-Pacific convergences to ensure free and open region||India and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Asean) on Thursday agreed to build on convergences in their vision of the Indo-Pacific to work for a free, open, inclusive and rules-based region against the backdrop of China’s assertiveness. Leaders of the two sides welcomed the adoption of the “Asean-India joint statement on cooperation on the Asean outlook on the Indo-Pacific for peace, stability and prosperity in the region” at their virtual summit. Prime Minister Narendra Modi stressed the importance of strengthening convergences between India’s Indo-Pacific Oceans Initiative (IPOI) and Asean’s outlook on Indo-Pacific to ensure freedom of navigation and overflight in line with international laws. Modi also called for an early review of the Asean-India Trade in Goods Agreement, which has been pending for long, and this was backed by the 10-member grouping. Brunei’s Sultan Hassanal Bolkiah, the current chair of Asean, said the review should make the pact more business-friendly to support economic recovery efforts. “This special role of Asean, India’s Act East policy which is contained in our Security and Growth for All in the Region, i.e. SAGAR policy, India’s Indo-Pacific Oceans Initiative and Asean’s outlook for the Indo-Pacific are the framework for our shared vision and mutual cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region,” Modi said in his opening remarks at the summit. Riva Ganguly Das, secretary (East) in the external affairs ministry, said the joint statement on the Indo-Pacific was “one of the very major highlights of this summit”. The statement “charts a way forward for practical implementation of the convergences in our vision of the Indo-Pacific” to ensure peace, prosperity and stability in the region, she said. Modi also asked Asean leaders to join any of the seven pillars of IPOI. Indonesia is currently a member of the marine resources pillar. The joint statement seeks to build on maritime connectivity between India and Asean states and work done by the two sides since they became summit-level partners in 2002 and strategic partners in 2012. It embraces Asean centrality, openness, transparency, a rules-based framework, respect for sovereignty, non- intervention and respect for international laws, including the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS). According to the joint statement, the two sides will support Asean community building and strengthen the bilateral strategic partnership in politics, security, economic matters and development cooperation by using existing Asean-led mechanisms such as the East Asia Summit, and Asean Regional Forum. The two sides will reinforce the Asean-centred regional architecture to deal with challenges and to focus on opportunities “arising from current and future regional and global environments with a focus on the open, inclusive and rules-based regional architecture”. They will explore potential cooperation between in the four areas outlined in the Asean Outlook on the Indo-Pacific – maritime cooperation, connectivity, Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and economic cooperation. In addition, the two sides will also explore possible cooperation in areas such as capacity building, scholarships and training courses, enhancing trade facilitation, social infrastructure development, enhanced capacities for response to pandemics and public health emergencies and for vaccine and pharmaceutical research, prevention and management of zoonoses, and maritime transport cooperation. While exchanging views on the Covid-19 crisis, Modi assured Asean of India’s support as exemplified by the provision of medical supplies worth $200,000 for a humanitarian initiative for Myanmar and $1 million for the Asean Covid-19 Response Fund. Hassanal Bolkiah said Asean and India should work on sustainable economic recovery by exploring new opportunities under the “Blue Economy”, including developing key industries that can generate jobs and enhance connectivity, such as fisheries and maritime transport. The two sides also highlighted the importance of greater physical and digital connectivity, and cooperation on digital inclusion to ensure a comprehensive post-pandemic recovery. In the realm of connectivity, secretary (East) Ganguly Das described the eastward expansion of the India-Myanmar-Thailand highway as n important proposal. A report on this is ready and India is waiting for the Asean response on how to proceed, she said. The situation in Myanmar following the military coup in February also figured in the India-Asean Summit and Ganguly Das said the India side remains engaged on providing humanitarian aid, including vaccines and medicines, to the neighbouring country. “As a close neighbour of Myanmar, India will continue to support restoration of peace and democratic process in Myanmar for it to emerge as a stable, democratic federal union,” she said. The two sides also declared 2022 as the India-Asean Friendship Year to mark 30 years of the partnership and decided to hold a series of events round the year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-asean-agree-to-build-on-indo-pacific-convergences-to-ensure-free-and-open-region-101635426766533.html
28-10-2021||India||MP woman falsely accused 4 neighbours of gang rape, sentenced to 10 years||BHOPAL: A 46-year-old woman in Madhya Pradesh and her 29-year-old son-in-law have been sentenced to 10 years in jail for falsely accusing their four neighbours of gang rape and fabricating evidence in support of her allegation, a senior public prosecutor said on Thursday.The woman and her son-in-law were in a relationship and decided to frame their four neighbours in 2014 because she did not get along with them, additional district prosecutor Mohammad Azam of Ashok Nagar district, 150km from state capital Bhopal, said.The four neighbours, however, called her bluff during investigations into the First Information Report (FIR) registered on her statement in August 2014 when they persuaded investigators to carry out a DNA test to compare the semen sample from the woman’s clothes with that of her son-in-law, Gopal Rajak.Ashok Nagar’s first additional sessions judge Mahesh Kumar Chauhan on Wednesday sentenced the woman, Guddi Ojha and her son-in-law Gopal Rajak to serve 10 years in prison for fabricating evidence to secure a conviction and criminal conspiracy, six months jail for giving false information to a public servant.Public prosecutor Jafar Qureshi said this was a rare case where the police charged a woman for filing a false case and fabricating evidence and pursued the case to its logical conclusion. The defence lawyer was not available for comments.“In August 2014, the woman, who lost her husband in 2011, filed a complaint that she was gang-raped by four people who lived in her neighbourhood. Police arrested the accused after lodging the FIR under section 376 D. The medical report of the woman confirmed rape and her clothes and vaginal swab were taken for further investigation,” Qureshi said.The accused, however, insisted they were innocent and approached senior Ashok Nagar police officer to seek a DNA test to establish the truth.“The test report revealed that the woman was not raped by any of the four but by some other person,” the prosecutor said. At their request, the police also took samples of the son-in-law.“Gopal Rajak’s sample matched with the sperm samples collected from the woman’s clothes.” Gopal Rajak was arrested.“During interrogation, Gopal Rajak confessed that he was in a relationship with Guddi and they filed a false case to implicate their neighbours, who used to fight with Guddi and Gopal on trivial issues,” police officer VP Singh Jat, who investigated the case, said.“It was a serious case as the woman alleged that the four accused barged into her house and raped her in the night,” said the police officer, recalling how the closely-watched case in the district by politicians and activists took a stunning turn.“During investigations, we also found many witnesses who said the four accused were not present at the same place together but it was DNA test which conclusively exposed the fraud…. We are happy that we succeed in punishing the woman and the man for abusing the law,” VP Singh Jat said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-woman-falsely-accused-4-neighbours-of-gang-rape-sentenced-to-10-years-101635426415800.html
28-10-2021||India||Kolkata petrol pumps stop sale, to turn off lights for 30 minutes to protest fuel price hike||Petrol pumps in Kolkata and its adjoining districts have decided to stop selling petrol and diesel for 30 minutes and put off the lights at the stations on Thursday evening to protest against the hike in fuel prices which have crossed the ₹100-mark. A section of app-cab drivers in the city had their lunch with rice and salt sitting on the road at Rashbehari crossing in south Kolkata as a mark of protest against rising fuel prices. “The price of diesel crossed the ₹100 mark on Thursday. This is a black day and we have decided to lodge a protest. There will be no sale and the lights at fuel stations will be put off from 7:00 pm to 7:30 pm,” said Prasenjit Sen, joint secretary of the West Bengal Petroleum Dealers’ Association. Around 550 – 600 fuel stations in Kolkata, North 24 Parganas, South 24 Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly will join the token the protest on Thursday evening. The price of diesel in Kolkata and its outskirts touched ₹100.14 on Thursday morning; while the price of petrol was ₹108.79.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kolkata-petrol-pumps-stop-sale-to-turn-off-lights-for-30-minutes-to-protest-fuel-price-hike-101635425146865.html
28-10-2021||India||Karnataka HC grants bail to Bineesh Kodiyeri in money-laundering case||The Karnataka High Court on Thursday granted bail to Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of senior Kerala CPI (M) leader Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, who was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on money laundering charges linked to a drug haul in Bengaluru last year. The single judge bench of Justice MG Uma granted bail to Kodiyeri under several conditions overruling objections of Additional Solicitor General Aman Lekhi who appeared for the ED. The counsel for the accused Guru Krishnakumar contended that the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) after its detailed investigation failed to find any involvement of Kodiyeri in the drug trade and his transaction with some of the accused were through banks. He also said his client was not aware of the alleged drug dealings of his business partner Mohammad Anoop. But the ED’s counsel said he amassed huge wealth and funding for this came through his business partner who was involved in a drug cartel in Bengaluru. However, the court overruled his contentions. “The bail is allowed subject to conditions,” the judge said while granting him bail. His father, CPI (M) state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, had to quit last year after the case surfaced and it invited enough embarrassment for the party and government. A small-time actor and cricket player, controversy was Kodiyeri’s companion but he got away due to his high connections. He was also close to many actors and businessmen. The drug case surfaced in August 2020 after the arrest of Anoop Mohammad and two others in Bengaluru and Mohammad later divulged the name of Bineesh Kodiyeri and said he was his business partner. Later the ED took over the case and Kodiyeri was arrested and charged under Section 19(1) of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. The ED said he pumped in unaccounted for money into the bank account of alleged drug peddler Anoop Mohammad and got hefty returns from it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-hc-grants-bail-to-bineesh-kodiyeri-in-money-laundering-case-101635424006849.html
28-10-2021||India||‘Centre carefully following discussions...'’: Foreign secy Shringla on WHO approval for Covaxin||As India awaits World Health Organization's (WHO) nod for Covaxin, now delayed till at least the first week of November, foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said on Thursday that the Centre was closely following discussions taking place within the global health body, adding that it was hoping that the WHO would okay the jab "very soon."Also Read | No WHO approval for Covaxin yet as panel wants more details“WHO's technical advisory group (TAG), which is a regulatory body, met Bharat Biotech officials on October 26. They had a few questions for Bharat Biotech. From what we understand, the company will submit its reply soon. According to me, once the regulatory group is satisfied with the response, the approval for Covaxin should be given soon,” Shringla said, according to news agency ANI.He continued, “However, you should understand that the TAG a technical group. Any request for emergency use authorisation (EUA) with the WHO is made on technical considerations. We (Govt of India) are carefully following the discussions taking place within the health body, and we are hopeful that an approval for Covaxin will be granted very soon.” #WATCH | We got info that Bharat Biotech will give answers to them (WHO) & once their questions are responded properly, then approval will come soon. We are carefully following the process & hopeful that we will get WHO recognistion for Covaxin soon: Foreign Secretary HV Shringla pic.twitter.com/FKEvZBDChIThe TAG, which provides recommendations to the WHO on whether a Covid-19 vaccine can be listed for approval, known technically as emergency use listing (EUL), delayed its nod to Covaxin as it felt that it needed further clarifications from the manufacturer, the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, for a final EUL risk-benefit assessment. The firm is expected to submit its response by the end of the week, with TAG scheduled to meet on November 3 to discuss granting EUL.The EUL could pave the way for India's first indigenous vaccine against Covid-19 to be recognised by a large number of countries. This would further allow Indian nationals vaccinated with Covaxin to qualify for vaccine mandates.Also Read | Oman adds Covaxin to approved list of Covid-19 vaccinesThe made-in-India jab, and Covishield, the Indian variant of Britain's Astrazeneca vaccine, are the two most widely used vaccines in the nationwide inoculation drive, which began on January 16 this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-carefully-following-discussions-foreign-secy-shringla-on-who-approval-for-covaxin-101635420744487.html
28-10-2021||India||As Aryan Khan gets bail, Nawab Malik says 'picture abhi baaki hai mere dost'||Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik who has been strongly criticising the operation of the Narcotics Control Bureau following the arrest of Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan on Thursday wrote on Twitter, 'Picture abhi baaki hai mere dost'. His reaction came soon after Aryan Khan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha were granted bail by the Bombay high court on Thursday. पिक्चर अभी बाकी है मेरे दोस्तOn October 3, Aryan, Arbaaz and Munmun were arrested in connection with a cruise rave party. Their bail pleas have been rejected by the court as the Narcotics Control Bureau claimed that it was a case of conspiracy and they have a connection with the international drug network.Nationalist Congress Party leader Nawab Malik whose son-in-law was arrested by the NCB in a drugs-related case embarked on a mission to expose the central agency as he brought allegations of extortion and forgery against NCB Mumbai zone chief Sameer Wankhede, who is the investigating officer of the Aryan Khan case.The Maharashtra minister was the first person to bring the notice to KP Gosavi and Manish Bhanushali, the two independent witnesses used in the case of Aryan Khan. As he questioned the background of these two witnesses, the minister revealed that Sameer Wankhede had used friends and acquaintances in NCB cases in the past as well. Then he brought the allegations of extortion against Wankhede, while Gosavi's former aide Prabhakar Sail complained that Wankhede made him sign on blank papers.While Nawab Malik's tweet indicates that there is more to the drama, he reiterated that the case against Aryan Khan was a false case. "They were deliberately framed by (Sameer) Wankhede. The case can be quashed if the accused approaches the high court with evidence,” the minister said."The officer (Sameer Wankhede) who arrested them has approached the high court with a plea that the Mumbai police should not be allowed to investigate the complaints against him. Police said if we have to arrest him, then a prior notice of 72 hours will be issued in advance. Till yesterday, he was requesting the Mumbai police not to arrest him and today approached the high court. He is the same officer who requested security from the Mumbai police and now what has changed within a week he lost his faith in Mumbai police. It is a fact that he has done forgery and thus is scared of the police,” Malik added.(With inputs from Mumbai bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-aryan-khan-gets-bail-nawab-malik-says-picture-abhi-baaki-hai-mere-dost-101635422882128.html
28-10-2021||India||We're concerned about people’s health: Aaditya Thackeray on ‘cautious reopening'||Maharashtra tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray on Thursday said that the Maharashtra government will continue to focus on the healthcare of people and will slowly and steadily open up tourism in the state keeping in mind people’s health. Thackeray while speaking to Hindustan Times' Sunetra Choudhury during the Reviving Tourism Responsibly in the Post-Pandemic world said that the Maharashtra government to ensure that hotel and restaurant staff have been administered with both jabs to ensure the smooth reopening of the tourism sector.He said that he sees a V-shaped recovery of the tourism industry. “We have been slow on opening up because we are concerned about healthcare, we do not want people to fall ill. This is why we are stressing on double vaccination and other Covid-19 preventative measures,” Aaditya Thackeray said.He also said that people should not delay in getting the second jab of the vaccine. “We are in a zone where people who are delaying in getting the second shot and vaccine-hesitant people pose a challenge in the process of reopening,” Thackeray said.Thackeray said that climate change affects the vulnerable sections of society the hardest. “Greatest inequity of climate changes is that it impacts people who are the most vulnerable and the ones who are least responsible for it. Famines, droughts and other climate change impacts hit mostly people who are from the poor regions of the planet, pollution impacts the working class people,” he said.“We cannot keep mindlessly thriving towards development, we need to rethink highways, mines and railway lines through forests and biodiversity-rich areas. Development is necessary but sustainable development will lead to climate change mitigation,” Thackeray further added.Ahead of the COP26 in Glasgow, the Maharashtra tourism minister said that India will play an important role in the fight against climate change. “We have the power to become a solar energy powerhouse of the world. The hydrogen energy aspect, too, we can lead the world in that. Even Maharashtra has committed to the net zero by 2050,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/were-concerned-about-people-s-health-aaditya-thackeray-on-cautious-reopening-101635421620528.html
28-10-2021||India||Lakhbir Singh murder: Victim's kin submits memorandum to Union home ministry; demands compensation & CBI probe||Nearly two weeks after the muder of Lakhbir Singh, a Dalit farm labourer, near Delhi's Singhu border, his family on Thursday met with an official of the Union home ministry and submitted a memorandum. The family has sought a compensation of ₹50 lakh, a job assurance and also a probe into Singh’s murder by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), news agency ANI reported.On October 15, Lakhbir Singh was found murdered and his body tied to a barricade near the farmers’ protest site at the Singhu border. Further, a purported video clip of the incident garnered widespread attention on social media where a few Nihang Sikhs could be seen standing near an injured Lakhbir Singh lying on the ground.The Nihang Sikhs alleged that they had punished the man for disrespecting a Sikh holy book, a claim which the family of the victim has questioned. So far, four people have been arrested in connection with the case, according to a report by news agency PTI. Nihangs, an order within the Sikhs, are identified by their distinctive blue robes and swords.Meanwhile, the Delhi Police on Wednesday allegedly stopped and lathicharged a group of farmers from the Hind Mazdoor Kisan Samiti while they going towards the Singhu border demanding justice for Lakhbir Singh, PTI reported. However, the police said that the group tried to create ruckus near the border and some of them tried to break the barricades. The report also showed that the police resorted to the use of “mild force” to contain the situation.The family of Singh -- his wife, three daughters, sister, father-in-law and brother-in-law -- met with the chairman of National Commission of Scheduled Castes (NCSC) Vijay Sampla earlier in the week and demanded justice. Singh was originally from the Tarn Taran district in Punjab.After the meeting, Sampla said that the family told the NCSC that no support was received by them from the Punjab government, religious or social organisations. “However, NCSC will ensure that the culprits are booked under the sections of the (Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes) Prevention of Atrocities Act. Through this Act, the young daughters of Lakhbir Singh will get free education and money for living and the victim's mother will get a monthly pension. Compensation of at least ₹8.25 lakh will be ensured,” PTI quoted him as saying.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhbir-singh-murder-victim-s-kin-submits-memorandum-to-union-home-ministry-demands-compensation-cbi-probe-101635421251612.html
28-10-2021||India||5 inmates at Silchar Central Jail in Assam test positive for HIV||Five prisoners at Silchar Central Jail in Assam recently tested positive for HIV. Superintendent of the jail, Satyendra Baisya, said two convicts and three under-trial prisoners have tested positive, while other inmates are going through mandatory testing for the deadly virus. Earlier this month, 88 under-trial prisoners tested HIV positive in Nagaon district of Assam, following which the state government ordered the authorities of other jails to conduct mass testing. Of the two convicts who tested HIV positive at Silchar Central Jail, one was a Manipur resident and the other was a truck driver, Baisya said.“Truck drivers don’t take protective measures. The truck driver who was lodged here was positive. The other convict who later also tested positive, and who hails from Manipur, told us that he made unsafe contact with the truck driver,” Baisya said. Of the three under-trial prisoners, the jail’s superintendent said they were drug addicts who used to share syringes with each other. “Two of the three under-trial prisoners have been sent to Silchar Medical College and Hospital,” Baisya said.Also Read: 88 under trial prisoners test positive for HIV in 2 Assam jailsJoint director of health services of Assam’s Cachar district, Ashutosh Barman, said that of the five HIV-infected prisoners, two are going through antiretroviral therapy (ART) treatment at Silchar Medical College and Hospital. “We have an AIDS control body that looks after the health issues of inmates. The team visits Silchar Central Jail every six months and conducts tests on the prisoners,” he said, adding that the five prisoners who tested HIV positive are being kept away from other inmates. Social activist Tuhina Biswas who used to visit Silchar Central Jail in the past to check up on the state of the prisoners, claimed that the health infrastructure inside the jail is poor. “HIV patients need to stay isolated first, which is not possible inside Silchar Central Jail. I would advise the district administration to improve hygiene inside the jail.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-inmates-at-silchar-central-jail-in-assam-test-positive-for-hiv-101635420166346.html
28-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: MHA extends national Covid-19 guidelines till November 30 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 5pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.MHA extends national Covid-19 guidelines till November 30The Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Thursday extended all existing coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-related guidelines in the country by a month, till November 30. Read moreNCW demands action as sleeves of girl candidates sliced during exam in RajasthanThe incident took place during the prelims of Rajasthan Administrative Services exam 2021. The state administration was reportedly taking measures to prevent cheating. Read more'Where are we heading?': Gautam Gambhir slams Mohammed Shami's 'ridiculous' critics after India vs Pakistan matchIndia fast bowler Mohammed Shami was on the receiving end of an online attack following India's defeat against Pakistan in their opening contest of the T20 World Cup on Sunday. Read moreEternals beats Thor 2, Black Widow to become worst-reviewed Marvel movieMarvel Studios' latest film, Eternals has not impressed the critics. The film currently has a 62% score on the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes. Read moreWorld Stroke Day: Prevention is better than cureLack of awareness about the signs and symptoms of the disease plays a major role in making it a leading cause of mortality and disability in India. Read more2021 Bajaj Pulsar 250 launched in India at ₹1.38 lakhBajaj Auto on Thursday announced the launch of the all-new Pulsar 250 naked street bike in the Indian market at ₹1.38 lakh (ex-showroom). Price goes up to ₹1.40 lakh (ex-showroom) for the F250. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-mha-extends-national-covid-19-guidelines-till-november-30-and-all-the-latest-news-101635418359179.html
28-10-2021||India||Hyd cops criticised for checking mobile phones as part of crackdown on narcotics||The Hyderabad Police came under criticism for checking the mobiles phones of people in the city as part of their crackdown on drug peddling.A video of some cops stopping vehicles in some parts of the old city of Hyderabad, asking people to show their mobile phones and checking their contact info and text messages, went viral on social media on Thursday.When contacted, Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar said as per his knowledge, the video was three years old and the checking of vehicles and mobiles might have been done as part of investigation related to any crime.He, however, said there was nothing unusual in the police checking mobile phones of people when there was any specific information about any particular crime.Inquiries, however, revealed that the video was a recent one, as it showed the cops searching vehicles and checking mobile phones were wearing masks as part of Covid-19 protocol. The police commissioner did not respond on this latest video.One of the cops, who took part in the checking of vehicles and mobile phones, said the drive had been going on for the last few days and would continue for one more month. “We are checking mobile phones to get any leads on drug peddling,” he said, adding that the searches were going on in three shifts.A senior police official said on condition of anonymity that the checking of vehicles and mobile phones was being done as part of preventing the trade and peddling of narcotic substances. “There is no big issue, as the people are cooperating. So far, we could not find any cases of drug smuggling,” he said.People’s Union of Civil Liberties (PUCL) leader and advocate Jaya Vindhyala said it was illegal on the part of the Hyderabad Police to look into mobile phones in the name of obtaining information on drug peddling.“It is against the Right to Privacy, which is also a fundamental right of an individual, but the police will give it a different interpretation. But they should go as per the procedure, if they really want to check mobile phones. They should first issue notices to them asking them to show their phones. They cannot force the people to part with their mobile phones,” she said.The Hyderabad police also came under trolling on social media for checking mobile phones of the people. “New policing practices alert: stop and search phone chats by the @hydcitypolice. Police are searching phone chats for words like ganja. Wait until they replace them with words like NRC, Modi or BJP,” tweeted one netizen.Another citizen asked: “Is it legal? How can police randomly check phones without any order from court? Not sure an order from police department to their team is legal (sic).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderabad-cops-criticised-for-checking-mobile-phones-as-part-of-crackdown-on-narcotics-101635420049868.html
28-10-2021||India||Ex-CAG Vinod Rai tenders apology to Sanjay Nirupam in defamation case||HT Correspondents Former Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) Vinod Rai has apologised to Sanjay Nirupam in response to a defamation case the Congress leader filed against him for claiming the latter was among those who pressured him to keep then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s name out of the state auditor’s report on 2G spectrum allocation.Rai in 2014 claimed Nirupam was one of the Members of Parliament who pressured him. In an affidavit filed in a Delhi court, Rai acknowledged his charges against Nirupam in his interviews to a TV channel, newspapers and other publications were factually incorrect. “I have realised that, in answer to questions posed to me by the interviewers, I had inadvertently and wrongly mentioned the name of Shri Sanjay Nirupam as one of the MPs, who pressurized me to keep the then Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh’s name out of the CAG report on 2-G Spectrum allocation during the meetings in the PAC (Public Accounts Committee) or the sidelines of the JPC (Joint Parliamentary Committee) etc.”Rai said his statements against Nirupam were factually incorrect. “… I understand the pain and agony my statements have caused to Shri Sanjay Nirupam, his family and his well-wishers and thus, would like to offer my unconditional apology for the hurt caused...”In a tweet on Thursday, Nirupam said, “Finally former CAG Vinod Rai tendered an unconditional apology to me in a defamation case filed by me in MM Court, Patiala house, New Delhi today. He must apologize to the nation now for all his forged reports about 2G and Coal block allocations done by the (previous Congress-led) UPA (United Progressive Alliance) Govt.”Also Read: Audit report flags irregularities, violation of rules by NIT KurukshetraNirupam also put out a video saying Rai falsely claimed he pressured him. He called Rai’s reports as CAG on the 2G spectrum and coal block allocation “nonsense”. Nirupam added after several hearings spanning seven years on the 2G allocation, the court also noted that there was no evidence of a scam.” “The entire report was fabricated, and Vinod Rai must also tender an apology to the entire nation for these false reports.”A special court in 2017 acquitted former telecom minister A Raja and Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam leader Kanimozhi in the 2G spectrum scam case.Nirupam said as a PAC member, which scrutinises the CAG reports, he always asked Rai pointed questions related to his reports. “I questioned him over his claim of the scam of ₹1 lakh crore in these allocations. He could never substantiate his report and corroborate the charges of the scams in those allocations... by levelling false charges against me in his book and on TV shows, he wanted to settle a score with me.” Nirupam said Rai would tell people that he harassed him during the PAC meetings by calling his names. “But I had nothing against him. We were doing our duty...”Nirupam said after he filed the defamation suit in 2015, Rai contacted his lawyer and expressed regrets. He added he remained firm on the unconditional apology.HT reached out to Rai but he refused to comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-cag-apologises-to-nirupam-in-defamation-case-related-to-2g-spectrum-allocation-101635420048197.html
28-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan gets bail in drugs case after 3 weeks, to be back home by this week||Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan has been granted bail by the Bombay high court on Thursday in connection with the drugs-on-cruise case. Arbaaz Merchant and Munmum Dhamecha have also been granted bail. Aryan Khan has spent around three weeks in Mumbai's Arthur Road Prison after his previous bail pleas were rejected by the NCB court. The detailed order of the bail will be released tomorrow and until the order comes, Aryan, Arbaaz and Munmun will not be released from the jail, where they have been lodged since October 8. In that case., it is very likely that Aryan Khan will walk out of the jail either on Friday or Saturday.The Bombay high court on Thursday heard the case for the third consecutive day. Justice NW Sambre allowed bail to the three accused after hearing former AG Mukul Rohatgi for Aryan Khan and ASG Anil Singh for the Narcotics Control Bureau.While the NCB opposed the bail by reiterating that Aryan Khan was not new to drugs and dealt with peddlers, Mukul Rohatgi contested that the NCB could not prove any conspiracy as it has claimed.NCB conducted a raid at a rave party from where Aryan, Arbaaz and Munmun were arrested among others. The case snowballed into a political storm with allegations of irregularities, extortions being added to it.Here is a quick recap of what happened so far.October 2: NCB conducted the raid on the Goa-bound Cordelia Cruise and detained around 14 persons.October 3: Eight of those 14, including Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan, was arrested. They were remanded to NCB custody till October 4. October 4: Their NCB custody was extended till October 7.October 7: NCB was denied further custody and Aryan Khan and others were sent to judicial custody for 14 days. Meanwhile, NCB conducted more raids and many others were arrested. October 8: The metropolitan magistrate's court rejected Aryan's bail applications.October 11: The lawyers of the other accused moved a Mumbai special court designated under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. October 13: Aryan's bail application gets adjourned till October 14. October 14: The case was posted till October 20.October 20: Special NDPS court rejected the bail pleaOctober 21: Shah Rukh Khan met Aryan Khan in jail. The court extended Aryan Khan's custody till October 30. Meanwhile, the layers decided to approach the Bombay high court. October 26, 27,28: Bombay High Court heard the case for three days and finally granted bail to all three accused.Meanwhile, the NCB sought some documents from Shah Rukh Khan to probe into Aryan's medical history, foreign travel details etc. Bollywood actor Ananya Panday was also summoned for questioning in connection with Aryan Khan's alleged drug consumption, as the NCB claimed that Ananya seems to have arranged drugs for Aryan Khan thrice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aryan-khan-gets-bail-in-drugs-on-cruise-case-101635419499752.html
28-10-2021||India||Sixth sero survey says 97% Delhi residents exposed to Covid-19||97 out of every 100 Delhi resident tested positive for antibodies against Covid-19, according to the preliminary results of the sixth round of serological surveillance for which samples were collected in September end, suggesting almost everyone in Delhi may have been exposed to the infection during the massive second wave of the disease that broke out in April this year. The fifth sero survey in January had found seropositivity to be 56.13% in the capital, officials said. Even in Southwest Delhi, which recorded the lowest sero-prevalence, 93.3% of the samples were found to be positive for antibodies. With 99.8%, East district recorded the highest sero-prevalence. “The report of the sixth sero-survey has come in and the overall positivity was found to be 97%. In all the 11 districts, the positivity was over 90%. The fifth sero survey in January had found seropositivity to be 56.13%,” said Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain. Four previous sero surveys in Delhi had returned readings of 25.5%, 25.1%, 29.1%, and 22.6%.Another sero surveillance was attempted in April, but was halted midway due to exponential rise in the number of cases amid the outbreak of second wave. The researchers were able to collect only about 13,000 samples of the targeted 28,000 and the analysis had found the sero-prevalence to be the same as the round in January. HT reported on Thursday that the preliminary report was submitted to the government and the sero-positivity was found to be above 90%. A detailed analysis of vaccine hesitancy or eagerness and the level of antibodies will be submitted around Diwali. Also Read: All south Delhi wards to get primary health care centre, civic agency saysA portion of the samples collected will also be analysed for level of antibodies, which could help researchers estimate how protected the population could be. These test results are awaited from the laboratory at the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS). “This round of the survey was conducted in great detail, so it will take some time to analyse the data. A more detailed report is likely to be submitted in early November, around Diwali,” an official said last week. These numbers could explain why Delhi’s cases have remained low despite the city having lifted most curbs on activities. The average weekly positivity rate of samples has remained under 0.10% since late July. Experts have previously warned against focussing on concepts of herd immunity and population immunity — the principle that says if most of the people are protected, it will form a protective wall against the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/97-people-in-delhi-exposed-to-covid-19-seropositivity-highest-in-east-district-6th-sero-survey-101635419446651.html
28-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan drugs case: Sameer Wankhede’s wife Kranti Redkar writes letter to CM||Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) zonal director Sameer Wankhede’s wife, actress Kranti Redkar, wrote an emotional letter to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, seeking justice for him.Wankhede is battling a series of allegations levelled against him in connection with the drugs case involving actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan, who was arrested earlier this month following a raid on a Mumbai cruise ship.In the letter written in Marathi that Kranti Redkar also tweeted, the actress said she was an ardent follower of Chhatrapati Shivaji and Bal Thackeray, and that her image was being tarnished and personal life intruded upon. “I am a Marathi “mulgi” (Marathi speaking girl). I have grown up following the Shiv Sena, which had been fighting for the rights of the Marathi manoos. Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj and Hinduhruday Samrat Balasaheb Thackeray have been my ideals since childhood... Both of them taught us to neither do injustice to anyone, nor tolerate one. Following their teaching, I have been fighting this battle alone against people… attacking my personal life... On social media, people have been making fun [of me],” she wrote in the letter, as translated from Marathi. “Had Balasaheb been around today, he wouldn’t have liked it. He would categorically condemn the personal attacks on a woman and her family indicating how politics has stooped so low,” Redkar wrote, urging Uddhav Thackeray to step in and help. “Today, he (Bal Thackeray) is not alive, but you are there… I am sure that you will never allow any injustice to happen to me and my family. As Marathi manoos, I am looking up to you with hope for justice.”Redkar wrote that she doesn’t want to dive into the politics of the entire episode.Also Read: Aryan regular consumer of drugs, in touch with peddlers: ASG Anil Singh for NCBThe emotional appeal from Sameer Wankhede’s wife came a day after Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik on Wednesday tweeted purported images of Wankhede’s marriage certificate and wedding photo with his first wife, Shabana Quraishi, arguing that the NCB officer allegedly used fraudulent ways to get a job as an Indian Revenue Service officer under scheduled caste category despite being a Muslim.The charge has been refuted by Sameer Wankhede and his family members. On Tuesday, Malik posted a purported image of Wankhede’s birth certificate, in which his father’s name is shown as “Dawood K Wankhede”, while it is “Dnyandev Wankhede” as per the NCB website. The focus in the drugs case involving Aryan Khan shifted to Wankhede after Malik levelled charges against the NCB zonal director heading the probe in the matter. Recently, he cited a letter purportedly written by an anonymous employee of the agency alleging that Wankhede framed innocent people in 26 fake drug cases. He also claimed that Wankhede engaged two private persons to tap the phones of the people to frame them. The NCB on Monday started probing allegations that Sameer Wankhede was part of an alleged ₹25 crore extortion racket after the arrest of Aryan Khan in the drugs case. A vigilance inquiry was ordered after one of the NCB’s witnesses in the case, Prabhakar Sail, made the claim.Wankhede’s wife Kranti Redkar, sister Yasmeen and father Dnyandev met Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and former Member of Parliament Kirit Somaiya on Thursday. “They are disturbed by the slanderous and dirty propaganda by the minister (Nawab Malik) against their family members. I strongly condemn such efforts by Malik,” Somaiya later tweeted. Meanwhile, the OBC cell of BJP has announced to stage agitation at the party’s Nariman Point office on Friday under the leadership of OBC morcha chief Narendra Gaokar. Party’s vice-president Chitra Wagh too has condemned Malik for revealing personal information of the first wife of Wankhede. “Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray takes action for the remarks on Twitter, but in this case, where a woman is being publicly insulted, he has maintained silence. This has been time and again witnessed in the country that whenever the Congress comes to power Dalits and backwards are targeted,” she said. On Tuesday, Malik posted Wankhede’s birth certificate, in which, his father’s name is Dawood K Wankhede, while it is Dnyandev Wankhede as per the NCB website. The nikahnama also mentioned Wankhede’s father’s name as Dawood.Dr Zahid Quraishi, father of Wankhede’s first wife Dr Shabana Quraishi said the Wankhede family was practising Islam when the marriage with his daughter took place in 2006, otherwise, it would not have happened in the first place. Moreover, Wankhede’s mother Zaheda had told him that her husband Dawood Wankhede converted to Islam.“It was an arranged marriage and we knew the Wankhede family for around four years, prior to the marriage. Each and every member of the family was Muslim at that time. In February 2006, the engagement took place and the nikah was performed after nine months in December, the same year. Before that, we were frequently visiting each other’s residences. Wankhede’s mother was a pious woman and she had told us his father got converted to Islam, after which, his name was changed to Dawood,” Dr Quraishi told TV9 Marathi.“Whatever certificates his (Sameer Wankhede’s) father (Dnyandev Wankhede) is showing, is prior to his marriage with Zaheda and conversion to Islam. Without converting as a Muslim, their marriage would not have happened under Islamic law. Since both the families were Muslim the nikah was performed. Only after this controversy, we have come to know that they were not Muslim,” he told to ABP Majha.The focus in the drug case involving Bollywood star Shah Rukh Khan’s son, Aryan Khan, has shifted to Wankhede, with Malik levelling charges against the NCB zonal director, heading the probe in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aryan-khan-drugs-case-sameer-wankhede-s-wife-kranti-redkar-writes-letter-to-cm-101635417766561.html
28-10-2021||India||MHA extends national Covid-19 guidelines till November 30||The Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Thursday extended all existing coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-related guidelines in the country by a month, till November 30. “In exercise of the powers, conferred under Section 10(2)(1) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, the undersigned hereby directs that the order of the MHA, dated 28th September, 2021, to ensure compliance with the prompt and effective containment measures for Covid-19, as conveyed vide Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW), dated 21st September, 2021, will remain in force up to the 30th November, 2021,” the MHA order, signed by home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla, read. On September 28, the guidelines were extended up to October 31. Before that, on August 28, these were extended till September 30.Also Read | Covid-19 pandemic: Karnataka school shut after 33 students test positiveThe latest extension order by the home ministry, which is responsible for the overall management of the pandemic in the country, comes at a time when the festive season is underway across the nation. With the devastating second wave, which was at its peak in April and May, now over, experts, as well as Prime Minister Narendra Modi, have repeatedly urged citizens not to get complacent during this period, warning that doing so could lead to a potential third wave.Also Read | Covid-19: Weekly positivity rate in Maharashtra down to 1.45%Over the last few days, India has seen between 10,000-20,000 daily cases of the viral illness. According to Thursday's bulletin, 16,156 people tested positive in the last 24 hours, while 733 lives were lost due to the disease. The country's cumulative infection tally currently stands at 34,321,809, including 33,614,434 recoveries, 456,386 deaths and 160,989 active cases.Also Read | 90%+ in Delhi have Covid antibodies: 6th sero studyLast Thursday, India achieved the milestone of administering more than a billion (100 crore) doses of Covid-19 vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-extends-national-covid-19-guidelines-till-november-30-101635416050514.html
28-10-2021||India||Another woman accuses Mavunkal of sexual assault||Another employee of Monson Mavunkal, who claimed to have “rare and timeless antiques” and was arrested in September for selling fake artifacts and cheating, on Thursday filed a sexual assault complaint against him. The Special Investigation Team (SIT), which is looking into the cases against Mavunkal, said a fresh case will be registered against him after recording the statement of the employee before a magistrate.Mavunkal was earlier booked under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act for allegedly raping the daughter of one of his employees.The employee, who has filed the fresh case, said Mavunkal allegedly sexually abused her for months but she was scared to file a complaint as many police officers frequented his house-cum-clinic in Kochi. A rape survivor earlier filed a complaint against Mavunkal alleging he forced her to withdraw the complaint against her alleged rapist.The SIT expects more complaints to surface against Mavunkal. It has found that some of Mavunkal’s clients were given “special massage” which he discreetly filmed.Details of apathy and collusion came to light after his arrest as many top police officers were reportedly close to Mavunkal. He was arrested after five businessmen complained to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan saying Mavunkal cheated them by promising them shares in upcoming international antique museums in Kochi and Thiruvananthapuram. More businessmen filed cheating complaints against him later and prompted the government to constitute the SIT.Also Read: Kerala forest dept seizes suspected whale bones from self-styled antique collector’s houseThe SIT has recorded the statement of Italy-based Malayali Anitha Pullayil, who is believed to have introduced many senior police officers to Mavunkal . He allegedly used his connections with the officers to cheat and intimidate gullible antique buyers. Pullayil has distanced herself from him and said she advised those cheated by Mavunkal to approach the police. She insisted she was unaware of his shady deals and started avoiding him after she got an inkling regarding them. Many police officers regularly visited his house-cum-cosmetology clinic that he ran on the basis of a fake degree.Mavunkal claimed antiques in his possession included the staff of Moses, a piece of fabric from a garment worn by Jesus, and Dahi Handi of Lord Krishna.The Kerala high court on Wednesday granted more time to state police chief Anil Kant to furnish details of Mavunkal’s alleged links with some police officers. The court last month questioned the police protection provided to Mavunkal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-woman-accuses-mavunkal-of-sexual-assault-101635417406320.html
28-10-2021||India||Wankhede family followed Islam, says NCB officer's ex-father-in-law||Dr Zaheed Quraishi, the father of Sameer Wankhede's first wife Shabana Quraishi, has confirmed that he always knew the Wankhede family as the followers of Islam. In 2006, when Sameer and Shabana got married, Sameer practised Islam and would occasionally visit mosques, Dr Quraishi said, as reported by PTI."We always knew the Wankhede family as followers of Islam. In fact, I always knew Dnyandev as Dawood Wankhede. We agreed to the marriage of my daughter Dr Shabana with Sameer because we had cordial relations with his late mother Zaheeda," Dr Qureshi said.The marriage between Sameer and Shabana was an arranged marriage that did not last more than a month as the duo got divorced in the same month. Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik has claimed that the wedding was according to Islamic rituals and posted the nikah-nama on social media to substantiate his claim that Sameer Wankhede concealed his Muslim identity and forged documents to claim SC quota in teh UPSC.‘Nikah wouldn’t have been performed if': What Qazi says on Sameer Wankhede's 1st marriageWankhede refuted the allegations and claimed that his mother was a Muslim and the wedding was done according to Islamic rituals as it was his mother's wish. He never converted to Islam and the marriage was also registered under the Special Marriage Act.'How did I allow my daughter to marry a HinduSameer Wankhede's ex-father-in-law said since the controversy over Sameer Wankhede's religion broke out, he was being questioned by people abouthow he allowed his daughter to marry a Hindu. "It became an issue of prestige for me and my family. Hence I am making it clear that when the marriage between my daughter Shabana and Sameer Wankhede took place, the groom was practising Islam. His father's name was Dawood," he said.On Wankhede getting the government job two years after his first marriage, Dr Quraishi said, "You generally don't go so deep into someone else's life. In those days, it was not even practice to find out whether the job is sought through some quota or not."Before his ex-father-in-law, the Qazi who claimed to have performed the nikah said Sameer Wankhede at the time of the wedding belonged to a Muslim family. Otherwise, the 'nikah' would not have been solemnised, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wankhede-family-followed-islam-says-ncb-officer-s-exfatherinlaw-101635416941151.html
28-10-2021||India||CEC Sushil Chandra oversees Uzbekistan’s elections as international observer||India’s Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) Sushil Chandra led a three-member delegation to Uzbekistan from October 21-25 to oversee the country’s presidential election, held last Sunday, as an international observer.Uzbekistan’s President Shavkat Mirziyoyev swept to victory with more than 80% of the vote in the elections and was re-elected for a second five-year term, according to reports.CEC Sushil Chandra and Uzbekistan’s election commission, led by Zainiddin Nizamkhodjaev, held a meeting on electoral cooperation during the visit, the Election Commission of India (ECI) said in a statement.The CEC “spoke about the recent conduct of elections in India, and various avenues for strengthening electoral ties between the two countries through the signing of MoU on electoral cooperation and training and capacity-building programmes, which the ECI would be happy to organise for Uzbekistan’s election officials,” India’s central election body said.Also Read: After Himanta, EC serves notice to Assam minister for poll code violationUzbek delegates have been participating in the ECI’s International Election Visitors Programmes (IEVP), which is held during polls. The Uzbek election commission’s chairman, Nizamkhodjaev, thanked CEC Sushil Chandra for visiting his country for Sunday’s presidential polls.The ECI said that during the trip to Uzbekistan, the Indian delegation visited a couple of district-level election commissions to observe the initiatives taken there by the Uzbek CEC. The Indian delegation also visited polling stations and examined the “various aspects of the conduct of elections, including voters’ lists, identification of voters, and early voting mechanisms”, the ECI said.India’s CEC also met with officials of the Indian embassy, including Manish Prabhat, the Indian ambassador to Uzbekistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cec-sushil-chandra-oversees-uzbekistan-s-elections-as-international-observer-101635415365922.html
28-10-2021||India||‘My apprehension is they will arrest me’: Sameer Wankhede moves Bombay HC||The Mumbai zonal chief of the Narcotics Control Bureau, Sameer Wankhede on Thursday approached the Bombay high court and sought protection from any coercive action. "I am personally attacked by the state. My apprehension is they will arrest me. I want interim protection in the form of no coercive action," Wankhede told the court. He also prayed for transferring the investigation undertaken by the Maharashtra state government to any central agency or to the CBI. The division bench of the Bombay high court is hearing Sameer Wankhede's plea. The Maharashtra government's lawyer said they will give prior notice of 72 hours if an offence under the Prevention of Corruption Act is registered.Sameer Wankhede's sister approaches Women Commission, Police against Nawab MalikAn investigating officer of the drugs-on-cruise case in which Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan has been arrested, Sameer Wankhede is now on the radar of the state government with several accusations hanging over his head. Apart from procedural irregularities, extortion, Wankhede has been accused of forgery of documents as well.While a vigilance investigation is going on against Wankhede by the NCB, the Maharashtra government is investigating the allegations brought by NCB witness Prabhakar Sail against Wankhede. Sail has been interrogated by the Mumbai Police and his statement has been recorded. While Sail has accused that Wankhede is part of the ₹25 crore pay-off plan that was being hatched in exchange for Aryan Khan's release, Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik has brought out the personal details of Sameer Wankhede and his family and claimed that he is a Muslim, but applied for the SC quota in UPSC. Wankhede has refuted the allegation and said his mother was a Muslim, while his father is Dalit Hindu. Wankhede claimed he never converted to Islam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/my-apprehension-is-they-will-arrest-me-sameer-wankhede-moves-bombay-hc-101635413722616.html
28-10-2021||India||Hyderabad cops stopping people, searching 'drugs' in WhatsApp messages: Report||A video of Hyderabad Police stopping people and checking their WhatsApp messages for words like 'ganja', 'drugs' has gone viral on social media drawing comments on social media about whether the police can do this disregarding privacy. Climate activist Disha Ravi who was arrested early this year in the 'toolkit' case shared the video and wrote, "Why are so many of you surprised like we haven't had people's "chats" read on national TV? If you think surveillance isn't here yet, what you essentially mean is that surveillance isn't here for YOU yet."Reports said the viral video of the search operation was from the Bahadurpura limits of Hyderabad, while the Hyderabad Police are regularly conducting such operations on the instruction of the Commissioner of Police. Why are so many of you surprised like we haven't had people's "chats" read on national TV? If you think surveillance isn't here yet, what you essentially mean is that surveillance isn't here for YOU yet. https://t.co/bv8xdsexq5As quoted by The News Minute, deputy commissioner of Police, South Zone, Gajarao Bhupal said he is aware that random phone checking is going on, but the cops are not forcing anyone to show their phones as people are co-operating, he said. "“Yes, I am aware that phones are being checked. However, we are not forcing anybody nor are we snatching away their phones to check. People are cooperating and no one is complaining, so I don’t think there is anything illegal," he said to the News Minute.“The public can deny giving their phone. However, we will then have to see what legal provisions apply. So far, we have not faced any such issue. There are no specific instructions as there has not been any issue so far," he said on being asked whether people can also deny to give their phones.At a time when Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan is in jail in connection with a drugs case, Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has declared war on illegal drugs. Last week, the chief minister addressed a high-level meeting of police and excise officials and instructed them to tighten the screw on drugs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderabad-cops-stopping-people-searching-drugs-in-whatsapp-messages-report-101635413221877.html
28-10-2021||India||BJP forms five-member committee to probe Tripura violence||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has set up a five-member committee to probe into the incidents of violence in Tripura, where a mosque and shops were set on fire in the Panisagar sub-division on Tuesday.According to the state police, the violence broke out after the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP), an affiliate of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, the BJP’s ideological fountainhead, took out a rally against the vandalization of Hindu temples in Bangladesh. Police said some VHP members were allegedly involved in the arson. The BJP has denied the involvement of its members in the violence.Vinod Sonkar, a Member of Parliament and BJP’s Tripura in charge, said the party has set up the committee that comprises members of its minority cell. “The committee has been asked to visit the (violence-hit) areas and submit its report in the next two or three days. Since our political opponents accuse us of being biased, we asked the members of the minority cell to probe the incident.”Sonkar, who will be in Tripura over the weekend, blamed the Trinamool Congress (TMC) for orchestrating the violence. He added the TMC, which is trying to make inroads into the state, is trying to polarise the state along religious lines ahead of the assembly polls that are due there in 2023.“The TMC has no base in Tripura; no party workers are willing to join them so they are trying to create an atmosphere of religious tension and polarisation in the state.”Sonkar denied speculation that some BJP leaders will be joining the TMC in the state. “There is no friction in the party unit. Even those who had some issues with the party or the government have not quit the party.”Also Read | North Tripura violence: Section 144 imposed in Dharmanagar after VHP rallySonkar also linked the TMC to the demand for a separate state for indigenous people in Tripura even as BJP’s ally Indigenous People’s Front of Tripura has also supported the idea.“They (TMC) are rattled by the fact that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has solved long-pending problems of the tribal communities in Tripura. They have no support from the tribes or the Bengali Hindus. So, they are stoking all kinds of controversies.”HT has reached out to the TMC for comments and the copy will be updated as soon as it responds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjpforms-panel-to-probe-tripura-violence-101635411886022.html
28-10-2021||India||Mufti demands release of J-K students arrested for celebrating Pak cricket win||PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Thursday demanded immediate release of Kashmiri students arrested from a college in Agra for allegedly posting a WhatsApp status praising Pakistan players after victory against India in a T20 World Cup cricket match. The students of Raja Balwant Singh Management Technical Campus in Uttar Pradesh's Agra were arrested on Wednesday evening following an FIR lodged against them at the Jagdishpura police station, a police official had said"Crackdown on Kashmiri students both within J&K & outside is reprehensible. Situation in J&K after two years of suppression should've been an eye opener for GOI & lead to course correction. BJP's pseudo patriotism disregards the idea of India. Release these students immediately," the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president tweeted.The former chief minister also tagged a media report quoting Agra college authorities, which claimed that there were no anti-national slogans raised on the campus. The report also claimed that the college authorities had complained against BJP workers for allegedly "putting pressure on them".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mufti-demands-release-of-j-k-students-arrested-for-celebrating-pak-cricket-win-101635408447705.html
28-10-2021||India||Pollution, winter, and Delhi’s annual tryst with bad air||New Delhi: In the middle of September, people in Delhi were sharing pictures of azure blue skies, while exclaiming how the clean air in the Capital made a difference to their lives.
28-10-2021||India||Navi Mumbai police hunting for 23 yr old, accused of raping minor||The Vashi police in Maharashtra’s Navi Mumbai have booked a 23-year-old for allegedly raping a 17-year-old girl from his neighbourhood on September 6. The case was finally booked more than a month and a half after the incident because the survivor was scared and couldn’t gain courage earlier to narrate her ordeal to her kin, said the police. The accused stayed in the same neighbourhood as the survivor and allegedly raped her at his residence on September 6. After committing the crime, he asked her not to disclose anything to anyone, the police added, citing the complaint.Also Read | Ludhiana: 22-year-old booked for abducting, raping teen“The survivor was too scared to tell her parents about the incident. Recently, she mustered courage and narrated the entire episode to her family members. Her family members then approached us and we registered an FIR against the accused under Section 354 and 376 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 4, 8, and 12 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. We are now looking for the accused and hope to arrest him soon,” said a police officer from Vashi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navi-mumbai-police-hunting-for-23-yr-old-accused-of-raping-minor-101635408345365.html
28-10-2021||India||Ahead of UP polls, BJP sends Diwali gifts to its 30 lakh booth-level workers||The BJP in Uttar Pradesh has sent Diwali gifts to its 30 lakh booth-level workers, emphasising the importance of booth management in the run-up to the 2022 assembly polls.There are 1.63 lakh booths in the state and the BJP has constituted 20-20 member committees on more than 1.5 lakh booths."A booth-level worker is the most important link in the BJP family in which we all work together. It has been a tradition to give gifts on Diwali so the party has sent gifts to more than 30 lakh booth workers this time," BJP state vice president and legislative council member Vijay Bahadur Pathak said.The gift boxes consisting of 'Toran Dwars' (door hangings) and an earthen lamp in the shape of a lotus have been sent to all the members of the booth committees.When asked whether the gifts were part of the election campaign, Pathak said, "The main focus of the party is the assembly polls to be held in 2022 and it is a natural process to take the election symbol among the people.""When people will light the lotus lamp, not only the darkness will disappear, but the belief that development schemes started by (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi and (Chief Minister) Yogi Adityanath will be reinforced," Pathak said.In the 2017 assembly elections, Union Home Minister Amit Shah, who was then the national president of the BJP, implemented the booth management formula and visited booth workers' homes.Shah had also addressed booth meetings in different parts of the state.On Friday, Shah will visit Lucknow to encourage the party workers.The BJP is also holding a series of 'Samajik Pratinidhi Sammelan', the caste-based conferences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-up-polls-bjp-sends-diwali-gifts-to-its-30-lakh-booth-level-workers-101635407744432.html
28-10-2021||India||Man held for murdering girl for resisting rape bid||A Special Investigation Team (SIT) has arrested a man from West Bengal’s Malda for allegedly killing and setting a 10- year-old girl’s body on fire for resisting his rape attempt in Bihar’s Kaimur. The girl’s half-burnt body was recovered from the campus of a residential school for scheduled tribes on October 7.Police superintendent Rakesh Kumar identified the accused as Masidur Alam. He added they have recovered the blood-stained iron rod, stone, and a lighter used for the alleged murder.A murder case was earlier registered against two men on the basis of the statement of the girl’s father, a tea seller. They were arrested on October 9.Kumar formed the SIT amid doubts over the arrest of the two. The SIT sought the help of a dog squad, forensic science, and electronic surveillance experts. Police then got a lead from CCTV footage of the school in which a man was seen going with the girl to the first floor of an under-construction building. Also Read: ‘Fewer infant deaths in Bihar than national average’The two jailed accused were taken on police remand and the crime scene was recreated. Alam was eventually identified and arrested on Wednesday. He is believed to have confessed to luring the girl. Alam allegedly showed her porn videos and tried to rape her. When she resisted, Alam allegedly killed the girl with the iron rod and stone before setting her body on fire.Kumar said they would send a report to a local court for the release of two men earlier arrested in the case, which caused an uproar. Several opposition leaders including Rashtriya Janata Dal’s Ritu Jaiswal visited Kaimur and criticised the government for its failure in protecting women and girls and threatened for state-wide agitation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-held-for-murdering-girl-for-resisting-rape-bid-101635407145320.html
28-10-2021||India||10 killed, 16 wounded as bus plunges into gorge in J&K||At least 10 passengers were killed and 16 others injured, seven of them critically, after a minibus they were travelling in plunged into a 200 feet deep gorge in Jammu and Kashmir’s Doda on Thursday.“At least eight passengers died on the spot and two others succumbed to their injuries at the Government Medical College in Doda. The critically injured are being airlifted to Jammu,” said a police officer.The minibus was on its way to Pul Doda from Thathri when the driver lost control over the vehicle at Sui Gwari, 165 km from Jammu, and fell into the deep gorge along River Chenab.“Prima facie, the minibus was being driven negligently but the exact cause of mishap will be known after a thorough probe,” said the officer.Locals, police, paramilitary and army personnel rushed to the spot and launched a rescue operation. “The minibus plunged from almost a vertical slope into the gorge,” said an eyewitness. He added the road widening work was on and the vehicle was old and overloaded.Also Read: J&K Police say terrorist out to kill shopkeeper shot deadAn official feared the toll may go up in view of critical injuries to the seven passengers.In a tweet, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said, “Saddened by the road accident near Thatri, Doda in Jammu and Kashmir. In this hour of grief, I convey my condolences to the bereaved families. I pray that the people who have been injured recover at the earliest.” He added ₹2 lakh each would be given to families of those killed in the accident and ₹50,000 to the wounded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-killed-16-wounded-as-bus-plunges-into-gorge-in-jk-101635406485677.html
28-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: Barapind, 8 others get life term in 2015 murder case and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Former Punjab militant Barapind, 8 others get life term in 2015 murder caseThe Jalandhar additional district and sessions court on Wednesday convicted Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) member and former militant Kulbir Singh Barapind and eight others in a 2015 murder case over property dispute and sentenced them to life imprisonment. Read more'Had Balasaheb been here': Sameer Wankhede's wife writes to Uddhav ThackerayKranti Wankhede, the wife of Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) officer Sameer Wankhede, has written a letter to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray seeking justice for her husband. Read moreSpotlight on G23 leaders as Congress gears up for 2022 organisational pollsWith limited influence over the Congress party’s state units, the G23 leaders appear to have a slim chance of gaining power in the struggling political party’s organisational polls next year. Read moreSamantha Ruth Prabhu deletes her pictures with Naga Chaitanya from Instagram with a few exceptionsActor Samantha Ruth Prabhu has deleted nearly all her pictures on Instagram with Naga Chaitanya, weeks after the couple's separation. Samantha has deleted photos from their wedding and also several others from their holidays together. Read more‘India batters were playing 130 km/h deliveries in IPL but facing Shaheen was a different cup of tea’: Matthew HaydenFormer Australia opener and current Pakistan batting consultant for the T20 World Cup 2021 Matthew Hayden said one of the main reasons behind the Indian top-order's struggle against Shaheen Shah Afridi was that they were majorly facing deliveries bowled at 130km/h in the IPL and the Pakistan pacer was much quicker. Read moreHyundai Creta facelift teased ahead of debut, gets a new faceHyundai Motors has released a teaser of the upcoming 2022 Creta facelift ahead of its official debut. The teaser shows the silhouette of the Hyundai Creta seen from the front and from the sides. Read moreDiwali healthy eating guide: How to indulge in sweets guilt-freeThe countdown to Diwali has begun and preparations are on in full swing to celebrate the festival with much enthusiasm. From home renovations and decorations to organizing Diwali parties and planning get-togethers with friends, the spirit of Diwali has brightened up our routines. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-barapind-8-others-get-life-term-in-2015-murder-case-and-all-the-latest-news-101635404893348.html
28-10-2021||India||SP will bolt the door on BJP in UP polls with help from Rajbhar’s SBSP: Akhilesh||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav will honour meritorious students and address a meeting in his parliamentary constituency of Azamgarh on Thursday. Yadav met party workers in Azamgarh on Wednesday evening and also discussed the strategy for the upcoming assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh with party leaders, a SP leader aware of the developments, said on condition of anonymity. Earlier in the day, he addressed a Maha Panchayat in Mau, which was organised by Omprakash Rajbhar led Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) on the occasion of its 19th foundation day. The Samajwadi Party and the SBSP had last week announced their alliance for the 2022 assembly polls in UP, and on Wednesday they gave the slogan ‘Khadeda Hobe’, which translates into a call to “drive out” the BJP from the state. It is similar to the ‘Khela Hobe’ (game on) slogan coined by the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress for the West Bengal assembly polls that resulted in the BJP’s defeat.Akhilesh said Omprakash Rajbhar had shut the door on the BJP’s return to power in the state by walking out of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in early 2019and the SP will now lock that very door, sealing the BJP’s fortune in the 2022 assembly polls, to be organised early next year.Also Read: Lakhimpur Kheri district magistrate removed, 12 IAS officers transferred in UPRajbhar’s party was part of Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha, a coalition of 10 parties that included Asaduddin Owaisi-led All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) and Chandra Shekhar Azad’s Azad Samaj Party. However, these parties were not seen during the Maha Panchayat triggering speculations that the front may have disintegrated following the alliance between the SP and the SBSP, a news agency reported. A political analyst said Akhilesh was queering the pitch in eastern UP with the aim to recover the political ground lost in the 2017 state polls when the BJP stormed to power in the state. The Rajbhar community constitutes about 20% of the population and are concentrated in eastern Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akhilesh-says-sp-will-bolt-the-door-on-bjp-in-up-polls-with-help-from-rajbhar-s-party-101635406005600.html
28-10-2021||India||At Asean-India Summit, PM Modi bats for mutual cooperation to secure ties during Covid-19 pandemic||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday attended the 18th Asean-India Summit via video conferencing. Addressing the event, Modi said that the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic posed a lot of challenges for the member nations.“This challenging time was also a test of India-Asean friendship. Our mutual cooperation in the Covid era will keep strengthening our relations in future and form a base for goodwill between our people,” Modi said. Modi said history is witness to the fact that India and Asean have had relations for thousands of years.“Our shared values, traditions, languages, texts, architecture, culture and food are the glimpses of these relations,” the Prime Minister further said, adding this is the reason why the unity and centrality of Asean have always been an important priority for India.Also Read| India focused on free and open Indo-Pacific: PM Modi at East Asia SummitAccording to an official statement, the Asean-India Summit is being attended by the heads of the state/government of the Asean countries.“The 18th Asean -India Summit will review the status of Asean-India Strategic Partnership and take stock of progress made in key areas including Covid-19 and Health, Trade and Commerce, Connectivity, and Education and Culture. Important regional and international developments including post-pandemic economic recovery will also be discussed,” the statement added.The summit is held every year and provides an opportunity for India and Asean to engage at the highest level.During his address on Thursday, Prime Minister Modi pointed out that the year 2022 will complete three decades of India-Asean partnership and this milestone will be celebrated as the 'Asean-India Friendship Year'.“India will also complete 75 years of its independence. I am delighted that we will celebrate this important milestone as Asean-India Friendship Year,” he added.Modi virtually addressed the 16th East Asia Summit a day ago, where he reaffirmed India's focus on a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific and the principle of Asean Centrality in the region.The East Asia Summit, which started in 2005, has played an important part in the strategic and geopolitical evolution of East Asia. Besides the 10 Asean member countries, the East Asia Summit includes India, China, Japan, the Republic of Korea, Australia, New Zealand, the United States and Russia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-asean-india-summit-pm-modi-says-covid-19-pandemic-posed-lot-of-challenges-101635404519540.html
28-10-2021||India||'Had Balasaheb been here': Sameer Wankhede's wife writes to Uddhav Thackeray||Kranti Wankhede, the wife of Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) officer Sameer Wankhede, has written a letter to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray seeking justice for her husband. She has also sought an appointment from the chief minister.News agency ANI posted the excerpts of the letter Kranti Wankhede wrote to Thackeray in which she said the entire family is facing insult."We're being insulted before people every day. A woman's dignity is being toyed with in Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj' state. Had Balasaheb been here today, he wouldn't have liked it," said Wankhede."He (Balasaheb) is not here today but you are. We see him in you, we trust you. I believe that you will not allow injustice to my family and me. As a Marathi, I look towards you with hopes of justice. I request you for justice," she further said in her letter, according to ANI.Speaking to the news agency later, Kranti said that she has sought time from the Maharashtra chief minister for a meeting. "I have not received a response so far, I am waiting for a reply."Sameer Wankhede, the Mumbai zonal officer of the NCB, carried out the raid on a cruise ship on October 2, after which actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan was arrested. After the raid, Wankhede said that 13 grams of cocaine, 5 grams of mephedrone, 21 grams of Charas, 22 pills of MDMA (ecstasy), and ₹1.33 lakh in cash were recovered from the cruise ship Cordelia.But multiple, fast-paced developments have taken place since the raid and Aryan Khan's arrest, with the focus of late shifting to Sameer Wankhede, who is probing the matter.Also Read | Drugs case: Mumbai Police forms 4-member probe teamNationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik has made several allegations against the NCB officer, including about his personal life. His wife and sister strongly rebutted all the allegations, claiming that vested interests did not want her husband to work."They do not want Sameer to work and block their daily income which is probably from drugs. That is why they want him removed," she had said on Wednesday, further claiming that the family has been receiving "threatening calls".Sameer Wankhede’s sister, advocate Yasmeen, on Thursday approached the Mumbai Police and submitted a written complaint, demanding registration of an FIR against Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik.However, so far no FIR has been registered on the basis of her complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/had-balasaheb-been-here-sameer-wankhede-s-wife-writes-to-uddhav-thackeray-101635404729580.html
28-10-2021||India||BJP defends Goa CM following Malik induced opposition onslaught||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) national general secretary in charge of Goa, CT Ravi virtually ruled out chief minister Pramod Sawant’s resignation by defending him against the allegations of corruption levelled by Meghalaya governor Satya Pal Malik.“The Goa government has done good work during Covid-19. Former Goa governor (Satya Pal Malik) has clarified that he didn’t make any statements on the current Goa CM. The opposition won’t get anything from this controversy,” CT Ravi, also a four-time legislator from Karnataka’s Chikmagalur, said. The opposition has been demanding Sawant’s resignation in the poll bound state after Satyapal Malik-- who held the position of governor of Goa before he was moved to Meghalaya-- said last Monday that “there was corruption in the Goa government in handling everything”. Malik made the allegation recalling his disapproval of some decisions by the Sawant government, including the hiring of a door to door delivery agency during the Covid-19 pandemic. “I am a Lohia-ite. I get very angry when it comes to corruption. I do not take it kindly. On the day when the lockdown was announced, the government said that even the stores selling basic essentials would not be allowed to open but said they would sell door to door. Which was impossible, but they allowed one company to sell basic essentials door to door which had given money to the Goa Government, when people from Congress told me about it, I informed PM Modi ji. ....There was corruption in the Goa government in handling everything… because of that I was sent away from there,” Malik said in an interview to a TV news station. He was governor of Goa from November 2019 to August 2020 before he was moved to Meghalaya.Following his remark Congress leader Digambar Kamat said Sawant had “no moral right to continue” as Goa CM. Goa Congress president Girish Chodankar said Malik’s comments showed that the “BJP made a business of people’s sickness”. Also Read: With eye on state elections, Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee to visit Goa todayIn damage control, Goa BJP spokesperson Damodar “Damu” Naik accused the Meghalaya governor of crossing the line of “ethics and propriety” and asked him to quit his constitutional post if he wanted to criticise “his own government”. “...He should behave within the limits of ethics and propriety. Did he act on it (corruption charges) when he was the governor? To speak about it now and to the media while continuing as a governor is completely wrong and unconstitutional. He should have sent a report to the Union home ministry back then..,” Naik said.This is not the first occasion when Malik’s statements have created a controversy. Earlier this month, he questioned the current security situation in Jammu and Kashmir in the wake of a series of civilian killings by terrorists and suggested that it was a lot better when he was the governor of erstwhile state.  Malik served as the J&K governor from August 2018 to October 2019 before the state was bifurcated into two union territories and its special status abrogated by the parliament. Recently, Malik also appeared to be supporting protesting famers’ demand for strengthening the Minimum Support Price (MSP) regime through legislation, a stand in variance with the Central government. Malik had also criticised Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar for police action against protesting farmers in Karnal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjpdefends-goa-cm-following-malik-induced-opposition-onslaught-101635403304966.html
28-10-2021||India||‘AI Pe Charcha’: Centre organises session to discuss AI-driven governance||The Centre is organising yet another session of ‘AI Pe Charcha’, a series of panel discussions involving industry leaders sharing their views and experiences around Artificial Intelligence (AI). This time, the theme will revolve around “AI for Data-Driven Governance”, according to an official release issued by the Union ministry of electronics and information technology (MeitY). The session aims to cover the importance of data-driven and AI-enabled governance along with practices best accepted globally.An initiative of the ministry of electronics and information technology, the “AI Pe Charcha” session, according to the Press Information Bureau (PIB), involves various global and domestic leaders from the government and industry, researchers, and academicians sharing their views and experiences around artificial intelligence, its related case studies, the global best practices, breakthroughs in innovations, and the challenges faced in the field of AI.The ‘AI for Data-Driven Governance’ session on Thursday will involve experts speaking about leveraging AI for the public sector, defense and security, postal services, and future cities. There will also be a presentation on important AI-driven solutions that have played a significant role during the difficult times of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.According to the official release, such initiatives by the Centre are a key step towards understanding and harnessing the power of evolving technologies and their policy implications.Discussions around artificial intelligence have recently started taking a significant role in cybersecurity policy talks in India. It was reported by the Hindustan Times earlier that the National Security Council Secretariat, which works with the National Security Advisor in an advisory role to the Prime Minister on national security matters, is considering a standalone law for cybersecurity in India, and is also working on a strategy document that will consider both the domestic and international implications of such a policy.The new policy is likely to focus on critical infrastructure and address India's position on artificial intelligence, data sharing, and data localisation, people familiar with the matter said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ai-pe-charcha-centre-organises-session-to-discuss-ai-driven-governance-101635399350548.html
28-10-2021||India||10 dead in Jammu and Kashmir road accident, PM Modi announces ex-gratia||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday condoled the deaths in a road accident in Jammu and Kashmir's Thathri. Ten people were killed and several others injured after mini bus they were travelling in from Thathri to Doda fell into a gorge early on Thursday."Saddened by the road accident near Thatri, Doda in Jammu and Kashmir. In this hour of grief, I convey my condolences to the bereaved families. I pray that the people who have been injured recover at the earliest," a tweet from the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said.Saddened by the road accident near Thatri, Doda in Jammu and Kashmir. In this hour of grief, I convey my condolences to the bereaved families. I pray that the people who have been injured recover at the earliest: PM @narendramodiThe Prime Minister also announced an ex-gratia of ₹2 lakh each from Prime Minister's National Relief Fund (PMNRF) to the next of kin of those who have lost their lives, and ₹50,000 for those injured, the PMO further said on Twitter.Union minister Jitendra Singh said that all the assistance will be provided to local authorities. "Just now spoke to D.C.Doda Vikas Sharma, the injured being shifted to GMC Doda. Whatever further assistance required will be provided," he said on Twitter.The minister also paid condolences to the families of those killed in the road accident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-dead-in-jammu-and-kashmir-road-accident-pm-modi-announces-exgratia-101635401237454.html
28-10-2021||India||India adds 16,156 new Covid-19 cases; highest single-day rise since October 23||India's daily caseload of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crossed the 16,000-mark after five days with 16,156 new cases in the past 24 hours, pushing the caseload to 34,231,809, according to the Union health ministry's update at 8am on Thursday. Previously, the daily infection count crossed the 16,000-mark when 16,326 cases were reported last Saturday (October 23).Over 17,000 patients recovered from the illness while 733 succumbed to the viral disease during the 24-hour span, taking the total number of recoveries and deaths to 33,614,434 and 456,386, respectively. The active cases, which stand at 160,989, have been the lowest in 243 days and constitute 0.48% of the caseload.The overall Covid-19 recovery rate in India is at 98.2%, the highest since March last year. On the other hand, the daily positivity rate, which is currently at 1.25%, has been below the 2% mark for the past 24 days.Thursday's infection count was 2,705 more than that of Wednesday's when 13,451 people were detected as carrying the Covid-19 virus. The death toll on Thursday was also 148 more than that of Wednesday's when 585 deaths were recorded to have succumbed to the disease.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Thursday that 604,498,405 samples have been tested till now of which nearly 1.3 million samples were tested in the past 24 hours.On the vaccination front, authorities have administered a total of 1,040,499,873 vaccine doses to eligible beneficiaries. Of these, 723,497,151 beneficiaries have received the first dose while the remaining 317,002,722 are fully vaccinated. Over 4.9 million beneficiaries were inoculated in the previous 24 hours.  The Union health ministry informed on Thursday that over 1.08 billion vaccine doses have been provided to states and Union territories so far through the Centre's free-of-cost channel and direct state procurement category. While over 118.1 balance and unutilised doses are still available with the states/UTs to be administered, the ministry added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-adds-16-156-new-covid-19-cases-highest-single-day-rise-since-october-23-101635395653498.html
28-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan case: Sameer Wankhede’s sister wants FIR registered against Malik||In a development in the drugs case involving Aryan Khan, son of actor Shah Rukh Khan, Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) zonal director Sameer Wankhede’s sister, advocate Yasmeen Wankhede, approached the Mumbai police and submitted a written complaint, demanding registration of an FIR against Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik. However, so far no FIR has been registered on the basis of her complaint.According to the police, Yasmeen Wankhede submitted the letter last week, claiming that her entire family has been receiving phone calls threatening them of dire consequences. Yasmeen Wankhede has also mailed a copy of her complaint to the National Commission for Women (NCW).Also Read: Will Aryan Khan get bail today? Bombay HC to continue hearingA police officer at Oshiwara police station said Yasmeen Wankhede’s complaint mentioned that since Nawab Malik made allegations about the personal life of the drugs case’s investigator Sameer Wankhede, her entire family was living in fear due to threatening calls.“Request you to take cognizance of my grievances so as to safeguard my constitutional rights as a woman with a further request to take appropriate steps to deal with the named accused in accordance with law, including issuing the appropriate directions to the concerned police station to register an FIR against Nawab Malik,” she wrote in her complaint.“No FIR is registered yet,” said Sanjay Bandale, senior police inspector of Oshiwara police, without going into details. He claimed was on leave when the complaint was received at the police station.Nawab Malik also took to Twitter to post a screenshot of an Instagram post by Fletcher Patel in which he describes Yasmeen Wankhede as “Lady Don”.Multiple, fast-paced developments have taken place since Aryan Khan and a few others was arrested earlier this month following a drugs raid on a Mumbai cruise ship, with the focus of late shifting to NCB officer Sameer Wankhede, who is probing the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aryan-khan-case-sameer-wankhede-s-sister-wants-fir-registered-against-malik-101635398204655.html
28-10-2021||India||Those celebrating Pakistan's win in T20 World Cup to face sedition charges: Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has said that sedition law will be invoked against those celebrating Pakistan's victory over India in T20 match on October 24. The chief minister made the remarks in an interview to a news publication on Wednesday.The link to that interview was posted on the official Twitter handle of Adityanath's office, with a line in Hindi talking about invoking sedition law against those celebrating Pakistan's win.पाक की जीत का जश्न मनाने वालों पर देशद्रोह लगेगा: मुख्यमंत्री श्री @myogiadityanath जी महाराज pic.twitter.com/34DEij8y3tThe interview was given on the same day when three Kashmiri students were arrested in Agra for raising anti-national slogans after India-Pak match in T20 World Cup on Sunday. It was done after an FIR was registered against the students on the complaint of BJP Yuva Morcha leader Gaurav Rajawat."An FIR has been registered under sections 153A (Promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc) and 505 (Whoever makes/publishes/circulates any statement/rumour/report) IPC & IT Act's Section 66F (Punishment for cyber terrorism)," Agra's Superintendent of Police (SP) said.He further said that they were arrested after an investigation.The RBS Engineering College in Agra suspended the three students from college hostel on Monday.The Uttar Pradesh Police have booked seven people in a total of five districts for allegedly raising Pro-Pak slogans or celebrating Pakistan's victory over India in the T20 Cricket World Cup.On Sunday, Pakistan defeated India by 10 wickets and none of the Men in Blue bowlers were able to leave an impact as Babar Azam and Mohammad Rizwan took the bowling to the cleaners..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/those-celebrating-pak-s-t20-world-cup-win-to-face-sedition-charges-adityanath-101635397386330.html
28-10-2021||India||9 more IPS officers reshuffled in UP, 21 shifted in two days||The state government late on Wednesday shifted nine more Indian Police Service (IPS) officers including superintendent of police (SP) of Kanpur Outer, a rural area of Kanpur district, separated as a new police jurisdiction after the implementation of police commissionerate in Kanpur Nagar.Ashtabhuja Prasad Singh, the SP of Kanpur outer, was transferred as SP of DGP (director general of police) headquarters in Lucknow and Ajit Kumar Sinha was made the new SP of Kanpur outer.Rajesh Kumar Srivastava was shifted as commandant of 41 battalion Provincial Armed Constabulary (PVC) in Ghaziabad, Tribhuvan Singh was made commandant of 30 battalion PAC in Gonda, Shashikant was posted as SP Public Grievances cell at DGP headquarters, while Ram Sewak Gautam was made the deputy commissioner of police at Kanpur police commissionerate. Similarly, Awadesh Singh was made new SP Railway, Gorakhpur, Pankaj Kumar Pandey was transferred as SP of police headquarters in Lucknow and Shri Prakash Dwivedi was shifted as SP of UP Power Corporation Limited.Also Read: Lakhimpur Kheri district magistrate removed, 12 IAS officers transferred in UPThe state government has reshuffled at least 21 IPS officers in past two days and more transfers are expected before the model code of conduct for upcoming assembly polls are imposed next month. Earlier on Tuesday, the state government had transferred 12 IPS officers, including inspector general (IG) of Kanpur and Agra ranges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/9-more-ips-officers-reshuffled-in-up-21-shifted-in-two-days-101635397244943.html
28-10-2021||India||Kiran Gosavi, NCB witness in Aryan Khan issue, arrested in separate case||The Pune Police on Thursday arrested Kiran Gosavi, a witness in the Narcotics Control Bureau’s (NCB) case involving actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son, Aryan Khan, in connection with a 2018 cheating case.Amitabh Gupta, Pune Police commissioner, denied reports that Gosavi had surrendered. He added the Mumbai Police or any other agency were yet to seek Gosavi’s custody. “They can approach court if they want.”He rejected any political link to the arrest in the case lodged four years back when asked whether it has anything to do with the tussle between the state government and Centre. “There is no politics involved in this matter.”Investigators said Gosavi was on the run and introduced himself as Sachin Patil during his stay in Lucknow, Jabalpur, Hyderabad and Fatehpur. “Gosavi was projecting himself as member of Stop Crime NGO and CIBCA detective agency. He also claimed to run an export-import business,” said Gupta. “We were searching for him based on his social media photos.”The Pune Police filed a charge sheet in May 2019 in the cheating case.Police earlier arrested Gosavi’s assistant, Sherbano Kureshi, in the cheating case. One Chinmay Deshmukh filed the case against Gosavi accusing him of cheating him of ₹3.09 lakh under the pretext of getting him a job in Malaysia. Kureshi allegedly received the money in her account.A lookout circular was earlier issued to prevent Gosavi from leaving the country. Gosavi reportedly claimed on some news channels that he would surrender to the police. Earlier on Monday, the Pune Police formed at least two teams to trace Gosavi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kiran-gosavi-ncb-witness-in-aryan-khan-issue-detained-in-separate-case-101635396644692.html
28-10-2021||India||Will Aryan Khan get bail today? Bombay HC to continue hearing||The Bombay high court will on Thursday continue hearing on the bail plea of Aryan Khan, who was arrested along with seven others after a raid by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on a cruise ship off the coast of Mumbai on October 2. The 23-year-old and two of his friends - Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha - moved the high court after his previous petitions were rejected by the sessions court and the special NDPS court.Also Read | NCB's key witness Kiran Gosavi detainedThe high court has been hearing Aryan Khan's petition for the past two days. Aryan, the son of actor Shah Rukh Khan, is being represented by a batter of lawyers, including former attorney general Mukul Rohatgi.On Wednesday, the lawyers of the accused told the high court that their arrest violated constitutional provisions, adding that NCB's claims of international trafficking were "absurd and false".Senior advocate Amit Desai, who was representing Merchant, pointed out that in case of minor offences, the settled legal position was that arrest was permitted only in exceptional cases. “Bail is the rule and jail is exception, now arrest is the rule and bail is exception,” Desai said.Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, who made the bulk of his submissions for Aryan on Tuesday, argued that the arrest was a direct infringement of constitutional provisions as the arrest memo did not give the “true and correct grounds”.All three have been charged under stringent sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act.They have all been in custody for 23 days - through hearings, delays, and bail denials by two other courts.Aryan Khan was arrested on October 3 in a raid led by NCB's Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede who said that 13 grams of cocaine, 5 grams of mephedrone, 21 grams of Charas, 22 pills of MDMA (ecstasy), and ₹1.33 lakh in cash were recovered from the cruise ship Cordelia.At present, Aryan Khan is lodged at Mumbai's Arthur Road Prison along with Merchant. Dhamecha, meanwhile, is at Byculla women prison.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-aryan-khan-get-bail-today-bombay-hc-to-continue-hearing-101635395880285.html
28-10-2021||India||CVC asks depts to keep an eye on corrupt officers, places of corruption||The Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) has updated its manual after four years and asked the government departments, undertakings, and administrations to prepare lists of “unscrupulous contractors, suppliers, firms and clearing agents” suspected of corrupt practices. Copies of the lists are to be sent to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).The central anti-corruption probe agency will also pass information pertaining to any corrupt practices of contractors and agents to the concerned departments.The updated manual is the eighth since 1968 and is a compilation of various rules, instructions, and guidelines. It acts as a guidebook for government departments and enforcement agencies in vigilance matters. A drafting committee, headed by chief vigilance commissioner Suresh N Patel and assisted by CBI special director Praveen Sinha, finalised it.For the first time, the CVC has included in its manual the mode of keeping a secret watch on the officers in “Agreed List” of gazetted officers whose honesty or integrity is doubtful. The list is made by concerned government departments in consultation with the CBI.Similarly, it explains the procedure for adding or deleting names from the list of gazetted Officers of Doubtful Integrity, as well as the list of Undesirable Contact Men, prepared by the CBI, suspected of resorting to corrupt or irregular practices in their dealings with official agencies.Another key addition in the document is an “Agreed List of Points and Places of Corruption”, which will be prepared by the CBI after discussions with the concerned heads of department or chief vigilance officers at its local offices at the beginning of the calendar year.Also Read: CBI arrests serving Navy Commander, 4 others for submarine data leakThese procedures have been drawn from CBI’s crime manual updated last year after 15 years. CBI’s manual has not been made public yet.CVC’s latest manual asks authorities to extend all cooperation to the CBI by allowing them to scrutinize relevant records during an investigation, whether preliminary or regular. “If the CBI wishes to check the veracity of information in their possession from the official records, even before registration of a PE (preliminary enquiry) or Regular Case, they may be allowed to see the records on receipt of a request from the Superintendent of Police (empowered under Special Police Establishment Act),” it says.An official, who did not want to be named, said the CVC manual was last updated in 2017 but a lot of changes have taken place since then. For example, the Prevention of Corruption Act has been amended, while regulatory bodies and the government have issued the latest procurement as well as banking/insurance-related guidelines. Subsequently, the CBI also updated its manual last year adding details of procedures to be followed in vigilance/corruption probes.“The latest CVC manual is comprehensive and has several new additions. The plan is to update it annually so that administrative authorities and vigilance officers/agencies empowered to investigate corruption matters have latest information,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cvc-updates-its-manual-after-four-years-101635396224349.html
28-10-2021||India||India at COP26: 450GW renewable energy goal by 2030 likely to be NDC highlight||India’s goal of achieving 450GW renewable energy by 2030 is likely to be the highlight of the country’s contribution to climate change mitigation at the UN-led COP26 summit that begins in Glasgow on Sunday. In a tweet after an inter-ministerial meeting at the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) on India’s stand at COP26, union environment minister Bhupender Yadav on Wednesday said India is on track to achieve the goal. “India under the visionary leadership of PM Shri @narendramodi ji is leading the fight against climate change. As the country remains a ‘high performer’ in the Climate Change Performance Index, India is also on track to achieve the renewable energy target of 450 GW by 2030,” Bhupender Yadav tweeted. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 15 announced that India has installed 100GW of renewable energy. He added that India is the only country among G20 nations that is progressing rapidly to meet its climate goals.India has set a target of achieving 40% of electric power installed capacity from non-fossil fuel sources by 2030 in its Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC) under the Paris Agreement. One of the means to achieve the target is installing 175GW of renewable energy by 2022.Under the Paris Agreement, India presently has three quantifiable NDCs. They include lowering the emissions intensity of its GDP by 33-35% compared to 2005 levels by 2030, increasing total cumulative electricity generation from fossil-free energy sources to 40% by 2030, and creating an additional carbon sink of 2.5-3 billion tonnes through additional forest and tree cover.Centre for Science and Environment director general Sunita Narain called the 450GW goal substantial. “It will be difficult to achieve, but we have to see what measures are put in place. There are projections that solar prices would go up because there aren’t enough loans or finance to support the capital cost mainly because the risk is high,” Narain said.Also Read: World on track for 2.7°C temp rise this century, warns UNAn official, who attended the meeting at the PMO, said announcing a distant net zero goal may not be a solution to the present climate change crisis. “So, we may focus on immediate goals. But options are still open. The net zero option has not been closed,” the official said. The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, added that since Narendra Modi will be travelling to Glasgow, the Cabinet’s approval was not needed. “It was decided that India will not be an outlier at COP26.”Ahead of COP26, the summit’s president Alok Sharma said on Tuesday that he expects India to incorporate 450GW renewable energy goal by 2030 in the NDC that it will submit. Sharma said every country starts with a different energy mix, but India’s informal goal of 450GW should be formalised in its NDC before the Glasgow talks. The Coalition of Disaster Resilient Infrastructure (CDRI), a global partnership of 27 countries initiated by India in 2019, will also be launching an initiative to help small island states develop resilience to climate change at COP26.The initiative titled “Infrastructure for the Resilient Island States” will be implemented between 2022 and 2030 in 58 countries in the Caribbean, the Pacific, and the Atlantic, Indian Ocean, Mediterranean, and the South China Sea.India, Australia, and the UK are likely to pledge $10 million each for the project and other CDRI initiatives. Other countries are also likely to contribute. Japan and the US have offered support in kind, mainly in technical expertise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-at-cop26-450gw-renewable-energy-goal-by-2030-likely-to-be-ndc-highlight-101635395744849.html
28-10-2021||India||J&K Police say terrorist out to kill shopkeeper shot dead||The Jammu and Kashmir Police on Thursday said a terrorist, who was allegedly involved in the killing of two migrant workers, was shot dead before he could target a shopkeeper in Baramulla.In a series of tweets, police said Javid Ahmad Wani was killed at Cherdari near Baramulla after he attacked security forces. They added a pistol, a magazine, and a grenade was recovered from his possession.In another tweet, police quoted inspector general (Kashmir) Vijay Kumar saying Wani planned to target the shopkeeper. It called him a “hybrid-type”, who allegedly assisted Gulzar, who was killed on October 20, in killing the two migrant workers.Also Read: Jammu and Kashmir govt extends compensation to non-local militancy victims under SRO-43Five migrant workers were among 11 civilians killed in targeted attacks on civilians in Kashmir this month. Security forces have stepped up counter-insurgency operations and security across the Valley in the aftermath of the attacks. On Saturday, Union home minister Amit Shah chaired a security meeting in Srinagar with a focus on the civilian killings..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jkpolice-say-terrorist-out-to-kill-shopkeeper-shot-dead-101635395324165.html
28-10-2021||India||After Himanta, EC serves notice to Assam minister for poll code violation||The Election Commission of India (ECI) has sought an explanation from Assam urban development and irrigation minister Ashok Singhal for violating the model code of conduct duringcampaigning for bye-elections to five assembly seats in the state, scheduled for October 30. The notice was issued on Wednesday evening following a complaint by Congress MLA and leader of opposition in Assam assembly Debabrata Saikia and it asked Singhal, a senior leader from the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), for an explanation by 5pm on Thursday. Earlier in the day, the poll commission had warned Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma to “exercise restraint” and follow the poll code of conduct while making public utterances. The CM had earlier issued an unconditional apology to EC for making promises and assurances in his poll rallies. In his complaint, Saikia alleged that in an election rally at Gossaigaon, one of the five constituencies going to polls, Singhal said there will be no development in the constituency if voters didn’t vote for the BJP and in contrast, the work on an embankment will begin within two months if they voted for the ruling party. The BJP is supporting alliance partner UPPL’s candidate Jiron Basumatary, who has been fielded from Gossaigaon. During the campaigning Singhal made it clear that voting for Basumatary was same as voting for the BJP. “Claps are not enough, you have to give votes. Give from one hand and take from another. First you give then I will give you/return the favour. If tomorrow people from the Congress, BPF (Bodoland People’s Front) and AIUDF (All India United Democratic Front) come and explain otherwise, and ask for votes, then the work of the embankment will not begin,” Singhal had said. BPF and AIUDF are regional opposition parties. “If you support the government, then you will receive more benefits. If you support the BPF, Congress, AIUDF, you will not receive these benefits. Do you want the embankment or not?” the minister asked voters. Also Read: EC warns Assam CM over model code violation, asks him to be carefulAfter going through the transcripts of the speech, the EC held that Singhal had violated provisions of the model code of conduct. “The commission is of the view that by making the above statements, and conducting election meeting without obtaining permission from competent authority, you have violated provisions of the model code of conduct,” the notice issued by the poll body said. Bye-election to Gossaigaon seat is being held since the sitting MLA (Member of Legislative Assembly) from ruling United Peoples Party Liberal (UPPL) Majendra Narzary died due to Covid-19 related complications. Besides Gossaigaon, Thawra, Mariani, Tamulpur and Bhabanipur are going to polls on October 30. Campaigning for the bye-elections ended on Wednesday evening. Counting of votes will take place on November 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-himanta-ec-serves-notice-to-assam-minister-for-poll-code-violation-101635394664191.html
28-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri district magistrate removed, 12 IAS officers transferred in UP||The Uttar Pradesh government has removed the district magistrate of Lakhimpur Kheri, where eight people died in violence on October 3. Along with this, the state government has also transferred 12 IAS officers.Mahendra Bahadur Singh will be the new DM of Lakhimpur Kheri, Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan reported.The opposition parties have been attacking UP government over the violence that took place in Lakhimpur Kheri when a car belonging to the convoy of Union minister Ajay Mishra 'Teni' allegedly ran over a group of farmers in the district. Four farmers were among those killed in the incident.Union minister's son Ashish is among the prime accused in the incident. He was arrested by the cops following a series of interrogation summons, drawing sharp criticism from the opposition who alleged that police action was delayed in view of the political status of the accused.The Supreme Court has taken up the case suo motu and even pulled up the Uttar Pradesh Police for unsatisfactory progress in the probe.Meanwhile, the UP government has also transferred 12 IAS officers. Chandrabhushan Tripathi will be the new DM of Hamirpur, Arun Kumar will take over as Mau district magistrate and Sheshmani Pandey will be Amethi's new DM, Livehindustan reported.On Tuesday, the Yogi Adityanath government had 12 IPS officers, including transferred inspector generals of Kanpur and Agra.Rajesh Kumar Srivastava was shifted as commandant of 41 battalion PAC in Ghaziabad, Tribhuvan Singh was made commandant of 30 battalion PAC in Gonda, Shashikant was posted as SP Public Grievances cell at DGP headquarters while Ram Sewak Gautam was made Deputy Commissioner of Police at Kanpur police commissionerate. Similarly, Awadesh Singh was made new SP Railway, Gorakhpur, Pankaj Kumar Pandey was transferred as SP of police headquarters in Lucknow and Shri Prakash Dwivedi was shifted as SP UP Power Corporation Limited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-district-magistrate-removed-12-ias-officers-transferred-in-up-101635393957207.html
28-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: J&K Police kill terrorist in Baramulla district and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Terrorist, involved in killing of two labourers in J&K, gunned down in BaramullaThe Jammu and Kashmir police gunned down a terrorist during an encounter between security forces and terrorists in Baramulla district. The terrorist, identified as Javed Ahmed Wani, had assisted terrorist Gulzar who was responsible in the murder of the two labourers from Bihar, the police said on Thursday. Read moreWidespread rain likely over peninsular India till month endSouth peninsular India is likely to receive widespread and heavy rain till October 30, according to the India Meteorological Department. A low pressure area is lying over central parts of South Bay of Bengal with the associated cyclonic circulation extending up to 5.8 km above mean sea level. Read more90%+ in Delhi have Covid antibodies: 6th sero studyMore than 90% of Delhi’s population likely has some form of protection from Sars-Cov-2, the preliminary findings of the latest serological survey in the Capital suggest. Read more‘Europe had most number of Covid cases, deaths last week’: WHO expresses concernThe World Health Organization (WHO) has expressed concerns over the worsening coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic situation in Europe. On Wednesday, the UN health body said that Europe had the maximum number of cases and deaths due to the viral disease over the last week, with a double-digit percentage surge in each. Read moreHrithik Roshan on Aryan Khan's bail denial: 'If these are the facts, it is truly sad'Hrithik Roshan has once again showed his support for Shah Rukh Khan's son, Aryan Khan. He has called his bail denial, ‘truly sad’. Aryan was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau on October 3 after their team busted an alleged drug party aboard a cruise ship off the shore of Mumbai. Read more'If he opens with Rohit Sharma...': Harbhajan Singh suggests new opening pair for India's next match against New ZealandVeteran spinner Harbhajan Singh shared some words of advice for Team India ahead of their tie against New Zealand at the ongoing T20 World Cup 2021 in UAE and Oman. Read moreA page from Hina Khan’s gym diaries is all about fitness and fashionHina Khan starts early when it comes to working out. The snippets of her gym diaries often make their way on her Instagram profile in the form of pictures and videos. The actor never misses her workout routines and it shows on her. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-j-k-police-kill-terrorist-in-baramulla-district-101635390516390.html
28-10-2021||India||BJP will remain powerful for decades, predicts poll strategist Prashant Kishor||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will continue to be a force to reckon with in Indian politics for decades to come, political strategist Prashant Kishor said during a visit to Goa. The head of the Indian Political Action Committee (IPAC), a poll consultancy firm, believes the BJP will have to be fought for “many decades”.Kishor’s profile as a poll strategist shot up after he helped the Trinamool Congress (TMC), led by Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, retain power earlier this year by giving Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s BJP a rare snub in the state elections.Prashant Kishor is now in Goa, assisting the TMC in finding a foothold to contest elections.While predicting a strong presence for the BJP in the decades to come, Kishor hit out at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, saying he was probably under an illusion that it’s a matter of time until Modi’s power wanes. “The BJP is going to be in the centre of Indian politics, whether they win, whether they lose - like it was for the first 40 years for the Congress. The BJP is going nowhere. Once you secure 30% vote at the India level, you are not going away in a hurry,” Prashant Kishore said. “So do not ever get into this trap that people are getting angry and they will throw away Modi. Maybe they will throw away Modi, but the BJP is not going anywhere. You have to fight it out for the next many decades,” he said at an interaction hosted at the Museum of Goa. “That is where the problem lies with Rahul Gandhi. Probably, he thinks that it is just a matter of time when people will throw him (Narendra Modi) away. That’s not happening,” Kishor said. “Unless you examine, understand and take cognizance of his (Modi’s) strength, you will never be able to put [in place] a counter to defeat him,” Prashant Kishor said. “The problem that I see is that most people are not spending enough time on understanding his strengths, understanding what is making him popular. Only if you know, you can find a counter.” Also Read: Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee to begin 3-day Goa visit from todayOn how the Congress party sees the future of Narendra Modi and the BJP, Kishor said, “You go and talk to any Congress leader or to any regional leader, they will say, ‘it’s just a matter of time, people are getting fed up, there will be an anti-incumbency [wave] and people will throw him off’. I doubt it. It’s not happening.”The election strategist cited the example of how the Modi government announced massive increases in fuel prices without “any apparent discontent against the man (Modi)”.Prashant Kishor pointed to a fragmented voter base in the country, saying, “If you look at the electorate level, it is a fight between one-third and two-third. Only one third people are voting for the BJP or wanting to support the BJP. The problem is that the two-third side is so fragmented that it is divided into 10, 12 or 15 political parties, and that is primarily because of the decline of the Congress.”“It’s because the [support for] the Congress has gone down, that 65% has got fragmented, leading to a lot of individuals and smaller parties,” he said. The IPAC has begun surveys on behalf of the TMC in Goa to help the party expand beyond Bengal. In Goa, the TMC has taken on board former Congressman Luizinho Faleiro to lead the party in elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-will-remain-powerful-for-decades-predicts-poll-strategist-prashant-kishor-101635390104005.html
28-10-2021||India||Terrorist, involved in killing of two labourers in J&K, gunned down in Baramulla||The Jammu and Kashmir police gunned down a terrorist during an encounter between security forces and terrorists in Baramulla district. The terrorist, identified as Javed Ahmed Wani, had assisted terrorist Gulzar who was responsible in the murder of the two labourers from Bihar, the police said on Thursday.According to the J&K police, terrorists fired on the additional director of police (ADP) of Army and Police in Cherdari, Baramulla causing alert parties to retaliate. At least one pistol, one loaded magazine and one Pakistani grenade was recovered from the terrorist’s possession.“Killed terrorist is hybrid type, identified as Javed Ah Wani of Kulgam district and he has assisted terrorist Gulzar (who was killed on 20th Oct) in killing two labourers from Bihar in Wanpoh. He was on a mission to target one shopkeeper in Baramulla,” IGP Kashmir Vijay Kumar was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Last week, the Kulgam police had killed two Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorists who were part of a group involved in the recent civilian killings of two labourers from Bihar at Wanpoh area of the district. Incriminating materials, arms and ammunition including 01 AK series rifle and a pistol recovered from their possession were taken case records for further investigation.A case was registered under relevant sections of law and further investigation is in progress, the police had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorist-involved-in-killing-of-two-labourers-in-j-k-gunned-down-in-baramulla-101635388958214.html
28-10-2021||India||Widespread rain likely over peninsular India till month end||South peninsular India is likely to receive widespread and heavy rain till October 30, according to the India Meteorological Department.A low pressure area is lying over central parts of South Bay of Bengal with the associated cyclonic circulation extending up to 5.8 km above mean sea level. It is likely to move westwards during the next 3 days. A trough in easterlies is running from the cyclonic circulation associated with this low pressure area to northwest Bay of Bengal. Under the influence of these systems, heavy rainfall at a few places with very heavy rainfall at isolated places is very likely over Coastal Tamil Nadu till October 30 with isolated extremely heavy rain likely tomorrow, the weather department said.The department has also forecast Isolated heavy rainfall over the remaining parts of Tamil Nadu, coastal Karnataka, Kerala and Mahe till October 31.Mainly dry weather was likely to prevail over the remaining parts of the country during the next 5-6 days.Also Read | Delhi: In first for the season, temp below 15°C as AQI worsensThe southwest monsoon withdrew from the entire country on October 25, making it the seventh most-delayed retreat since 1975, and with the setting in of north-easterly winds, northeast monsoon commenced over south peninsular India.In October so far, 38% excess rain with 206% excess over northwest India; 20% excess over east and northeast India; 15% excess over central India and 23% excess over south peninsula, has been recorded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/widespread-rain-likely-over-peninsular-india-till-month-end-101635389743740.html
28-10-2021||India||Strategic Forces Command conducts Agni V trial, hits target 5,000 km away||The Strategic Forces Command (SFC) conducted the first user trial of the Agni V ballistic missile from APJ Abdul Kalam Island in Odisha on Wednesday evening to validate the night operations with the missile reaching its target 5000 km away within the stipulated time.The missile, which was tracked by telemetry and radar ships of the Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO), took perfect flight trajectory as per accorded parameters and hit the target within 15 to 18 minutes. This was the eighth successful trial of the ballistic missile, which is at the core of India’s minimum deterrence in the background of Chinese increased intermediate range ballistic missile capability and Pakistan’s nuclear ambition.According to people aware of the development, the Agni V missile, which flew at 7.50 pm, was of standard configuration including the warhead weight. The target was hit within the accepted circular error of probability with both the user and the developer satisfied with the result. The motive behind a night test was to test whether the user, SFC, could handle the weapon in day and night operational mode. It is understood that the missile is fully developed and inducted with the SFC at liberty to undertake further trials in case of requirement. The Agni V missile is a three stage solid fueled surface to surface missile with advanced guidance systems.The Agni V test comes after the DRDO successfully test-fired the new generation Agni Prime missile from Odisha on June 28, 2021 with range between 1000 to 2000 kilometers. The new generation missile will ultimately replace all the Agni missiles within this range as the Prime series is more efficient, maneuverable, less cumbersome and a highly accurate platform using both composite fiber and canister casing system. The missile can be fired from mobile launchers and trains, which helps in survival of the weapon for second strike as India is committed to no first use policy.The Agni series of missiles are part of India’s nuclear triad with capacity and capability to deliver nuclear weapons from air through fighters like Rafale and even Mirage 2000 H and from sea through ballistic missile submarines like INS Arihant.While India is expected to commission its second ballistic missile submarine INS Arighat during its 75 year of independence, the developers are also working on a sea launched ballistic missile which has a similar range as the Agni V missile. With a nuclear submarine carrying a missile of 5000 km range, the Indian nuclear triad is expected to cap at this range till such time the government decides to go for longer ranges in case the security scenario deteriorates in Asia. The missile developers on their part are confident that they can deliver far beyond the 5000 km range cap.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/strategic-forces-command-conducts-agni-v-trial-hits-target-5000-km-away-101635389131043.html
28-10-2021||India||Amarinder Singh to meet Amit Shah in Delhi today. Know why it's significant||Former Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh will meet Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi on Thursday to discuss the issues related to Centre's farm laws due to which farmers, mostly from the northern state, are protesting near Delhi border. Singh held a press conference on Wednesday where he announced the formation of a new political party and about his meeting with Shah.“Tomorrow I am going to meet home minister Shah and 25-30 people will go with me,” he said.The Congress leader's gesture was welcomed by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Party general secretary Tarun Chugh said the Centre has been always open to talks with farmers and has welcomed any intervention to resolve the deadlock.Singh's meeting with Shah assumes significance as he has not ruled out the possibility of an alliance with the BJP ahead of the assembly polls in Punjab provided the farmers' issues are resolved.“I think I can help in finding a solution as I have been the chief minister of Punjab and am also an agriculturist,” Singh said yesterday.The BJP too had reciprocated that the party would wait for him to announce his party; however, said it was open to alliance with anyone who puts the nation’s interest first.Meanwhile, addressing the media in Chandigarh on Wednesday, Amarinder Singh did not share the name of his political outfit, but said they will contest the upcoming elections from all 117 assembly seats in Punjab."When the time comes we will fight all 117 seats, whether we fight in adjustment or we fight on our own only time will tell... Plenty of Congress workers is coming in... We are waiting for an appropriate moment," Amarinder Singh said.Singh resigned last month as the chief minister of Punjab and announced that he will be quitting the Congress after months of a rift with party's state unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu.Also Read | Only ‘parties’ held under Capt for over 4 years, Mann’s dig at ex-CMHe had resigned ahead of Congress legislature party meeting which was called to find a solution to end infighting in the ruling Congress in the state. Singh was replaced by Charanjit Singh Channi as the chief minister of the state.Punjab is slated to go through assembly polls in 2022. In 2017 Assembly polls, Congress had won an absolute majority in the state by winning 77 seats and ousted the SAD-BJP government after 10 years.Aam Aadmi Party emerged as the second-largest party winning 20 seats in 117-member Punjab Legislative Assembly.The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) could only manage to win 15 seats while the BJP secured three seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amarinder-singh-to-meet-amit-shah-in-delhi-today-know-why-it-s-significant-101635386544950.html
28-10-2021||India||Assam further relaxes Covid-19 curbs, will come into effect from today||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government in Assam on Wednesday introduced further relaxations in its existing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) restrictions amid an improvement in the pandemic situation. According to an order issued by the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA), the relaxations will come into effect from Thursday.As per the order, the state government has now allowed 200 people with at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine to attend marriages and religious functions. Up to 100 people are allowed to attend funerals and last rites.The ASDMA order also said that the district disaster management authorities will fix the limit of gatherings for open spaces depending on the pandemic situation in their jurisdiction and it will not be over 50% of seating capacity in closed venues.Earlier, the Assam government on Tuesday cut the number of people attending marriages to a maximum of 50 people who had taken a single vaccine dose, from 200 fully inoculated people in the previous order, which was issued on October 1. Fifty people were allowed to attend the last rites as per this order.While on Tuesday, the state government also relaxed the timings of the night curfew. The night curfew will now be imposed from 11 pm to 5 am, instead of beginning at 10 pm before, as per an ASDMA order on Tuesday.Cinema halls and auditoriums are allowed to operate with 50% capacity, the above order added.Assam has so far reported 609,506 cases, 5,987 deaths, 599,681 recoveries and 2,491 active cases due to the coronavirus disease.On Wednesday, the state reported 244 new cases, while 391 more patients recovered and six succumbed to the viral disease. This is the first time this week that the daily tally dropped below the 300-mark. Previously, Assam saw 139 cases last Sunday (October 24).In total, authorities in Assam have administered 27,497,135 vaccine doses to eligible beneficiaries of which nearly 20 million have received the first dose while the remaining 7,519,601 are fully vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-further-relaxes-covid-19-curbs-will-come-into-effect-from-today-101635382767362.html
28-10-2021||India||PM Modi to attend 18th ASEAN-India summit virtually today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will attend the 18th ASEAN-India Summit on Thursday via video conferencing. As per the official release, the East Asia Summit is the premier leaders-led forum in the Indo-Pacific. Since its inception in 2005, it has played a significant role in the strategic and geopolitical evolution of East Asia.Apart from the 10 ASEAN member states, East Asia Summit includes India, China, Japan, the Republic of Korea, Australia, New Zealand, the United States, and Russia, the release said.India, being a founding member of the East Asia Summit, is committed to strengthening the East Asia Summit and making it more effective for dealing with contemporary challenges.According to the release, PM Modi will review the status of the ASEAN-India Strategic Partnership at the 18th ASEAN-India Summit. He is participating in the summit at the invitation of the Sultan of Brunei.Prime Minister will take stock of progress made in key areas including Covid-19, health, trade and commerce, connectivity, and education and culture.Important regional and international developments including post-pandemic economic recovery will also be discussed.ASEAN-India summits are held annually and provide the opportunity for India and ASEAN to engage at the highest level.PM Modi attended the 17th ASEAN-India Summit held virtually in November last year. The latest edition will be the ninth ASEAN-India Summit to be attended by him.ASEAN-India Strategic Partnership stands on a strong foundation of shared geographical, historical, and civilisational ties. ASEAN is central to our Act East Policy and our wider vision of the Indo-Pacific. The year 2022 will mark 30 years of ASEAN-India relations.India and ASEAN have several dialogue mechanisms which meet regularly, including a summit, ministerial meetings, and senior officials' meetings. external affairs minister, Dr S Jaishankar attended the ASEAN-India foreign ministers' meeting and EAS foreign ministers' meeting in August 2021 virtually.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-attend-18th-asean-india-summit-virtually-today-101635382904748.html
28-10-2021||India||Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee to begin 3-day Goa visit from today||West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo Mamata Banerjee will begin her three-day visit to Goa from Thursday, months ahead of the assembly elections in the state."The West Bengal chief minister is scheduled to arrive in Goa around 5.30 pm on October 28," a TMC spokesperson told news agency PTI on Wednesday. "During her visit, Banerjee will meet intellectuals, thinkers, professionals and others," the spokesperson added. However, the TMC has refused to share Banerjee's detailed program in the coastal state.Two days before her visit to Goa, Mamata Banerjee's posters and hoardings with her face on them were vandalised on Tuesday.Also Read| Mamata Banerjee posters in Goa vandalised ahead of her visit, TMC blames BJP"The only woman chief minister (in the country at present) has been insulted. We all know this is not the culture of Goa," TMC MP Derek O'Brien said on Wednesday. He claimed that the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Goa was damaging local businesses, as the contractors will have to pay from their pocket for all the vandalised hoardings.Days before Banerjee's visit, the TMC released a chargesheet against the present BJP government in Goa as well as previous dispensations. The 10-point chargesheet, released on Monday, stated that Goa was the eighth worst among all states across the country concerning unemployment and the state economy was in such a dangerous condition that the average resident couldn't even purchase a house.Also Read| TMC releases ‘chargesheet’ against Goa govt, calls it a double engine disasterFive out of 12 talukas in Goa are facing a shortage of potable water, the chargesheet said, adding that Goa was seeing state-sponsored environmental destruction as the BJP government is backing the Vasco-Mollem double-track work and construction of Mopa airport.Last week, Mamata Banerjee, while announcing her maiden visit to Goa, urged all opposition parties to join her and defeat the ruling BJP. "As I prepare for my maiden visit to Goa on 28th, I call upon all individuals, organizations and political parties to join forces to defeat the BJP and their divisive agenda. The people of Goa have suffered enough over the last 10 years," she tweeted.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-cm-mamata-banerjee-to-begin-3-day-goa-visit-from-today-101635379165987.html
28-10-2021||India||President Kovind to visit Gujarat, launch housing units for economically weaker sections||President Ram Nath Kovind will embark on a three-day visit to Gujarat on Thursday. According to a press release issued by the Rashtrapati Bhavan, the President of India will visit Gujarat on October 28 and will be there till October 30. The PTI news agency, citing a state government spokesperson, said that Kovind will be interacting with judges of the Gujarat high court over “high tea” at the Raj Bhavan in Gandhinagar this evening.President Kovind will be inaugurating a housing scheme project for the economically weaker section (EWS) of the society in the Bhavnagar district on October 29, according to his office. As per reports, the President will later leave for Ahmedabad airport to fly to Mahuva on a private helicopter. There, spiritual leader Morari Bapu will remain present to receive the President at the helipad around 11:45am. According to the Rashtrapati Bhavan release, President Kovind will then visit Shree Chitrakutdham, the ashram of Morari Babu at Talgajarda in the Bhavnagar district.President Kovind is also expected to inaugurate more than 1,000 affordable housing units for the economically weaker sections in the presence of Gujarat chief minister Bhupendra Patel. Five families will receive the keys for their affordable housing units from the President himself.Earlier this week, President Kovind had congratulated newly appointed ambassadors of four nations at the Rashtrapati Bhavan, in the first such event held in physical mode after the Covid-19 pandemic. The President accepted credentials from ambassadors of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Republic of Slovenia, Israel, and the Arab Republic of Egypt in Ashok Hall, Rashtrapati Bhavan on Tuesday. An official release informed that the President also conveyed his personal regards to the leaderships of the countries through the ambassadors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-kovind-to-visit-gujarat-launch-housing-units-for-economically-weaker-sections-101635378809936.html
28-10-2021||India||Aadhaar hackathon 2021 begins today: All you need to know about it||The Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) will hold a hackathon starting Thursday to find innovative solutions to enhance the experience of the residents and the way they interface with enrollment and authentication software platforms. The hackathon will target the young innovators who are still at various engineering institutes and eager to step into the real world.According to a statement issued by the Ministry of Electronics and IT (MeitY) last week, the Hackathon will commence on October 28 at midnight.So far, UIDAI has received more than 2700 registrations from engineering students.Theme of the hackathonAccording MeitY, Aadhaar Hackathon 2021 is themed around two topics. The first theme is around "Enrolment and Update", which essentially covers some of the real-life challenges being faced by the residents while updating their address.The second theme of the Hackathon is around the "Identity and Authentication" solution offered by UIDAI. Under this theme, UIDAI is soliciting innovative solutions to prove Identity without sharing the Aadhaar number or any demographics information.It is also looking for innovative applications around face authentication API - the newly launched authentication modality of UIDAI. The objective is to popularize some of the existing and new APIs to solve the needs of residents.Rules for participation in hackathonUIDAI has created a portal giving details about the hackathon. Students from all categories of engineering institutes, including IITs, NITs, NIRF and top-ranked colleges, have been invited to take part in the hackathon.The rules listed by the UIDAI are:• Maximum of 5 members can be formed as part of the team.• More than one team can participate from an Engineering college.• A student cannot be a member of more than one team.• All the team members should be from the same Engineering college.• Participants must have a valid Aadhaar number to register.• Each team has to solve at minimum one problem statement from any of the themes to confirm their inclusion.The participants will be allowed to use the language of their choice to solve the problem, according to UIDAI website. The solution must be submitted on or before October 31 (2300 hrs).The prizeThe winners of each theme would be rewarded by UIDAI through prize money and other lucrative benefits. The first prize is ₹300,000, second prize has a cash value of ₹200,000, while the third prize is of ₹100,000 (for two teams).The UIDAI said that members of the winning teams may get an opportunity to work with Aadhaar team to create next generation identity and authentication platform under the Aadhaar 2.0 initiative. The winning team members will also get an invitation to participate in the first ever global conference on Aadhaar 2.0.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aadhaar-hackathon-2021-begins-today-all-you-need-to-know-about-it-101635381299112.html
28-10-2021||NA||Breaking news: Over 104 crore Covid vaccine doses administered in India||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:NCB writes to Mumbai police urging Prabhakar Sail to appear for recording his statementNCB Deputy DG Gyaneshwar Singh, who is heading Special Enquiry Team probing allegations against agency officer Sameer Wankhede in drugs-on-cruise case, writes to Mumbai Police urging to ask Prabhakar Sail to appear before it tomorrow to record his statement & submit evidences https://t.co/6CGkiwCtUdThe NCB's deputy director general Gyaneshwar Singh, currently heading the special enquiry team probing allegations against agency officer Sameer Wankhede in the drugs-on-cruise case, writes to Mumbai Police urging to ask Prabhakar Sail to appear tomorrow for recording his statement and submit evidences, reports ANI.Delhi police begins clearing blockades at Tikri border to resume traffic in one carriagewayThe Delhi Police said that the process of removing blockades at the Tikri border on the Delhi side has been initiated to resume traffic on one carriageway. However, no confirmation on when the when the movement of vehicles woudl actually begin.'Modi's first visit to Rome as PM, first in-person meeting with Italy's Draghi', says Indian ambassador to ItalyThough the visit is primarily for G20 Leaders' Summit under the Italian presidency, PM Modi will have a meeting with Italian PM Mario Draghi. It's going to be their first in-person meeting though they recently had a telephonic conversation: Indian envoy to Italy, in Rome pic.twitter.com/Op9ffCRC5tIndian ambassador to Italy Neena Malhotra said that PM Modi's visit to Rome would be his first after taking office, reports ANI. She also said that the visit was the first by an Indian PM in almost 12 years.Covid-19 vaccination drive: Cumulative doses cross 104-crore mark#Unite2FightCorona#LargestVaccineDrive➡️ India’s cumulative vaccination coverage crosses 104 crore landmark milestone.➡️More than 66 lakh Vaccine doses administered today till 7 pm.https://t.co/Hh0xuP9bsW pic.twitter.com/4zmPt7vfx2The cumulative number of doses administered under the country's Covid-19 vaccination drive crossed the 104-crore mark, the Union health ministry said. So far, 1,047,352,837 doses of the vaccine have been administered.Nepal army chief to visit India from November 9 to 12Nepal Army Chief General Prabhu Ram Sharma to visit India between November 9 and 12, reports ANI. "During his visit, General Sharma will be conferred upon the honorary rank of General of Indian Army. He will also meet his counterpart General MM Naravane and other service chiefs," the Nepali army said.Commerce minister Piyush Goyal says working with G20 members to prepare for PM Modi's visit to RomeUnion minister of commerce and Industry Piyush Goyal said that the ministry is “actively working with G20 members to prepare for PM Narendra Modi’s visit to Rome for leaders summit.”He also said that several multilateral and bilateral meetings were held with the emerging economies, EU, UK, Germany, France etc to “highlight India’s stand.”Further, Sherpa meeting would be held from October 28  to 30 to prepare for the leaders summit.Maharashtra reports 1,418 new Covid-19 cases, 36 deathsMaharashtra reported 1,418 new Covid-19 cases and 36 deaths as the state's tally reached 6,607,954 and the death toll climbed to 140,134. Mumbai added 324 new cases and six deaths to the tally. Shah Rukh Khan's fans celebrate outside his residence after bail granted to Aryan KhanMaharashtra: Fans of actor Shah Rukh Khan celebrate outside his residence 'Mannat' in Mumbai after Bombay High Court granted bail to his son Aryan in the drugs-on-cruise case pic.twitter.com/QytqfgFYnHElated fans of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan celebrated outside his residence after the Bombay High Court granted bail to the actor's son Aryan Khan in the drugs case, reports ANI.India celebrated 2022 as India-ASEAN friendship year to mark partnership with group, says PM ModiAttended the 18th ASEAN-India Summit today. Exchanged views with ASEAN partners on regional and global issues. India values its Strategic Partnership with ASEAN. To commemorate 30 years of ASEAN-India Partnership, we decided to celebrate 2022 as 'India-ASEAN Friendship Year'.PM Modi said that India celebrated 2022 as India-ASEAN friendship year to commemorate the partnership with the group after attending the 18th ASEAN-India summit.Kerala sees 7,738 new Covid-19 cases, 57 deaths in last 24 hoursKerala reported 7,738 new Covid-19 cases and 57 deaths in last 24 hours. The active caseload stood at 78,122.West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee reaches Goa, to stay there for 3 to 4 daysWest Bengal CM and TMC chief Mamata Banerjee reaches Goa; visual from Goa airport in Dabolim"She will be staying in the state for 3-4 days," says party leader Lavoo Mamledar pic.twitter.com/6kUpDH7QKVWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has arrived in Goa and is expected to stay in the state for the next three to four days, reports ANI. Delhi reports 42 Covid-19 cases, no new related deaths in last 24 hoursWith 42 new Covid-19 cases and no related deaths in the last 24 hours, Delhi's total caseload reached 1,439,751 and the death toll climbed to 25,091, a health department bulletin showed.Thane court issues non-bailable warrant against Param Bir Singh in extortion caseA court in Thane has issued non-bailable warrant against former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh in the extortion case, reports ANI.Arvind Kejriwal interacts with farmers in Mansa, Punjab Delhi CM and AAP Convenor Arvind Kejriwal interacted with farmers in Mansa, Punjab. "It pains everyone when we hear about farmers dying by suicide. After 70 years of Independence, if our farmers are dying by suicide it is a shame for us," he says. pic.twitter.com/bTkKRSLLDIDelhi CM Arvind Kejriwal interacted with farmers in Mansa, Punjab and said, “It pains everyone when we hear about farmers dying by suicide. After 70 years of Independence, if our farmers are dying by suicide it is a shame for us,” reports ANI.Kiran Gosavi, NCB witness in cruise ship drug case, sent to police custody till Nov 5Pune court remands Kiran Gosavi, NCB witness in cruise ship drug seizure case, in police custody till November 5 in a cheating case, reports PTI.Govt to launch ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ door-to-door vaccination campaign on Nov 2: Report'Har Ghar Dastak' door-to-door vaccination campaign that will run over the next one month for full vaccination in poor performing districts will be launched on November 2 on the occasion of Dhanwantari Diwas: Official sourcesThe 'Har Ghar Dastak' door-to-door vaccination campaign would be launched on November 2 on the occasion of Dhanwantri Diwas, reports ANI citing official sources.Aryan Khan, Munmun Dhamecha, Arbaaz Merchant granted bailAryan Khan, Munmun Dhamecha and Arbaaz Merchant were granted bail by the Bombay High Court. The court also said that a detailed order would follow tomorrow. Aryan and other two won't be released from Arthur road jail till the detail order comes.ASG Anil Singh says Aryan Khan found in conscious possession of drugs, difficult to prove conspiracyASG Anil Singh said that Aryan Khan was found in “conscious possession” of drugs and he was connected with drug peddlers and it was of commercial quantity. “The arrest cannot be said to be illegal. Four hours cannot be called a delay. Conspiracy is difficult to prove. Only conspirators know how they have considered. We have WhatsApp chats which we will place on record,” Singh said. “They have all conspired together and is difficult to prove conspiracy only the conspirator knows everything,” he added.‘Metropolitan Magistrate has seen the arrest grounds, no illegality in arrest’, says ASG “The Metropolitan Magistrate have seen our remand application and given us police custody. He has seen the arrest grounds and that there were no illegality in arrest,” ASG Anil Singh said about the NCB's arrest of Aryan Khan.“There are three orders of remand they have not challenged and now they can't say the arrest was illegal,” Singh added.Drugs-on-cruise case: ASG says no recovery of drugs doesn't mean no offence committedASG Anil Singh said that no recovery of drugs did not mean that the person has not committed the offence, during the hearing on Aryan Khan's bail plea in Bombay HC.PM Modi to call on Pope Francis in Vatican, unsure meeting one-to-one or delegation level: Foreign secretary ShringlaPM Narendra Modi will be calling on Pope Francis at the Vatican. It is still to be finalised whether it will be one to one or delegation-level meeting. Normally, there are some delegation members in such meetings: Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla https://t.co/7T27v6aG87 pic.twitter.com/glJEIaHi9fForeign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will call on Pope Francis in Vatican. However, it is not confirmed if the meeting would be one-to-one or at delegation level, reports ANI. Drugs-on-cruise case: Bail is not a rule but exception under NDPS act, says ASG Anil SinghASG Anil Singh, appearing for the NCB in the drugs-on-cruise case, said that bail was not a rule under the NDPS act but an exception. “They have argued bail is a rule. Bail is not a rule. The Supreme court Judgements say under NDPS act, bail is not the rule but exception,” Singh said.“SC says it’s a heinous crime worse than culpable homidcide and has to be dealt with stringently,” he added.Drugs-on-cruise case: ASG Singh says Aryan Khan was aware of possession of drugsASG Anil Singh said that the accused had initially claimed that they were not found in possession of contraband substances and later said they possessed small quantity.“Arbaaz has been found in possession accused number two. Aryan has knowledge, he was aware and it was consumption for both. They specifically said it was for cruise journey.”‘Can’t keep mindlessly thriving towards development' says Aditya Thackeray“Cannot keep mindlessly thriving towards development, we need to rethink highways, mines and railway lines through forests and biodiversity rich areas,” says Aditya Thackeray.Aditya Thackeray says climate change affects vulnerable people“Greatest inequity of climate changes is that it impacts people who are the most vulnerable. Famines, droughts and other climate change impacts hits mostly people who are from the poor regions of the planet, pollution impacts working class people. We are also looking towards helping in achieving net zero emission and also focus on our own habits to help the world fight climate change. We have the power to become a solar energy powerhouse in the world. We need sustainable development,” Aditya Thackeray said.Bombay HC disposes Wankhede's petition, says he will be given three-days time before any coercive action The Bombay High Court disposed NCB's Sameer Wankhede's petition for interim relief from coercive action and said Wankhede will be given three working days notice before any coercive action.Aryan Khan regular consumer of drugs, in touch with peddlers, says ASG Anil Singh arguing for NCBAdditional Solicitor General Anil Singh said that Aryan Khan was not the first time consumer but a regular consumer of drugs and said Khan was also in touch with peddlers. “Aryan Khan was found in conscious possession of contraband. He has accepted in his statement and panchanama. If a person might have not committed a crime but attempted it itself is a crime,” Singh said.'Concerned about healthcare', says Aditya Thackeray on Maharashtra's cautious approach“We have been slow on opening up because we are concerned about healthcare, we do not want people to fall ill. This is why we are stressing on double vaccination and other Covid-19 preventative measures,” says Maharashtra tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray.Maharashtra tourism minister Aditya Thackeray sees V-shaped recovery for tourism sectorMaharashtra tourism minister Aditya Thackeray said that he sees a V-shaped recovery for tourism sector while speaking to Hindustan Times, during the Tourism Conclave.NCB's Sameer Wankhede says ‘feeling personally attacked by state’, demands interim protection against coercive actionNCB's Sameer Wankhede, after moving the Bombay HC against Maharashtra state government's inquiry against him, said that he was being “personally attacked” by the state. “My apprehension is they will arrest me. I want interim protection in the form of no coercive action,” he said. He also wanted the state inquiry to be transferred.The government through Public Prosecutor said, “We have received four applications. We are just doing preliminary enquiry.”NCB's Sameer Wankhede moves Bombay HC against Maharashtra state govt's inquiryNCB's Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede has moved the Bombay High Court questioning the inquiry by the Maharashtra state government following the allegations against him by NCP leader and state minister Nawab Malik.Mumbai Police, which has begun an inquiry against Wankhede, based on the complaint of Prabhakar Sail, recorded Sail’s statement on Wednesday.Delhi's sero-prevalence at 97% after sixth sero survey, says health minister JainCOVID19 | Sero-prevalence at 97% in the sixth sero-survey conducted in Delhi: Health Minister Satyendar Jain(Data source : Delhi Government) pic.twitter.com/IBfaorPLFmDelhi health minister Satyendar Jain said that the sero prevalence in the national capital after the sixth round of sero survey was found to be at 97%, reports ANI.Lakhbir Singh's family submits memorandum to Union home ministry, asks for compensation, CBI probe into murderThe family members of Lakhbir Singh, victim of the murder at Singhu border October 15, gave a memorandum to the OSD to Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi.The family is demanding a compensation of ₹50 lakhs, job assurance and a CBI probe, reports ANI.Aryan Khan's counsel Mukul Rohatgi, Satish Maneshinde reach Bombay HCAryan Khan's counsel Mukul Rohatgi and Satish Maneshinde reached the Bombay High Court. On Wednesday, Aryan Khan's bail plea hearing was adjourned to post-lunch session today.Mumbai Police summons BJP's Manish Bhanushali, witness in drugs-on-cruise caseBJP's Manish Bhanushali, a witness in drugs on cruise ship case, has been summoned for questioning: Mumbai Police(file photo) pic.twitter.com/5RcDppMNGvThe Mumbai Police has summoned BJP's Manish Bhanushali for questioning in connection with the drugs-on-cruise case, in which he is one of the witnesses, reports ANI. Russia sees record spike in daily Covid tally at 40,096 new casesRussia on Thursday saw a record spike in its daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after 40,096 new cases and 1,159 more deaths were reported. 3 killed after ambulance rams into stationary truck in MP's JabalpurThree people were killed while three others were injured after an ambulance rammed into a stationary truck on a national highway in Jabalpur district of Madhya Pradesh on Thursday. PM Modi addresses 18th India-ASEAN summitPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday attended the 18th ASEAN-India Summit via video conferencing. Addressing the event, Modi said that mutual cooperation will strengthen ties during difficult Covid time. Daughter reports murder to police, gets father arrested in Madhya PradeshA 35-year-old man was arrested on Tuesday after his 13-year-old daughter informed police that her father allegedly killed a friend after an argument and buried his body in a forest in Madhya Pradesh’s Chhindawara district. Read moreNCB official Sameer Wankhede's wife writes to Maharashtra CMKranti Redkar Wankhede, Sameer Wankhede's wife writes to Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray - "...We're being insulted before people every day. A woman's dignity is being toyed with in Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj' state. Had Balasaheb been here today, he wouldn't have liked it..." pic.twitter.com/rDOvzwCgBcKranti Redkar Wankhede, the wife of NCB official Sameer Wankhede, wrote a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday where she said that her family were being insulted. Kranti's letter comes amid a slew of allegations levelled against her husband Sameer Wankhede, who is the investigator in the Aryan Khan drugs case. SC paves way for declaration of NEET-UG result, admits National Testing Agency’s pleaThe Supreme Court on Thursday permitted the National Testing Agency (NTA) to declare the National Eligibility Entrance Test (NEET) results for admission to undergraduate medical courses across India. West Bengal governor Dhankar discharged from AIIMS DelhiWest Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar discharged from AIIMS Delhi where he was admitted after testing positive for Malaria. "...Leaving AIIMS in a state of fitness. Greatly appreciate professionalism by AIIMS Doctors & Nursing Staff. Very commendable," the Governor tweets. pic.twitter.com/IjEMHpGHmTWest Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankar was discharged from AIIMS on Thursday morning, after he was hospitalised with Malaria. “Leaving AIIMS in a state of fitness. Greatly appreciate professionalism by AIIMS Doctors & Nursing Staff. Very commendable,” Dhankar tweeted. Maharashtra home minister Dilip Walse Patil infected with Covid-19 for 2nd timeAfter experiencing mild symptoms I decided to get tested for COVID-19. I have tested positive. My condition is stable and I am following my doctor’s advice. I urge all those who came in contact with me during Nagpur & Amravati tour, & other programs, to get themselves tested.Maharashtra home minister Dilip Walse Patil said on Thursday that he has tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Walse, who is fully vaccinated, added that his condition is stable and he is following the doctor's advice. Read moreIndia adds 16,156 new Covid-19 cases; highest single-day rise since October 23India's daily caseload of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crossed the 16,000-mark after five days with 16,156 new cases in the past 24 hours, pushing the caseload to 34,231,809, according to the Union health ministry's update at 8am on Thursday. Read more‘Europe had most number of Covid cases, deaths last week’: WHO expresses concernThe World Health Organization (WHO) has expressed concerns over the worsening coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic situation in Europe. Read moreUnion home minister Shah to visit Dehradun on October 30Union home minister Amit Shah will visit Uttarakhand's capital city Dehradun on October 30, state minister Dhansingh Rawat said on Wednesday. "On October 30, Amit Shah will launch the state government's ambitious 'Mukhyamantri Ghasiyari Kalyan Yojana' at Bannu School in Dehradun," Rawat said. Kiran Gosavi, witness in cruise drugs case, detained by Pune PoliceMaharashtra | Kiran Gosavi (NCB witness in the drugs-on-cruise matter) has been detained: Amitabh Gupta, Pune Police Commissioner(File photo) pic.twitter.com/6AFxtn0UdqKiran Gosavi, a witness in the Mumbai cruise drugs case, has been detained by the police, Pune Police commissioner Amitabh Gupta said on Thursday. Assam further relaxes Covid-19 curbs, will come into effect from todayThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government in Assam on Wednesday introduced further relaxations in its existing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) restrictions amid an improvement in the pandemic situation. Read morePolice kill 1 terrorist in J-K's Baramulla district“Terrorists fired on ADP of Army and Police in Cherdari, #Baramulla. Alert parties retaliated and 1 terrorist killed. #Identification is being #ascertained. 01 pistol, 01 loaded magazine & 01 Pak grenade was recovered from his possession,” the Jammu and Kashmir Police tweeted on ThursdayBengal CM Mamata Banerjee to begin 3-day Goa visit from todayWest Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo Mamata Banerjee will begin her three-day visit to Goa from Thursday, months ahead of the assembly elections in the state. Read morePM Modi to attend 18th ASEAN-India summit virtually todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will attend the 18th ASEAN-India Summit on Thursday via video conferencing.According to an official statement, the East Asia Summit is the premier leaders-led forum in the Indo-Pacific. Since its inception in 2005, it has played a significant role in the strategic and geopolitical evolution of East Asia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-october-28-2021-101635380871774.html
28-10-2021||India||Partition to electoral rolls: Many challenges before a young India||It was in October 1951 that the first votes were cast in the first general election of independent India. In the 70 years, with 16 instalments since, this fundamental fact of democracy and its facilitator , the Election Commission , have accumulated much appreciation. In the post-1945 world, India becoming and remaining an electoral democracy is indeed worthy of acknowledgement, given the country’s size. This is even more so when one (a) retraces the tentative timeline to that first election, alongside (b) recalling some of the tensions felt in entering this Ambedkarite ‘life of contradictions…’
28-10-2021||India||Number Theory: Curious mix of power subsidies and politics||As the next election cycle nears, politicians are once again promising cheap, even free electricity, to voters. After he assumed charge as the chief minister of Punjab, Charanjit Singh Channi burnt copies of electricity bills and announced restoration of power connections which were disconnected for non-payment of bills. And the Aam Admi Party (AAP), which used the free-power promise effectively in Delhi, is making similar promises in states such as Punjab and Uttarakhand. While there are some benefits to these policies, they can be detrimental in the long term. Here’s why.1. Why pays for power subsidies in the end?There really is no such thing as a free lunch. Power distribution companies (Discoms), which buy electricity from electricity producers (Gencos), are obliged to pay for it at commercial rates. When governments offer cheap or free power to households or farmers, they have to compensate Discoms for the residual amount. This is done in two ways. State governments subsidise or end up taking over the debt of Discoms. This is what happened in the Ujjwal Discom Assurance Yojna (UDAY) when state governments floated bonds worth ₹2.32 lakh crore to retire the accumulated debt of Discoms. Another way in which governments recover the costs of cheap tariffs is by cross-subsidising, which means they raise the price of power for other consumers. In the end, it is the consumer who ends up paying, as commercial users pass on these costs. An October 13 research note by Pranjul Bhandari and others from HSBC Capital Markets and Research has given estimates of this cross-subsidisation of electricity prices in India. The note shows that cross-subsidisation is not enough to recover the costs, creating the burden of large unpaid dues. 2. Outstanding dues to Discoms are worth more than the yearly cost of MGNREGSLatest data from the ministry of power portal (PRAAPTI) shows that total non-disputed payment owed by Discoms in various states to Gencos stood at ₹1.01 lakh crore on October 22. This was ₹79,112 crore at the beginning of the fiscal year. This is more than what is spent on the Mahatma Gandhi Rural Employment Guarantee Programme in a year. The total overdue payments are divided into two categories: those due for a maximum of 60 days; and those pending for over 60 days. This classification matters because the Discoms are given 60 days’ credit by Gencos. After that, the latter charge penal interest on the outstanding dues in most cases. The electricity portal data shows share of overdue payments which are delayed by more than 60 days has increased by 8 percentage points since the beginning of this year and now account for 80% of the total dues. 3. What is causing this delay in payments by Discoms?According to Sabyasachi Majumdar, Senior Vice President & Group Head - Corporate Ratings, ICRA, the delays in payments to Gencos can be attributed to weak operating efficiencies and financials of the Discoms. Various factors contribute to this. Power tariffs are inadequate in relation to their cost of supply because they are set lower. Sometimes, this is because of inadequacy of tariffs in relation to their cost of supply because of delays in the approval of tariff orders by regulators. There is also the inadequacy of and delays in subsidy payments by state governments, he added. According to a March report from ICRA, subsidy payments by governments were estimated to comprise 16% of discom revenues at an all-India level in 2021-22.A recent Economic and Political Weekly paper by Amandeep Kaur and others on state-level performance of Discoms shows a worsening of financial parameters of over the years. The paper points out that the gap between the average cost of supply (ACS) per unit of power and the per unit average revenue realised (ARR) by utilities increased from ₹0.27 in October 2018 to ₹0.58 per unit Kwh in January. Also, the average aggregate technical and commercial losses (AT&C) by Discoms increased from 19.93% of total energy input received in May 2017 to 26.15% in January (compared to the intended target of 15% under UDAY scheme).The HSBC note referred to earlier notes that a turnaround in financial health of Discoms is a must for India’s transition to a low carbon-emission economy. “Transmission networks need to be upgraded with ancillary services and storage to successfully raise the share of renewable energy over time (this is needed to manage the sudden change in frequencies and supply associated with renewable power). The weak financials of the Discoms also impact other players in the energy arena. Because the Discoms don’t want to let go of paying customers such as corporates, they impose restrictions via policy flip-flops and ad-hoc charges to discourage the private sector from directly sourcing renewable power.” 4. Which states are the worst offenders?Data for October shows that Discoms in Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Rajasthan have the highest share of overdue payments to Gencos. While these three states comprise 50% of overdue payments, they are not the ones that have the highest share in overdue payments that are delayed for more than 60 days. Discoms owe over 50% of their overdue amount to independent power producers (IPP) followed by central public sector undertakings (CPSEs). The highest overdue amount is owed to Adani Power (25,611 crore) which comprise around 25% of overall dues to Gencos. How do such moves affect state finances? According to Aditi Nayar, chief economist at ICRA ratings, “Waiver of electricity bills or other forms of subsidy provided by a state government add to its revenue expenditure, thereby widening the fiscal deficit”.   The amount owed by Discoms in 27 states (for whom 2019-20 domestic product and fiscal data is available on CMIE) accounted for 18.4% of the total fiscal deficit of these states. This is a burden which will ultimately show up in state government’s ability to spend money on other heads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/number-theory-curious-mix-of-power-subsidies-and-politics-101635375829052.html
28-10-2021||India||March from many monarchies to a democracy||On December 29, 1951, as the country was in the midst of its first election, the Hindustan Times ran an article on how the state of Rajasthan was preparing for polls. “Over 50,000 workers of various candidates are roving up and down the sandy regions of Jaisalmer, Jodhpur and Bikaner on camels, the hilly tracts in the Bhil areas of Udaipur, Dungarpur and Banswar on foot and the cultivated areas of Jaipur and Kotah divisions in jeeps, displaying party symbols and appealing to voters,” the report stated.
28-10-2021||India||States told to step up vaccine drive with door-to-door campaign||Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Wednesday advised states and Union territories to scale up the national Covid-19 vaccination drive with the door-to-door vaccination campaign ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ over the next one month, especially focusing on covering those beneficiaries due for their second dose in poor performing districts.The minister was charing a meeting with the state health ministers in Delhi.“We’re going to launch a mega vaccination campaign ‘Har Ghar Dastak’. We have decided that for the next one month, healthcare workers will go door-to-door to vaccinate people eligible for second dose and also those who have not taken the first dose, especially focusing on the poorly performing districts...,” said Mandaviya.There are currently 134 million beneficiaries, who have not taken their second vaccine shot even after the prescribed interval, as per the government data. As of Wednesday, 313, 767,852 people have been fully vaccinated while 407,789, 873 have taken their first Covid-19 dose, according to the HT dashboard.“The focus of the meeting was to urge states to take effective steps to ensure no district was left without fully vaccinating its eligible beneficiaries. As much as 77% of the eligible population in India has been vaccinated against Covid-19 with first dose. And 32% of the population has received both the doses. More than 10 crores (100 million) people haven’t taken second dose of vaccine. People who are eligible for second dose should take the vaccine,” he said.The health minister also assured the states that adequate vaccine doses were available in the country to meet the required demand, and at least 120 million balance and unutilised vaccine doses were available with the States for administering currently. “No district should be without full vaccination”, he advised the states, adding that the aim should be “to cover all eligible with first dose by end-November 2021”.The state health ministers were asked to ensure continuous oversight on progress of the national Covid-19 vaccination programme.“Dr Mandaviya urged the states to make regional and local level plans with all the stakeholders to reduce number of people with vaccination overdue. He also urged for innovative strategies to encourage them to achieve their targets to review the planning and execution of district-wise plans for coverage of due beneficiaries of second dose as available on Co-WIN portal,” said health ministry in a statement.Dr GC Khilnani, former head, pulmonology department, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi, said, “It is important to take both the doses for maximum protection, even if you have been infected in the past.”Apart from the vaccination coverage, Mandaviya also discussed issues related to Covid emergency response package utilisation, and Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission.“It was an elaborate interaction with the states to know what they have been doing for pandemic management, what is lacking and how the Centre can help in achieving their targets. Increasing vaccination coverage was also discussed as it is an important issue that needs extra attention,” said a central government official aware of the matter, on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-told-to-step-up-vaccine-drive-with-door-to-door-campaign-101635367626088.html
28-10-2021||India||India successfully test-fires Agni-5 missile||India on Wednesday announced that it carried out the latest test of the 5,000 km range Agni-5 missile from the APJ Abdul Kalam Island off the Odisha coast, a significant step towards boosting the nuclear deterrence against China.The successful test of the Agni-5 missile is in line with India’s stated policy to have credible minimum deterrence that underpins the commitment to no first use, the defence ministry said in a statement.The missile, which is being inducted into the Strategic Forces Command (SFC), will put India’s credible minimum deterrence on a firm footing as no missile in the Indian arsenal has the range to strike targets deep inside China.“The missile, which uses a three-stage solid fuelled engine, is capable of striking targets at ranges up to 5,000km with a very high degree of accuracy,” the statement added. The missile has been tested several times after its maiden launch almost a decade ago.The latest test comes at a time when India and China are locked in a border row in the Ladakh sector, and the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has also scaled up its military activities in the eastern sector, including Arunachal Pradesh.India completed its nuclear trial in 2018 when the indigenous nuclear-powered ballistic missile submarine, INS Arihant, successfully completed its first deterrence patrol. India has the capability to carry out nuclear strikes with fighter planes, land-launched missiles and from the sea. The Agni series of ballistic missiles and warplanes such as Rafales, Sukhoi-30s and Mirage-2000s can deliver nuclear warheads. India is also developing a new class of ultra-modern weapons that can travel six times faster than the speed of sound (Mach 6) and penetrate any missile defence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-successfully-test-fires-agni-5-missile-101635367300574.html
28-10-2021||India||Pegasus row: Author of key verdicts to supervise committee||The Supreme Court on Wednesday appointed retired apex court judge justice RV Raveendran to supervise a three-member expert committee that will investigate whether the Centre or any state government acquired and used Israeli spyware Pegasus for surveillance of Indian citizens.Justice Raveendran served as a judge of the apex court from 2005 to 2011. He has been associated with several important judgments, including ones on OBC reservation, the 1993 Mumbai serial bomb blasts, and the scope of the Union’s power to remove Governors.
28-10-2021||India||Pegasus row: Opposition welcomes Supreme Court's decision||Opposition leaders on Wednesday hailed the Supreme Court’s decision to form an expert committee to probe the use of Pegasus software in the country with former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi commenting that “the PM is not above the nation.”“Pegasus is illegal. It is not legal in India to do snooping using Pegasus. So, we would like to know, why the Prime Minister is doing an illegal act. He is not above the nation. He is not above the institutions. Was this information that was coming going to the PM’s desk? It would be criminal if he was using it as personal tool,” said Gandhi.The BJP pointed out that it was the government that first mooted the idea of an expert panel. Its national spokesperson Sambit Patra said: “The government in its affidavit to the SC had said “they are of the opinion that to end the false narrative of a certain vested group, it would be fair if a committee of experts is set up to look into the issue.”
28-10-2021||India||Govt looks to revive tourism sector as jab drive gathers steam||Minister of state for tourism Ajay Bhatt on Wednesday lauded the efforts of the Centre to revive the tourism industry which suffered a major setback during the Covid-19 pandemic.While delivering the keynote speech at the two-day Hindustan Times Tourism Conclave in Delhi, the minister congratulated the nation for administering one billion Covid-19 vaccine doses and for attempting to revive the tourism industry despite backlash from international communities.A sudden influx of visitors in the hills prior to the second wave was seen as a major reason behind a sharp surge in Covid-19 infections between April and June, Bhatt said. Foreign media, he added, alleged that Covid-19 protocols and guidelines were not followed by domestic travellers.“It was due to the efforts of health care workers, scientists and the public that we were able to emerge from it,” he said.The 3rd edition of the Hindustan Times Tourism Conclave, held in New Delhi, is centred around the theme, ‘Reviving Tourism-Responsibly in the post-pandemic world’. This event has been organised in partnership with various state tourism agencies — Bihar Tourism, Gujarat Tourism, Chhattisgarh Tourism Board, IRCTC, Jharkhand Tourism, Maharashtra Tourism and Uttarakhand Tourism.MoS Bhatt, who was among several bureaucrats from the tourism industry who attended the event on Wednesday, said discussions around the revival of the tourism industry have largely been due to more people getting vaccinated against Covid-19.“When international tourism was shut in India, we started a TV program called ‘Dekho Apna Desh’ wherein the Ministry of Tourism provided knowledge on various Indian destinations. Following this, we saw an increase in domestic tourism to lesser-known destinations,” he said.To revive the concerned industry and increase travel in unexplored regions, the minister said, the tourism ministry has created special projects such as the Buddhist Circuit Train and a tourist train exploring five northeastern states under the ‘Dekho Apna Desh’ initiative.In addition to these projects, the central government has also worked towards reopening the travel industry on an international level by allowing chartered flights from October 15 and non-chartered ones from November 15. This measure has further been amplified by providing five lakh free Indian visas to international travelers.“It is necessary for us to move swiftly, given that large amounts of the Indian population are employed under the tourism sector,” the MoS said.Based on studies conducted in the employment sector, on every ₹10 lakhs invested by the government, 78 people can be employed in the tourism industry as compared to 45 people in other sectors, Bhatt said. “This means that the tourism business can be a game-changer for the country,” he added.Bhatt also mentioned a national tourism policy that will be developed by closely consulting the state government and other beneficiaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-looks-to-revive-tourism-sector-as-jab-drive-gathers-steam-101635363765775.html
28-10-2021||India||Centre releases guidelines for Swachh Bharat 2.0 and AMRUT||The Centre plans to free up 15,000 acres of land, currently used as dumping sites, and provide 24x7 water supply to households in 500 cities across India in the second phase of Swachh Bharat Mission and AMRUT, the Union housing and urban affairs ministry said on Wednesday.The ministry on Wednesday launched the operational guidelines for the implementation of the second phase of two of Modi government’s flagship initiatives launched by the prime minister on October 1.“The second phase of both the missions are set to transform the country into a swachh country. We have increased our waste processing capacity from 17% (in 2014) to 70% now and plan to make it 100%. The country had become Open Defecation Free in 2019, based on third-party verification. Just one city (Purulia) in West Bengal is left that is not ODF free,” said Union housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri at the event.Durga Shanker Mishra, secretary of the HUA ministry, said, “Of the 15,000 acres of land under dumpsites, we have freed up close to 3500 acres. In the second phase, we aim to free up the entire area and convert them into green zones.”The AMRUT mission, Puri said, has been scaled up to cover all the cities. He said that just 60% of the country was covered under the first phase of the AMRUT mission. But in the second phase of the mission, the government has decided to cover all the cities.Under AMRUT 2.0, the government aims to make cities water secure by providing a 24x7 water supply in 500 cities, giving incentives to all the local bodies for work towards providing tap connection to each household. The government aims to provide close to three crore tap connections. The mission aims to make 4700 towns/cities water secure, said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-releases-guidelines-for-swachh-bharat-2-0-and-amrut-101635363399370.html
28-10-2021||India||Engineering student makes 13-minute video, dies by suicide blaming education system in Karnataka||An engineering student from Karnataka’s Hassan district died by suicide after making a video appealing to the government to make changes in the state’s education system. The student was found dead in his hostel room on Monday. He was a native of Hiriyalu in Arsikere taluk, police said on Wednesday.The incident took place on Monday night and the police recovered the video on Tuesday. In the 13 minutes and 21 seconds video, he asks the chief minister, vice-chancellors, and prominent leaders of all parties to overhaul the present education system. In the video clip, he said he was “sacrificing his life” to get people’s attention on the problems in the education system. He also thanked his parents, friends, and teachers for their support. He also appealed to his parents to donate his organs to the needy. The deceased in the video further said that there should not be any discrimination on the basis of one’s profession. “How does it matter what job one does? One can be a scavenger. All should be treated equally,” he said. He further stated that the present education system was of no use. He also appealed that his video should be uploaded on news channels and social media platforms. He also requested that his final rites should take place in the presence of the chief minister, education minister, and religious seers. In the video, he also apologized to his parents for taking his life, following which he hanged himself in his hostel room. The police are investigating the case. Reacting to the incident on Tuesday, higher education minister Ashwath Narayan said, “Now the society is reforming. It will take some time. I respect the feeling of the student. But he should not have taken such a decision.” “In the National Education Policy (NEP), there is an opportunity for those who are interested in any field and they can choose a career in school itself. We will see an improvement in 10 years. He could have shared his opinion, but should not have lost his life. May God give strength to his family to bear this loss,” he added. (If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist.) Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669 ; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/engineering-student-makes-13-minute-video-dies-by-suicide-blaming-education-system-in-karnataka-101635363159637.html
28-10-2021||India||Parties make final pitch to woo voters as campaigns for Hanagal, Sindgi bypolls end||Bengaluru As the campaigning for the bypolls came to a close, Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai held seven rallies in Hanagal on Wednesday as the former tried to cover as many places possible on the last day for the October 30 bypolls. In the high-pitched campaigning, which lasted for over 15 days, all the three major parties- BJP, Congress and the JD(S)- spared no opportunity to attack each other on various platforms and issues in an election which Bommai said would become an indicator of what the state can expect in the 2023 assembly elections. For the last 10 days, the chief minister has left no stone unturned to ensure a victory in the two bypoll-bound constituencies--Sindgi and Hanagal--with the latter seat turning into a prestige issue as it comes under his home district Haveri.During the rally in Hanagal on Wednesday hundreds of workers joined Bommai in large numbers to support the BJP. On Tuesday, Bommai even had said that there is a tsunami in favour of the BJP which will have its effect on the party’s performance in the Hanagal Assembly bypoll on October 30.“There is a tsunami in favour of the BJP in the state and it will have an effect on Hanagal. There is massive support to the BJP in every village of Hanagal,” the chief minister had said addressing the members of Bhajandri community in Hanagal town. During the most part of the campaigning, the chief minister and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) took on the Congress and Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S) for their wrongdoing or inaction but shared very little about the incumbent government’s own achievement or any development in these regions which are among the most backward in the state. Congress too didn’t leave any chances to attack the BJP. On Wednesday as well, senior party leader Siddaramaiah reiterated his charge against the BJP of distributing cash for votes. “Ten to 12 ministers in each constituency are holding a bag of money to distribute it to people to purchase votes,” he said. The Congress and BJP have traded charges of distributing cash to secure support to help secure them a victory. Siddaramaiah even said that he will file a complaint with the election authorities regarding this. The BJP also hit back at the Congress saying that it was party president DK Shivakumar and Siddaramaiah who have used money bags to win elections and subvert processes in past elections while they were in power. Siddaramaiah had even called Bommai a “remote control” chief minister, referring to speculations that he continues to operate under his predecessor, BS Yediyurappa, and the BJP in Delhi. Replying to the jibe, Bommai had said, “Siddaramaiah has called me a remote control chief minister. What he has said is true. My remote control is with the people. Siddaramaiah is under the control of the family (Gandhi’s) in Delhi.” The attacks during the campaign have been more personal in nature rather than on more pressing issues of relief for Covid, flood and drought-hit population of the calamity-prone state. There have been accusations of distributing cash in both constituencies to secure voter support. According to election authorities, a total of 99 flying squads, (54 Sindgi LAC and 45 Hangal LAC), 303 static surveillance teams have been activated, (63 Sindgi LAC and 240 Hangal LAC). “Cumulatively, flying squads, SSTs and authorities have seized cash/ liquor worth Rs. 29792.86.Cumulatively, flying squads have registered FIRs in 53 cases. Static surveillance teams have registered FIRs in 2 cases. While excise department cumulatively have seized 1,027.916 litres of IML & other liquors worth Rs. 4,21,719 and booked 41 heinous cases, 18 cases for breach of licence conditions, 2 NDPS case and 185 cases under Section 15 (a) of Karnataka Excise act 1965,” the state election commission had said in a statement on Tuesday. . HD Kumaraswamy, the former chief minister on Tuesday had said that the BJP is attempting to distribute cash after campaigning ends in a response to an earlier taunt by housing minister V Somanna. The minister had on Tuesday said that everyone (political leaders) can move around for now but “our game” begins from tomorrow (Wednesday).Kumaraswamy said that Somanna must clarify what he means by this statement. “He should openly state what game this is. Is it distributing money as they (BJP) have done no work so far,” he had said. There are a total of six candidates in Sindgi and 13 in Hanagal contesting the polls on Saturday. There are 2,34,000 lakh voters in Sindgi and 2, 04,000 lakh voters in Hanagal, according to election authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parties-make-final-pitch-to-woo-voters-as-campaigns-for-hanagal-sindgi-bypolls-end-101635362921437.html
28-10-2021||India||Karnataka reports 5 more suspected Covid cases of AY.4.2 variant||A day after two suspected cases of AY.4.2 variant of the novel coronavirus was detected in Karnataka , five more cases of the new variant have been detected taking the total to seven, said state health and family welfare commissioner D Randeep on Wednesday. Talking to reporters in Bengaluru on Wednesday he said: “There are seven cases (of AY.4.2) in the state -- three in Bengaluru and four in different parts of the state.” Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Tuesday that a government panel of experts is looking into the Delta coronavirus subvariant, AY.4.2, that is believed to have triggered an increase in the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the United Kingdom. The variant was described by technical experts in UK of having a growth rate of 17% compared to the baseline Delta variant and a secondary household contact attack rate of 12.4%, as opposed to 11.1% for Delta. Out of 23,407 sequences identified in the world, 21,848 are from the UK. Randeep also said the government is making a negative RT-PCR test report, obtained 72 hours before arrival, mandatory for those coming from abroad to the state. “The test report has to be uploaded on a portal called Air Suvidha. Other than that, there are no restrictions like quarantining people,” Randeep said. He further said the Centre and the state will initiate certain measures to check the new variant of Covid-19, which has spread in some foreign countries. There are no reports of deaths due to the new variant but one or two people have been hospitalized, he added. Following the discovery of the variant, Karnataka health minister Dr. K Sudhakar had called a meeting of the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) on Tuesday. Apart from the measures announced by the health commissioner, more measures are expected in the coming days to control the potential spread of the variant. Talking about the new variant resulting in the third wave, experts said that reconfirming the variant is crucial and reports from the national labs should be awaited. Dr. Manjunath, a member of the TAC said that adequate steps should be taken to control the spread, and most importantly people should not get complacent. “Public meetings, especially political rallies that is happening in the state are a cause of the concern,” he said. Meanwhile, Karnataka on Wednesday added 282 fresh cases and 13 deaths, taking the caseload and death toll to 29,86,835 and 38,037, the health department said. The day also saw 349 people being discharged, pushing the total number of recoveries to 29,40,339. Active cases stood at 8,430, according to the department bulletin. Bengaluru Urban accounted for the maximum number of 142 new cases and six deaths, it said. Other districts too reported fresh cases, including 31 in Kodagu, 28 in Dakshina Kannada, and 18 each in Mysuru and Hassan. While nine districts reported zero infections, 17 districts had cases in single digits. Three deaths were reported from Dakshina Kannada, two in Mysuru and one each in Hassan and Tumakuru, the bulletin said. Bagalkote, Bidar, Chamarajanagar, Gadag, Haveri, Kalaburagi, Koppal, Vijayapura, and Yadgir reported zero infections and zero Covid-19 related deaths. The positivity rate for the day was 0.24% and the case fatality rate 4.6%. A total of 1,17,351 samples were tested, including 93,617 today, taking the cumulative number of specimens examined to 5.04 crore. The number of vaccinations done so far in the state rose to 6.44 crore, with 4,90,315 people being inoculated on Wednesday, it said. (With agency inputs).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-reports-5-more-suspected-covid-cases-of-ay-4-2-variant-101635362919802.html
28-10-2021||India||CBI files charge sheet against 4 in ex-Andhra minister death case||The CBI has filed a charge sheet against four persons in connection with the alleged murder of former Andhra Pradesh minister YS Vivekananda Reddy, officials said on Wednesday.Reddy (68), who is the younger brother of former Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Rajasekhar Reddy and uncle of sitting CM YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, was found dead at his residence in Kadappa on March 15, 2019. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a charge sheet against T Gangi Reddy, Yadati Sunil Yadav, Gajjala Umashankar Reddy and Shaik Dasthagiri before the judicial magistrate of Pulivendula in Kadappa district of the state, the officials said.“CBI had registered a case on July 9, 2020, on the orders of Hon’ble High Court of Andhra Pradesh and taken over the investigation of Cr. No. 84/2019, earlier registered at Police Station Pulivendula, Kadappa (Andhra Pradesh),” CBI Spokesperson RC Joshi said.During investigation, the CBI had arrested two of the four persons during August and September, and they are presently in judicial custody, he said, adding that the others are on bail.“Further investigation in the case is continuing,” Joshi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-files-charge-sheet-against-4-in-ex-andhra-minister-death-case-101635362679293.html
28-10-2021||India||Madras HC asks Tamil Nadu govt to identify sites for accommodation for homeless people||While hearing a case on providing land for homeless to construct homes, the first bench of the Madras high court comprising chief justice Sanjib Banerjee and justice PD Audikesavalu hoped that Tamil Nadu will draw up a comprehensive policy within the next six months with temporary and permanent accommodation sites indicated to take care of the landless and the homeless. “There should be a district-level identification of sites and a detailed road-map prepared for such a purpose,” the court said in its orders on Wednesday. The matter pertains to a case filed by Karumalai (who goes by one name), who approached the court complaining that his requests, the latest being on July 19, 2021, was not being considered by respondents (Salem district authorities) for the purpose of issuing patta in respect of government poramboke land to homeless citizens for them to construct their houses. The court said: “It is for the executive authorities to decide how and in what manner land would be allotted to the homeless or how encroachers without any shelter may be rehabilitated elsewhere.” Since the petitioner has said he belongs to a scheduled caste and does not have any land or asset and refers to 75 other families residing in and around Thathaiyampatty Village in Omalur Taluk of Salem district to be similarly situated, the court permitted him to make a fresh representation to the Salem district collector within four weeks. The court said the collector, along with planning authorities, will take “positive steps to introduce a scheme” which may result in the landless and the homeless being allocated housing facilities. “The matter should receive attention of the highest executive authorities, so that a comprehensive plan can be taken in respect of every district and certain cut-off parameters indicated,” the court said. The justices, however, made it clear that the petitioner cannot have a say in choice of land that would be allotted. The court noted that the land, which the petitioner has demanded, has already been earmarked for a school and disposed off the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-hc-asks-tamil-nadu-govt-to-identify-sites-for-accommodation-for-homeless-people-101635362500932.html
28-10-2021||India||Tamil Nadu drawing maximum quantity of water from Mullaperiyar Dam: Stalin replies to Kerala CM Vijayan||Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin on Wednesday said the state is drawing the maximum quantity of water in the Mullaperiyar Dam through a tunnel in Vaigai dam as requested by Kerala’s chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Stalin was responding to Vijayan’s letter, received on October 24, that raised the issue of the floods and landslides and fearing that water would accumulate in the dam as rains intensify. He had said there was an urgent need for gradual release of water from the dam through the tunnel to Tamil Nadu.Stalin, in his response letter, said the water level as of 9 am on October 27 was 137.60 feet, with an inflow of 2,300 cusecs. “We are already drawing the maximum quantity of water through the tunnel in Vaigai dam as requested in your letter. Currently, 2,300 cusecs of water is being drawn through the tunnel to Vaigai basin since 8.00 am today (Wednesday),” Stalin said. “The current water level is well within the storage level compliant with the upper rule levels approved by the CWC (Cauvery Water Commission).”Stalin said the state was monitoring the water level closely and officials are in constant touch with a team from Kerala. “I have discussed the above position with the concerned officials and have directed them to continue to closely monitor the water levels and regulate the outflow accordingly,” he said. “In addition, I have specifically asked them to share in advance, all the necessary information on water position and release, if any, so that your government can initiate such precautionary measures needed before the release of water.” The construction of the Mullaiperiyar dam started in the 1880s following a famine which is considered an engineering marvel. The dam was opened in 1895 but the waters and issues over the dam continue to be a dispute between Tamil Nadu and Kerala to this day.Stalin assured Vijayan that his government will ensure that the interests of both states and people are well safeguarded in an effort to strengthen the ties between the neighbouring states. “The government of Tamil Nadu and our people are very concerned about the floods and the resultant damages suffered by Kerala and its people in the last 10 days. I wish to assure you that we will stand with you during these difficult times and would extend any help that is needed for alleviating the sufferings of the people,” he said. “In this regard, I have already instructed the collectors of the border districts of our state to extend all help and ensure the supply of all items needed for flood relief.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-drawing-maximum-quantity-of-water-from-mullaperiyar-dam-stalin-replies-to-kerala-cm-vijayan-101635362499647.html
28-10-2021||India||Karnataka bypolls: Congress, BJP candidates the richest, says ADR report||At least half of the 19 candidates for the Karnataka bypolls in Hanagal and Sindgi constituencies on October 30 have assets in crores, while the poorest among them has just ₹70,000, according to a joint report published by National Election Watch (NEW) and Association forDemocratic Reforms (ADR) on Wednesday.“Four candidates were not analysed due to unclear affidavit available on the ECI website at the time of making this report,” the ADR said in its report.In Karnataka, the two national parties Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress, continue their practice of fielding wealthy individuals.Shivaraj Sharanappa Sajjanar, the BJP candidate for Hanagal, has assets to the tune of ₹13.48 crore and is the richest among those taking part in the October 30 bypolls across both constituencies. The other BJP candidate, Bhusanur Ramesh Balappa is valued at ₹3.77 crores.Ashok Mallappa Managuli, the Congress candidate from Sindgi, is valued at ₹7.37 crore, the data shows. His father M C Managuli was a JD(S) MLA and a minister whose death in January this year necessitated the by-poll.The other Congress candidate, Srinivas Mane from Hanagal, is valued at ₹8.35 crore. Barring one independent candidate in Sindgi, the Congress and the BJP candidates make up for the top five richest candidates in the list. Deepika. S, a 36-year-old independent candidate has assets worth ₹3.96 crore. For the Janata Dal (Secular) or the JD (S), Naziya Angadi, a candidate from Sindgi, is valued at ₹1.05 crore. The other JD(S) candidate from Hanagal, Nayaz Shaikh, has total assets valued at ₹1.6 lakhs and is one of the poorest candidates contesting the bypolls. Interestingly, he has liabilities worth ₹8.62 lakhs, the data shows.Siddappa Kallappa Pujar, a 38-year-old candidate from Hanagal is valued at ₹70,500.According to the data, two candidates have serious police cases against them. Dr Sunil Kumar Hebbi, the candidate from Karnataka Rashtra Samithi has five serious cases registered against him, while Nazeerahmad Savanur, an independent contesting the Hanagal bypolls, has one serious charge against him, data shows. There are seven graduates among the candidates and four post-graduates. Three candidates have classified their qualifications as ‘graduate professional’. The least educationally qualified person is Pakkiragowda Shankaragowda Gajigowdra, the candidate representing Raita Bharat Party, who has just an eighth-grade qualification. Kothambari Somashekhar Mahadevappa, another independent from Hanagal, has completed Class 12. One independent candidate has completed Class 12, data shows.The youngest candidate among the lot is a 34-year-old independent while the oldest is a 71-year-old independent, data shows. Honnappa Hanamanthappa Akkivalli is the oldest candidate at 71 years while Angadi Naziya from the JD(S) is the youngest at 34. According to the report on Wednesday, 265 candidates will contest from 30 assembly constituencies in 14 states and three Lok Sabha seats in as many states, on October 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-bypolls-congress-bjp-candidates-the-richest-says-adr-report-101635362440470.html
28-10-2021||India||Toll in Sivakasi firecracker shop blaze mounts to 7||The death toll in Tuesday’s fire accident at a firecracker shop in Tamil Nadu’s Kallakurichi district rose to seven on Wednesday, with recovery of the body of an 11-year-old boy. At least 10 people were injured in the accident.“We received the body of an 11-year-old boy around 3pm today (Wednesday). He was missing since yesterday (Tuesday). The boy happens to be the shopkeeper’s younger brother’s son. So that takes the toll to seven,” said Ziaul Haque, superintendent of police, Kallakurichi. The shopkeeper sustained burn injures and undergoing treatment at a hospital. Police are yet to take his statement.A video from the spot began circulating on the social media that shows a massive explosion turning the night sky into bright orange. The fire can be seen engulfing aerially with people shouting and sound of firecrackers bursting can be heard.Officials said the fire started at around 6.30 pm on Tuesday and it took 11.30 pm for big fires to be put out completely. “There was smouldering up to 4 am,” Haque said. “Three fire engines were continuously throwing water.”The accident happened in Sankarapuram in the district and the injured people, two of them are critical, are being treated at a government hospital in Kallakurichi.The firecracker shop has been having a license to sell fireworks for the past 10 years and it had also renewed the license this year. The shopkeeper stocked up the firecrackers on the first floor and sold them from the ground floor. He also sold grocery items from here which was his alternative business firecrackers were not in business.The fire broke out from here and quickly spread to an adjacent building where a mobile shop was functioning and the owner of this store has died. Opposite the building, two bystanders, who came to a tea stall, are also part of the casualties. The samples from the debris and shop have been sent for scientific analyses to ascertain the cause of the fire.As of now authorities suspect that an electric short circuit could have caused the fire which spread quickly due to firecrackers being stocked one up the other.Public works minister EV Velu visited those being treated in the hospital and later told reporters that all district authorities have been instructed to ensure safety protocols in sale of firecrackers. “The government is being careful that such accidents shouldn’t occur again,” the minister said.Chief minister MK Stalin offered a compensation of ₹5 lakh each for the victims and ₹1 lakh each for those in intensive care. “I was deeply saddened,” Stalin said in a tweet on Tuesday night. “I have ordered for the compensation to be sent from the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund.”With a few weeks to go for Diwali, various shops have begun stocking up to sell firecrackers that are predominantly transported from Virudhunagar district’s Sivakasi - the manufacturing hub for firecrackers. This year fire accidents have been reported in Virudhunagar in licensed and illegal firecracker making units where mishaps while mixing chemicals have led to an explosion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/toll-in-sivakasi-firecracker-shop-blaze-mounts-to-7-101635362439326.html
28-10-2021||India||Kerala adoption row: Accused removed from CPI(M) posts||The ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) on Wednesday removed P S Jayachandran, a party leader accused of kidnapping his daughter’s newborn child and later handing it over to Kerala State Council for Child Welfare-run orphanage for adoption, from all party posts and committees, and announced a commission of inquiry on the matter. Jayachandran is a Peroorkada local committee member and a senior leader of the party trade union wing Centre for Indian Trade Unions. A party leader said that the local committee in Peroorkada took the decision on the direction of the district committee. “The CPI(M) is under pressure to take action against him (Jayachandran), but his contention that the party was aware of everything restrains it somehow. Since the case turned into a national issue, the party had to take strict action unmindful of its consequences,” another senior leader said. Two days ago, CPI (M) district secretary Anavoor Nagappan said the party had sought an explanation from Jayachandran, but he went missing. Jayachandran later said he was not absconding and attended some of the party functions.Anupama Chandran, the victim in the case, said the move is an eyewash and demanded a state committee-level probe into the missing child’s case. “Nothing will emerge if the case is investigated by the local committee. I want a high-level inquiry, and women leaders should be part of it,” she said in the state capital on Wednesday. Jayachandran was not available for comment. Earlier, he said the party was aware of everything, but it disowned him when issue took the national stage.A senior leader of the party, who did not want to be quoted, said further action will be taken against Jayachandran and officials of the Child Welfare Committee, who allegedly colluded with him in the adoption. A local court in the state capital will hear the anticipatory bail petitions filed by Jayachandran and five others on Thursday. Last Monday, a family court had stayed the adoption of the baby till Nov 1. In a police complaint filed last week, Anupama alleged that her father took away her newborn child and handed it over to a Kerala State Council for Child Welfare-run orphanage in the state capital after its birth last October. The child was reportedly given to a family from Andhra Pradesh in a hurry, flouting adoption rules, she claimed. But Jayachandran said he sent the baby to the government-run children’s home in Thiruvananthapuram with his daughter’s consent. Chandran signed on a stamp paper to that effect, he said, but the former said she did so under duress. Chandran’s one-day fast before the state secretariat on Saturday for her child attracted national attention. Many senior leaders of the CPI (M), including Politburo members Brinda Karat and M A Baby, decried inaction in her case. Despite the senior leaders’ intervention, the party failed to take action against him. The issue also figured prominently in the state assembly. Opposition leader V D Satheesan termed it an “honour kidnapping” while state health minister Veena George reiterated that all procedures were in place while the baby was given for adoption.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-adoption-row-accused-removed-from-cpi-m-posts-101635362379200.html
28-10-2021||India||Sasikala’s rapprochement bid with AIADMK gathers steam||Expelled leader VK Sasikala’s attempts of a rapprochement with the AIADMK seem to be gathering steam. As a prelude to her statewide tour to meet her supporters, Sasikala on Wednesday attended the wedding of her nephew TTV Dhinakaran’s daughter in Thanjavur district. AIADMK’s coordinator O Panneerselvam’s younger brother O Raja also attended the reception before her. This comes at a time when Panneerselvam extended an olive branch to Sasikala by stating that the AIADMK’s leadership will discuss her re-induction much to the annoyance of the party that clarified she will not be taken in. This signalled that Sasikala could continue to count on Panneerselvam though he was the first to launch a rebellion against her in 2017 and for him also to have an option of merging with her while he continues to be sidelined by AIADMK’s co-coordinator Palaniswami. Though Panneerselvam and Palaniswami are jointly running the party following J Jayalalithaa’s death, the duo have often spared on various issues which is the widening space from which Sasikala is hoping to benefit especially given the AIADMK’s loss in the assembly election in May and the rural local body polls earlier this month. She has assured her supporters that she will bring the party together for its eventual victory. Ahead of the wedding reception, on Wednesday morning, Dhinakaran added to the voices supporting Sasikala’s re-entry by telling reporters that Panneerselvam’s statement on Sasikala’s re-entry is a fact. “OPS would usually speak calm and composed. What he said about Chinamma (Sasikala) is right,” Dhinakaran said in Thanjavur. After the AIADMK had expelled Sasikala and Dhinkaran in 2017, he floated the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhgam (AMMK) with his aunt’s supporters aiming to eventually reclaim the parent party. Dhinakaran added that the AMMK and its cadre would stand firm in this goal to establish the ‘real rule of Amma (Jayalalithaa) in Tamil Nadu. After dialling cadres of AMMK and AIADMK and assuring them of her return over several phone conversations, Sasikala will meet her supporters directly in Madurai and Ramanathapuram districts on Thursday and Friday. “It will be meetings without any speeches on a stage,” said a close aide of Sasikala. “On Friday, she will garland the statue of Muthuramalinga Thevar in Goripalayam in Madurai, then the statues of freedom fighters Maruthupandiar brothers in Teppakulam and then she will go to Pasumpon, the hometown of Muthuramalinga Thevar.”Focus on ThevarEvery year leaders cutting across political lines pay homage to Muthuramalinga Thevar whose hometown is in Pasumpon in Ramanathapuram district in southern Tamil Nadu which has a dominant presence of the Thevar community to which Sasikala and Panneerselvam belong. On October 30, on the leader’s 113th birth anniversary, tributes to his statue adorned with a gold armour will be paid by chief minister MK Stalin, Palaniswami and Panneerselvam.Sasikala will do the act a day earlier on Friday. It was a ritual which Jayalalithaa had followed too. Sasikala, who lived with Jayalalithaa for three decades in Chennai’s Poes Garden residence, had ensured the growth of this community by maneuvering their appointments to key posts. The community has in the past favoured the AIADMK in southern districts such as Madurai, Theni, Tirunelveli, Dindigul and Ramanathapuram. But with Sasikala out of the picture for four years and Palaniswami nurtured his community--the Gounder within the party-- as he rose higher within the party to consolidate his position. With such caste equations in play, including the 10.5% internal quota for the Vanniyar community that Palaniswami announced while he was chief minister before the model code of conduct came into effect in February, has made Panneerselvam play a tricky role. He couldn’t have been seen upsetting the Thevar community by going hard at Sasikala so he did make similar statements in favour of her return before elections in March. Fissures in the AIADMKA leader close to Panneerselvam said channels of communication have been open between him and Sasikala. “We don’t know if the cadre and public will accept her (Sasikala). When the party is functioning well as an opposition we don’t know why this confusion keeps cropping up,” the leader said on condition of anonymity. Senior leaders in the party have begun to take sides. While Palaniswami said Sasikala was doing things out of boredom and she will have no place in the party, spokesperson D Jayakumar and the deputy coordinator KP Munusamy too reiterated that AIADMK has already passed a resolution that no one from the party can have a truck with Sasikala which Panneerselvam has signed. Veteran leader JCD Prabhakar, however, told reporters on Wednesday that the leaders shouldn’t be speaking out against each other. “There is nothing wrong with the interview that OPS gave. Everyone’s wish is for the party to remain united,” said Prabhakar.Sasikala has had several plans since her release in February from Bengaluru prison where she served a four-year team in the disproportionate assets case. While Sasikala briefly held the reins of the party after Jayalalithaa’s death and her move to become chief minister was cut short with the Supreme Court convicting her in the case, she wanted to pick up from where she left but the party had vastly changed while she was in jail. Palaniswami, whom she handpicked to be chief minister in her absence, staunchly stonewalled her. Political analysts say Sasikala is trying for a breakthrough. “Sasikala is doing what she should be doing,” says political commentator Ramu Manivanann. “But things are not going the way she expects so she’s finding it difficult. She expects OPS to be more loyal and open but he won’t go with her unless he can secure a greater strength. Her idea is to take control of the party and bring Dhinakaran in. She won’t do business with anyone else. For this, she has to go the hard way, mobilise people in the south as she is going to because she doesn’t have support in the north and western districts. My view is that the AIADMK leadership requires a transition. EPS and OPS have just been stonewalling one another.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sasikalas-rapprochement-bid-with-aiadmk-gathers-steam-101635362319342.html
28-10-2021||India||Some nations trying to seek more control in Indo-Pacific region, says navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh||NEW DELHI: Navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh on Wednesday said some countries were applying “land-centric territorial mindset” attempting to seek greater domination and control in the Indo-Pacific region, in a veiled reference to China’s aggressive moves in the South China Sea where it has long-standing sovereignty disputes with several counties such as Vietnam, the Philippines, Malaysia, Brunei and Taiwan. In his address at the Indo-Pacific Regional Dialogue 2021, Singh said the reinterpretation of accepted conventions was turning “the global commons into contested seas.” “As the basic precepts of a maritime Indo-Pacific are challenged, competition in the Indo-Pacific is also becoming more diverse, involving levers of diplomacy, commerce, ideology, values, science and technology; apart from the military,” the navy chief said, calling the region the centre-of-gravity of global geopolitics and economics. He said day-to-day competition for “influence, leverage and geostrategic space” was increasingly being witnessed in the Indo-Pacific, which houses 61% of the global population, contributes to 62% of global gross domestic product (GDP) and encompasses 63% of the world’s island nations. Singh said nearly 50% of global trade passed through the Indo-Pacific, and most nations within and beyond the region, had a core interest in keeping it free for commerce. “Which is also why concepts such as like-minded partners, free and open seas, have gained greater currency, concurrent with the growing relevance of the idea of Indo-Pacific,” he added. India is keeping tabs on Chinese moves in the South China Sea and taking steps to ensure that the People’s Liberation Army Navy (PLAN) doesn’t muscle its way into the Indian Ocean where combat-ready Indian warships are carrying out round-the-clock surveillance for any unusual activity, as previously reported. From carrying out naval drills with like-minded countries to reaching out to states in the Indian Ocean region, the Indian Navy is focusing on checking China’s rising ambitions in the region and sending out a strong message that Beijing’s power play in South China Sea cannot be replicated in the Indian Ocean. China claims almost 90% of the South China Sea. “Indo-Pacific brings with it attendant and evolving challenges where the rules of the game are changing…As competition becomes more intense in the Indo-Pacific, the value of cooperation will become even more, and not less, significant,” Singh said, stressing on the need to uphold the rules-based system. India is a key player in the region with its warships deployed from as far as the Persian Gulf to the Malacca Strait and northern Bay of Bengal to the southeast coast of Africa. India, the US, Japan, and Australia concluded the Malabar naval drills in the Bay of Bengal earlier this month. Beijing has been wary of the Quadrilateral security dialogue or Quad that was revived in late 2017 by the four countries, and upgraded to the ministerial level in 2019. India is determined to protect its maritime interests while supporting the rules-based international order mandated under the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), defence minister Rajnath Singh said in his keynote address at the Indo-Pacific Regional Dialogue 2021. “India is committed to respecting the rights of all nations as laid down in UNCLOS. We are fully determined to protect the legitimate rights and interests of our country in relation to our territorial waters and the exclusive economic zone,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/some-nations-trying-to-seek-more-control-in-indo-pacific-region-says-navy-chief-admiral-karambir-singh-101635362139340.html
28-10-2021||India||Bihar likely to seek additional funds for infra work: Minister||Bihar tourism minister Narayan Prasad on Wednesday said the state has immense potential for tourism and the government is planning to avail additional benefits under the Centre’s Pilgrimage Rejuvenation and Spiritual Heritage Augmentation Drive (PRASHAD) to develop the industry in Champaran and other areas.The PRASHAD scheme was launched in the year 2014-15 with the objective of infrastructure development of identified pilgrimage and heritage destinations.Speaking at the two-day HT tourism conclave here, Prasad said: “We will be availing the benefit of the PRASHAD scheme to highlight the legacy of Mahatma Gandhi in Champaran district. In Bettiah in West Champaran, there are historical buildings of kings. We have a hospital and medical college named after Maharani Janki Kuwar. In the vicinity of the campus, we plan to start a light and sound show over the king’s palace. The project is ready and it should materialize soon once we get funds from the Centre under the Prasad scheme. This will be a great boost to tourism at a time we are looking to attract more tourists as the pandemic situation improves.”Prasad said that the state government plans to popularise Mahatma Gandhi’s legacy at Champaran and how he got the title of Mahatma from Bihar.Under the PRASHAD scheme, the state has received ₹650 crore so far for tourism purposes. While some of the funds have already been utilized, work is underway on a few projects.“Around 650 crore was allocated in the previous budget. In the upcoming budget, we will be seeking further funds for improving tourism at Champaran and Valmiki Nagar... We also request UNESCO to invest in Bihar. They will receive all support from us,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/httourism-conclave-bihar-likely-to-seek-additional-funds-for-infrastructure-work-says-minister-101635361599527.html
28-10-2021||India||HT Tourism Conclave: Chhattisgarh looks to promote tourism in Bastar region||Promoting tribal tourism and placing the Maoist-hot bed of Bastar region on the world tourism map is one of the key focuses of the Chhattisgarh government, state tourism board chief Atal Shrivasatva said on Wednesday.Speaking at the HT Tourism Conclave on Wednesday, Shrivasatva, said the state government aims to promote tribal tourism in Bastar and other similar areas which comprises around 32 percent of tribal population.“Bastar is known for its unexplored natural beauty... To encourage tourism in the region, we have developed tribal tourist circuits and ethnic resorts. We are also focusing on the food and culture of Bastar region in districts like Jagdalpur and Sukma. The Chhattisgarh government is presently focusing on the tribal tourist circuit of Bastar to woo tourists,” Shrivasatva said, adding that tribal-dominated divisions like Surguja are also on the tribal tourism map.There is a misconception that Bastar is a strife-torn place as Maoists never hurt tourists or common people, he said.“The Maoists are in ideological war with security forces and the government, not with tourists or common man. Hence, it is only a misconception that Chhattisgarh is violence-ridden state. Everyone should visit the state,” Shrivasatva said.“I feel that in Chhattisgarh, we have a lot of opportunities to enhance and improve the tourism sector within the state. As they say, ‘Prakriti ka Gadh Chhattisgarh’, and we are certainly working to realise it to its fullest. We have developed land banks which we will lease out for 10 years to 30 years and the leaseholder will have free hand to do the constructions with government permission,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-tourism-conclave-chhattisgarh-looks-to-promote-tourism-in-bastar-region-101635361420944.html
28-10-2021||India||HT Tourism Conclave: Uttarakhand eyes sustainable development||The demand for homestays in Uttarakhand has substantially increased since the Covid-19 pandemic, prompting the state government to take additional measures to promote them, officials in the state tourism department said.The state is also working on policies to promote sustainable tourism and ensure safety of tourists, the officials added.Speaking at the two-day Hindustan Times Tourism Conclave in Delhi, Yugal Kishore Pant, additional CEO, Uttarakhand tourism, said while the state government has been promoting homestays for the past five to six years, its demand has increased after the pandemic.“After the pandemic, the demand for homestays has increased leaps and bounds. Now, people have started avoiding crowded places... they are avoiding bigger cities. People are exploring newer or lesser-known destinations. Another major change has been that people have stopped travelling in bigger groups,” he said.According to the state’s tourism department, the number of registered homestays has increased from 1,500 to 3,500 in the past two years.With a relaxation in pandemic curbs, the state has been witnessing a considerable increase in the number of tourists in the past few months.As part of its plan to promote homestays, Uttarakhand, which is largely dependent on tourism for its revenue, has been providing financial assistance and training to its people.Vivek Singh Chauhan, additional director, Uttarakhand tourism, said: “We are not only providing them with financial assistance but also imparting training in hospitality and marketing their facilities.”At the event, Pant also spoke about the impact of climate change on tourism in the state.“The impact of climate change is felt in Uttarakhand, just like other cities in the world. Our focus now is on sustainable tourism and development of the region. We are ensuring that all rules and regulations are being followed; no violations are being tolerated,” he said.Unprecedented rainfall recently claimed at least 40 lives in Uttarakhand. More than 500 people were killed in the 2013 flash floods in Kedarnath, prompting the state government to take a series of measures to minimise impact of natural disasters. The deaths of at least 17 trekkers in the last two weeks in Uttarakhand has also pushed the state government to develop a policy to regulate the activity.“We will not put any restrictions on trekking but provide details about the region, the type of equipment one should carry for trekking, precautionary measures that should be taken, etc,” Singh said.With the tourism sector slowly picking pace, the state government is hopeful of economic recovery.With close to five lakh people employed in the tourism and related sectors, Pant said it will take six months to a year for hotels to run in full capacity.“By the end of this year, our entire population will be fully vaccinated,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/httourism-conclave-uttarakhand-eyes-sustainable-development-101635361059504.html
28-10-2021||India||Cases registered, forces deployed after mosque, shops vandalised in Tripura: Cops||Hours after a mosque, few houses and shops were vandalised at Panisagar area in Tripura on Tuesday evening, police registered two complaints and imposed prohibitory orders in a few areas, a senior police officer said on Wednesday, adding that no arrest was made till late evening.“We have deployed security personnel in the area. There is no report of any untoward incident till now. The local administration has imposed Section 144 (CrPC) at Panisagar and Dharmanagar sub-divisions,” said North Tripura district superintendent of police (SP) Bhanupada Chakraborty. On Wednesday, administration conducted peace meetings in various sensitive areas of the district.According to the police, a protest rally was organised by the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) in Panisagar area on Tuesday evening. A section of protesting VHP members allegedly vandalised a mosque at Chamtilla and then moved towards Rowa Bazar, nearly 800 yards away. There, they allegedly ransacked three houses, as many shops and set two shops on fire in Panisagar sub-division, police added.Rowa Bazar is nearly 40 km from India-Bangladesh international border. Soon after the incident, Panisagar sub-divisional police officer Souvik Dey said there was no report of anyone getting injured.Tripura police also issued a clarification on Twitter, saying: “Certain persons by using fake social media IDs are spreading fake news/rumours on Tripura. It is informed that law & order situation in the State is absolutely normal.”“During yesterday’s protest rally in Panisagar, North Tripura, no masjid was burnt and the pictures being shared of burning or damaged masjid or collection of sticks etc are all fake and are not from Tripura. They may be of some countries.”Former chief minister and senior Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader Manik Sarkar on Wednesday said the VHP had organised a few protest rallies in different parts of Tripura against the violence during Durga Puja in Bangladesh. “Few provocative programmes including one at Chamtilla in Panisagar happened, which is condemnable. I appeal to all sections of people to maintain ancient communal unity and integrity. I also request police and administration to take active role on incidents.”Spokesperson of ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Nabendu Bhattacharya said, “The percentage of minority in our state is very less and therefore, there should not be any chance of communal violence. We believe that the CPI(M) has a role behind such violent incidents. Their agenda is to create unrest in the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cases-registered-forces-deployed-after-mosque-shops-vandalised-in-tripurapolice-101635360879160.html
28-10-2021||India||HT Tourism Conclave: Jharkhand focuses on eco-tourism, giving facelift to temple town||Having a vast forest cover, Jharkhand aims to develop eco-tourism in at least half-a-dozen locations, besides giving a facelift to temple town Deoghar which attracts lakhs of devotees during the Shrawani Mela. At the Hindustan Times Tourism Conclave in the national capital, Abhinav Parmar, project management coordinator of Jharkhand Tourism Development Corporation, said the department is currently focussing on two Centre-sponsored schemes, mainly the Eco-tourism and Prasad scheme.“The Prasad scheme basically aims at uplifting infrastructure in the entire Deoghar district, which is home to the famous Baba Baidyanath Temple. Lakhs of devotees flock to the temple during the Shrawani Mela. We are also focussing on other religious centres like Basukinath and Parasnath,” Parmar said.On the eco-tourism front, Parmar said: “We are taking six destinations under eco-tourism development.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/httourism-conclave-jharkhand-focuses-on-eco-tourism-giving-facelift-to-temple-town-101635360700966.html
28-10-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi to meet fishermen, people hit due to mining shutdown on Goa visit||Senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will interact with fishermen and with those affected by the mining shutdown during his day-long visit to Goa on Saturday, Congress president of the state unit Girish Chodankar said on Wednesday. The Congress leader who will visit the state barely days after West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee makes her maiden visit to Goa, will also interact with state Congress workers in a bid to ‘energise’ them ahead of the upcoming polls. “Rahul Gandhi will interact with fishermen at Velsao (a coastal village) as well as with the people who will be affected by the railway doubling project (that passes through the same village),” Chodankar said. “Gandhi will also interact with people affected due to closure of mining in the capital city later in the afternoon before heading for a meeting with Congress workers,” Chodankar said. Rahul Gandhi’s visit comes at a time when the party is keen to send out a message to its detractors that the high command takes the upcoming Goa assembly elections seriously and that it is best placed to take on the BJP in the upcoming polls. The Congress is facing competition in the opposition space with the Trinamool Congress now joining the Aam Aadmi Party and existing regional parties like the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party and the Goa Forward Party to take on the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-to-meet-fishermen-people-hit-due-to-mining-shutdown-on-goa-visit-101635360459351.html
28-10-2021||India||Tushar Gandhi moves Gujarat HC against plans to revamp Sabarmati ashram||Mahatma Gandhi’s great-grandson Tushar Gandhi has filed a public interest litigation (PIL) in the Gujarat High Court challenging the state government’s Sabarmati Ashram redevelopment project.The PIL, filed recently, is likely to come up for hearing post-Diwali vacation.The government proposes to redevelop the Sabarmati Ashram in Ahmedabad, a place closely associated with Mahatma Gandhi and India’s freedom struggle, as a world-class tourist attraction spread over 54 acres of land by bringing together 48 existing heritage properties located nearby.On Wednesday, Tushar Gandhi, the son of Arun Gandhi, whose father Mani Lal was the Mahatma’s third son, said in the PIL he has challenged the government’s ₹1,200-crore Gandhi Ashram Memorial and Precinct Development Project because it goes against the wishes and philosophy of the Father of the Nation.He said the Gujarat government has been made a respondent in the PIL along with all the six trusts that take care of various activities of the Sabarmati Ashram as well as the Gandhi Smarak Nidhi -- a charitable trust formed to further activities associated with Mahatma Gandhi -- and also the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) and others associated with the project.“We have raised questions before these trusts as to why they are not fulfilling their responsibility?” said Tushar Gandhi, a writer and social worker.The state should not be allowed to interfere as the constitution of Gandhi Smarak Nidhi says Bapu’s Ashram and memorials should be kept away from government and political influences, he said.When the Gandhi Smarak Nidhi was formed, not a single penny was taken from the government during its initial years. Later, amendments were made to allow for funds from the government to take care of Gandhi monuments, but the role of the state was limited to be that of a funding agency with no right to carry out anything on its own, Tushar Gandhi said.“This is the first time that the government has asked the trusts to step back and let it do all the work. The government has even formed its own trust for the same. We believe the trust formed by the government will become whole and sole for Sabarmati, and other trusts will be made redundant,” he said.He said the petition also raises the issue of spending an amount of ₹1,200 crore as not being justified in the present circumstances.The project envisages developing the Ashram the way it existed during the time of Mahatma Gandhi when it was spread over 35 to 40 acres with 63 heritage properties, 48 of which are still standing.The sprawling premises, also called the Gandhi Ashram, served as Mahatma Gandhi’s residence for several years from where he carried out major political and social activities during the independence movement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tushar-gandhi-moves-gujarat-hc-against-plans-to-revamp-sabarmati-ashram-101635360339233.html
28-10-2021||India||India could lose 1.8 to 3.4% of GDP by 2050 due to decline in rice and wheat yields||The G20 countries including the wealthiest like US, European countries, Australia will bear extreme impacts of climate change significantly denting their economies by 2050’s a new report from the Euro-Mediterranean Center on Climate Change (CMCC) said on Thursday.In India, declines in rice and wheat yields due to climate change could lead to economic losses between 43 and 81 billion EUR (or 1.8-3.4% of GDP) by 2050. Without any improvement in coastal protection or infrastructure, in a low emissions scenario projected asset or infrastructure losses can amount to 121.5 billion EUR by mid-century and by 157.3 billion EUR in a high emission scenario.Expected annual damages from riverine flooding by 2050 are estimated to be 376.4 billion EUR under a low emissions scenario and rise to 585.6 billion EUR under a high emissions scenario.The authors of the Atlas refer to three scenarios which are three different development pathways with different levels of greenhouse gas emissions—low, medium, and high. The report comes two days ahead of the G20 summit in Rome on October 30 and 31.Apart from economic losses in India, quality of life and health is likely to be severely impacted, the Atlas has highlighted. Under a low emissions scenario (emissions are substantially lower than in present) projected temperature variations will remain contained under 1.5 degree C, both by 2050 and 2100. But by 2050 under a high emission scenario average temperature could rise to 2 degree C and over 1.3 degree C if there is marginal reduction in emissions or a medium emission pathway. Between 2036 and 2065, maximum temperature of the warmest month in India could rise by at least 1.2 degree C in a medium emission pathway and by over 1.7 degree C in a business-as-usual or high emission scenario.Annual rainfall is likely to record a steep increase by 2050 with an 8% to 19.3% increase in all emission scenarios. India's marine exclusive economic zone (EEZ) has mostly warm coastal waters with a mosaic of ecosystems such as coral reefs, backwaters, mangroves, and seagrasses meadows which makes it particularly vulnerable suggests the Atlas. Sea surface temperatures will increase by over 1.2 to 1.5 degree C by 2050 wile Ph levels, chlorophyll, oxygen levels in marine EEZ will reduce substantially in all emission scenarios. Chlorophyll is an indicator of the biomass available at the base of the marine food web supporting all ecosystem productivity.Fish catch is also likely to reduce by 8.8% to 17.1% by 2050. Under a medium emissions scenario, the population exposed to the annual coastal flood level is expected to increase from 17 million to 21 million by 2050, the report underlined.Epidemiological risks from dengue and Zika will increase due to future climate change in India. Under a medium emissions scenario, 98.1% of the population will be at risk of transmission-suitable mean temperatures for dengue by 2050, whereas 97% will be at risk under a high emissions scenario. In the case of Zika, 97.2% of the population will be at risk by 2050 under medium emissions.“Among the G20, India is lagging behind in the process of transformation of its energy sector; in particular, the country is at the bottom of the ranking for what regards the ‘Efficiency’ composite, which takes into account transmission and distribution losses of the electricity grid, the level of energy intensity of the economy and the access to clean cooking services,” the Atlas said.The research shows that rising temperatures and intense heat waves could cause severe droughts and deadly fires. “Heatwaves could last at least ten times longer in all G20 countries, with heatwaves in Argentina, Brazil and Indonesia lasting over 60 times longer by 2050…in Australia, bushfires, coastal floods and hurricanes could raise insurance costs and reduce property values by $611 billion AUD by 2050,” a statement from CMCC said. In Europe, deaths from extreme heat could rise from 2,700 per year to 90,000 each year by 2100 on a high emissions pathway.The report finds that without urgent action to reduce carbon emissions, GDP losses due to climate damage in G20 countries increase each year, rising to at least 4% annually by 2050.CMCC uses an ensemble of Global Circulation Model (GCM) data as those included in the fifth Climate Model Intercomparison Project for its projections.Donatella Spano of CMCC, who coordinated the report, said “From droughts, heatwaves and sea level rise, to dwindling food supplies and threats to tourism – these findings show how severely climate change will hit the world's biggest economies, unless we act now. As scientists, we know that only rapid action to tackle emissions and adapt to climate change will limit the severe impacts of climate change. At the upcoming summit, we invite G20 governments to listen to the science and put the world on a path to a better, fairer and more stable future.”"This is a very exhaustive report on what would happen with climate change over India. These results are very similar to ministry of earth sciences' climate change report released last year. But they (CMCC) have gone ahead with impacts analysis. The impacts are very adverse. Even with lower emission scenarios impact could be very severe. All countries should commit to reducing GHG emissions. India’s efforts alone will not help. Probably COP 26 Could be our last chance to save our planet. Hope there will be a consensus by developed countries for reducing fossil fuel emissions. I suggest MOEFCC should take up very detailed impact analysis with IPCC sixth assessment results," said M Rajeevan,former secretary, ministry of earth sciences responding to the findings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-could-lose-1-8-to-3-4-of-gdp-by-2050-due-to-decline-in-rice-and-wheat-yields-101635360100658.html
28-10-2021||India||Talks with China to resolve border crisis to continue: Rajnath Singh||Dialogue with China for a peaceful resolution of the border crisis in Ladakh will continue with Indian troops standing firm in the sensitive sector, defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Wednesday as the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) is seen to have stepped up its activities not only in the Ladakh area but also in the eastern sector, including Arunachal Pradesh.He made the comments on the situation along the northern borders while addressing the army brass in the national capital during the ongoing commanders’ conference, which is focused on a raft of issues -- the border developments are right at the top.“It is our national responsibility to ensure availability of best weapons, equipment and clothing to our troops braving extreme weather and hostile forces to defend our territorial integrity,” he said.India and China have been locked in a border standoff for over 17 months in the Ladakh sector, and in the midst of that row, the PLA has scaled up its military activities in the east.China’s forces have intensified patrolling in sensitive areas across the contested border in Arunachal Pradesh, and have ramped up area domination patrols for surveillance and orientation of newly inducted troops with a noticeable increase in visits by senior PLA officers, HT reported on Tuesday.The sectors across which the Indian Army has detected PLA’s increased operational tempo include Lungro La, Zimithang and Bum La -- areas of high historical significance in the context of Chinese aggression in the eastern sector -- and counter measures have been taken to boost India’s readiness to handle any contingency.The 13th round of military talks between India and China to cool tensions in Ladakh reached an impasse on October 10, with PLA not agreeing to suggestions made by the Indian Army.The military dialogue took place more than two months after the last round of talks that had led to disengagement of forward deployed troops from Gogra, or Patrol Point-17A, in early August.Despite two rounds of disengagement at friction points this year, the two armies still have 50,000 to 60,000 troops each deployed in the Union territory of Ladakh.The bi-annual army commanders’ conference is focusing on several issues including the situation along the country’s borders, security scenario in Jammu and Kashmir, organisational restructuring, logistics, administration and human resource management, the defence ministry said in a statement.Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane is chairing the four-day conference that ends on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/talks-with-china-to-resolve-border-crisis-to-continue-rajnath-101635359500655.html
28-10-2021||India||COP26: PMO holds meet amid calls for India to up target||Ahead of the Glasgow climate change conference (COP26), the Prime Minister’s Office on Wednesday held a lengthy inter-ministerial meeting on India’s position at the summit, an official aware of the development said.The inter-ministerial meeting was represented by officials of most ministries, including power, new and renewable energy, earth sciences, finance and agriculture, among others.Normally, the Union Cabinet approves India’s stance at climate negotiations, which is then presented and negotiated during the conference of parties. This time, however, the PMO held a meeting to discuss what India’s stance should be at COP26.“Since Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself will be travelling to the summit, the Cabinet approval was not needed. It was decided that India will not be an outlier,” said a senior official who attended the meeting. The official did not divulge details of what transpired at the high-level meeting.“We cannot give any more details at the moment but it was discussed at length as to what is possible for India respecting various principles of the Paris Agreement,” the official cited above said. “It was a very lengthy meeting. Unusual but all issues related to the negotiations were discussed. Just two days back, the environment minister, Bhupender Yadav, spoke with US special presidential envoy on climate John Kerry, where the minister said that India’s contribution will be communicated to the world at an appropriate time and place,” the official added.He acknowledged that there was a lot of diplomatic pressure on India to make a strong submission at COP 26. “Many foreign delegates who visited us have cajoled us to commit to a net zero target. The options are still open; I would say that no particular decision was arrived at but the options have been discussed,” the official said.Ahead of the Glasgow COP26, its president Alok Sharma said he expects India to incorporate a 450 GW renewable energy- by- 2030 target in the nationally determined contribution (NDC) it will submit.In a press conference organised by Covering Climate Now, a global collaboration of journalists and newsrooms, on Tuesday, Sharma said every country starts with a different energy mix but India’s informal goal of 450 GW of renewable energy by 2030 should be formalised in its NDC before COP26. “That’s what I told Indian officials and ministers when I was there,” he said.Sharma didn’t directly respond to a question on whether developed countries would agree to advanced net zero targets to make room for developing countries like India to grow. “That is a discussion that has been raised with me when I was in Delhi in the past and CBDR [common but differentiated responsibilities] is part of the Paris Agreement. My consistent message to every country is that we all need to play our part,” he said, before referring to the 450 GW target again. “I am impressed with the target of 450 GW. What I wanted is for that to be reflected in the NDC. I will be the first person to welcome that loudly if that happens.”At least 120 world leaders, including PM Modi, are likely to attend the summit at COP26 on November 1 and 2. Chinese President Xi Jinping hasn’t confirmed his presence but a negotiating team from China will be present, Sharma said.“Glasgow will be more challenging than Paris. Our overarching ambition is to say at the end of Glasgow that we have kept 1.5 degree Celsius alive,” Sharma said. There is likely to be an agreement at the end of Glasgow which will be a result of two weeks’ of negotiations to say how the world plans to keep global warming under 1.5°C.Most experts agree that the target of keeping global warming to a maximum of 1.5°C over pre-industrial levels has most likely been missed for good.There is no confirmation on what India’s submission at COP26 is likely to be.A 14-to-15-member delegation with officials from the ministries of power, finance, earth sciences, agriculture, new and renewable energy, environment, and water will represent India at COP26. It will be headed by environment minister Yadav. India’s lead climate negotiator is joint secretary in the environment ministry, Richa Sharma.PM Modi is likely to be in Glasgow till November 2 when he and UK PM Boris Johnson are expected to make a joint statement on the Green Grids Initiative – One Sun One World One Grid’ (GGIOSOWOG) at COP 26. GGIOSOWOG will bring technical, financial and research cooperation to help facilitate cross-border renewable energy transfer projects according to the International Solar Alliance. Yadav is expected to lead India during the negotiations in the second week when several issues related to the Paris Rulebook — a set of guidelines for implementing the 2015 Paris Agreement are likely to be debated.While not commenting on whether India will present an updated nationally determined contribution (NDC) ahead of COP26, officials said: “It is not mandatory for India to update its NDC. It can update it during the global stocktaking in 2023. Whatever India announces will be on a voluntary basis.” According to them, “Developed countries have been pushing India to announce a net zero emissions target. But for us our position is clear — action has to be taken based on historical responsibility which means they (developed countries) transition to net zero emissions first leaving carbon space for us to grow.”India will push for climate justice and equity and contribution based on historical responsibility during negotiations with a similar stand as 24 other like-minded developing countries (LMDCs), including China.Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest oil exporter, announced plans to reach zero-net emissions by 2060 at the Saudi Green Initiative on Saturday. The UAE, on October 7, became the first Gulf state to commit to net zero emissions by 2050. Russia and China have also announced plans to transition to net zero by 2060. According to the UN, 130 countries have already set or are considering a net zero emissions target by mid-century. According to the Energy and Climate Intelligence Unit, a non-profit organisation on energy and climate change issues in the UK, a net zero commitment by 2060 is under discussion in India.“Net zero for a later date is on the platter as an option,” a senior environment ministry official said last week.“India should announce an enhanced NDC not because of its responsibility or contribution to the greenhouse gas emissions; but because it is in our best interest. For us climate action is for co-benefit,” said Sunita Narain, director general, Centre for Science and Environment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cop26-pmo-holds-meet-amid-calls-for-india-to-up-target-101635359201284.html
28-10-2021||India||‘Can’t give free pass’: SC panel to probe Pegasus||The Supreme Court on Wednesday set up a three-member expert committee, to be supervised by a retired judge of the court, RV Raveendran, to investigate whether the Centre or any state government acquired and used Israeli spyware Pegasus for surveillance of Indian citizens, and to also ascertain details of people targeted.The top court held that the Union government cannot get “a free pass every time” by raising the spectre of “national security” when the issues concern the “potential chilling effect” on right to privacy and freedom of speech. It referred to the lack of a “specific denial” by the government and also its reluctance to file a “detailed affidavit”.Engaging the services of some well-known experts in the field of computer science, cybersecurity and digital forensics, a bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana asserted that “in a democratic country governed by the rule of law, indiscriminate spying on individuals cannot be allowed except with sufficient statutory safeguards, by following the procedure established by law under the Constitution”.
28-10-2021||India||India applies for $2bn loan from AIIB, ADB for vaccine purchase||India has applied for a $2 billion loan from Asian multilateral development banks to purchase around 700 million Covid-19 vaccines as it looks to boost the immunisation rate of the country’s eligible population.Officials in New Delhi aware of the plan said it was not an unusual practice and was meant to leverage India’s membership of multilateral financing institutions as many countries do.The Beijing-based Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) and the Asian Development Bank (ADB) in Manila are expected to soon process India’s loan request, which will be used to purchase 667 million Covid-19 jabs to vaccinate at least 317 million people in 19 states across the country.“The ADB has agreed to finance $1.5 billion and AIIB will supplement (it) with another $500 million. The vaccines will be purchased (by India) under a competitive process,” DJ Pandian, AIIB vice president for Investment Operations, said in Beijing on Tuesday.The Indian government will put in some $58 million for the project.“The project will support procurement of safe and effective vaccines against Covid-19,” an AIIB project summary says, adding that it will be implemented under ADB’s APVAX, or Asia-Pacific Vaccine Access Facility, mechanism. The finance ministry did not respond to an email query on this matter.A government official aware of the development said requesting anonymity, “Multilateral agencies have been always providing low-cost funds to their members, particularly developing countries for various developmental projects.“For example, ADB has set up about a $9 billion vaccine initiative, known as Asia Pacific Vaccine Access Facility (APVAX), which offers equitable support to its developing member countries in procuring Covid-19 vaccines.“It is meant for all eligible members, including India. Like any other country, India also gets multilateral fundings for various developmental projects, including funds for healthcare”.“Cost of multilateral funding is usually very low, which helps governments to save on their borrowing costs. It is part of the government’s overall resource mobilisation strategy,” this person added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-applies-for-2bn-loan-from-aiib-adb-for-covid-vaccine-purchase-101635358720671.html
28-10-2021||India||Agra: Three J&K students held for ‘anti-national’ slogans after India-Pak match||Three engineering students from Kashmir, booked for allegedly raising ‘anti-national’ slogans after the India-Pakistan match in T20 World Cup on October 24, were arrested on Wednesday evening after Agra police registered a first information report (FIR) against them, a senior police officer said.“Three of the Kashmiri students from Bichpuri campus of Raja Balwant Singh (RBS) Engineering College in Agra were arrested on Wednesday evening. A case has been registered against all three at Jagdishpura police station under sections 153A (Promoting enmity and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony), 505(1)(b) (inducing to commit an offence against the state or against the public tranquility) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) besides Section 66F (Cyber Terrorism) of the Information Technology (Amended) Act, 2008,” said PK Singh, inspector in-charge of Jagdispura police station.The case was registered based on a complaint from Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) leader Gaurav Rajawat, who alleged that the three engineering students had raised “anti-national” slogans and praised Pakistan after India lost to the neighbouring country in their opening match of the T20 World Cup on Sunday.The RBS Engineering College in Agra suspended the three students from College Hostel on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-j-k-students-held-for-anti-national-slogans-after-india-pak-match-101635358179039.html
28-10-2021||India||India focused on free and open Indo-Pacific: PM Modi at East Asia Summit||India is focused on a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific and the principle of the centrality of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) in the region, Prime Minister Narendra Modi told an annual summit of 18 regional nations on Wednesday.While addressing the virtual East Asia Summit, Modi also emphasised the importance of resilient global value chains and proposed the idea of developing global standards for cyber security, people familiar with matter said on condition of anonymity.He reiterated India’s commitment to providing vaccines sponsored by the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad to Indo-Pacific countries, and recalled India’s support of $1 million to the ASEAN Covid-19 Recovery Fund.“Reaffirmed India’s focus on a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific and the principle of ASEAN Centrality in the region,” Modi tweeted after addressing the meeting held on the margins of the annual ASEAN Summit under the presidency of Brunei.“India remains committed to strengthening respect for shared values of multilateralism, rules-based international order, international law and sovereignty and territorial integrity of all nations,” he said in another tweet.Though the prime minister did not name any country in his tweet, his remarks were an apparent reference to China’s aggressive behaviour across the region, including its territorial disputes with several ASEAN members in the South China Sea.The East Asia Summit was joined by the leaders of ASEAN states and other participating countries such as Australia, China, Japan, South Korea, Russia and the US. The external affairs ministry described the discussions between Modi and the other leaders at the summit as a “fruitful exchange of views”.Modi highlighted India’s efforts to fight the pandemic through vaccines and medical supplies and spoke about the “Atmanirbhar Bharat” campaign for post-pandemic recovery and in ensuring resilient global value chains. The virtual summit also discussed important regional and international issues, including terrorism, the situation in the South China Sea, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), and the situation in North Korea and Myanmar. Modi also highlighted the synergies between the ASEAN Outlook on the Indo-Pacific and India’s Indo-Pacific Oceans Initiative.The summit adopted three statements on mental health, economic recovery through tourism and sustainable recovery, which were co-sponsored by India. This was the first time since 2017 that a US president attended the summit, part of three-day high-level meetings hosted by Brunei.Hassanal Bolkiah, the sultan and prime minister of Brunei, said vaccination is key to overcoming the pandemic and called for cooperation among members of summit to ensure vaccines are affordable and accessible across the region. In this context, he noted that several participating countries are among the top Covid-19 vaccine producers and account for more than 70% of global production.Modi will also participate in the ASEAN-India Summit on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-focused-on-free-and-open-indo-pacific-pm-modi-at-east-asia-summit-101635358118997.html
28-10-2021||India||Punjab to hold special House session to oppose BSF order||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Wednesday announced that a special session of the legislative assembly will be convened on November 8 to oppose the Union government’s recent notification on expanding the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) in the state, adding that issues regarding the three central farm laws will also be discussed.“We will convene a special Vidhan Sabha session on November 8 to decide on the BSF jurisdiction and farmers’ issues,” Channi told reporters after chairing a cabinet meeting in Ludhiana. Demanding the withdrawal of the notification extending the jurisdiction of the BSF from 15 km to 50 km along the International Border, Channi said, “If the Centre does not withdraw its notification on the BSF range, we will be forced to stop it by November 8.”“We will also be moving the Supreme Court if nothing is done,” the CM added.On Tuesday, the chief minister convened an all-party meeting on the issue, which was attended by the representatives of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), besides the ruling Congress. However, the Bharatiya Janata Party boycotted the meeting, saying there was no conflict between BSF and Punjab Police.Senior BJP leader Manoranjan Kalia said, “The BSF is a concurrent list subject. Along with the BSF, Punjab Police can also carry out searches and register cases. Drones are used to smuggle weapons and drugs and to stop these illegal activities, BSF jurisdiction has been widened.”Announcing a slew of measures for the state industry ahead of the Progressive Punjab Investors Summit, 2021, Channi said the Cabinet has decided to abolish institutional tax, a long-pending demand of the industry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-to-hold-special-house-session-to-oppose-bsf-order-101635358060252.html
28-10-2021||India||PM Modi changed ‘size and scale’ of govt schemes: Amit Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah on Wednesday hailed Narendra Modi as the most successful Prime Minister in the country after independence, saying he has changed the “size and scale” of government schemes that have impacted the lives of the poorest of the poor.“While drafting policies, he looked at the scale and decided that the schemes should be for all. Earlier, schemes were designed with a certain number of beneficiaries in mind, but he (Modi) said they should be for all,” Shah said, while addressing a conference on “Delivering Democracy: Reviewing two decades of Narendra Modi as head of government”, organised by a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-linked think tank, Rambhau Mhalgi Prabodhini.The home minister also took pot shots at the Opposition for accusing the government of copying their schemes. “The Congress says construction of toilets was their idea, but how many were built (during their time)? About 13 crore (130 million) were left to be made.” He used the schemes for construction of toilets and housing for all as a case in point to demonstrate the Modi government’s intent to benefit all sections.“A leader has to handle development, preserve and take forward the culture of the country and ensure security. All this can be done by a leader who is backed by people. Only those who come from the ground and feel the pain of poor can change things,” said Shah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-changed-size-and-scale-of-govt-schemesshah-101635358058961.html
28-10-2021||India||‘Some nations trying to seek more control in Indo-Pacific region’: Navy chief||Navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh on Wednesday said some countries were applying “land-centric territorial mindset” attempting to seek greater domination and control in the Indo-Pacific region, in a veiled reference to China’s aggressive moves in the South China Sea where it has long-standing sovereignty disputes with several counties such as Vietnam, the Philippines, Malaysia, Brunei and Taiwan.In his address at the Indo-Pacific Regional Dialogue 2021, Singh said the reinterpretation of accepted conventions was turning “the global commons into contested seas.”India is keeping tabs on Chinese moves in the South China Sea and taking steps to ensure that the People’s Liberation Army Navy (PLAN) doesn’t muscle its way into the Indian Ocean where combat-ready Indian warships are carrying out round-the-clock surveillance for any unusual activity, as previously reported.“As the basic precepts of a maritime Indo-Pacific are challenged, competition in the Indo-Pacific is also becoming more diverse, involving levers of diplomacy, commerce, ideology, values, science and technology; apart from the military,” the navy chief said, calling the region the centre-of-gravity of global geopolitics and economics.He said day-to-day competition for “influence, leverage and geostrategic space” was increasingly being witnessed in the Indo-Pacific, which houses 61% of the global population, contributes to 62% of global gross domestic product (GDP) and encompasses 63% of the world’s island nations.Singh said nearly 50% of global trade passed through the Indo-Pacific, and most nations within and beyond the region, had a core interest in keeping it free for commerce. “Which is also why concepts such as like-minded partners, free and open seas, have gained greater currency, concurrent with the growing relevance of the idea of Indo-Pacific,” he added.China claims almost 90% of the South China Sea.Meanwhile, defence minister Rajnath Singh in his keynote address at the Indo-Pacific Regional Dialogue 2021, said,“India is committed to respecting the rights of all nations as laid down in UNCLOS. We are fully determined to protect the legitimate rights and interests of our country in relation to our territorial waters and the exclusive economic zone.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-veiled-reference-to-china-navy-chief-says-territorial-mindset-evident-in-indopacific-101635345278282.html
28-10-2021||India||NIA raids multiple locations in J-K in Jamaat-e-Islami case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday began raids at 17 locations across Jammu and Kashmir in the alleged Jamaat-e-Islami (JeI) terror funding case filed in February this year.The NIA conducted the search operation in Anantnag, Kulgam, Ganderbal, Bandipora, Budgam, Kishtwar and Jammu districts along with Jammu and Kashmir Police and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) from 6 am and seized various incriminating documents and electronic devices from premises of suspects.“The JeI members have been collecting funds domestically and abroad which are being used for violent and secessionist activities. JeI has also been motivating impressionable youth of Kashmir and recruiting new members to participate in disruptive secessionist activities,” said a NIA spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-begins-raids-in-kashmir-terror-funding-case-101635322656846.html
28-10-2021||NA||Breaking News: Punjab govt issues guidelines for release of ex-gratia to kin of Covid victims||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:Uttarakhand health minister says all eligible people to receive Covid vaccine second dose by Dec 15Uttarakhand health minister Dhan Singh Rawat said that all eligible beneficiaries in the state would be fully immunised against Covid-19 by December 15, reports ANI.Punjab govt issues guidelines for release of ex-gratia to families of Covid victimsPunjab Government issued guidelines for the release of ex-gratia amount of ₹50,000 to the families of those who died due to Covid-19, reports ANI.Sameer Wankhede's sister Yasmeen Wankhede writes to NCW to ‘safeguard constitutional rights’NCB official Sameer Wankhede's sister Yasmeen Wankhede wrote to the National Commission for Women requesting "to safeguard her constitutional rights as a woman," reports ANI. She has also filed a police complaint to register FIR against Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik.Serosurvey in Delhi shows 90% people found to have antibodies against Covid-19According to the latest serosurvey in Delhi, 90% of people were found to have antibodies against Covid-19 and over 85% seropositivity was found in every district, reports ANI. Around 28,000 samples were collected from 280 wards of Delhi.India successfully test-fires surface-to-surface ballistic missile Agni-5, reports PTIIndia successfully test fired Agni-5 missile, capable of striking targets at ranges up to 5,000 km with very high degree of accuracy, reports PTI.Maharashtra logs 1,485 new Covid-19 cases, 38 deaths in last 24 hoursWith 1,485 new Covid-19 cases and 38 deaths, Maharashtra's total caseload reached 6,606,536 and the death toll climbed to 140,098. Mumbai saw 417 new cases and four deaths and so far 755,480 cases and 16,229 deaths have been reported from the city.Special drive to focus on 48 districts with less than 50% eligible population vaccinatedMandaviya also said that during the special vaccination drive, focus would be on 48 districts across the country with less than 50% eligible population vaccinated against Covid-19, reports ANI. Govt to launch mega door-to-door vaccination campaign against CovidThe government will launch a mega vaccination campaign 'Har Ghar Dastak'. and for the next one month, healthcare workers will go door-to-door to vaccinate people eligible for second dose and also those who have not taken the first dose, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said, reports ANI.With 77% first dose coverage, health minister Mandaviya urges people to take second dose of Covid vaccineUnion health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said that 77% of the eligible population in the country has been vaccinated against Covid-19 with the first dose while 32% people have been fully vaccinated, reports ANI. He also said that over 10 crore people have not received the second dose. “People who are eligible for second dose should take the vaccine,” he said.Finance ministry directs all ministries, central govt departments to clear dues of Air IndiaFinance Ministry directs all ministries & departments of Central Govt to clear dues of Air India & purchase tickets from the airline in cash; says Air India, in which Govt recently disinvested its stake, has stopped extending credit facility on account of air ticket purchase pic.twitter.com/bCMTVOG1zmThe ministry of finance directed all ministries and departments of the central government to clear dues of Air India. The ministry also said that tickets may be purchased in cash till further instructions, reports ANI. UP health minister says no new cases of Zika virus around Kanpur Air Force stationA case of Zika virus was reported at Air Force Station in Kanpur. The family of patient as well as everyone in the 4-km radius area of the station have been tested and no other case has been detected: Uttar Pradesh Health Minister Jai Pratap Singh in New Delhi pic.twitter.com/teD2lfoFt6Uttar Pradesh health minister Jai Pratap Singh said that no new cases of Zika virus infection have been detected in the 4-km radius of the Air Force station in Kanpur where one case was detected earlier, reports ANI. ‘Free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific’: PM Modi at 16th East Asia summit, says looking forward for ASEAN-India summitIndia remains committed to strengthening respect for shared values of multilateralism, rules-based international order, international law and sovereignty and territorial integrity of all nations. I look forward to participating in the 18th ASEAN-India Summit tomorrow.Prime Minister Narendra Modi reaffirmed “India's focus on a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific and the principle of ASEAN Centrality in the region” in the 16th East Asia Summit hosted by Brunei. “India remains committed to strengthening respect for shared values of multilateralism, rules-based international order, international law and sovereignty and territorial integrity of all nations. I look forward to participating in the 18th ASEAN-India Summit tomorrow,” he tweeted.White House officials, US lawmakers celebrate Diwali with Indian diaspora on Capital HillUS: Several officials of White House & US lawmakers celebrate Diwali with Indian diaspora on Capitol HillThere has been a lot of darkness in last 1.5 years. To be able to celebrate & talk about meaning of Diwali, it's incredibly important: Vice Admiral Surgeon Gen Vivek Murthy pic.twitter.com/BAZO18H9TMSeveral officials of the White House and US lawmakers celebrated the Diwali festival with the Indian diaspora at the Capitol Hill, reports ANI. 3 cops shot dead at rally in Pakistan, reports AFP#BREAKING Three police shot dead at Islamist rally in Pakistan: govt pic.twitter.com/1x1MUOU4ZFThree police personnel were shot dead during a rally in Pakistan, reports AFP. Police use 'mild force' as protesters try to break barricading near Singh border, reports ANISome protesters reportedly tried to break the barricading near Delhi's Singhu border and “mild force” was used by the police at the spot, reports ANI citing sources in Delhi Police.Covaxin added to approved list of Covid vaccines for travel without quarantine to Oman, says Embassy of India in OmanCOVAXIN has now been added to the approved list of COVID19 vaccines for travel to Oman without quarantine: Embassy of India in Oman pic.twitter.com/Ng0kEbMglOThe Indian embassy in Oman said that Covaxin has been added to the approved list of vaccines for travel without quarantine to the country, reports ANI. Kerala logs 9,445 new Covid-19 cases, 93 deaths in last 24 hoursKerala reported 9,445 new Covid-19 cases and 93 deaths in the last 24 hours and the active caseload was recorded at 76,554, reports ANI.Aryan Khan bail hearing matter adjourned to ThursdayAryan Khan's bail plea hearing in the drugs-on-cruise case has been adjourned to post-lunch tomorrow.Munmun Dhamecha's counsel says name of person who brought the drug was not mentioned“Three people present when raid took place it's their own case, 5 grams of Charas was found, personal search nothing found from Munmun Dhamecha. Most importantly the drugs which was found was also of very small quantity. The panchanama is silent exactly from whom the drugs was found from, they say it was from the cruise. But who brought it is not mentioned,” says Munmun Dhamecha's counsel Ali Kashif Khan.‘Article 22 more important than Section 50 of CrPC’: Mukul Rohatgi on Aryan Khan arrest“Article 22 of the constitution is more imp than Section 50 of CrPC. It states that no person should be held without being informed about the grounds of arrest and the person shall have the right to consult a lawyer of his choice,” Mukul Rohatgi said.Mukul Rohatgi says memo did not state correct grounds for arrestMukul Rohatgi, appearing for Aryan Khan said that the arrest memo did not give the true and correct grounds for arrest. He also referred to the Section 50 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC).Seizure of mobile phone was not mentioned in arrest memo, says Amit Desai“When mobile phone was seized it is not mentioned in the panchanama nor arrest memo. They argued it was handed over voluntarily. But in a personal device, it is important to have a memo for the veracity,” Desai said.‘WhatsApp chats don’t support conspiracy theory whatsoever': Amit Desai“It was their own case there was no conspiracy. At 7 o' clock, for reasons I don't know, they invoke (Section) 29 of NDPS act. There is no connection, no phone calls, no messages nothing. The Special NDPS court rejected our application because of conspiracy. The Whastapp chats don't support the conspiracy theory what so ever,” Amit Desai said.‘We have been arrested for an offence which was not committed’: Amit Desai“If there was an intention to consume then (Section) 27 of NDPS act does not apply. We have been arrested for an offence which was not committed. Consumption is a verb that has not happened and hence even NDPS (Section) 27 should have not been applied,” Amit Desai said.‘First remand did not speak of conspiracy' says Amit DesaiArbaaz Merchant's counsel Amit Desai said that the first remand did not mention about conspiracy.“The magistrate court was told later eight people were arrested for conspiracy though it was not what had happened. Because of this issues we are in custody for last twenty two days. Till today there is no arrest for conspiracy and conspiracy is a separate offence,” he said. Aryan Khan's matter taken up for hearingASG Anil Singh, Advait Sethna for prosecution reached court room and Aryan's counsel Mukul Rohatgi, Satish Maneshinde and Arbaaz Merchant's counsel Amit Desai reached the court room. Justice Nitin Sambre hearing other matters at this moment.Mansukh Mandaviya meets state health ministers to discuss ramping up Covid-19 vaccination driveNew Delhi: Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya holds a meeting with health ministers of states and UTs to discuss scaling up the COVID-19 vaccination drive in the country pic.twitter.com/a76agDlT6mUnion health minister Mansukh Mandaviya held a meeting with state health ministers to discuss the scaling up of Covid-19 vaccination drive, reports ANI.Ex-BJP MLA Krishna Kalyani joins TMC in KolkataBJP MLA Krishna Kalyani, who resigned from the party earlier this month, joined the Trinamool Congress in presence of state minister Partha Chatterjee in Kolkata, West Bengal, reports ANI. Mumbai BJP writes to Maharashtra governor Koshyari on Nawab Malik's ‘baseless allegations’ in drugs-on-cruise caseThe Mumbai unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party wrote to Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and asked him to intervene in the matter of “baseless allegations” being levelled by NCP minister Nawab Malik against the NCB and Sameer Wankhede in the drugs-on-cruise case, reports ANI.China's unilateral decision of Land Boundary Law concerning, says MEAChina’s unilateral decision to bring about a legislation which can have implication on our existing bilateral arrangements on border management as well as on the boundary question is of concern to us: MEA on China's new 'Land Boundary Law' pic.twitter.com/LpBE78l3gKThe ministry of external affairs said that China's unilateral decision to enact a legislation that can impact existing border agreements with India is concerning, reports ANI. Sameer Wankhede's statement being taken, says NCBMumbai | His (Sameer Wankhede) statement is being taken: DDG NCB Gyaneshwar Singh, part of the 5-member team that is probing the allegations of corruption made by Prabhakar Sail, who is a witness in the drugs-on-cruise matter of Mumbai pic.twitter.com/mx7kFMieYrNCB's deputy director general (DDG) Gyaneshwar Singh said that the statement of Sameer Wankhede is being recorded, reports ANI.DDMA allows Chhat Puja on November 10Delhi Disaster Management Authority allows celebration of Chhat Puja on November 10 in the capital city with strict protocols, said deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia.Delhi schools to reopen from Monday for all classesDelhi schools to reopen from Monday for all classes, students won't be forced to attend, online classes to continue.DGCA to conduct on-demand license exams for pilots, aircraft engineersAviation regulator DGCA will conduct on-demand online exams to grant licenses to pilots and aircraft maintenance engineers from the next month onwards, the regulator said in a statement on Wednesday.Taliban say it will form committees with China for "strengthening" bilateral relationsThe Taliban have said that it will form three separate joint committees with China to facilitate "strengthening" bilateral relations, reported local media.China's growing Covid-19 outbreak tests vulnerable border townsChina has reported nearly 250 locally transmitted cases of Covid-19 since the start of the current outbreak 10 days ago, with many infections in remote towns along porous international borders in the country's northwest.NIA court convicts 9 accused in connection with 2013 serial blastsNIA court convicts 9 of 10 accused in connection with 2013 serial blasts at Narendra Modi's rally in Patna.41 pregnant women die of Covid-19 in Kerala, 149 patients end life: GovtAs many as 41 pregnant women have so far succumbed to Covid-19 in Kerala after the virus infection broke out in the southern state one and half years ago, state Health Minister Veena George said on Wednesday.Delhi Cabinet approves addition of Ayodhya in its free pilgrimage scheme for senior citizensDelhi Cabinet approves addition of Ayodhya in its free pilgrimage scheme for senior citizens of city: CM Arvind Kejriwal.Only 'green crackers' permitted in Bengal for 2 hours during DiwaliThe West Bengal Pollution Control Board (WBPCB) on Wednesday announced that only green crackers can be sold in the state and bursting of such firecrackers shall be allowed for two hours -- between 8pm and 10pm -- during Diwali and for two hours on Chhath.Beijing says Taiwan has 'no right to join the United Nations'Taiwan has "no right to join the United Nations", a Beijing official said Wednesday, after US Secretary of State Antony Blinken urged greater inclusion of Taiwan in UN institutions.ACP-level officer to probe allegations against Sameer WankhedeMumbai Police appoints an ACP-level officer to investigate the allegations levelled against NCB Zonal Director Sameer Wankhede. All the complaints received against Wankhede will be probed by the officer. Four Police stations in Mumabai have received such complaints so far.EC warns Himanta Biswa Sarma over complaints of violating code of conduct ahead of by-polls'Exercise restraint': EC warns Himanta Biswa Sarma over complaints of violating code of conduct ahead of by-polls.Charanjit Singh Channi announces special Vidhan Sabha session on November 8 to scrap farm lawsPunjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi announces special Vidhan Sabha session on November 8 to scrap farm laws.Important to safeguard right to privacy: SC on Pegasus rowSupreme Court says that we live in the era of information and we must recognise that while technology is important, it's important to safeguard right to privacy, not only for journalists but for all citizens. SC sets up an expert committee to be supervised by former top court judge RV Raveendran to probe into Pegasus row.Rupee slips 6 paise to 75.02 against US dollar in early tradeThe Indian rupee depreciated by 6 paise to 75.02 against the US dollar in opening trade on Wednesday, weighed down by firm crude oil prices and a strong American currency in the overseas market.Over 103.53 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in India so farWith the administration of 55,89,124 vaccine doses in the last 24 hours, India's Covid-19 vaccination coverage has exceeded 103.53 crore, informed the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Wednesday.Rajnath Singh to address Army Commanders’ Conference todayAt 3.30pm today, Defence minister Rajnath Singh will address the Army Commanders’ Conference.Karnataka govt issues guidelines for international arrivalPassengers arriving from countries in Europe including UK, South Africa, Brazil, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand and Zimbabwe would need to follow additional measures on arrival in India including post-arrival testing.SC to pronounce its order today on court-monitored probe into alleged Pegasus spyware caseSupreme Court to pronounce its order today on pleas seeking independent court-monitorerd probe into alleged Pegasus spyware case.Delhi's AQI 'moderate', likely to degrade to 'poor' category over next 3 daysThe overall air quality in the national capital is in the 'moderate' category on Wednesday but it is likely to degrade to the 'poor' category over the next three days due to an increase in "fire emission", according to the Centre-run System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR).India logs 13,451 fresh Covid-19 cases, 585 deaths in last 24 hoursIndia recorded 13,451 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, which pushed the nationwide tally to 34,215,653, while the death toll climbed to 455,653 with 585 daily fatalities, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Wednesday. Arvind Kejriwal to chair a meeting of Delhi Cabinet todayDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to chair a meeting of Delhi Cabinet today.Cambodia announces phased reopening to vaccinated touristsCambodia's government announced plans Tuesday to reopen the country in several stages to fully vaccinated foreign tourists starting from the end of next month.NIA conducts multiple places in KashmirNIA raids multiple places in Kashmir.Aryan Khan's bail plea hearing to continue in Bombay high court todayThe Bombay high court will on Wednesday resume hearing of the bail plea of Aryan Khan in connection with seizure of drugs on a cruise ship. The hearing will resume at 2.30pm today.Indo-Pacific regional dialogue starts today with focus on maritime strategyIndo-Pacific Regional Dialogue (IPRD), the apex international annual conference of the Indian Navy, is scheduled to be held as a three-day online event that commences today, i.e. on October 27, and lasts till Friday, October 29.Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics official says pandemic is biggest challenge to GamesZhang Jiandong, a senior official with the Beijing Organising Committee for the 2022 Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games, said on Wednesday that Beijing is prepared for the Games but that the Covid-19 pandemic is the biggest challenge they face.Brazil senators recommend Bolsonaro face charges over Covid-19A Brazilian Senate committee recommended on Tuesday that President Jair Bolsonaro face a series of criminal indictments for actions and omissions related to the world's second highest Covid-19 death toll.DDMA meeting today, will reconsider ban on Chhath Puja celebrations in DelhiThe Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) will hold a meeting on Wednesday to discuss the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in the national capital. It is also expected to reconsider the ban imposed on Chhath Puja celebrations at public places.Bombay HC to hear plea challenging Tarun Tejpal's acquittal in rape caseThe Goa bench of the Bombay high court will on Wednesday virtually hear the state government's appeal against the acquittal of journalist Tarun Tejpal in a 2013 sexual assault case.Drugs case: NCB to probe Prabhakar Sail today on allegations of corruptionThe Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) will on Wednesday probe Prabhakar Sail, a witness in the drugs-on-cruise case, on allegations of corruption levelled by him against NCB witness Kiran Gosavi and Sameer Wankhede, the zonal officer in charge of the case.Mansukh Mandaviya to address Investor Summit todayUnion Minister of Health and Family Welfare, and Chemicals and Fertilizers Mansukh Mandaviya will virtually address the Investor Summit "Opportunities and Partnerships in Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices" on Wednesday from 10am to 4.30pm.Mansukh Mandaviya to meet health ministers of states over Covid vaccine administrationUnion health minister Mansukh Mandaviya will hold a meeting with health ministers of states and union territories on Wednesday over ramping up of Covid-19 vaccination drive in the nation, news agency ANI reported quoting government sources.PM Modi to attend virtual 16th East Asia Summit todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will attend the 16th East Asia Summit to be held virtually on Wednesday that will discuss matters of regional and international interest and concern including maritime security and terrorism, according to the Prime Minister's Office (PMO).Amarinder Singh likely to launch new political party todayFormer Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh is on Wednesday likely to launch a new political party, the Punjab Lok Congress, according to people familiar with the developments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-october-27-2021-101635291002498.html
