29-10-2021||India||'Bharat Mata ki Jai': PM Modi greeted with cheers by members of Indian diaspora in Rome||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who landed in Italy earlier in the day, to participate in the G20 Summit, was welcomed by chants of ‘Shiva Tandava Stotram’ and ‘Bharat Mata ki Jai’ by the members of the Indian diaspora. A video shared by the Union culture and tourism minister G Kishan Reddy on Twitter showed PM Modi surrounded by security personnel while being greeted with cheers by the members of the Indian diaspora.The video also showed the members waving Indian flags while the prime minister stood with folded hands listening deeply to the hymns. PM Modi was also seen engaging in conversations with the members, standing with posters of the top leader. According to news agency PTI, the members also offered several books to PM Modi. The prime minister also recited 'Bharat Mata ki Jai' towards the end of the video.
29-10-2021||India||PM Modi, Draghi hold talks on 'diversifying' India-Italy ties on sidelines of G20 Summit||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday held extensive delegation-level talks with his Italian counterpart, Mario Draghi, on diversifying India-Italy ties. External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said the two leaders reviewed the five-year action plan of “bilateral partnership and reiterated the commitment to further expanding trade and investment linkages.”“Also resolved to cooperate for accelerating clean energy transition to fight climate change,” MEA spokesperson wrote on Twitter.PM Modi was received by Draghi as he arrived at Palazzo Chigi, the official residence of the Italian Prime Minister, for their first in-person meeting on the sidelines of the G20 Summit. Both leaders inspected the guard of honour before proceeding for delegation-level talks.Earlier today, PM Modi's official engagements began with a "productive interaction" with European Council president Charles Michel and EU Commission chief Ursula von der Leyen. The leaders discussed ways to enhance economic as well as people-to-people linkages aimed at creating a better planet, according to the prime minister's office.Foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said that in all meetings, the main issues of discussion were related to G20 Summit. He added that issues of climate change and matters of regional and global interests, including the situation in Afghanistan, were discussed in those meetings.During his visit, PM Modi also paid homage to Mahatma Gandhi.He is scheduled to visit the Vatican City to call on Pope Francis.After attending the all-important G20 Summit, PM Modi will fly to Glasgow to participate in the high-level segment of COP-26 titled 'World Leaders' Summit' (WLS).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-draghi-hold-talks-on-diversifying-india-italy-ties-on-sidelines-of-g20-summit-101635527201660.html
29-10-2021||India||G20 member states have reached ‘broad consensus’ on vaccine certificates: Goyal||The G20 member states have reached “broad consensus” on the issue of recognising vaccine certificates for resumption of travel and economic activities to boost post-pandemic recovery, commerce minister Piyush Goyal said on Friday.Goyal, who is India’s G20 sherpa or personal representative of the head of government for preparing for the grouping’s summit, told a news briefing in Rome that the country had made “significant interventions” in discussions on key issues such as mutual recognition of vaccine certificates, sustainable development and climate change that will figure in the declaration to be issued after the G20 Summit.He said there was “broad consensus” on mutual recognition of vaccine certificates because all the nations wish to resume travel and economic activity. The G20 members are working towards the acceptable language to bring the matter within the grouping’s framework, he said.India and some other states pushed for the inclusion of vaccine certificates into the health paragraph of the proposed declaration so that it takes centre stage for current and future pandemics. The declaration is expected to address the recognition of both vaccines and certificates, and the G20 is also looking at building capacity and strengthening processes for faster approval of more vaccines, he said. “We are quite confident that there is broad consensus and the language is being worked out on how we can bring it in. To bring in the sense and bring confidence to the world, that we are all committed to faster recovery, resilient recovery, yet at the same time ensuring that there is sufficient policy space for nations to protect their own national interests,” Goyal said.The G20 sherpas have held discussions over the past three days on the proposed declaration to be adopted at the G20 Summit during October 30-31. Goyal said India had spoken for developing and low and middle-income countries at these talks, and most G20 states had endorsed the country’s position that “extensive Covid-19 immunisation is a global public good”.India also batted for sustainable development and food security and insisted that policies must protect the interests of small and marginal farmers while conserving local food cultures that are important for food security.On climate change and environment, India spoke on the “need for critical enablers for galvanising global climate action”, including commensurate long-term concessional climate finance, access to affordable and sustainable technology, and a commitment to adopt sustainable lifestyles and responsible consumption patterns, Goyal said. As co-chair of the G20 framework working group on economic recovery, India is ensuring there is no premature withdrawal of financial support for the most vulnerable countries.In the realm of tax reforms, India pushed the G20 to address a “mismatch between the source of generation of profits and jurisdiction where profits are taxed” to ensure that large MNCs pay a minimum effective corporate tax in the country of operation, he said.As the co-chair of G20’s anti-corruption working group, India made contributions to asset recovery, information-sharing, law enforcement cooperation, technology and denial of safe havens. In the field of digital economy, Goyal said India pushed the need for balancing the free flow of data with a “narrative for cross-border data flows and accommodating development imperatives of developing countries”.Goyal also said India was one of the most responsible countries in terms of meeting its nationally determined contributions (NDCs) under the Paris Accord to cut greenhouse gas emissions. On the other hand, several other countries hadn’t fulfilled their commitments to providing finance and technology to developing countries. The G20 sherpas discussed how to reflect collective efforts and the need for all nations to meet their targets while being more ambitious while going forward, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/g20-member-states-have-reached-broad-consensus-on-vaccine-certificates-piyush-goyal-101635526435701.html
29-10-2021||India||What delayed Aryan's release from jail today? Here's what happened from 2.30pm to 5.30pm||Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan and the other co-accused in the drugs-on-cruise case Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha could not walk out of the jail on Friday, though the lawyers were expecting to complete the formalities by today evening. They will be released on Saturday morning. All three of them were granted bail on Thursday. As the complete bail order did not come on Thursday, the paperwork was supposed to take place on Friday. While senior lawyers said that it will take a day or two for Aryan Khan to finally walk out of the jail, Aryan Khan's lawyers were hoping and preparing for Aryan Khan's release on Friday itself.Here is what happened after the court released the bail conditions for Aryan Khan1. The Bombay high court which granted bail to Aryan, Araaz, Munmun on Thursday released the bail conditions for the three. Bail conditions are certain requirements that one has to fulfil or agree to in exchange for bail. A surety of ₹1 lakh each was mandated by the court.2. Aryan Khan's lawyers had time between 2.30pm and 5.30pm to process the paperwork as a physical copy of the release order from the court has to reach the prison by 5.30pm.3. As soon as the bail conditions were released, Aryan Khan's lawyers moved to the NDPS court which would issue the release order.4. Around 4.15pm Bollywood actor and Shah Rukh Khan's friend Juhi Chawla reached the court as Aryan Khan's surety. According to reports, Shah Rukh Khan was also on his way to the Arthur Road prison as at that point, Aryan Khan's release from the jail was being expected today.5. As part of the process, the NDPS court then verified Juhi Chawla's documents. Then she proceeded to the department to complete the formalities.6. Meanwhile, a crowd gathered to see Juhi Chawla and click photos with her. According to reports, a lawyer also objected to it as other bonds waiting in line to be signed were getting delayed.7. After Juhi Chawla signed the bond, it went to the NDPS judge. Special NDPS judge Vaibhav V Patil signed the surety bond.8. While it was already 5.30pm, Satish Maneshinde's lawyers were waiting in the court for the process to get completed. Maneshinde was in the Arthur Road prison at that time.9. Reports said Maneshinde's team was hoping that the 5.30pm deadline could be extended to 7pm, while prison officials said they will not make any exception for anyone. According to the rules, the bail box of the prison is opened only at 10.30am and 5.30pm. The jail officials wait until 5.35pm. But any release order submitted after that gets processed the next day.10. At around 6.37pm, Satish Maneshinde's son and lawyer Nikhil Maneshinde left the sessions court with the release order and reached the Arthur Road jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-delayed-aryan-s-release-from-jail-today-here-s-what-happened-from-2-30pm-to-530pm-101635525037060.html
29-10-2021||India||Bengal BJP boss rebuts Mamata on ‘Gorkhaland’, his MLA calls it unacceptable||SILIGURI: Bengal Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Sukanta Majumdar’s rebuttal to chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s veiled criticism of his party over Gorkhaland provoked some pushback in the Darjeeling hill region. Among those who countered Majumdar was his party legislator BP Bajgain who sent him an angry letter on Thursday and released it to the public to make his stand known.Bajgain aka Bishnu Prasad Sharma was upset about Sukanta Majumdar’s statement on Wednesday that the BJP “has never officially uttered the word Gorkhaland”.“It is chief minister Mamata Banerjee who officially acknowledged and included the word by signing the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) accord,” Majumdar said during his visit to north Bengal’s Jalpaiguri on Wednesday, just about 100km from Darjeeling town that has been at the centre of demands for Gorkhaland for decades.Majumdar’s statement was designed to counter chief minister Banerjee who promised a permanent solution for the Darjeeling hills during her visit on Tuesday, underlining that there were “some political parties” which came to town ahead of elections and promised statehood. “Their actual motto is to divide the people of the hills,” she said, a remark seen to be aimed at the BJP.In his letter to the Bengal BJP chief, his party legislator said he could not accept Wednesday’s statement.“Thousands of my supporters have been disheartened by your statement. I, being a Gorkha myself, cannot accept it,” the BJP lawmaker from the Kurseong hill assembly seat said in his letter. “The syllogistic meaning of this statement leads us to think that the BJP was never a pro-Gorkhaland party, either then and now,” Bajgain said, underlining that he and Raju Bista, the BJP Lok Sabha member from Darjeeling, won the elections in 2021 and 2019, respectively by promising before their constituents that their long-standing demand for Gorkhaland would be met.Bajgain’s letter, however, did not specify what he meant by Gorkhaland, a demand for which the Darjeeling hills have witnessed several violent agitations and numerous deaths since the 1980s and is often seen to reflect the demand for a separate state.To be sure, the BJP has never said it will form a separate state. In its 2019 manifesto, the party only promised to find “a permanent political solution”. But its leaders, as Bajgain indicated, have gone a step further during elections. BJP’s Lok Sabha member John Barla raised the demand for the formation of a separate state or Union Territory comprising districts in north Bengal in June this year. But his party promptly and explicitly distanced itself.Asked about the BJP legislator’s condemning his statement, Sukanta Majumdar said he appeared to have been “misinformed”.“I think he has been misinformed. I uttered those words in response to a question and against the statement made by Mamata Banerjee. She said we are separatists and we want to split the hills from the rest of Bengal. She is putting the blame on us when she herself agreed to use the word Gorkhaland when the tripartite GTA Agreement was signed in July 2012,” the Bengal BJP chief said.During her Tuesday trip to Darjeeling, chief minister Mamata Banerjee also sought proposals from the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha and Bharatiya Gorkha Prajatantrik Morcha, parties that are allies of the Trinamool Congress. Both parties accuse the BJP-led Centre of misleading the Gorkhas during elections.On the other hand, pro-BJP parties, such as the Gorkha National Liberation Front and Communist Party of Revolutionary Marxists, which attended the tripartite meeting convened by Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi on October 12, have expressed their faith in the BJP and the Centre. Majumdar said, “The BJP’s stand is loud and clear. We will provide a permanent political solution that will safeguard the interest of Gorkhas and benefit the state at the same time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-bjp-boss-rebuts-mamata-on-gorkhaland-his-mla-calls-it-unacceptable-101635524153831.html
29-10-2021||India||‘If he is uncomfortable...’: BJP MP slams Varun Gandhi for criticising party||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Harnath Singh Yadav on Friday said that it was not appropriate for BJP MP Varun Gandhi to speak against the party’s policies. He also said that Varun Gandhi should remember the time when his mother Maneka Gandhi first joined the BJP.“It looks like Varun Gandhi is feeling uncomfortable with the BJP. He should remember those days when he was a child and his grandmother threw out his mother. At that time, BJP was the only party that gave them protection. BJP later made him an MP and his mother a minister,” Yadav was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Yadav alleged that Gandhi was speaking against the party’s policies.“Varun Gandhi is speaking against the party policies this way. It is not appropriate and I think he has made a different line of his own,” Yadav said. He said that BJP ‘gave so much’ to Varun.These comments from the fellow parliamentarian come weeks after Varun Gandhi was critical of the government regarding farm laws and the Lakhimpur Kheri incident where eight people died among whom four were farmers. Varun Gandhi called for “accountability for the innocent blood of farmers” after posting a purported video of the incident.Varun Gandhi also said that legal guarantee of the minimum support price (MSP) is required in order to stop exploitation of farmers in mandis.“Till there is no statutory guarantee of MSP, farmers will continue to be exploited in mandis. Strict action should be taken on this,” he said.The Pilibhit MP said that farmers in Uttar Pradesh did not receive fair remuneration for their crops and urged the Yogi Adityanath-led state government to give farmers their due. These comments from Varun Gandhi come at a time when the BJP is gearing up to fight and retain power in Uttar Pradesh, an election which is considered as a semi-final to the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. He and his mother, Maneka Gandhi, were also excluded from the BJP's new national executive committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-he-is-uncomfortable-bjp-mp-slams-varun-gandhi-for-criticising-party-101635523546420.html
29-10-2021||India||Action against terror will be taken on other side of border if needed: Rajnath||Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on Friday said India has told Pakistan that it will not deter from taking action against terrorism within its borders as well as on the other side of the border if required.“People used to say that if Article 370 is abolished, then the entire Kashmir will burn. All in all, Jammu and Kashmir is peaceful except for a few incidents,” Singh said adding that the confidence of enablers of terrorism in Kashmir is also low.“It is true that our enemy forces are fidgety. I can say with certainty that terrorists' confidence has been broken in Kashmir Valley,” he said. “Now the situation has changed. Our government has said clearly that terrorism and talks cannot go hand in hand. For the last few years, we have stopped having any talks with Pakistan,” he said crediting PM Modi for redefining the fight against terrorism.Singh was addressing an event “Delivering Democracy; Two Decades of Prime Minister Narendra Modi as Head of Government” organised by the Rambhau Mhalgi Prabodhini at India International Centre.The defence minister said India will achieve the target of ₹3,500 crore export. “We were the biggest importer in the world in terms of Defence equipment. We are now among the top 25 exporters of the world. We will soon achieve the target of ₹3500 crore export,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.He also said that PM Modi is ‘24-carat gold’. “True leadership is identified by its intent and integrity and in both cases, Modiji is 24-carat gold. There is not a single stain of corruption on him even after being the head of a government for 20 years,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/action-against-terror-will-be-taken-on-other-side-of-border-if-needed-rajnath-101635522145509.html
29-10-2021||India||Private taxis, buses in Pune to hike fares by at least 12%||PUNE The Pune Bus and Cars Owners Association announced that fares charged by private bus and taxi owners for rentals would be hiked by between 12 and 15 per cent.The increase in the cost of diesel was cited as the main reason for the hike. The decision was announced on Friday by Rajan Junavane, president of the association. A state-level annual general body meeting was held in Pune at Siddhi Gardens near Mhatre Bridge, after which Junavane spoke to the media. “There are 16,000 small and big private bus owners in Pune and 1,000 private taxi owners who are our members. For the last 19 months these vehicles were parked due to the pandemic. So already we are facing a financial crisis and top of that, now the diesel hike. So to repair, maintain and sustain our vehicles this decision of a rate fare hike was taken at our general body meeting,” said Junavane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/private-taxis-buses-in-pune-to-hike-fares-by-at-least-12-101635522833553.html
29-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: Kashif Khan denies allegations of organising cruise party and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Wasn't organiser of cruise party, says Kashif Khan as Nawab Malik posts videoKashif Khan whose video was shared on Friday on social media by Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik has told news agency ANI that he was not the organiser of the cruise party from which Shah Rukh Khan's son Ayan Khan was arrested. Read moreCinema halls, theatres in Delhi to operate at 100% capacity from November 1The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Friday issued an order easing several Covid-19 related restrictions in the national capital ahead of the festive season. The various relaxations offered by the DDMA would come into effect from November 1. Read moreUP school principal jailed for dangling child upside down as ‘punishment’ for eating gol gappasThe principal of a school in Uttar Pradesh’s Mirzapur district has been sent to jail after he dangled a five-year-old student upside down from the first floor of the building as punishment for eating gol gappas, police said in a statement on Friday. Read more‘How can you say he’s fit’: Ex-IND cricketer fumes at Hardik Pandya's selection, asks explanation from Ravi ShastriFormer India cricketer Sandip Patil hit out at the team selectors for including all-rounder Hardik Pandya in the 15-member T20 World Cup squad, despite the fitness concerns. Read moreShah Rukh Khan's home Mannat gets decked up with lights ahead of Aryan Khan's releaseOn Friday evening, paparazzi gathered outside Shah Rukh Khan's home, Mannat, saw it get decked up with lights. The decorations appear to be in celebration of his son Aryan Khan's release from jail. Read moreWatch Kejriwal's reaction to being questioned on Art 370 issue at farmer meetDelhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal was grilled by a farmer delegation in Punjab over his party's stand on Article 370 that had granted Jammu and Kashmir now scrapped special status. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-kashif-khan-denies-organising-cruise-party-after-nawab-malik-s-video-and-all-the-latest-news-101635521770799.html
29-10-2021||India||India’s 1st long-range 1 ton guided bomb test-fired, hits target 100 km away||An Indian Air Force (IAF) team and Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) on Friday successfully flight-tested the country’s first indigenously developed Long-Range Bomb (LRB) from a Sukhoi-30 fighter jet over Balasore, Odisha.The LR Bomb, with a range of 100 kilometres, was fired from the IAF fighter aircraft flying at an altitude of 10 kilometres. Designed and developed by DRDO’s Research Centre Imarat (RCI), the LR Bomb can carry a warhead of 1000 kilograms.Using laser guidance, the bomb hit a target range inside the sea around 11.00am, meeting all mission objectives successfully.From the Kargil war to Operation Bandar in Balakot in 2019, India in the past has been using Israeli laser-guided bombs. The successful test of the LR Bomb makes India capable of staying well within its territory and hitting enemy targets at 100 kilometres with high accuracy.The successful flight test of the LR Bomb comes a day after India tested DRDO Smart Anti-Airfield Weapon (SAAW) from the Pokhran range. It is capable of hitting ground targets up to a range of 100 kilometres. Designed to disable airfield runways, SAAW can carry a warhead of 125 kg. DRDO had last tested the anti-airfield weapon in January.The successful tests can prove to be a force multiplier and major boost to the Indian Armed Forces, especially at a time China has been posturing aggressively in the region.Defence minister Rajnath Singh congratulated DRDO, IAF and other teams associated with successful flight tests.Last Friday, the DRDO successfully flight-tested Abhyas High-speed Expendable Aerial Target (HEAT) from the Integrated Test Range in Chandipur, Odisha. The defence ministry said that the indigenous unmanned aerial vehicle will meet the requirements of HEAT for the armed forces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-1st-long-range-1-ton-guided-bomb-test-fired-hits-target-100-km-away-101635521080880.html
29-10-2021||India||DRDO, IAF successfully flight-test indigenous Long Range Bombs; Defence minister Rajnath Singh lauds feat||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and the Indian Air Force (IAF) on Friday successfully flight tested an indigenously developed Long-Range Bomb (LRB) from an aerial platform, the ministry of defence said in a statement.Further, the ministry also said that the LR bomb, after being released from a fighter aircraft of the IAF, was guided to a land-based target at a long range “with accuracy within specified limits.” The ministry also noted that all the objectives of the mission were successfully met during the test-flight.“All the mission objectives were successfully met. The flight of the bomb and the performance was monitored by a number of range sensors including Electro Optical Tracking System (EOTS), Telemetry and radar deployed by the Integrated Test Range, Chandipur in Odisha,” the ministry said.Also read | India successfully test-fires Agni-5 missileThe bomb was designed and developed by the Research Centre Imarat (RCI), a DRDO laboratory in Hyderabad, Telangana, in coordination with other DRDO laboratories. The RCI lab is involved in the research and development (R&D) of avionics systems.Meanwhile, Union defence minister Rajnath Singh has conveyed his congratulations to the DRDO, the IAF and the other teams involved in the trial flight, the ministry said. Singh said that the feat will prove to be a “force multiplier for the Indian Armed Forces.”Also, G Satheesh Reddy, chairman of the DRDO, said that the successful test flight of the indigenously developed LR Bomb has “marked an important milestone” in the indigenous development of this class of weapon systems.The development came a few days after the country successfully test fired the Agni-5 missile, from the APJ Abdul Kalam Island off the coast of Odisha. The ministry said that the missile was capable of hitting targets at ranges upto 5,000kms “with very high degree of accuracy.”“The successful test of Agni-5 is in line with India’s stated policy to have ‘credible minimum deterrence’ that underpins the commitment to ‘No First Use’,” the ministry said earlier in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drdo-iaf-successfully-flight-tests-indigenous-long-range-bombs-defence-minister-rajnath-singh-lauds-feat-101635520444746.html
29-10-2021||India||India, Israel to work on 10-year roadmap for defence cooperation||The India-Israel joint working group (JWG) on defence cooperation has decided to set up a task force to put together a comprehensive 10-year roadmap to identify new areas of collaboration, the defence ministry said on Friday. Israel has been among India’s top three arms suppliers for the last five years, according to a report published by the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (Sipri) in March 2021. Israel accounted for 13% of India’s imports during 2016-20 after Russia (49%) and France (18%). The decision to form the task force to identify new areas of cooperation for the next decade was taken during the 15th JWG meeting co-chaired by defence secretary Ajay Kumar and the Director-General of Israel’s Ministry of Defence, Maj Gen Amir Eshel (retd) earlier this week. “The two sides reviewed the progress made in military-to-military engagements including exercises and industry cooperation. The co-chairs were apprised of the progress made by the sub-working groups (SWGs) on defence procurement and production and research and development,” the ministry said in a statement. India and Israel also agreed to form an SWG on defence industry cooperation for efficient utilisation of resources, effective flow of technologies and sharing industrial capabilities, officials said. In September, the Indian Air Force inducted a medium-range surface-to-air-missile (MRSAM) system capable of knocking out aerial threats such as enemy fighter jets, missiles, helicopters and unmanned aerial vehicles at a range of 70 km. India and Israel have jointly developed the MRSAM or the Barak 8 air defence system that includes advanced radar, command and control systems, and mobile launchers. The missile is powered by a locally-developed rocket motor and control system for high manoeuvrability in the terminal phase. The system has been developed jointly by the Israel Aerospace Industries and the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO). Other firms involved in the project include Israeli firm Rafael, Bharat Electronics Limited, Bharat Dynamics Limited and Larsen & Toubro. A naval version of the MRSAM is already deployed on a few Indian warships to boost their anti-air warfare capabilities while the army has also placed orders for the MRSAM but it has not yet inducted the system, as previously reported by Hindustan Times. India and Israel have inked separate deals worth around $3 billion over the last four years for advanced surface-to-air missile systems for the three services. The ongoing border conflict with China in Ladakh forced India last year to speed up the purchase of military hardware from several countries including Israel, officials said. India is sourcing from Israel the Firefly loitering ammunition, Spike anti-tank guided missiles, Spice guidance kits that can be mounted on standard bombs to convert them into smart weapons and an operational surface-to-air missile system as a 2017 order worth $2 billion for such advanced systems to take down hostile aircraft and missiles didn’t translate into deliveries. India is also seeking greater participation of Israeli defence companies in the defence manufacturing sector under the new liberalised foreign direct investment (FDI) regime, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-israel-to-work-on-10-year-roadmap-for-defence-cooperation-101635521274759.html
29-10-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: October 30, 2005 — Delhi’s worst terror attacks kill 57, injure 153 just before Diwali||BY 7 p.m. on Saturday, two days before Diwali, most marketplaces in Delhi wore a deserted look. Paharganj and Sarojini Nagar, two of the big shopping hubs, were still noisy —but with wails and the blaring siren of the ambulance.Delhi was hit thrice between 5.30 p.m. and 6 p.m., in what seems to be a coordinated terrorist strike which left at least 57 dead and 153 injured. It was the biggest terrorist strike ever in Delhi.It came within five months of the bomb blasts at two cinema halls and unlike the last time, the Delhi Police had been on high alert following intelligence inputs of a possible strike.Intelligence agencies say the Saturday blasts were carried out by terrorist outfits based inPoK. “They were desperate tomake their presence felt after the earthquake,” an officer said. The blasts are also being linked to the court judgment in the Red Fort attack case, the sentence of which was to be made on Saturday but was deferred to Monday.The targets had been chosen carefully for maximum impact — a jampacked DTC bus and the markets in Paharganj and Sarojini Nagar.The first blast took place at 5.38 p.m. in front of the Chhah Tooti Chowk in Paharganj’s Nehru Market. Police suspect the bomb was planted on a chaat stall or a rickshaw outside a jewellery shop.But it was at Sarojini Nagar’s mini market where the casualty was maximum— 37. Forensicexperts were investigating whether it was a cylinder blast, but the police said the timing and location suggested the involvement of terrorists.By evening, the administration was fighting on several fronts — including blood shortage in hospitals. Raids were on to nab suspects and security was beefed up at DTC and Metro. Plastic explosives were seized from a house in Chandni Chowk and 10 persons were detained.The case has been handed over to the Special Cell of Delhi Police. After a series of meetings, it was decided that additional reinforcements would be deployed for the rest of the festive season extending till Christmas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-october-30-2005-delhi-s-worst-terror-attacks-kill-57-injure-153-just-before-diwali-101635519663006.html
29-10-2021||India||Wasn't organiser of cruise party, says Kashif Khan as Nawab Malik posts video||Kashif Khan whose video was shared on Friday on social media by Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik has told news agency ANI that he was not the organiser of the cruise party from which Shah Rukh Khan's son Ayan Khan was arrested. Kashif Khan is a senior executive of Fashion TV and admitted that he was present on the cruise at the party but only as a client. "I am not an organiser of this cruise or the party. The allegations are baseless. The organisers are from Delhi and they have already been detained and questioned. I have nothing to do with them," he said.He also said that he does not know Sameer Wankhede, the Mumbai zone chief of the Narcotics Control Bureau, personally. He claimed he has never spoken to Wankhede. ""I do not even know the NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede. I have never spoken to him in my life. I really do not understand that why Minister Nawab Malik has made such allegations against me. He will be the only person to explain it," Khan said to ANI. Video of Kashif khan dancing on the Cruise ship pic.twitter.com/JoSsYF9Ux1Recounting what happened on October 2 night, he said, "I didn't even realise that the cruise was raided I had been told that some people tried to board the cruise illegally and later they were offloaded. I always thought that the cruise is legal and have cleared all the permissions so we boarded the cruise."Nawab Malik has been raising questions over why no action has been taken against the organiser of the cruise party. In his press meet, the minister also took Kashif Khan's name as one of the organisers. Then he posted a purported video of Kashif Khan on the cruise.Sameer Wankhede has replied to the allegation of Nawab Malik that the organisers of the party were let go as they were known to Wankhede and said it is a lie. "Absolutely a lie and I can't comment. Law will take its own course," Wankhede said.The drugs-on-cruise case took a murky turn with several allegations being levelled against investigator Sameer Wankhede. NCB and Mumbai Police are looking into the allegations, while Aryan Khan, Arbaaz Merchant, Munmun Dhamecha have got bail but are yet to come out of jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wasnt-organiser-of-cruise-party-says-kashif-khan-as-nawab-malik-posts-video-101635519280966.html
29-10-2021||India||Assembly bypolls: 3 parliamentary seats, 30 assembly seats across 14 states set for polling on October 30||As many as three parliamentary constituencies and 30 state assembly constituencies are all set for the bypolls on October 30 with all political parties having intensified their campaigning efforts.While three seats -- Dadra and Nagar Haveli in the Union territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, Khandwa in Madhya Pradesh and Mandi in Himachal Pradesh -- will witness the bypolls for the parliamentary seats, 30 constituencies across 14 states will hold bypolls for the respective state assemblies. The counting of votes would be done November 2, the Election Commission of India (ECI) had announced. The campaigning for all the seats ended on Wednesday evening.The parliamentary bypolls for the lone seat in the UT was necessitated due to the death of independent MP Mohan Delkar in February this year. The seat will witness a three-pronged contest between the Shiv Sena, the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The Shiv Sena and the Congress are the constituents of the Maha Vikas Aghadi, the ruling coalition in Maharashtra.Also read | Assembly bypolls 2021: All you need to knowMeanwhile, the Mandi seat in HP fell vacant following the demise of the BJP MP Ram Swaroop Sharma earlier in March. The bypolls in MP’s Khandwa is also due to the death of BJP’s Nand Kumar Singh Chauhan.Here is a list of states and the assembly constituencies where the bypolls would be held on October 30.AssamAs many as five assembly constituencies, namely, Gossaigaon, Bhabanipur, Tamulpur, Mariani and Thowra, will go to polls on October 30 in Assam.BiharAssembly polls have been scheduled in two assembly seats, Kusheshwar Asthan and Tarapur, in Bihar. Recently, the rift between the Congress and Lalu Prasad Yadav’s Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) widened due to the seat sharing issue between the two for the Kusheshwar Asthan, a seat reserved for scheduled caste candidates.HaryanaEllenabad in Haryana will witness a triangular contest between the INLD, the BJP-JJP alliance and the Congress with the farmers' protest being a major factor in the elections.Himachal PradeshFatehpur, Arki and Jubbal-Kotkhai assembly constituencies will witness the bypolls on October 30. The elections have been necessitated in all three seats due to the death of the sitting MLAs.West BengalDinhata, Santipur, Khardaha and Gosaba (SC) assembly seats, all four districts along the Bangladesh border, will vote in the assembly bypolls on October 30. In Dinhata and Santipur, won by the BJP in the recent assembly elections, the candidates didn’t take oath to retain their Lok Sabha seats and in the other two seats, the TMC legislators died.Madhya PradeshAlong with the byelection for one parliamentary seat in Madhya Pradesh, Prithvipur, Raigaon(SC) and Jobat(ST) assembly constituencies will also have bypolls on the day. The BJP and the Congress are locked in a direct contest in all the seats.MaharashtraDeglur in Nanded district will be the only seat in Maharashtra where the assembly bypolls would be held on Saturday. A tightly contested seat, Deglur will see 12 candidates in the ballot, including those from the BJP and the Congress.Andhra PradeshBadvel in Andhra Pradesh is the sole assembly seat to go to polls on October 30. The election there is being held due to the demise of the ruling YSRCP legislator Gunthoti Venkata Subbaiah in March.KarnatakaIn Karnataka, Sindgi and Hangal constituencies are set for the bypolls on Saturday. Earlier, the JD(S) legislator from Sindgi and the BJP legislator from Hangal due to which the byelections have been scheduled.TelanganaThe tightly contested Huzurabad assembly seat will witness as many as 30 candidates contest the bypolls on Saturday with stiff competition between the ruling TRS, BJP and the Congress. BJP candidate Eatala Rajender resigned from the seat earlier in June following his removal from the state cabinet due to allegations of land grabbing.MeghalayaAssembly bypolls would be held for the Mawryngkneng (ST), Mawphlang (ST) and Rajabala constituencies in Meghalaya due to the demise of the sitting MLAs in all the three seats.MizoramTuirial, a reserved constituency for the Scheduled Tribes, is the sole seat from the state where the bypolls would be held on Saturday.NagalandShamtorr-Chessore (ST) is the only seat from Nagaland slated to go to polls on October 30 for the assembly bypolls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assembly-bypolls-3-parliamentary-seats-30-assembly-seats-across-14-states-set-for-polling-on-october-30-101635518300002.html
29-10-2021||India||Suspension on International flights extended till November 30||India extended the ban on scheduled international commercial passenger flights until November 30, the Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) announced on Friday. The DGCA earlier extended the ban till October 31 last month. Similar to the previous order, the DGCA will not restrict international all-cargo operations and flights specifically approved by DGCA.In the circular, it also stated that international scheduled flights may be allowed on selected routes by the competent authority on a case to case basis.India however reopened for tourists earlier this month. India has begun granting fresh tourist visas to foreigners starting October 15. The Union home ministry earlier in October also allowed foreign tourists to enter the country by flights other than chartered aircraft starting November 15.The MHA said that the decision was taken in a bid to boost the slumping tourism sector and help the economic recovery. The tourism and aviation sector were among the largest casualties of the Covid-19 pandemic.Some airports have already started registering growth in passenger traffic in August. Though the growth was recorded in the domestic passenger segment. Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) saw a four-fold growth in passenger traffic in August indicating that travel was rising among Indians.However, a report by credit ratings agency ICRA said that the Indian aviation sector could still incur losses worth ₹26,000 cr in FY22. The report earlier said that the industry will also need an additional funding of ₹45,000-47,000 crore over FY2022 to FY2024.The civil aviation ministry in a bid to help the aviation sector allowed domestic flights to fly at full capacity starting last week. “The airlines/airport operators shall, however, ensure that the guidelines to contain the spread of COVID are strictly adhered to and COVID appropriate behaviour is strictly enforced,” the ministry said.India’s domestic air passenger traffic marginally 2-3% around 69 lakh in September seeing a rise of 2 lakh from August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suspension-on-international-flights-extended-till-november-30-101635517287839.html
29-10-2021||India||Air India pilots asks aviation minister to roll back Covid related pay cuts||Air India Boeing and Airbus pilots’ unions (Indian Pilots’ Guild and Indian Commercial Pilots’ Association) have collectively written to aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia asking him to remove the Covid-19 pay cut that is still been levied on them. The two airline pilots’ unions earlier wrote individually but did not receive any response from their respective managements. With this joint letter to the minister, people familiar with the development said that the pilots want the ministry to restore their salaries to pre-privatisation days.The aviation industry in India seems to be back on track with domestic air traffic increasing from 25% in April 2020 to 100% as of October 2021. With the opening up of international borders for India, there seems to be an increase in international travel as well.“This ground reality has duly been acknowledged by other airlines who have rightfully rolled back the Covid austerity pay cuts significantly for their pilots. In stark contrast, our management is still content hiding behind the Covid-19 pandemic. The massive pay cut of up to 60% for Air India pilots has dramatically diminished our livelihoods. Looking at the current aviation industry standards, the continuation of the pay cut does not merit any justification,” read the letter dated October 28.The airline pilots said that they have been patient and have shown restraint to ensure smooth flight operations. They also reiterated that they have gone beyond the call of duty during the pandemic, risking life and limb to ensure the success of the government’s Vande Bharat Mission (VBM).“We request that you respect our sacrifices and years of faithful service to the National Carrier before handing us over. We would like to think that if not a graceful send-off, we have at least earned the right to a better legacy than our own management stealing our hard-earned money with impunity,” the letter read.Before this, the pilots Boeing union, the Indian Pilots’ Guild (IPG), wrote letters to the airline management on October 1 and 7 but did not get any response.Hence, demanding the rolling back of the pay cut, the pilots said, “We have given the management every benefit of the doubt and ample time to redress the disproportionate pay cut for the pilots. They refuse to part from a practised indifference and have only weak excuses to offer. Every day, this draconian pay cut continues and is a humiliation to our efforts towards the ongoing VBM and the dignity of our profession.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-pilots-asks-aviation-minister-to-roll-back-covid-related-pay-cuts-101635514854601.html
29-10-2021||India||Indian Navy's stealth frigate Tushil launched in Kaliningrad, Russia||The 7th Indian Navy Frigate of P1135.6 class was launched on October 28 at Yantar Shipyard, Kaliningrad, Russia, the navy said. During the ceremony, the ship was formally named as Tushil by Datla Vidya Varma, the Navy said in a statement. "Tushil" is a Sanskrit word meaning Protector Shield, it said.Based on an Inter-Governmental Agreement (IGA) between the Government of Republic of India and the Government of Russian Federation for the construction of two ships of Project 1135.6 ships in Russia and two ships in India at M/s Goa Shipyard Limited (GSL), the contract for construction of two ships was signed between India and Russia on October 18.The construction of these ships is based on the Indian Navy's specific requirements to meet the entire spectrum of naval warfare in all three dimensions of Air, Surface and Sub-surface. The ships, with a potent combination of state-of-art Indian and Russian weapons and sensors, are equipped to operate in Littoral and Blue waters, both as a single unit and as consort in a naval task force, the release said.They feature "stealth technology" in terms of low radar and underwater noise signatures. These ships are being equipped with major Indian supplied equipment such as Surface to Surface Missiles, Sonar system, Surface Surveillance Radar, Communication Suite and ASW system along with Russian Surface to Air Missiles and gun mounts.The stealth frigate was launched in presence of D Bala Venkatesh Varma, Ambassador of India (Moscow) and senior dignitaries of the Russian Federation and officials of the Indian Navy.Ilya Samarin, director general, Yantar Shipyard, Kaliningrad, in his address dwelt upon the challenges faced by the shipyard in executing the complex shipbuilding project. Despite challenges posed by the ongoing pandemic, production of the ships was continued by the utilisation of innovative solutions. He thanked the Indian Government for their unstinted support and reiterated the shipyard's commitment to delivering the ships as per contractual timelines.D Bala Venkatesh Varma, Ambassador of India (Moscow), highlighted the long-standing tradition of Military-Technical Cooperation between India and Russia. He acknowledged the efforts put in by the Yantar Shipyard to ensure that the ship was launched as per contractual timelines overcoming the challenges imposed by Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-navy-s-stealth-frigate-tushil-launched-in-kaliningrad-russia-101635513476254.html
29-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan won't be released today as 5.30pm deadline missed: Reports||Aryan Khan will not be released from the Arthur Road Prison on Friday, news agency ANI reported citing Arthur Road prison officials. According to reports, the physical copy of the release order has to reach the 'bail box' outside the prison by 5.30pm to make sure that release is done on the same day. Jail superintendent Nitin Waychal said jail officials wait until 5.35pm, but if the release order reaches the prison after 5.35pm, then the case gets transferred to the next morning.“We won’t give special treatment for anyone. The law is the same for all. The deadline for receiving the bail papers was 5.30 pm. That has passed. He won’t be released today,” an official told PTI.With this last-minute delay, Aryan Khan is expected to finally walk out of the jail on Saturday morning, reports said.It was a hectic day for Aryan Khan's lawyers as they have been preparing to proceed with the paperwork throughout the day. The Bombay high court issued the bail conditions after 2.30pm in which it said that Aryan Khan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha will have to provide a personal bond of ₹1 lakh. As his lawyers rushed to the NDPS court to get the release order, Bollywood actor Juhi Chawla reached the court premises to by Aryan Khan's 'surety'. She was presented in the court and after the court approved her documents, she signed the ₹1 lakh bond for Aryan Khan's release.What is the 5.30 deadline of Arthur Road Prison?There is a bail box outside the premises of the prison which is opened twice -- at 10.30am and 5.30pm. If it is towards the end of the day, the physical copy of the release order from the court has to be dropped in the box by 5.30pm. Then only the release can be made in the evening. Once this deadline is missed, the bail box will be opened the next day at 10.30am. In Aryan Khan's case, the formalities of the prison will begin on Saturday after 10.30am and will take another hour. Aryan Khan's release on Friday was much awaited after he has been lodged in jail since October 8. On Thursday (October 28), the Bombay high court finally granted him bail, though the bail conditions were not mentioned. As the bail conditions were not out till 2.30pm on Friday, Aryan Khan's lawyers could not proceed with the paperwork. However, as soon as the Bombay high court published the bail orders, the lawyers dived into action and actor Juhi Chawala reached the court to be Aryan Khan's surety. Aryan Khan's team of lawyers were hopeful and were pushing hard to secure his release on Friday itself. Aryan Khan's lawyers were hopeful that a "postponement till 7pm" of the deadline of Arthur Road Jail was possible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aryan-khan-won-t-be-released-today-say-jail-authorities-101635510601772.html
29-10-2021||India||Draft amendments to juvenile justice model rules published||The union women and child development ministry on Thursday published the draft amendments to the juvenile justice model rules 2016 for ensuring greater scrutiny of child care institutions (CCIs) and stricter norms for the constitution of child welfare committees (CWCs). It has sought suggestions and comments from the stakeholders.The draft amendments have been published three months after Parliament passed the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Amendment Act. The rules have been revised in accordance with the amended law that increased the powers of district magistrates (DMs) and additional district magistrates (ADMs) in child care and adoption processes. The law permits them to issue adoption orders, a power that was formerly reserved only with the courts. This has been done to ensure speedy disposal of adoption cases and enhance accountability.The rules have been drafted after taking suggestions from states, union territories, and child rights bodies including the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights.According to the proposed amendments to the rules, the DMs and ADMs have been empowered to ensure smooth implementation of the amendment law and also independently evaluate the functioning of District Child Protection Units, Child Welfare Committees, Juvenile Justice Boards, Specialised Juvenile Police Units, Child Care Institutions, etc. The DMs may also be allowed to create a district-level juvenile justice fund.Under the amended norms, the DMs have also been given the responsibility to take measures to expedite the process of adoption of children declared legally free for adoption by a CCI and the specialised adoption agencies.The proposed rules say any CCI will be registered on the basis of the recommendations of the DM. “The DM will verify credibility, background and previous record of the Child Care Institution and the agency/individual promoting the institution and make specific recommendations to the state government for consideration,” say the draft rules.To ensure greater scrutiny of CCIs, the amendments propose that in case any institute commits any offence under the law, the district child welfare committees or board may pass appropriate orders for placing the children in any other institution or agency and recommend the cancellation of the registration and withdrawal of recognition of such institution or agency to the DM.“The DM including ADM may ensure transfer of children and closure of guilty institutions within seven days under intimation to the State Government,” the draft rules say. The seven-day time frame was not there earlier. The draft rules also propose that cameras should be installed at the key positions in all CCIs.The proposed amendments lay down strict norms for the composition of the CWCs. Anyone having past record of violation of human or child rights or child abuse or employment of child labour, or immoral act, etc will be ineligible for selection as a member of the committee.“Any person responsible for receiving foreign contributions in individual capacity or in an organisation, shall not be eligible to be a chairperson or member of the committee,” the proposed rules say.The ministry has published the draft rules on its website and asked the stakeholders to send suggestions and comments regarding them by November 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/draft-amendments-to-juvenile-justice-model-rules-published-101635509752699.html
29-10-2021||India||‘Now will sell crops in front of Parliament’: Tikait on removal of barricades||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait on Friday said that since the barricades were removed from the Ghazipur, farmers will now go to Parliament to sell their crops.Tikait was reacting to Delhi Police’s decision to remove barricades from the Ghazipur border where farmers’ unions were protesting against the Centre's farm laws for more than 11 months.“The PM said that farmers can sell crops anywhere. Now we will tell the farmers where to sell the crops whose harvest remains unsold. If roads are open, we will go to Delhi. We will go to Parliament to sell our crop,” Tikait was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.“They removed barriers which they put up earlier. The Sanyukt Kisan Morcha will take a decision and then proceed accordingly. We were sitting here for the last 11 months asking to go to Delhi. We were not being allowed. We will now go to Delhi to sell our harvest. First, our tractors will go to Delhi,” Tikait said.Delhi Police started removing barricades placed at the Tikri and Ghazipur borders where farmers were protesting against the Centre's three farm laws which they claim will give the private sector more control over the agricultural sector and lead to a rise in contract farming. The government on the contrary believes that the laws will double farmer incomes and will help the farmer to reach a broader market.On Thursday, JCB machines started removing the barricades placed by the Delhi Police. The Supreme Court during a hearing on traffic-related difficulties in the Tikri border area said that it was the authorities who stopped the traffic, not the protesters. The Supreme Court on October 21 said that the aggrieved farmers’ rights groups have the right to protest but roads cannot be blocked indefinitely while hearing a plea against the blockade of roads between Delhi to Noida due to the protests.The police earlier this year placed elaborate barricades on the roads, along with giant nails and huge concrete blocks and barbed wire, in a bid to stop farmers from entering the Capital to protest against the laws.The impasse continues despite several meetings held between the government and the farmers’ rights activists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/now-will-sell-crops-in-front-of-parliament-tikait-on-removal-of-barricades-101635507686798.html
29-10-2021||India||BJP using NCB to target Maharashtra and Bollywood, claims minister Nawab Malik||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik on Friday urged the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) to probe the 26 cases brought forward by an anonymous employee of the agency. Malik also reiterated his demand for action against Fashion TV executive Kashiff Khan, who he claimed organised a cruise ship rave party that was raided by NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede’s team on October 2, leading to the arrest of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan the next day in the case.Kashiff Khan has refuted all the allegations and said that the minister has been misled and misinformed by someone. He also said that he is not the organizer of any party at the cruise and Fashion TV was the official sponsor of the event. He also clarified that he has no relation with Wankhede as claimed by Malik.He also revealed that Kiran Gosavi, a witness in the Aryan Khan drugs case who was arrested in a cheating case in Pune, is linked with a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader. Malik claimed that Gosavi is a partner in a private firm along with the BJP leader and his wife. He, however, has withheld the name of the BJP leader and said it will be disclosed during the winter session of the state legislature commencing from December 7. He also said that the BJP is conspiring with the narcotics control bureau (NCB) to defame Maharashtra, its government, Mumbai and its Film industry.Malik had earlier claimed that BJP office-bearer Manish Bhanushali is a witness in the Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan drug bust case. Bhanushali was seen bringing Arbaaz Merchant, another accused arrested along with Aryan Khan, at the NCB Mumbai office in a video clip that went viral.“One Shekhar Kamble, a witness in one of the 26 cases, has narrated how the NCB official framed an innocent Nigerian citizen after the raid failed to catch the drug peddler… Not all Nigerians are drug peddlers. I have written a to the NCB chief referring to the statement of Kamble and request him to probe the cases as they are serious in nature. Nabbing offenders is the responsibility of NCB but if innocents are being framed then a probe shall be conducted. Those who are innocent should get justice while those who have framed them should be brought to justice,” he added.later in the day, Malik sent a letter to NCB, director-general, SN Pradhan seeking a probe into the allegations made in the letter. “The NCB has said it will not take cognisance of the anonymous letter purportedly written by an NCB employee as the Central Vigilance Commission guidelines are against it. However, the claims related to 26 cases by the NCB are very serious in nature and more than 100 innocent people booked over the cases are behind bars,” Malik said.“Kiran Gosavi is a director in a private limited company along with a BJP leader and his wife. I am not taking their name, if taken, they will approach the court giving various reasons hence it will be disclosed during the winter session of the state assembly in reply to the allegations to be made by BJP. I have more explosive information, if disclosed they will not be able to show their faces to the people… Many people have drug connections and I am collecting the evidence. Many big names will come out in the winter session,” he said, refusing to disclose a name.Malik also said that Wankhede is a puppet in the hands of BJP, which does now want their ‘parrot’ to speak out, otherwise, the party will be in trouble. He said if investigated Kashiff Khan will spill the beans hinting at his alleged connections with Wankhede and BJP leaders.“These are malicious allegations to target my reputation. They are false and are being levelled for the first time in the 15 years of my service. I condemn the attempt in strong words,” Wankhede said. Leader of Opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis refused to speak on the allegations levelled by Nawab Malik. “Malik keeps speaking the entire day as he does not have anything else to do. There is no need to react to his every comment. He is a ‘parrot’ of NCP. Malik may be important for you (the media) not us,” he said.BJP spokesperson Keshav Upadhye said, “He (Nawab Malik) should tell the name first and then make the allegations. Making an allegation without revealing a name is not right,” Upadhye said, responding to the allegation.Malik also claimed that Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath wants to build a film city in his state and the move behind attempts is to defame Bollywood. “UP CM Yogi ji wants to make a film city in Uttar Pradesh. He met a few people at Hotel Taj in Mumbai. Those who support the BJP met him. They believe Bollywood will be shifted out of Mumbai, if defamed,” Malik said.“They (BJP) don’t know that great personalities such as Dadasaheb Phalke, V Shantaram, many other Marathi actors, directors and other personalities contributed to the formation of Bollywood. It takes our culture and tradition to the world. It employs lakhs of people. If they believe that by defaming Bollywood, Yogi Maharaj can create UPwood then they are mistaken,” he said making the accusation.“The state government has failed in running the administration. They have failed to sort out any major issue and thus allegations are made only to mislead people,” Upadhye said.“I have spoken about a man with a beard and that person is Kashiff Khan. He arranges fashion shows in which drugs are served. He runs a sex racket and is involved in pornography. He is the one who has organized a program at a cruise and people were invited by posting invitations on the social media platforms. I have got a video of the event organized by Kashiff Khan on October 3 (Sunday) at 6.30pm which was posted on a website. He is having good relations with Wankhede. I have raised the question as to why this honest officer (Sameer Wankhede) is not arresting Kashiff Khan, if arrested he will spill the beans,” the NCP leader alleged.They claimed to have the information of the rave party a month in advance and the organiser who has a criminal background was not investigated. No scanning of around 1,300 people present on the cruise, no detention, means there is some relation. It will come out after the probe. If Kashiff Khan is arrested many will be exposed. How much money he has, of how many people and what all he does for them everything,” he added.Terming the allegations as baseless, Kashiff Khan told a news channel that he has nothing to do with any kind of drugs or any drugs substances as he doesn’t smoke even a cigarette. “Nawab Malik is very misled and misinformed. I think he has all the wrong information. I would like to state categorically that I have nothing to do with any kinds of drugs or any drugs substances. All the allegations and baseless comments are completely false and I am not aware why he is doing that. I neither know Malik nor have I ever met him. I also don’t know why he is dragging me into all this but I am sure there is some misunderstanding from his end. The one, whom he has been informed by, is giving wrong information,” Khan told ABP Majha on Friday.He maintained that he didn’t know Wankhede and had never met him. “I am not aware of any kind of association, friendship, talks, calls with Mr (Sameer) Wankhede,” he stressed. He said that the firm that organized the event is from Delhi and are already booked and arrested. “I have paid for everything including food and beverages with my credit card with duly taxes paid and I have all the bills and invoices. I am also ready to prove this on any forum.”Responding to the claims by Wankhede’s family that his family was being personally targeted by Malik, the minister defended his position, saying didn’t say a word about Wankhede’s wife Kranti Redkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-using-ncb-to-target-maharashtra-and-bollywood-claims-minister-nawab-malik-101635508612837.html
29-10-2021||India||Finance ministry releases ₹44,000 crore GST compensation to boost growth||The union finance ministry on Thursday released ₹44,000 crore back-to-back loans to states - the final instalment of ₹1.59 lakh crore estimated Goods and Services Tax (GST) revenue shortfall for 2021-22 - with an aim to front-load public expenditure and boost growth.The latest instalment has been issued three weeks after the Centre released ₹40,000 crore on October 7. Earlier, the finance ministry released the first instalment of ₹75,000 crore on July 15, according to an official statement.After GST collections fell sharply due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic and the 68-day nationwide lockdown from March 25 last year, the union government in 2020 devised a back-to-back borrowing mechanism to make up for the states’ revenue losses.Also Read: Sensex, Nifty bounce back after opening in red but remain volatileThe borrowing mechanism, which was proposed by the Centre and eventually agreed upon by all states last year, is facilitated through a special window of the Reserve Bank of India. The money is collectively borrowed on behalf of states with an assurance that both the principal and the interest would be repaid from the GST compensation cess fund.Under this arrangement, states received ₹1.10 lakh crore to meet their revenue shortfall in 2020-21 and a ₹1.59 lakh borrowing plan was approved for the current fiscal year at the 43rd meeting of the GST Council on May 28.“This release [of ₹44,000 crore] is in addition to normal GST compensation being released every two months out of actual cess collection,” the statement said.At the time of introducing the new indirect tax regime in July 2017, the GST law assured states a 14% increase in their annual revenue for five years (up to 2022), and assured them that their revenue shortfall would be made good through the compensation cess levied on luxury goods and sin products such as liquor, cigarettes, aerated water, automobiles, coal and tobacco.“This amount of ₹1.59 lakh crore [for 2021-22] would be over and above the compensation in excess of ₹1 lakh crore (based on cess collection) that is estimated to be released to states/UTs with legislature during this financial year. The sum total of ₹2.59 lakh crore is expected to exceed the amount of GST compensation accruing in FY 2021-22,” the statement said.“For effective response and management of Covid-19 pandemic and a step-up in capital expenditure all states and UTs have a very important role to play. For assisting the states/UTs in their endeavour, Ministry of Finance has frontloaded the release of assistance under the back-to-back loan facility during FY 2021-22 of ₹1,59,000 crore,” it added.The release of ₹44,000 crore being made now is funded from borrowings of the union government in five-year securities issued in the current financial year, at a weighted average yield of 5.69%. No additional market borrowing by the central government is envisaged on account of this release, it said.It is expected that this release will help states in planning their public expenditure among other things, for improving, health infrastructure and taking up infrastructure projects, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/finance-ministry-releases-44-000-crore-gst-compensation-to-boost-growth-101635508493122.html
29-10-2021||India||'Cruel twist of fate': PM Modi condoles death of Kannada actor Puneeth Rajkumar||Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the demise of Kannada actor Puneeth Rajkumar who suffered a heart attack on Friday. Taking to Twitter, PM Modi said a “cruel twist of fate snatched away from us a prolific and talented actor", adding that coming generations will fondly remember him for his works and wonderful personality.“A cruel twist of fate has snatched away from us a prolific and talented actor, Puneeth Rajkumar. This was no age to go. The coming generations will remember him fondly for his works and wonderful personality. Condolences to his family and admirers. Om Shanti,” the prime minister wrote on Twitter.Condolences started pouring in after Karnataka minister Dr CN Ashwathnarayan confirmed the death of Puneeth Rajkumar. The minister said that Puneeth had accomplished immensely from an early age and it was difficult to believe that he is no more. Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai expressed shock and grief at the actor's demise,  calling it a “huge personal loss and one that's difficult to come to terms with.”"Shocked and deeply saddened as Karnataka's most loved superstar Puneeth Rajkumar is no longer with us. A huge personal loss and one that's difficult to come to terms with. Praying almighty gives Rajkumar family and fans the strength to bear this loss," tweeted Basavaraj Bommai.The actor was brought to Vikram Hospital with a diagnosis of heart attack after an ECG done by a family doctor, according to the hospital's statement. The hospital further stated that the patient was non-responsive and was in cardiac asystole at the time of arrival to the emergency.“Immediate advanced cardiac life support measures were initiated for resuscitation. In spite of prolonged advanced &aggressive measures, patient continued to be non-responsive and asystolic. Panel of medical experts extended all efforts to save him. He was declared dead at 2.30pm,” the hospital added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cruel-twist-of-fate-pm-modi-condoles-death-of-kannada-actor-puneeth-rajkumar-101635506455681.html
29-10-2021||India||Women cadets to be welcomed with sense of fair play, professionalism: Army chief||Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Friday said women cadets are expected to be welcomed with the same sense of fair play and professionalism at the National Defence Academy (NDA) as men.“As we open the portals of the NDA for women cadets, we expect you to welcome them with the same sense of fair play and professionalism as Indian armed forces are known globally,” he said after reviewing a parade of the 141st course at the NDA.The Centre in September told the Supreme Court that the NDA will be ready to welcome its first ever batch of women cadets in January 2023 after they sit for the entrance exam in May next year. This came a month after the court directed that women can also sit for the examination while holding that the policy that restricts their entry into the elite institution is based on “gender discrimination”.Naravane said the induction of women will be the “first step towards gender equality” in the armed forces. He added that women officers will be in the same position 40 years later that he is in now. Watch: Army chief at NDA’s passing out parade, sets tone for women cadets’ 1st batchNaravane said he is confident that women cadets will perform better than their male counterparts. “Over the years, as we have grown and matured, as the curriculum has changed, training methodology has changed, the course content has improved. We have become more well-trained and better-equipped to meet whatever challenges that emerge. As we go ahead, we shall be inducting women cadets into the academy,” he said. “As a result of this, they will also get empowered. They will hold more challenging assignments.”Naravane said the army already has women officers undergoing training at Officers Training Academy in Chennai. “They are exceedingly doing well and I am sure that the academy will continue to prosper and flourish and bring fame and glory.”In his address earlier to the cadets, he said, “A little over 42 years back when I stood at the same drill square today as you stand today, little could I have imagined that one day I would be reviewing this magnificent parade. It brings to mind that the more things change, the more they remain the same.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/women-cadets-to-be-welcomed-with-sense-of-fair-play-professionalism-army-chief-101635507592664.html
29-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: Bengal to reopen schools from Nov 16 with staggered timings and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times. Schools to start in West Bengal from November 16 with staggered timingSchools in West Bengal would reopen from November 16 with staggered timings for classes IX to XII, officials of the state education department said. Read more here. HT Opinion| 75 days later, Taliban rule leaves Afghans in miseryContrary to popular — and deeply patronising and Orientalist — stereotypes among the international community of Afghans as unruly warring tribes, corrupt or incapable, I found them capable and deeply committed to building their country. Read more here. Kannada star Puneeth Rajkumar dies at 46; Abhishek Bachchan, R Madhavan call it 'heartbreaking'Kannada star Puneeth Rajkumar has died after suffering a heart attack on Friday. He was 46. Read more here. ‘Some people are playing on past reputation’: Ex-player unhappy with 2 IND starsEx-India cricketer lashed out on two prominent members of India's squad at the T20 World Cup and also suggested their suitable replacements. Read more here. Dogs who are best friends, knock on each other's apartment doors for playdatesShadow and Lupa, two adorable dogs, who also happen to be both best friends and neighbours - are uncontrollably excited to see each other. Read more here. Skoda to unveil Slavia sedan on November 18, to rival Ciaz, City and VernaSkoda has announced that the new Slavia, which was recently showcased testing on Indian roads, will officially break cover post the festive season. Read more here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-bengal-to-open-schools-from-nov-16-with-staggered-timings-and-all-the-latest-news-101635506863003.html
29-10-2021||India||The climate crisis and why an energy transition is tough||The climate crisis is an existential threat to humanity. The United Nations Secretary-General described the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Working Group’s report as nothing less than a “code red for humanity”. The report has triggered a debate about the energy transition to a low carbon economy. The International Energy Agency (IEA) called upon countries to achieve net-zero emission by 2050.
29-10-2021||India||Juhi Chawla signs ₹1 lakh bond for Aryan Khan's bail, says she's happy that all is over||Actor Juhi Chawla reached the Special NDPS (Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances) court on Friday evening to sign the ₹1 lakh bond for Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan, after the bail conditions were spelt out by the Bombay high court. The Bollywood actor, who is a close friend of Shah Rukh Khan and has acted in a string of films together, was the surety for Aryan Khan, as Aryan Khan's lawyer Satish Maneshinde said, "She (Juhi Chawla) knows him from birth as they are professionally associated.""There is a sense of relief in the (SRK) family. We are all happy it is over", Juhi Chawla said before leaving the Court premises.As the Bombay high court on Friday released the bail conditions for Aryan Khan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha, Aryan's lawyers started preparing for the paperwork as they have to reach Arthur Road jail by 5.30pm to ensure that Aryan walks out of the jail by today.Aryan Khan will have to surrender passport, to report to NCB office every Friday: 14 bail conditions"We have got the operative part of the order of the Bombay High court. We are trying to complete other formalities like sureties. Our legal team is working on it. We trying for release today," Maneshinde said as he entered the NDPS court soon after the bail conditions were made available. It was then actor Juhi Chawla reached the court to be the surety for Aryan Khan. "She (Juhi Chawla) is the surety. Her name is on the passport. Aadhaar card is there," Maneshinde presented Aryan Khan's surety while Juhi Chawla entered the witness box. Maneshinde also appealed to the court to release Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha, though he was not appearing for them. "The same thing happened in Rhea Chakraborty case. Once she was out, everyone got bail," Maneshinde said.After the NDPS court verified the documents of Juhi Chawla, she proceeded to the department to complete the remaining formalities.As the formalities were completed by 5pm, Maneshinde said outside the NDPS court, “Bail formalities are completed. Surety of Juhi Chawla has been accepted. We are moving ahead. You will soon see Aryan out. Juhi Chawla knows him since birth. Juhi Chawla is signing the bail bonds."Apart from conditions like Aryan will have to surrender passport and will have to report to the NCB office every Friday, the three were asked to submit a surety of ₹1 lakh.Why the rush to reach the jail premises by 5.30pmThe release order has to reach the bail box at the prison by 5.30pm. If the bail order reaches after 5.30pm, then it gets delayed by another day. Jail superintendent Nitin Waychal said the jail officials wait until 5.35pm for this.After the jail authorities receive the bail order, the process of the final release from the hail takes an hour or so.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/juhi-chawla-signs-rs-1-lakh-bond-for-aryan-khan-s-bail-lawyers-complete-formalities-101635506152386.html
29-10-2021||India||Assembly bypolls 2021: All you need to know||All eyes are set on bypolls slated to be held on Saturday (October 30), in three Lok Sabha seats and 30 assembly constituencies. While Lok Sabha polls will be held in Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Mandi in Himachal Pradesh and Khandwa in Madhya Pradesh, assembly bypolls will be held in 30 seats across 14 states. The counting of votes will take place on November 2.The bypolls are being held for Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan seats. The bypolls were necessitated following the demise of sitting MLAs, Shashi Bhushan Hazari and Mewalal Choudhary, both from the JD(U).In Tarapur, RJD candidate Arun Kumar Sah will be contesting against JD(U)'s Rajiv Kumar Singh. The Lok Janshakti Party (Ram Vilas) has fielded Chandan Singh, and the Congress, Rajesh Mishra.From Kusheshwar Sthan, JD(U) has fielded Aman Hazari, the son of deceased MLA Shashi Bhushan Hazari. The Congress has fielded Atirek Kumar while the RJD's Ganesh Bharti will be representing the party from the seat.In Himachal Pradesh, bypolls are due for the Mandi Lok Sabha seat, and Arki, Fatehpur, and Jubbal-Kotkhai Vidhan Sabha seats.A tight contest is expected between the ruling BJP and Congress party on all seats except Jubbal-Kotkhai, where rebel BJP candidate Chetan Singh Bragta - contending on an independent ticket -- is being predicted as a stronger candidate.Mandi being his home district, Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur is likely to throw all his weight behind BJP candidate Kargil war hero Brigadier Khushal Singh Thakur, who is trying his luck for the first time. At the other end is the six-time chief minister Virbhadra Singh's wife Pratibha Singh, who is in fray from the district on a Congress ticket.Defected from BJP, Bragta is seen to be giving a tough fight to BJP's Neelam Seraik in Jubbal-Kotkhai, where four candidates including Congress' Rohit Thakur and Independent Suman Kadam are in fray.A direct contest is likely between BJP's Rattan Singh Pal and Congress’ Sanjay in Arki where Independent candidate Jeet Ram is also trying his luck.In Fatehpur, the main contest is expected between Baldev Thakur of the BJP and Bhawani Singh Pathania of the Congress.The bypolls in Karnataka are taking place in Hanagal and Sindgi constituencies. The bypolls were necessitated as the seats fell vacant following the death of Sindagi JD(S) legislator M C Managuli and BJP’s C M Udasi from Hangal.In Hanagal, the battle will be between the BJP's Shivaraj Sajjanar and Srinivas Mane.In Sindgi, Ramesh Bhusanur will be representing the BJP while from the Congress, Ashok Managuli, the son of the JDS MLA M C Managuli who died in January this year, has been fielded. From JDS, minority candidate Naziya Angadi will be representing the seat.The bypolls in Telangana's Huzurabad seat was necessitated following the resignation of former health ministerThe Huzurabad seat fell vacant after former health minister Eatala Rajender resigned from ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) and joined the BJP.The ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) has fielded Gellu Srinivas Yadav from the seat. From the Congress, B Venkat Narsing Rao, chief of the state’s NSUI unit, will be representing the party.In Maharashtra, bypolls are being held for Deglur seat in Nanded district. The bypolls were necessitated following the death of MLA Raosaheb Antapurkar. While from the Congress Raosaheb's son Jitesh Antapurkar will contest from the seat, Subhash Sabne will represent BJP. Other candidates who will contest from the seat include the Janata Dal (Secular)'s Vivek Kerkar, Bahujan Bharat Party's Parmeshwar Waghmare among others.The bypoll in Haryana will be held for the Ellenabad Assembly constituency in Sirsa district. The seat is all set to witness a triangular contest, with opposition INLD's Abhay Singh Chautala, whose resignation over the farm laws issue necessitated the election, eyeing another win.Abhay Chautala's resignation in January over the farm laws issue had necessitated the bypolls to the rural constituency falling in Sirsa district.From the BJP, Gobind Kanda will be representing the party. The Congress has fielded BJP rebel Pawan Beniwal as its candidate from the seat.Bypolls will be held in two assembly seats of Rajasthan-- Vallabhnagar and Dhariawad. The bypolls are being viewed as a litmus test for the performance of the Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government in the state.The bypolls have been necessitated due to the death of BJP MLA from Dhariawad, Gautam Lal Meena, and Congress MLA from Vallabhnagar, Gajendra Singh Shaktawat.While the Congress gave ticket to Gajendra Shaktawat's wife Preeti Shaktawat in Vallabhnagar in Udaipur, the BJP has fielded Himmat Singh Jhala. Former BJP MLA and chief of Janta Sena Randhir Singh Bhinder is also contesting as an independent MLA. Apart from them, BJP's rebel Udailal Dangi is also contesting election as Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) candidate in Vallabhnagar.BJP fielded Khet Singh Meena in Dhariawad in Pratapgarh against the Congress candidate Nagraj Meena.Bypolls are being held for the Gossaigaon, Bhabanipur, Tamulpur, Mariani and Thowra seats.By-elections in Gossaigaon and Tamulpur were necessitated following the deaths of sitting MLAs, while the incumbents of Bhabanipur, Mariani and Thowra resigned from their seats and joined the ruling BJP.The contest will be mainly between the Congress and the BJP. While the Congress has fielded its nominees from all the five seats, the BJP, on the other hand, fielded candidates for three seats, giving the two seats to its ally UPPL.The bypolls are being held for the Badvel (SC) Assembly constituency in Kadapa district of Andhra PradeshThe ruling YSR Congress, the BJP and the Congress fielded their candidates for the bypolls caused by the death of sitting legislator G Venkata Subbaiah in March this year.The main opposition Telugu Desam Party opted out of the contest "honouring tradition" as the YSRC has fielded the widow of the legislator for the by-poll.The YSRC chose Dasari Sudha as its candidate while the Congress fielded former MLA P M Kalamamma, who represented the constituency from 2009-14. The BJP fielded youth leader Panathala Suresh from the seat.The bypolls in Meghalaya are being held for three seats, namely Mawryngkneng, Mawphlang and Rajabala seats. While Mawryngkneng fell vacant following the death of Congress MLA David Nongrum earlier this year, the elections to the Mawphlang seat were necessitated due to the death of Independent MLA SK Sunn.In Bengal, the bypolls are being held for Kharadaha, Shantipur, Dinhata and Gosaba seats. While elections to Gosaba and Khardaha were necessitated after the sitting MLAs died, Dinhata and Shantipur seats fell vacant after its MPs- Nishith Pramanik and Jagannath Sarkar-- resigned.The bypolls in Mizoram are being held for only one seat: Tuirial in Kolasib district. While the Mizo National Front (MNF) has fielded K. Laldawngliana from the seat, Laltlanmawia will be representing the Zoram People's Movement (ZPM). The Congress has fielded Chalrosanga Ralte from the seat.In Madhya Pradesh, the bypolls are being held for three seats: the Jobat (ST) seat in the Alirajpur district, Raigaon (SC) in the Satna district and Prithvipur in the Niwari district.From Raigaon (SC) seat, the BJP has fielded Pratima Bagri, the daughter-in-law of sitting MLA Jugal Kishore Bagri, whose death necessitated the bypoll. She will face Congress' Kalpana Verma. In Prithvipur, the BJP has fielded former Samajwadi Party leader Shishupal Singh against Congress's Nitendra Rathore, the son of former minister Brajendra Singh Rathore, whose death necessitated the bypoll. In Jobat, Sulochana Rawat is the BJP's nominee against Congress candidate Mahesh Patel. The seat fell vacant due to the death of sitting Congress legislator Kalawati Bhuria.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assembly-bypolls-2021-all-you-need-to-know-101635502667941.html
29-10-2021||India||Amit Shah sets stage for 2022 UP polls, says ‘300+ seats once more’||Union home minister Amit Shah set the tone for the 2022 Uttar Pradesh elections by coining the slogan “ek baar phir se 300 paar (once more 300+ seats)” and urged the people to re-elect the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to power and Yogi Adityanath as the chief minister in Uttar Pradesh. Shah was at the launch of the party’s membership drive - ‘mera pariwar, bhajapa pariwar (my family, BJP family)’ in Lucknow on Friday. Lauding CM Adityanath’s handling of the Covid surge in the state, Shah lashed out at what he described as ‘Akhilesh and company, behenji and Gandhi-Vadra pariwar’ – the three main political players, Samajwadi Party, Bahujan Samaj Party and the Congress - while seeking people’s blessings for another five years for the party. “We have done a lot in these five years. But these political parties have left such big holes behind that filling them would require some more time. UP will set the stage for the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. I have come here to appeal to you to give another chance to Modi ji and help make Yogi ji chief minister again and that is why we are saying once more go past 300 seats,” Shah said at a well-attended public meeting at Vrindavan’s Sector 17 Colony Defence Expo grounds in Lucknow. In 2017, the BJP won 312 seats in the UP assembly. Its ally Apna Dal bagged nine seats while former ally Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party managed to win four seats, making it a heady 325 seat win. It was only the third time in the state’s history that a political party crossed the 300-mark in the 403-member assembly. Twice during his address, Shah, who is expected to visit UP twice in November, urged the people to help make Yogi the chief minister again. Within the party, this reference didn’t go unnoticed with some party leaders taking it as a hint of party leadership’s continued backing of the chief minister. Yogi Adityanath’s continuation, as the chief ministerial candidate ahead of the polls, was subject to much speculation in May-June.Shah’s address was sprinkled with remarks on the Ayodhya Ram temple and the exodus of Hindus from Kairana in western UP. He said the temple issue got a clear resolution under the leadership of PM Modi. “Kairana palayan se mere khoon kholta tha… par ab palayan karane wale ab palayan kar rahe (my blood boiled at the Kairana exodus.. but those who forced the exodus have now fled themselves)” he said. “UP is the land of Baba Vishwanath, the birthplace of Lord Ram and Krishna but for the first time since the Mughal rule, the state seems to have got its identity back,” he said. Hailed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi as the ‘man of the series’ for the party’s win in 2017 UP polls, Shah also launched the Modi 11 app, an online platform to help people connect with the party. He said that the membership drive would continue till year-end during which party cadres would be tasked with decorating people’s homes with ‘mera pariwar, bhajapa pariwar’ door hangings. “I was the UP BJP in-charge during the 2014 Lok Sabha polls and then saw the 2017 UP polls as well as the 2019 Lok Sabha elections as the BJP chief. Each time, we began by launching the membership drive and so is it this time. Our opponents ask us why we need a membership drive as we already have 1.86 crore members. I would say, unlike them who do politics solely for power, we do it to connect with the masses. This outreach would help us gather feedback that would go into planning our manifesto for 2022 polls,” he said. “We believe in family planning but we relax this definition when it comes to expanding our BJP family,” he added. “Governments are not meant for family benefits. They are meant to help the poorest of the poor. We are willing to give an account of our term in power but Akhilesh babu, I surely would like to ask you how much time did you spend in a foreign land, where were you during Covid-19 and floods? These politicians and parties have worked for themselves, their families or at the most, their caste. But, the Modi government has worked for the poorest of the poor, Dalits, tribals, women, backwards,” he said. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, as well as other leaders, hailed Shah as an astute planner and said that the Modi-Shah combination has pitchforked the country into the expressway of progress. Through the day, Shah is set to have a series of crucial meetings including those with Lok Sabha poll in-charges of 2019 Lok Sabha win, former lawmakers and party leaders. Shah is to spend the night at the BJP office in Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-sets-stage-for-2022-up-polls-says-300-seats-once-more-101635504474402.html
29-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan will have to surrender passport, to report to NCB office every Friday: 14 bail conditions||Aryan Khan will have to surrender his passport to the court and will not leave Mumbai without the permission of the investigating officer of the drugs-on-cruise case. Apart from these bail conditions, the Bombay high court has mandated that Aryan Khan will not make any statement regarding the present proceeding to the media. The bail conditions are the same for Aryan Khan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha, all who have secured bail on Thursday. As the investigation will go on, they will have to attend the NCB office every Friday. Unless "prevented by reasonable cause', they will have to attend the future court hearing days. Once the trial begins, they should not delay the trial. And as and when the NCB calls them, they will have to report to the NCB office, the bail conditions read. Aryan Khan gets bail in drugs case after 3 weeks, to be back home by this weekThe judge has fixed a PR bond of ₹1 lakh each with one or more sureties for the release of the three, reports said.If any of these bail conditions is violated, then the NCB is entitled to apply for cancellation of bail straightaway, the court said. The three have been asked to not indulge in any activities similar to the cruise party from where there were arrested on October 3.Justice NW Sambre on Thursday granted bail to the three arrested in the high-profile drugs-on-cruise case. However, the accused are still behind bars as the lawyers were waiting for the detailed order, which is yet to be uploaded. The bail conditions have been disclosed on Friday.These are the 14 bail conditions for Aryan, Arbaaz and Munmun1. Each of them will have to execute a personal bond of ₹1 lakh with one or more sureties in a similar amount.2. They shall not attend any such party from where they were arrested.3. They shall not try to establish communication with co-accused or any person involved directly or indirectly in similar activities.4. They shall not undertake any action prejudicial to the proceedings before the special court.5. They shall not make any attempt to tamper evidence, influence witnesses -- neither personally, nor through anyone.6. They shall surrender their passports to the special court immediately.7. They are barred from making any statement in any form in the media, including social media.8. They shall not leave the country without permission from special judge NDPS. 9. To travel outside Mumbai, they will have to inform the investigating officer and will have to give him the itinerary.10. They will have to report to the NCB Mumbai office each Friday between 11am and 2pm to mark their presence.11. They shall attend all the dates in the Court unless prevented by any reasonable cause.12. They shall join the investigation as and when called upon to do so before the authorities of NCB.13. Once the trial begins, they shall not in any manner try to delay the trial.14. If they violate any of these terms, NCB shall be entitled to straightaway apply to the Special Judge/Court for cancellation of their bail.The bail conditions also forbid them to try to establish any connection among themselves. Aryan Khan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha were granted bail by the Bombay high court after they spent over three weeks in jail. They have been accused of drug possession and consumption, though Aryan Khan was not found with drugs. For Aryan, the NCB slapped 'conscious possession' alleging that he was aware that his friend Arbaaz Merchant was carrying drugs.After the bail was granted, all eyes are on the release of Aryan Khan as celebrations broke out outside Shah Rukh Khan's house Mannat in Mumbai from Thursday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aryan-khan-will-have-to-surrender-passport-pay-rs-1-lakh-for-bail-101635501859889.html
29-10-2021||India||Kannada actor Puneeth Rajkumar dies of heart attack at 46||Leading Kannada actor, Puneeth Rajkumar, the youngest son of Kannada cinema’s biggest star Dr Rajkumar, died of a heart attack on Friday. The actor suffered a heart attack while working out in a gym on Friday morning and was later admitted to the hospital.“This morning, he (Puneeth) went to the gym for two hours and got some chest pain. He then went to the family doctor where an ECG was done and confirmed that it was a heart attack,” a doctor from the hospital said on condition of anonymity.The doctor said that Puneeth experienced chest pain at around 11 am on Friday and went to a clinic where an ECG confirmed the heart attack. Later, the actor was rushed to Manipal hospital when he suffered a cardiac arrest. The doctor said that they tried to resuscitate the actor for three hours but to no avail as it was a massive attack. The actor was non-responsive and was in cardiac asystole and advanced cardiac resuscitation was initiated, according to hospital authorities.Puneeth Rajkumar was the youngest child of Rajkumar and Parvathamma. The family is believed to be among the most powerful in Kannada film industry. The 46 years old actor was dubbed the “power star” of Kannada cinema.Puneeth and his brother, Shiva Rajkumar, are among the ‘A’ listed stars of Kannada cinema while another brother, a former actor, is a leading producer. Fans, supporters and well-wishers of the actor poured onto the streets in Bengaluru, reacting to the news of his untimely demise. Celebrities, politicians and eminent personalities from across the country condoled the passing away of the celebrated actor. Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said Puneeth, lovingly known as “Appu”, died at a very young age. Bommai said that people should behave in a peaceful manner and not lose their mental balance or resort to any untoward incident. The funeral will be conducted with all state honours, the chief minister added.The body will be kept for public viewing in Kanteerava Stadium in central Bengaluru until Saturday where fans can view the mortal remains of the actor.Bommai said that he was supposed to meet Puneeth Rajkumar on Friday to launch the latter’s website.Puneeth Rajkumar provided 18 consecutive super hit films, according to movie ratings website, IMDB, making him one of the most bankable stars in the Kannada industry.He also penned a biography of his father “The Person behind the Personality” which was published in 2012.“Appu, you cannot leave us so shattered. You are a gem I have known. I am not able to take this news. Don’t go Appu.. come back..pls come back. Pls. #RIP #PuneethRajkumar,” Khusboo Sundar, popular actress and politician said on Twitter.“Deeply shocked by the demise of talented actor #PowerStar #PuneethRajkumar. He had won the hearts of Kannadigas through his great acting skills & his simplicity. His passing away is a great loss for Karnataka,” senior Congress leader and former chief minister Siddaramaiah tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kannada-actor-puneeth-rajkumar-suffers-heart-attack-in-serious-condition-101635500693765.html
29-10-2021||India||Deaths in Bundelkhand: Priyanka Gandhi alleges black marketing of fertilisers||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday demanded a probe into the alleged complicity of government officials in black marketing of fertilisers in Uttar Pradesh’s Bundelkhand region as their shortage has been linked to the deaths of at least four farmers there. “Whatever the officers have done here [in Lalitpur, Bundelkhand] is wrong. If there is any nexus of officers and leaders with those indulging in black marketing of fertilisers, it should be probed. Why are the people not getting the fertilisers here?” Priyanka Gandhi told journalists after meeting the families of the four farmers, who died in Lalitpur amid the fertiliser shortage.Priyanka Gandhi, who arrived in Lalitpur from Lucknow on an overnight train, assured the families of the farmers that she would fight for their cause.Also Read: ‘Twitter Vadra’: UP deputy CM Maurya’s latest jibe at Priyanka GandhiIn a statement, the Congress party said, “Bhogi Pal and Mahesh Kumar of Bundelkhand were standing in queue to get fertilisers. As they did not get fertilisers for some days, their health condition deteriorated and they died. Soni Ahirwar and Babloo Pal were upset due to the non-availability of fertilisers and they committed suicide.” It added the farmers had loans to repay. “They were upset for not getting compensation for damage caused to their crops. Priyanka Gandhi has assured help to the families.”Priyanka Gandhi accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government of neglecting the farmers. “This is not about these four families. This is happening in the Bundelkhand region. Uttar Pradesh government’s cruel face has come to the fore. Farmers were crushed by the son of a union minister, who continues to be in office. Farmers are fighting for their cause from Lakhimpur Kheri to Bundelkhand,” she said.Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni’s son, Ashish Mishra, is the main accused in the violence that was triggered in Lakhimpur Kheri after a car ran over a group of protesting farmers.Farming groups say Teni’s Mahindra Thar mowed down protesters from behind while they were returning from a demonstration. A video clip that is yet to be authenticated forensically shows the same. The minister and his son have denied the charge.Priyanka Gandhi this month met families of the farmers killed in Lakhimpur Kheri even as she was earlier detained on her way there. She also met the kin of a sanitation worker, who allegedly died in police custody, in Agra.Priyanka Gandhi said no one is listening to the farmers. “They (the farmers) have loans to pay. They are not getting any fertilisers. They have to pay power bills without getting power,” she added and listed promises the Congress has made ahead of the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls due early next year.The pledges include farm loan waiver, minimum support price of ₹2,500 per quintal for wheat and paddy, and state advised price of ₹400 per quintal to sugarcane growers.BJP spokesman Avnish Tyagi insisted the interests of farmers are well protected under his party’s rule in Uttar Pradesh. “Priyanka Gandhi Vadra should look into issues concerning farmers of [Congress-ruled] Rajasthan. There is no shortage of fertilisers in the state. There may only be a minor issue somewhere.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deaths-in-bundelkhand-priyanka-gandhi-alleges-black-marketing-of-fertilisers-101635500632292.html
29-10-2021||India||Competition for young filmmakers to be held at 52nd IFFI in Goa next month||A competition will be held for young filmmakers to attend the 52nd International Film Festival of India (IFFI) in Goa next month, the information and broadcasting ministry has said.“Hello young filmmakers of India, here’s your chance to be one of the 75 creative minds of tomorrow and attend the 52nd International Film Festival of India,” the ministry tweeted.Union information and broadcasting minister Anurag Thakur said, “We’re looking for India’s most creative minds of tomorrow! 75 creative minds under 35 years. A unique opportunity.” He shared the link for the competition as well as the application form for it. October 30 is the last date for the submission of the form.The IFFI will provide a platform for young filmmakers to connect with those established in the industry.The ministry said the creative filmmakers will be invited to interact with industry leaders and attend masterclasses at the festival. “They will be selected through competition for young filmmakers from around the country,” it said in a statement. It added that the competition aims to provide an opportunity to 75 creative people to showcase their talent at the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/competition-for-young-filmmakers-to-be-held-at-52nd-iffi-in-goa-next-month-101635498892240.html
29-10-2021||India||'Will go to court, not govt': People clap as Varun Gandhi takes up farm issues, slams UP govt||BJP MP Varun Gandhi once again took up the farmers' issue and said that he will not put up with any kind of irregularities in crop procurement in his constituency. The MP, who is believed to have invoked the wrath of the BJP by his continuous criticism of the farm laws and the UP government, posted his video interacting with some officials, farmers. As he said that he will depute a representative there to report any evidence of corruption or ill-treatment to farmers and that in case of any irregularity, he will directly approach the court and won't make any request to the government, the people surrounding him clapped, the video showed."At every procurement centre in the state, there is crippling corruption which is completely out in the open. Farmers' grains are forcibly rejected after which they sell their produce out of desperation to middlemen. The administration takes a cut," he said alleging that the nexus between officials and middlemen which is forcing farmers to sell their grains at a much lower price will not be defeated unless there is a legal guarantee for the minimum support price.जब तक एमएसपी की वैधानिक गारंटी नहीं होगी, ऐसे ही मंडियों में किसानों का शोषण होता रहेगा। इस पर सख़्त से सख़्त कार्यवाही होनी चाहिए। pic.twitter.com/pWKI13e4VpFarmers will continue to be exploited in mandis as long as there is no legal guarantee for MSP, the MP said. As he interacted with the officials and the farmers, he said it is a shame for the UP government and the country that the farmers are setting their own produce on fire. A few days ago, the Pilibhit MP posted the video of a farmer burning his crop after failing to get it sold. Since the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in Uttar Pradesh, the BJP MP has been vocal against the UP government.Following his tweet on Lakhimpur Kheri violence, Varun Gandhi and Maneka Gandhi were dropped from the 80-member party national executive, though the party said it had nothing to do with Varun Gandhi's tweets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-go-to-court-not-govt-people-clap-as-varun-gandhi-takes-up-farm-issues-slams-up-govt-101635498064908.html
29-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan drugs case: No injustice will be done to Wankhede’s wife, says Raut||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Friday said his party still functions as per its founder Bal Thackeray’s ideals and that no injustice will be done to Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) officer Sameer Wankhede’s wife, Kranti Redkar.Redkar wrote to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday, referring to her Marathi roots and respect for Bal Thackeray amid a series of allegations her husband faces in connection with the Aryan Khan drugs case.Sameer Wankhede, the Mumbai zonal chief of the NCB, received protection from arrest from the Bombay high court on Thursday in a graft case. The Maharashtra government assured the court that no coercive action would be taken against him without issuing him three-day notice.Also Read: Day after Aryan Khan’s bail, Nawab Malik takes swipe at Wankhede, GosaviRaut referred to Kranti Redkar’s letter and asked whether Ajit Pawar, Ashok Chavan and other leaders of the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi facing central agency raids are not Marathi. He accused central agencies such as the NCB of troubling Marathi people. “The manner in which the attack of Investigation agencies is going on, false cases are registered. Yesterday (Thursday) there were raids ahead of the Deglur-Biloli bypoll. Ashok Chavan is not Marathi? Ajit Pawar’s relatives are not Marathi? The question is about right and wrong in this fight.”He added this fight is between “NCB and others”, and nobody has attacked Redkar. “Kranti Redkar is a Marathi woman and there will be no injustice. Even if Balasaheb is not there today, Uddhav Thackeray is there. Shiv Sena is still the same as Balasaheb’s ideals. There will be no injustice to anyone.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aryan-khan-drugs-case-no-injustice-will-be-done-to-wankhede-s-wife-says-raut-101635498172106.html
29-10-2021||India||Tennis player Leander Paes joins TMC in presence of Mamata Banerjee in Goa||Ahead of the state assembly elections in Goa next year, renowned tennis player Leander Paes joined the Trinamool Congress on Friday in the presence of party supremo and West Bengal Mamata Banerjee.“We are extremely delighted to share that Shri @Leander joined us today in the presence of our Hon'ble Chairperson @MamataOfficial! Together, we shall ensure that every single person in this nation sees the Dawn of Democracy that we have been waiting for since 2014!,” the TMC said in a tweet.We are extremely delighted to share that Shri @Leander joined us today in the presence of our Hon'ble Chairperson @MamataOfficial!Together, we shall ensure that every single person in this nation sees the Dawn of Democracy that we have been waiting for since 2014!The Bengal CM is currently on a two-day visit to the poll-bound coastal state where she is expected to meet with an array of people regarding the expansion of her party’s footprint in the state. She has already announced that her party would contest from all the seats in the upcoming assembly polls, making clear her national ambition.Welcoming the tennis star to her party, an elated Banerjee said Paes was like her younger brother. “I know him since I was the youth and sports minister of this country… I am too happy,” she said. “Thanks a lot, Leander. Thanks a lot for joining us,” she said, handing him over a party flag. The two leaders addressed the media following the event.During the press conference, Paes thanked the Bengal CM and fondly remembered memories about how Banerjee was “encouraging and supportive” when she was the sports minister. When asked about his plans for the state, he said, “I am very grateful for this opportunity from Didi… The vehicle that I chose for the last 30 years to do our people proud was Tennis. Now that I have retired from Tennis, the vehicle has changed… I would like to make a difference to the youth.” He also said that he has joined the TMC to “make a difference to our country.” He further heaped praises on Banerjee and called her a “true champion.”Earlier in the day, Bollywood actress Nafisa Ali and Mrinalini Deshprabhu also joined the TMC in the presence of the party chief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tennis-player-leander-paes-joins-tmc-in-presence-of-mamata-banerjee-in-goa-101635494891131.html
29-10-2021||India||With 2022 assembly polls in mind, Amit Shah visits Uttar Pradesh||Union home minister Amit Shah arrived in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh on Friday for a two-day visit to launch a membership drive, flag off vehicles deployed to publicise government schemes, address the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) booth-level workers, and discuss the strategy for the assembly elections.People aware of the matter said Shah will have a series of meetings with the state BJP leadership to discuss the blueprint for the polls that are due early next year. He is expected to focus on the constituencies the BJP lost narrowly in the 2017 assembly polls when the BJP swept to power with 325 seats in the 403-member House. BJP managed to win just 47 seats in the 2012 assembly elections.Shah was the BJP’s Uttar Pradesh in-charge in 2017, and for the 2014 national polls when the party won 71 out of 80 Lok Sabha seats in the state. Also Read: Diwali bonus: UP govt employees to get salary hike ahead of NovemberHe is also expected to discuss the entry of some opposition leaders into the BJP, the anti-incumbency factor, and the possible replacement of some lawmakers with younger leaders during his meetings with the state leadership.A BJP leader said Shah is no longer the Uttar Pradesh in-charge, or the chief of the party like he was in the 2019 national polls. “And yet, his arrival to prepare the blueprint for the party’s success indicates the kind of credibility he brings... as an astute planner and a great organisational leader... This visit by Shah would surely reveal what is on the party leadership’s mind,” said a BJP leader, requesting anonymity.A second leader said a key part of Shah’s plan is secrecy. “He ensures that internal discussions remain restricted to the party leaders... As a strategist, he surely does not wish to reveal his game plan to his opponents.” Shah is also expected to meet the in-charges of Lok Sabha constituencies, who helped the BJP overcome a formidable alliance between the Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) by winning 64 out of 80 Lok Sabha seats in 2019. He will also meet former lawmakers for their insights as the BJP is holding caste conferences across the state.Irshad Ilmi, a political observer, said Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has been very active in Uttar Pradesh while the SP also looks confident. He added the BSP is wooing Brahmins, who are counted among the BJP’s core supporters, to replicate its success in the 2007 assembly elections. “There are some newer political players... like Aam Aadmi Party and AIMIM (All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen).” He said some of the parties are relying on soft Hindutva as the opposition is desperate to stop the BJP’s winning run. “Shah surely has a challenge... but knowing his ability to outthink opponents, it would be interesting to watch out for what he has up his sleeve.”Booth management has been a key part of Shah’s strategy. The BJP plans to send Diwali gifts, including lotus-shaped earthen lamps, to over three million booth-level cadres. Lotus is also the BJP’s election symbol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-2022-assembly-polls-in-mind-amit-shah-visits-uttar-pradesh-101635492471989.html
29-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: Minimum temperatures to drop in northwest, central India in next 2 weeks and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Minimum temperatures to fall in northwest, central India during next two weeksMinimum temperatures are likely to fall over parts of northwest, central and peninsular India during the next two weeks, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Read moreGovt reverses decision on IRCTC convenience feeThe railways ministry on Friday withdrew its decision to ask the Indian Railways Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC), its catering and tourism arm, to share half of all the convenience fee revenue it earns. Read moreWelcome women candidates with sense of fair play, professionalism: Army chiefIndian Army chief General MM Naravane on Friday urged everyone to welcome women at the National Defence Academy (NDA) in Pune with the “same sense of fair play and professionalism which Indian armed forces are known for the world over”. Read moreICC posts video of Hardik Pandya's bowling, Indian fans breathe easy ahead of New Zealand clashHardik Pandya's bowling fitness, especially after India's 10-wicket against Pakistan in their T20 World Cup 2021 opener, appears to be biggest talking point in Indian cricket right now. Read moreWorried Shah Rukh Khan was just having 'coffee after coffee', discussed Aryan's chats: LawyerShah Rukh Khan and family finally got a breather when their son Aryan Khan was granted bail by the Bombay High Court on Thursday. India's former attorney general Mukul Rohatgi, who represented him at the Bombay High Court, has revealed how Shah Rukh had "tears of relief" as Aryan was in jail since almost a month. Read moreAfter Swift, Maruti Baleno too fails to pass crash test with zero ratingMaruti Suzuki Baleno premium hatchback has failed to pass safety parameters at the Latin NCAP crash tests recently. The Made-in-India Maruti Baleno equipped with two airbags as standard, scored zero rating at the crash tests. Read moreWorld Psoriasis Day: How Vitamin D can benefit people with psoriasis?World Psoriasis Day 2021: Psoriasis a common skin disease that causes red, itchy scaly patches, most commonly on the knees, elbows, trunk and scalp. The skin condition can make everyday life very difficult for patients which could lead to social isolation and even increase their risk of depression. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-minimum-temperatures-to-drop-in-northwest-central-india-in-next-2-weeks-and-all-the-latest-news-101635491009453.html
29-10-2021||India||Day after Aryan Khan's bail, Nawab Malik takes swipe at Wankhede, Gosavi||Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik on Friday took a swipe at Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) Mumbai director Sameer Wankhede, suggesting the tables have turned in the high-profile drugs-on-cruise case. “You'll see that the situation has completely changed. The man who was dragging Aryan Khan to the NCB office is now behind bars. The man who was doing everything to ensure that Aryan Khan and others are not given bail was knocking on the court's door yesterday,” Malik was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Malik was referring to Sameer Wankhede, who is in the eye of a political storm following allegations of extortion in the cruise ship drugs case in which Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan is facing trial.Also read: Aryan Khan granted bail. What are his lawyers doing to secure his release from jailMalik was also referring to Kiran Gosavi, who was arrested by Pune City Police on Thursday on charges of cheating and will remain in custody till November 5. Kiran Gosavi is a witness of the NCB in the case.Recently, another witness in the drugs case, Prabhakar Sail, claimed that he overheard Gosavi telling one Sam D'Souza over the phone about a demand of ₹25 crore, and "to settle at ₹18 crore as they have to give ₹8 crore to Sameer Wankhede" after Aryan Khan was brought to the NCB office following the raid.Also read: Aryan Khan gets bail, Bombay high court to dictate judgment todaySameer Wankhede's wife Kranti Redkar Wankhede on Thursday wrote a letter to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, seeking justice in the wake of the "attack on her family and her personal life". “Being a Marathi person, I expect some justice from your side as my personal life is unnecessarily being dragged into a controversy. Had late Balasaheb Thackeray (father of Uddhav Thackeray) been alive today, he would not have tolerated such personal attack on a woman's dignity,” she wrote in the letter.Responding to the letter, Malik said, “His (Sameer Wankhede) family wrote to CM yesterday that they're Marathis and being a Marathi, the CM should help them. Nawab Malik's family too has been in this city for 70 years. I was born in 1959 and have been a citizen of this city. Is Nawab Malik not a Marathi?”Sameer Wankhede is facing the departmental vigilance probe.Nawab Malik has levelled a string of allegations against the NCB official, including illegal phone tapping.Meanwhile, Aryan Khan was on Thursday granted bail by the Bombay High Court, following multiple rejections of his bail pleas in the drugs case. He was arrested on October 3 following a raid on a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast—a case that triggered a series of controversies and put the NCB and its officials under the spotlight.Aryan Khan is likely to walk out of Mumbai's Arthur jail, where he is lodged, in a day or two once the detailed order of the court is out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-after-aryan-khan-s-bail-nawab-malik-takes-swipe-at-wankhede-gosavi-101635490156258.html
29-10-2021||India||Govt reverses decision on IRCTC convenience fee||The railways ministry on Friday withdrew its decision to ask the Indian Railways Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC), its catering and tourism arm, to share half of all the convenience fee revenue it earns. "Ministry of Railways has decided to withdraw the decision on IRCTC convenience fee," the department of investment and public asset management (DIPAM) secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey tweeted.Shares of IRCTC, which plunged as much as 30 per earlier, pared some losses and were last down 5.2 per cent.The blue-chip NSE Nifty 50 index edged up 0.14 per cent to 17,881 by 10:46am and the benchmark S&P BSE Sensex inched higher 0.17 per cent to 60,089.27, after a more than 1 per cent drop in early trade on Friday. Both indexes were down over 1 per cent so far this week.Sharing started in 2014 in the ratio of 80:20 between IRCTC and the Indian Railways. The ratio was changed to 50:50 in 2015 but the charge remained withdrawn for three years from November 2016, reports news agency PTI.IRCTC on Thursday said that the ministry of railways has asked it to share 50 per cent of its revenue earned as a convenience fee from bookings on its website with the national transporter, an arrangement that had been discontinued since the Covid-19 pandemic.The convenience fees charged from customers generated a sizeable revenue for IRCTC. The fee is not part of the rail fare and is for the service of online ticket booking offered by the IRCTC.IRCTC is the only firm authorised to manage food services on trains and has a monopoly in the online ticketing and catering services for the Indian Railways.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-reverses-decision-on-irctc-convenience-fee-101635486388179.html
29-10-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir administration orders premature retirement of eight employees||The Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) administration has ordered the premature retirement of eight employees following a review. In an order issued on Thursday, the administration cited its “resolve to make administration efficient and transparent” and added the eight were found inefficient and “acting against public interest”. It added that they conducted duties in ways “unbecoming of a public servant and in violation of the established code of conduct”.The order said the exercise was conducted as part of the regular process of scrutiny of records of officials, who cross benchmarks of age and service period. “As per the recommendations of the review committee, the performance of five officers was found inefficient and their continuation in the Government service against the public interest.”Five of the eight - Ravinder Kumar Bhat, Mohammad Qasim Wani, Noor Alam, Mohammad Mujib-Ur-Rehman Ghassi and Fayaz Ahmad Banday - were retired as per the J&K Civil Service Regulations, 1956. Ghulam Mohi-ud-Din, Rakesh Kumar Pargal, and Parshotam Kumar were also retired.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-and-kashmir-administration-orders-premature-retirement-of-eight-employees-101635488751650.html
29-10-2021||India||Minimum temperatures to fall in NW, central India during next two weeks||Minimum temperatures are likely to fall over parts of northwest, central and peninsular India during the next two weeks, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).A low-pressure area is lying over southwest Bay of Bengal adjoining Sri Lanka off the Tamil Nadu coast. It is likely to move westwards during the next 48 hours. A trough - a line of low pressure - in easterlies is running from the cyclonic circulation associated with this low-pressure area to the northwest Bay of Bengal. Under the influence of these systems, heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places is likely in Tamil Nadu. Also Read: Delhi records lowest minimum temp this season, air quality deterioratesIsolated heavy rainfall was expected in Kerala and Mahe till November 1. Heavy rainfall at isolated places is very likely in coastal Andhra Pradesh and Rayalseema till October 31. Thunderstorm and lightning are very likely in Kerala, Mahe, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Karaikal, coastal Andhra Pradesh and Rayalaseema till November 1. Mainly dry weather is expected across northwest and central India and parts of east and northeast India during next five days.The IMD’s extended-range forecast for the next two weeks shows minimum temperatures are likely to be below normal (-3 degrees Celsius to -4 degrees Celsius) at isolated places in Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh, and western parts of Uttarakhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minimum-temperatures-to-fall-in-northwest-central-india-during-next-two-weeks-101635487791461.html
29-10-2021||India||Promises, allegations, notices and more as Himanta faces first polls as Assam CM||Ever since he joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in 2015 after a long and successful stint in Congress, Himanta Biswa Sarma has been its star campaigner in Assam elections, crisscrossing the state and attracting large crowds with his oratory skills.Sarma played a crucial role in the BJP’s first stint in power in Assam in 2016 and also in the party’s impressive performance in the 2019 general elections. Earlier this year, after the BJP returned to power for a second consecutive time, Sarma was entrusted with the chief minister’s post replacing predecessor Sarbananda Sonowal.On October 30, he will face his first poll test since assuming the CM’s chair in May when voting will take place in five assembly seats - Bhabanipur, Thawra, Mariani, Tamulpul and Gossaigaon - where byelections are being held. And as in previous elections, Sarma has put on his campaign hat and is addressing four to six election meetings daily.“Remember these are bye-elections and it won’t decide the formation of government. Here voters will only choose who will represent them. So, won’t it be prudent to vote for the candidate from the party, which is already in power in Guwahati?” Sarma said at an election meeting in Thawra on Tuesday.Comparing the BJP-led coalition government to a productive cow, the CM has told voters how it would give lots of milk if they vote the party’s candidate and how a vote to other parties would be a waste. Sarma assured more development projects and schemes for the constituencies if the party wins.The CM’s assurances and promises led the opposition Congress to file two complaints with Election Commission complaining about violation of the model code of conduct and seeking a ban on his campaign. In response, the EC had issued a notice to the CM seeking an explanation by Tuesday evening.On Tuesday, the Congress filed another complaint with the commission seeking lodging of a first information report (FIR) against Sarma and removal of district officials in Gossaigaon “for blatantly and blindly favouring the ruling party”.“The actions of the CM reflect as if he is provoking and teasing the Election Commission and its officials by suggesting that he is above and beyond the law or the control of the election commission,” the complaint read.Reacting to the Congress allegations, Sarma said on Tuesday that the opposition party doesn’t want implementation of development projects mentioned in the state’s budget. “It is their nature to file complaints (against me) in each election,” he commented.During the last assembly polls held this year, based on a complaint by Congress, EC barred Sarma from taking part in campaigns for a day.“I would advise Sarma to get himself tested outside the state. The CM is claiming BJP’s lotus will give lots of milk. It’s such a laughable matter. We have never heard or seen a lotus giving milk,” opposition All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) president Badruddin Ajmal said at an election meeting on Monday.Two of the five seats where byelections will be held, Tamulpur and Gossaigaon, fell vacant due to deaths of opposition Bodoland Peoples’ Front (BPF) and ruling United Peoples Party Liberal (UPPL) legislators from Covid-19 related complications.The other three seats are going to polls as two Congress MLAs, from Mariani and Thawra, and an AIUDF MLA from Bhabanipur resigned from their parties and joined the BJP.At present the ruling BJP has 59 MLAs, UPPL 5 and Asom Gana Parishad 9 while opposition Congress has 27, AIUDF 15, BPF-3, CPM 1 and newly floated Raijor Das has 1 seat in the 126-member house.Byelection to the Majuli seat, which fell vacant after Union minister Sarbananda Sonowal resigned last month, will take place later.A total of 796,456 voters (403,374 men and 393,078 women) in the five seats will be able cast the votes on October 30. Apart from them, there are also 3,165 service voters. A total of 31 candidates are in the fray in the five seats.1. Gossaigaon:Total voters: 155,796Prominent candidates: Jowel Tudu (Congress), Jiron Basumatary (UPPL), Dhruba Kumar Brahma Narzary (BPF), Khairul Anam Khandakar (AIUDF)Reason for bye-election: Death of sitting BPF MLA Majendra NarzaryWinning margin in last election: 10,343 votes2. Bhabanipur:Total voters: 125,603Prominent candidates: Phanidhar Talukdar (BJP), Sailendra Das (Congress), Jubbar Ali (AIUDF)Reason for bye-election: Sitting AIUDF MLA Phanidhar Talukdar resigning and joining ruling BJPWinning margin in last election: 3227 votes3. Tamulpur:Total voters: 217,432Prominent election: Bhaskar Dahal (Congress), Jolen Daimary (UPPL)Reason for bye-election: Death of sitting UPPL MLA Leho Ram BoroWinning margin in last election: 32,183 votes4. Mariani:Total voters: 95,938Prominent candidates: Rupjyoti Kurmi (BJP), Luhit Konwar (Congress)Reason for byelection: Sitting Congress MLA Rupjyoti Kurmi resigning and joining ruling BJPWinning margin in last election: 2231 votes5. Thawra:Total voters: 115,971Prominent candidates: Sushanta Borgohain (BJP), Monuranjan Konwar (Congress)Reason for bye-election: Sitting Congress MLA Sushanata Borgohain resigning and joining ruling BJPWinning margin in last election: 2006 votes||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/promises-allegations-notices-and-more-as-himanta-faces-first-polls-as-assam-cm-101635486415816.html
29-10-2021||India||Ghazipur border: Police remove barricades at farmers’ protest site||The police began the process of removing barricades from the New Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border crossing at Ghazipur on Friday, shortly after officers aware of the matter said there could be efforts to evict the farmers from the protest site.The process to reopen the border connecting New Delhi with Haryana for resumption of the movement of vehicles on at least one carriageway at Tikri began earlier on Thursday. It was not immediately clear when the border will be fully opened.Thousands of farmers have been protesting at the Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur borders in outer and eastern Delhi against three farm laws since last November. The blockades there were put up following the violence during the farmers’ Republic Day rally. Watch: Police start removing barricading from Tikri border, no relief for commuters yetThe movement of vehicles towards New Delhi from Ghaziabad has been blocked on all the carriageways on the Delhi-Meerut expressway as well as National Highway (NH) 24. Farmers have set up temporary tents and parked their tractor trolleys on these carriageways. Police from Delhi and Uttar Pradesh have also installed barricades on the routes. The carriageways for the movement of vehicles towards Ghaziabad from Delhi are open on the expressway but closed on NH-24.After the Republic Day rally violence, the Delhi Police put up multi-layered blockades at the three border protest sites by digging pits, placing iron nails, and positioning iron barricades as well as concrete barriers.An officer said the Delhi Police personnel with the help of cranes will remove the concrete as well as iron barricades placed at Ghazipur to prevent the protesting farmers from entering the Capital. The process will be initiated to reopen the border and resume the normal movement of vehicles.“Many senior police officers, including special commissioner of police (law and order, north zone) Deependra Pathak, will be visiting the Ghazipur border to assess the situation and maintain law and order during the removal of the blockades. They may also be having talks with their counterparts in Uttar Pradesh Police and the protesting farmers over resuming traffic on the roads,” the officer said.A week ago, video clips surfaced on social media showing Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait and some farmers removing a tent at the Ghazipur border. Tikait was heard saying in the video that it was not the farmers but the Delhi Police who had blocked the roads by placing barricades.On Thursday, the Delhi Police confirmed they were removing blockades from the Tikri border. The development came on a day three women farmers were killed and two others injured after a truck hit them near the Tikri border. The Supreme Court last week told the agitating farmer unions that they are free to protest but should not block roads for that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ghazipur-border-police-remove-barricades-at-farmers-protest-site-101635486951470.html
29-10-2021||India||Welcome women candidates with sense of fair play, professionalism: Army chief||Indian Army chief General MM Naravane on Friday urged everyone to welcome women at the National Defence Academy (NDA) in Pune with the “same sense of fair play and professionalism which Indian armed forces are known for the world over”. Gen Naravane was referring to the Supreme Court's ruling that has allowed women students to take the upcoming NDA entrance examination, breaking the 65-year-old glass ceiling."As we open the portals of the NDA for women cadets, we expect you to welcome them with the same sense of fair play and professionalism as Indian armed forces are known world over," news agency quoted General Naravane as saying during his address to cadets after reviewing the passing out parade of the 141st course of the NDA in Pune."As we go ahead, we shall be inducting women cadets into NDA and I am sure they will perform as well as the men cadets. It's just the first step towards gender equality and the army has always been at the forefront of all such initiatives that have taken place in the country," he said.Indian Army chief General MM Naravane on Friday urged everyone to welcome women at the National Defence Academy (NDA) in Pune with the “same sense of fair play and professionalism which Indian armed forces are known for the world over”. Gen Naravane was referring to the Supreme Court's ruling that has allowed women students to take the upcoming NDA entrance examination, breaking the 65-year-old glass ceiling."As we open the portals of the NDA for women cadets, we expect you to welcome them with the same sense of fair play and professionalism as Indian armed forces are known world over," news agency quoted General Naravane as saying during his address to cadets after reviewing the passing out parade of the 141st course of the NDA in Pune."As we go ahead, we shall be inducting women cadets into NDA and I am sure they will perform as well as the men cadets. It's just the first step towards gender equality and the army has always been at the forefront of all such initiatives that have taken place in the country," he said.|#+|The Centre last month informed the Supreme Court that a notification allowing women to take the NDA entrance exams will be out by May next year. The Court, however, allowed women candidates to take the exam in November this year, ruling that the induction of women to the NDA cannot be postponed by one year.Meanwhile, the army chief also appealed to the cadets to keep themselves informed of new technology that will help them counter the contemporary challenges. "A little over 42 years back, when I stood as a cadet at the same drill square as you stand today, little I could have imagined that I would be reviewing this parade," he said, according to ANI."From here on, you will step into the respective career service academies for more focused military training. You will don different uniforms, but always remember that no single service by itself can fight and win modern wars,” he added.According to the UPSC calendar, the NDA exam will take place on November 14, 2021. The examination is open only for unmarried women candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/welcome-women-candidates-with-sense-of-fair-play-professionalism-army-chief-101635484123182.html
29-10-2021||India||India logs 14,348 new Covid-19 cases, nearly 2K cases lower than yesterday||India recorded 14,348 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, which is nearly 2,000 cases lower than those on Thursday, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Friday. With this, the nationwide tally now stands at 34,246,157 and the death toll climbed to 457,191 with 805 daily fatalities, the health ministry's dashboard showed. On Thursday, India logged 16,156 fresh infections.The daily rise in new Covid-19 cases has been below 30,000 for 36 straight days and less than 50,000 new infections have been reported for the 125 consecutive days now.Active cases rose by 345 to stand at 161,334 in the same period, according to data released by the health ministry at 8am. Active cases constitute 0.47 per cent of total cases and the national Covid-19 recovery rate stands 98.2 per cent, the Union health ministry said.As many as 12,84,552 Covid-19 tests were conducted on Thursday, taking the total number of tests conducted so far to 60,58,85,769. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 33,627,632 while the case fatality rate stands at 1.33 per cent, it said.Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Wednesday said the Centre will soon start a mega Covid-19 vaccination campaign 'Har Ghar Dastak' in poor-performing districts aiming to achieve full vaccination by the end of November. "We have decided that for the next one month, healthcare workers will go door-to-door to vaccinate people eligible for the second dose and also those who have not taken the first dose," Mandaviya told reporters.Seventy-seven per cent of the eligible population in India has been vaccinated against Covid-19 with the first dose while 32 per cent people have received both doses, he said. "More than 10 crores people have not taken the second dose of vaccine. People who are eligible for the second dose should take the vaccine," Mandaviya added.The Covid-19 vaccination drive has been ramped up through the availability of more vaccines, advanced visibility of vaccine availability to states and Union Territories for enabling better planning by them and streamlining the vaccine supply chain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-logs-14-348-new-covid-19-cases-nearly-2k-cases-lower-than-yesterday-101635481453116.html
29-10-2021||India||Indian Railways to run superfast special festive train from today. Check details||In order to cater to the rush of passengers during the upcoming festivals like Diwali and Chhath Puja, the Indian Railways will run the Gati Shakti Superfast Special train between Anand Vihar Terminal and Patna Junction from Friday. "It is notified for the information of the general public that the convenience of the rail passengers and to clear extra rush of passengers during ensuing festivals, Northern Railway shall run 01684/01683 Anand Vihar Terminal-Patna-Anand Vihar Terminal Gati Shakti Superfast Special train," stated the railways notification released on Thursday.According to the Northern Railways, 01684 Anand Vihar Terminal-Patna Junction Gati Shakti Superfast Special train will depart from Anand Vihar Terminal at 11.10 pm on October 29, October 31, November 2, November 5, and November 7 to arrive at Patna Junction at 3.45pm the next day.In the return direction, the 01683 Patna Junction-Anand Vihar Terminal Gati Shakti Superfast Special train will depart from Patna Junction at 5.45pm on October 30, November 1, November 3, November 6, and November 8 to arrive at Anand Vihar Terminal at 9.50am the next day.The 01684/01683 Gati Shakti Special train will have economy AC three-tier coaches. It will have stoppages at Kanpur Central, Prayagraj Junction, Varanasi, Pt Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Junction and Danapur stations enroute in both directions.Railways has already been running the new Economy AC coaches in trains since September this year. Economy AC coaches were unveiled in February this year with 83 berths, 11 more than the conventional AC-3 coaches of the railways. The space for the additional berths has been created by moving the main electrical controls under the coach body. To avoid any feeling of congestion for passengers, the Indian Railways has provided aircraft-style personalised AC vents for each berth.Other features of the Economy AC coaches include fire-proof berths, foldable snack tables for aisle berth, personalised reading lights and mobile charging points, modular bio-toilets, one divyang-friendly toilet per coach, modified ladder for easy access to middle and upper berths etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-railways-to-run-superfast-special-festive-train-from-today-check-details-101635480065746.html
29-10-2021||India||Diwali bonus: UP govt employees to get salary hike ahead of November. Details here||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has announced a mega Diwali bonus as well as an increased Dearness Allowance (DA) for all state government employees and pensioners. Around 14.82 lakh non-gazetted and daily-wage employees will be eligible for the Diwali bonus.Like other years, UP government employees will get a 30-day salary bonus up to ₹7000, of which 25% will be paid in cash or with the salary and 75 per cent will be deposited in their provident fund account.Non-gazetted employees, work-charged employees, state-funded educational and technical educational institutions employees of local bodies and daily wage workers, who have completed a minimum of one year's service by March 31 or will retire in March 2022 will also get the Diwali bonus.Additionally, daily wage workers who have completed three years or more of service as on 31 March 2021 will also get ₹1184 as bonus. The bonus salary will be released with October’s salary, before Diwali.The UP government has calculated a total expenditure of ₹1022.75 crore for the bonus of its employees, the state's finance department noted.Meanwhile, the Union Cabinet has already announced a 3 per cent increase of Dearness Allowance (DA) and Dearness Relief (DR) over the existing rate of 28 per cent for central government employees and pensioners. The new DA hike has benefitting more than 47 lakh employees and 68.62 lakh pensioners.The DA hike has been announced in accordance with the recommendations of the 7th Pay Commission. Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a DA hike from 17 per cent to 28 per cent for all central government employees and pensioners in July this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/diwali-bonus-up-govt-employees-to-get-salary-hike-ahead-of-november-details-here-101635478336327.html
29-10-2021||India||Tamil Nadu opens Mullaperiyar dam; Kerala's Idukki on high alert||Tamil Nadu on Friday raised shutters of the Mullaperiyar dam located in the upper reaches of the Periyar River in Kerala to release the excess water filled to the brim. People familiar with the matter said that at least 3,000 people living downstream of Mullaperiyar dam were evacuated as a precautionary measure. The water is expected to reach Idukki reservoir in the neighbouring Kerala in a few hours, with the district put on high alert.Many houses have been submerged since the dam opened at 7am on Friday, however, no untoward incident was reported.Water from the Mullaperiyar dam is being released to maintain its level at 138 feet and will reach Idukki reservoir in two hours. If need arises, Idukki dam might be opened too to ease the pressure, people familiar with the matter said.Kerala water resources minister Roshy Augustine, in a press release issued on Thursday, urged people not to panic and added that there was nothing to be concerned about. He said the storage capacity of Idukki was 70.5 thousand million cubic feet (TMC) as compared to 12.758 TMC of Mullaperiyar and therefore, the water released from the latter would only raise the former's level by a quarter of a foot."Therefore, Idukki will be able to contain the water released from the Mullaperiyar,'' the minister said.People who have been evacuated were moved to camps for accomodation.Mullaperiyar Dam was built in 1895 on the Periyar River in the Idukki district of Kerala.The Supreme Court on Thursday asked Kerala and Tamil Nadu governments to abide by the decision taken by the Supervisory Committee regarding the appropriate water level in the Mullaperiyar dam. The supervisory committee has recommended maintaining the Mullaperiyar dam water level at 139.5 feet.Meanwhile, dam authorities in Kerala are taking cognizance of the situation that can arise out of the torrential rainfall. According to the weather office, heavy rains are expected in some districts. As many as 42 people were killed in flash floods and landslides after heavy downpour in Kerala earlier this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-raises-shutters-of-mullaperiyar-dam-kerala-s-idukki-on-high-alert-101635475411877.html
29-10-2021||India||Covid-19 pandemic: Maharashtra’s active cases drop further||Maharashtra’s active Covid-19 cases on Thursday dropped to 18,748 compared to 19,480 on Wednesday and 22,981 on Tuesday. State surveillance officer Pradeep Awate said the reduction showed that the Covid-19 pandemic was under control. “The government had been focussing on critical patients, ramping up the number of tests, isolating the patients as well as providing timely medication,” said Awate.Mumbai has the most number of active cases - 4,944 - followed by Pune and Thane with 3,929 and 3,005, respectively. The active cases during the peak of the second wave this year reached 600,000. For months until Tuesday, Pune had the maximum number of active cases, followed by Thane. On Wednesday, Mumbai overtook Pune.Ishwar Gilada, secretary-general of Organised Medicine Academic Guild, said there was nothing to panic about. “Since we have less than 500 new patients daily in Mumbai, we are doing well in containing the virus. We should ideally rejoice, with masks,” said Gilada. “We need to be cautious and adhere to appropriate behaviour.”Maharashtra on Thursday recorded 1,418 Covid-19 cases and 36 deaths. Mumbai reported 324 cases and six deaths, taking the toll to 16,235. A total of 114,099 tests were done on Thursday and the number of recoveries reached 2,112.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-pandemic-maharashtra-s-active-cases-drop-further-101635477770958.html
29-10-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: PM Modi to visit Italy, UK from today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is travelling to Rome, Italy and Glasgow, UK, from Friday to November 2 to attend the 16th G-20 Summit and the World Leaders’ Summit of COP-26 respectively. He will pay tribute to Mahatma Gandhi on his first day of arrival in Rome. He will also call on Pope Francis in the Vatican during his two-day visit, the prime minister said via a tweet on Thursday. Read moreThe government said Shaktikanta Das has been re-appointed as the Governor of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) for a period of three years beyond December 10, or until further orders, whichever is earlier. Read moreIn a major victory for H-1B employers, a federal court has approved a settlement under which the US Citizenship and Immigration Services has agreed to qualify market research analyst as a speciality occupation for the purposes of determining H-1B visa application of a foreign professional. Read moreFormer Indian cricket team players have come out in support of pacer Mohammed Shami who was on the receiving end of online attack after India lost the T20 World Cup opening contest against arch-rivals Pakistan by 10 wickets. Shami was the most expensive bowler of the lot for India, giving away 43 runs in 3.5 overs in the match. Read moreAnanya Panday's cousin brother Ahaan Panday took to Instagram and shared a gallery of pictures with Aryan Khan and Arbaaz Merchant. The pictures were shared after the Bombay High Court granted Aryan and Arbaaz bail in the drugs-on-cruise case. Read moreFor this year’s Halloween party, Bipasha opted for a mini blue and silver embellished dress with handwoven glitters from the wardrobe of fashion designer Rocky Star. See pics||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-pm-modi-to-visit-italy-uk-from-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101635474551200.html
29-10-2021||India||Delhi high court seeks EC’s response on plea to regulate internal party polls||The Delhi high court on Thursday asked the Election Commission of India to respond to a petition by lawyer C Rajashekaran regarding the poll watchdog overseeing internal party polls and treating a PIL on the matter as a representation, and said it should file a response by December 23.Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh heard the matter, wherein an internal process to outline a standard procedure for party elections was sought.“There are lacunae in the law with regard to power and tenure of party officials and what happens when they exceed tenure, which leads to larger questions regarding internal party democracy,” said lawyer C Rajashekaran.On June 14, HT reported that the EC was served with a legal notice on June 13 for failing to respond to a PIL filed in the Delhi high court seeking fair and transparent internal elections in political parties.The poll body was given seven days to respond, failing which, the petitioner Rajashekaran might initiate contempt proceedings against it.The case dates back to November 11, 2020, when Rajashekaran approached the EC, seeking the establishment of internal democracy in political parties. When he didn’t receive any response, he filed a PIL in the Delhi high court, drawing the attention of the court to the EC’s 1996 notice that asked political parties to follow the rules laid down in their own constitutions regarding internal elections.“The [Election] Commission observed that the various provisions relating to the organisational elections were not being followed by the political parties, and therefore called upon the parties to follow their respective constitutions relating to the said elections scrupulously,” says the petition filed in the Delhi high court.Also Read: Focus on G23 leaders ahead of Congress organisational pollsOn January 12, the high court passed an order in which it asked the EC to treat the petition as a representation.The notice sent to the chief election commissioner accused the EC of treating the representation with “total disregard”. HT has seen a copy of the notice.HT reached out to the EC spokesperson, but did not receive a response immediately.The petition had asked the EC to de-register a political party for non-compliance.“The lack of intra-party democracy in the said political parties to leadership positions within the said parties results in a unique situation where there is no mechanism for the said political party to be held accountable to its members and its own constitution,” the petition said.“It is submitted that although most political parties provide for elections through the provisions, the said elections are often an eyewash for established political families within the said parties to continue to retain power as the top leadership of the said party,” it added.According to a former Election Commission official familiar with the matter, the 1996 notice issued by the EC that threatened “legal measures as are available, necessary and appropriate”, including the de-registering of political parties, was issued in the context of lack of elections in the Congress party.“There were concerns that the Congress was not conducting proper elections and only the Congress working committee was ratifying the appointments,” the former official said. “But the concern was not just limited to Congress. The [Election] Commission continued to monitor party elections post 1996 and granted extensions to other political parties, while telling others to hold elections earlier than the time they sought. Many such orders were passed.”The timing of the petition is significant, given the internal turmoil in Congress over affairs in Rajasthan and Punjab, and internal elections deferred due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The party has now said that polls will only be conducted next year, with interim chief Sonia Gandhi hitting out at regional leaders for a “lack of clarity” over party issues.It is widely expected that family scion Rahul Gandhi will return to the helm of affairs after stepping down as party president following the drubbing Congress faced in the 2019 general elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-high-court-seeks-ec-s-response-on-plea-to-regulate-internal-party-polls-101635476990841.html
29-10-2021||India||Gujarat court asks Rahul Gandhi to appear in defamation case today||A magistrate court in Surat has directed Congress leader Rahul Gandhi to appear before it on Friday to record his statement in connection with a criminal defamation case against him over his remark on the Modi surname.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator from Surat Purnesh Modi filed a complaint against Rahul in April 2019 under sections 499 and 500 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) that deal with defamation. In his complaint, Purnesh alleged that Rahul Gandhi while addressing a poll rally in 2019 defamed the entire Modi community.In his speech at a rally in Karnataka's Kolar on April 13, 2019, ahead of the Lok Sabha polls, Rahul Gandhi reportedly asked, "Nirav Modi, Lalit Modi, Narendra Modi...how come they all have Modi as the common surname. How come all the thieves have Modi as the common surname?"Earlier this week, chief judicial magistrate of the magistrate court AN Dave asked Rahul Gandhi to appear on Friday to record his statement further after the testimony of two new witnesses--the then electoral officer of Kolar in Karnataka where the Congress leader made the speech and a video recorder employed by the Election Commission to record his speech-- were taken since the Congress leader last appeared before the court on June 24 this year. He appeared before the court in October 2019 and pleaded not guilty for his comment."The court on Monday orally directed Rahul Gandhi to appear on October 29 to record his further statement over the testimonies of two new witnesses. He is likely to remain present before the court between 3pm and 6pm on that day," Gandhi's lawyer Kirit Panwala said on Monday, according to news agency PTI.Purnesh Modi is now a minister in the new Gujarat government led by chief minister Bhupendra Patel, holding the portfolios of road and building, transport, civil aviation and tourism and pilgrimage development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-court-asks-rahul-gandhi-to-appear-in-defamation-case-today-101635467541810.html
29-10-2021||India||PM Modi to visit Italy, UK from today. Here’s what's on agenda||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is travelling to Rome, Italy and Glasgow, UK, from Friday to November 2 to attend the 16th G-20 Summit and the World Leaders’ Summit of COP-26 respectively. He will pay tribute to Mahatma Gandhi on his first day of arrival in Rome. He will also call on Pope Francis in the Vatican during his two-day visit, the prime minister said via a tweet on Thursday."In Rome, I will attend the 16th G20 Leaders’ Summit, where I will join other G20 Leaders in discussions on global economic and health recovery from the pandemic, sustainable development, and climate change," PM Modi said in a statement before he left for Italy, according to the Prime Minister's Office (PMO).The Prime Minister added that the first in-person summit of the G20 since the outbreak of the pandemic in 2020 “will allow us to take stock of the current global situation and exchange ideas on how the G20 can be an engine for strengthening economic resilience and building back inclusively and sustainably from the pandemic.”Following that, PM Modi will also be travelling to Glasgow in the United Kingdom from November 1-2 at the invitation of his British counterpart Boris Johnson. “On the sidelines of the G20 Summit, I will also meet with leaders of other partner countries and review the progress in India’s bilateral relations with them," he said.On the sidelines of the G20 Summit, PM Modi will also meet leaders of other partner countries and review the progress in India's bilateral relations with them. During his visit to Italy, the Prime Minister will also visit the Vatican City to call on Pope Francis and meet the secretary of state Cardinal Pietro Parolin.In Glasgow, the Prime Minister will participate in the high-level segment of COP-26 titled 'World Leaders' Summit' (WLS) on November 1 and 2 along with 120 heads of states and governments from around the world.The Prime Minister said India is creating new records in a collective effort for climate adaptation and he will share India's excellent track record on climate action at the WLS. "In line with our tradition of living in harmony with nature and culture of deep respect for the planet, we are taking ambitious action on expanding clean and renewable energy, energy efficiency, afforestation and bio-diversity. Today, India is creating new records in a collective effort for climate adaptation, mitigation and resilience and forging multilateral alliances," he said.PM Modi noted that India is among the top countries in the world in terms of installed renewable energy, wind and solar energy capacity. "I will also highlight the need to comprehensively address climate change issues including equitable distribution of carbon space, support for mitigation and adaptation and resilience-building measures, mobilisation of finance, technology transfer and importance of sustainable lifestyles for green and inclusive growth," he said.PM Modi further said COP26 Summit will also provide an opportunity to meet with all the stakeholders including leaders of partner countries, innovators and inter-governmental organisations and explore the possibilities for further accelerating India's clean growth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-visit-italy-uk-from-today-here-s-what-s-on-agenda-101635464023417.html
29-10-2021||NA||Breaking: PM Modi meets PM Draghi in Rome||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:Glad to have met: PM Modi on meeting his Italian counterpart Glad to have met PM Mario Draghi in Rome. We talked about ways to strengthen the friendship between India and Italy. There is great potential to further scale up economic linkages, cultural cooperation and for us to work together towards a more environment friendly planet. pic.twitter.com/9sMuDPHSqpPM Modi to meet Pope Francis tomorrow at Vatican CityPM Narendra Modi will meet Pope Francis tomorrow at the Vatican City. He is on a three-day visit to Italy to participate in the first in-person G20 Leaders' Summit since the start of Covid-19 pandemic. He has gone to the European country at the invitation of Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi.Queen Elizabeth II to rest 'for at least' next two weeks: Buckingham PalaceIn a statement, Buckingham Palace said that Queen Elizabeth II will rest 'for at least' next two weeks owing to her health conditions.Shaktikanta Das reappointed as RBI governorShaktikanta Das has been reappointed as the governor of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), an official statement said.BKU issues statement, says agitation against farm laws will continueIn a statement, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) said that the stir against central government's three farm laws “will continue”. Earlier in the day, barricades were removed from Delhi's Ghazipur border.Puneeth Rajkumar's last rites to be performed with state honoursKarnataka chief minister Bommai's principal secretary Manjunatha Prasad told ANI that the last rites of Kannada actor Puneeth Rajkumar will be performed with state honours at Kanteerava Studios in Bengaluru. Notably, the actor died earlier in the day after suffering a massive heart attack.Indian Army grants permanent commission to 39 women officersThe Indian Army on Friday granted permanent commission to 39 women officers, officials told ANI. Notably, the Supreme Court had asked the Army to grant the officers permanent commission by November 1.India extends ban on scheduled international commercial flights till Nov 30: DGCAThe DGCA has extended the ban on scheduled international commercial passenger flights to and/or from India until November 30, ANI reported.‘Sense of relief in the family’: Juhi Chawla says outside Sessions CourtAfter signing ₹1 lakh bond for Aryan Khan's bail, and getting accepted as his surety by the Special NDPS Court, Bollywood actor Juhi Chawla told reporters on Tuesday that there is “sense of relief” in the family. “We are all happy [that] it is over,” she added.Aryan Khan to stay in jail tonight; will be released tomorrow morningBollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's eldest son, Aryan Khan (23), has to stay in jail for one more day, ANI reported. “He will be released tomorrow morning,” Arthur Road Jail officials were quoted as saying.No Chhath Puja celebration at Yamuna river bank: DDMAThe District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has prohibited any Chhath Puja celebration at Yamuna river bank due to Covid-19 pandemic. The authority has only permitted celebrations at at designated sites, PTI reported.Special NDPS Court accepts Juhi Chawla as Aryan Khan's suretySpecial NDPS Court accepts Bollywood actor Juhi Chawla as Aryan Khan's surety. The 23-year-old's lawyer Satish Manishinde says she knows him from birth as they are associated professionally. Referring to Rhea Chakroborty's case, Manishinde added that everyone should be granted bail as nothing remains in the cruise ship drugs' case now.‘This was no age to go’: PM grieves over Puneeth Rajkumar's deathA cruel twist of fate has snatched away from us a prolific and talented actor, Puneeth Rajkumar. This was no age to go. The coming generations will remember him fondly for his works and wonderful personality. Condolences to his family and admirers. Om Shanti. pic.twitter.com/ofcNpnMmW3Following the demise of Kannada actor Puneeth Rajkumar on Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is currently on Rome, took to Twitter to grieve over the news. “A cruel twist of fate has snatched away from us a prolific and talented actor, Puneeth Rajkumar. This was no age to go. The coming generations will remember him fondly for his works and wonderful personality. Condolences to his family and admirers. Om Shanti,” his Twitter post read.Suu Kyi aide sentenced to 20 years for treason: LawyerMyanmar junta has sentenced former State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi's aide to 20 years in prison on treason charges, AFP reported quoting lawyer.Aryan Khan's lawyers at Sessions Court to complete his release formalitiesThe lawyers of Aryan Khan have arrived at the Sessions Court to complete all formalities pertaining to the 23-year-old's release today. Among many bail conditions of Aryan, one is that the son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan needs to pay a surety of ₹1 lakh in PR bond or with one more sureties.Calcutta HC orders complete ban on sale, use of firecrackersCalcutta High Court has ordered a blanket ban on the sale and use of firecrackers ahead of Diwali/Kali Puja/Chhath Puja/Christmas/New Year this year owing to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic in the state, ANI reported.Ex-SC judge Ashok Bhushan appointed as NCLAT chairpersonFormer Supreme Court judge Justice (Retd) Ashok Bhushan, has been appointed as the chairperson of the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) for a period of four years or till he attains the age of 70 years or until further orders - whichever is the earliest, ANI reported on Friday.PM Modi in Italy for G20 summit, holds joint meeting with world leadersPrime Minister Narendra Modi holds a joint meeting with Charles Michel, President of European Council and Ursula von der Leyen, President of European Commission in Rome, Italy.Kannada actor Puneeth Rajkumar suffers heart attack; 'condition serious,' says doctorKannada actor Puneeth Rajkumar suffered a heart attack on Friday. The actor was admitted after suffering chest pain at 11.30am. "Trying our best to treat him. His condition is serious. Can't say anything as of now. His condition was bad when brought to hospital, treatment on in ICU," said Dr Ranganath Nayak, Vikram Hospital, Bengaluru.Tennis champion Leander Paes joins TMC in GoaTennis champion Leander Paes joins TMC in Goa in the presence of West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee.Whole world will see Ayodhya Diwali Deepotsav this time: CM Adityanath in Lucknow“BJP workers fought against riots & overcame many challenges to make BJP win both in Centre & UP. Everyone is feeling proud that Ram Mandir is being constructed under PM Modi and Amit Shah's leadership. The whole world will see Ayodhya Diwali Deepotsav this time,” says Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath at the BJP membership drive launch event.Amit Shah launches ‘Mera Parivaar-BJP Parivar’ membership drive in LucknowLucknow: Union Home Minister and BJP leader Amit Shah launches 'Mera Parivaar-BJP Parivaar' membership drive. pic.twitter.com/W6UlgBi4SOUnion Home Minister Amit Shah to initiate ‘Mera Parivaar-BJP Parivar’ in LucknowAhead of Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections next year, Union Home Minister Amit Shah has reached Lucknow to launch the Bharatiya Janata Party's 'Mera Parivaar-BJP Parivaar' membership drive on Friday.Will request farmers to open highway for people: Delhi Police“It is a Delhi Police initiative and we're removing the block which we've placed. We'll request farmers so that this highway is opened for people. We're hoping our gesture will be reciprocated by farmers,” said Dependra Pathak, Delhi Police Special Commissioner, Law & Order on removing barricading at Ghazipur border, as quoted by news agency ANI.Police barricading has also been removed from Tikri border.Nafisa Ali, Mrinalini Deshprabhu join TMC in Goa"We are elated to share that Nafisa Ali and Mrinalini Deshprabhu have joined the Goa Trinamool Congress family today in the presence of party Chairperson Mamata Banerjee," tweets All India Trinamool Congress.Sameer Wankhede denies Nawab Malik's allegations on his connection with cruise party organiser Kashif Khan“Absolutely a lie and I can't comment. Law will take its own course,” says Mumbai NCB Zonal Director Sameer Wankhede when asked about state minister Nawab Malik's allegations that he didn't nab Kashif Khan, one of the organisers of the cruise party, because he's his friend.‘Govt has failed,' says Priyanka Gandhi after meeting kin of farmers who died in UP's Lalitpur“The government has failed, it has completely ignored farmers. This is not an issue of these four farmers alone, this is an issue of the entire Bundelkhand,” says Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra.Four farmers allegedly fell ill and died while waiting in the line for purchasing agricultural fertilizer in Lalitpur district of Uttar Pradesh.Watch: Police remove barricading at Tikri border#WATCH | Removal of Police barricading at Tikri (Delhi-Haryana) border underway. The barricading is also being removed from Ghazipur (Delhi-Uttar Pradesh) border. Farmers' agitations against the three farm laws have been going on at these borders. pic.twitter.com/GrC3G7VnzeFarmers have been protesting against Centre's three farm laws at Delhi borders for nearly a year. Earlier today, police barricading was removed from Ghazipur (Delhi-Uttar Pradesh) border.Welcome women cadets with same sense of fair play: Army chief Gen MM Naravane at passing out parade“As we open portals of NDA to women cadets, I expect you all to welcome them with the same sense of fair play & professionalism as Indian armed forces are known for the world over,” says Army Chief Gen MM Naravane at passing out Parade of 141st Course of NDA in Pune.Blocking road is not part of our protest: Rakesh TikaitFarmers' leader Rakesh Tikait on Friday asserted that blocking road is not a part of farmers' protest. “PM had said that farmers can sell crops anywhere. If roads are open, we'll also go to Parliament to sell our crops. First, our tractors will go to Delhi. We haven't blocked the way. Blocking road is not part of our protest,” news agency ANI quoted Tikait as saying.Police removes barricading from Ghazipur borderPolice barricading being removed from Ghazipur (Delhi-Uttar Pradesh) border where a farmers' agitation against the three farm laws is underway.A Police personnel at the spot told news agency ANI, "The barricades are being removed, the route is being opened. We received the orders."India logs 14,348 fresh Covid-19 cases in last 24 hours, nearly 2,000 cases lower than yesterdayIndia on Friday recorded 14,348 new coronavirus cases, nearly 2,000 less than the previous day. Currently, the country's recovery rate is 98.19% adn the active cases account for less than 1 percent of the total cases.Delhi Police to remove barricades at Ghazipur farmers' protest site todayDelhi Police will remove barricades at Ghazipur farmers' protest site today.Shaktikanta Das reappointed as RBI governor for three years"The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet has approved the reappointment of Shaktikanta Das as Reserve Bank of India Governor for a period of three years beyond 10.12.2021 or until further orders, whichever is earlier," read an official statement.Petrol, diesel price rises againPetrol price in Delhi rose to ₹108.64 per litre on Friday, up by ₹0.35 while diesel costs ₹97.37 per litre, up by ₹0.35 today.In Mumbai, petrol and diesel prices per litre are ₹114.47 and ₹105.49 respectively. The fuels cost ₹109.02 and ₹100.49 per litre respectively in Kolkata, and ₹105.43 and ₹101.59 respectively in Chennai.UP releases ₹160 cr as assistance for 5 lakh flood-hit farmersThe Uttar Pradesh government has released a relief package of ₹160 crore through the State Disaster Response Fund to nearly five lakh farmers who were affected by the floods in 44 districts of the state.India, US hold counter terrorism meet, call for action against terror groupsDuring the 18th meet of US-India Counter Terrorism Joint Working Group & 4th session of US-India Designations Dialogue, India and the United States pledged to expand cooperation on law enforcement, information sharing, exchanging best practices, and increasing strategic convergence on counter-terrorism challenges under their joint partnership.They also called for concerted action against all terrorist groups, including groups proscribed by the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) 1267 Sanctions Committee, such as al-Qa’ida, ISIS/Daesh, Lashkar-e-Tayyiba (LeT), and Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM), the US State Department said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-october-29-2021-101635464476966.html
29-10-2021||India||‘It might work in UP, won’t work here’: Delhi high court pulls up state police||The Delhi high court on Thursday severely reprimanded the Uttar Pradesh Police for arresting the father and brother of a man from the national capital after he married a woman against her family’s wishes.A single-judge bench of Justice Mukta Gupta said, “Illegal kaam Delhi mein nahin chalega (Illegal acts will not be allowed in Delhi),” as it took strong exception to UP Police not intimating Delhi Police and completely ignoring that both the man and the woman were consenting adults.The bench also questioned how the police team showed the arrest from a village in UP and said it would examine the CCTV footage from the area to get to the truth.“Ye kaam na yahan nahi chalega. Illegal kaam koi bhi Delhi me nahin chalega ki aap aaye aur Delhi se log uthaye aur keh de ki humne to Shamli se arrest dikha di. Ye hum yahaan nahi chalne denge (This will not work in Delhi. Illegal acts will not be allowed. You cannot come to Delhi, pick up people and then show arrest from Shamli. We won’t allow this here),” said Justice Gupta.The judge further remarked that the action of UP Police in arresting the two from Delhi was unlawful at every step and that the court could not allow anybody to illegally arrest people from the national capital.“Apni marzi se uthake kisiko nai le ja sakte. Yehi kanoon kehta hai na? Har step pe kanoon ko violate kiya aapne. Ye cheez Delhi main bardasht nai karenge (You cannot pick anyone at your will. You have violated the law at every step. This will not be tolerated in Delhi),” remarked the judge.The court also pulled up the woman’s mother for concealing the age of her daughter and said that it would also initiate proceedings against her and others in Delhi for lodging a sham case.As the mother broke down, Justice Gupta said, “What is the age of your daughter? Why didn’t you tell the police her real age? All this may work in UP but not here. If you think that crying before me will make a difference, let me tell you it will not,” said the judge.On October 26, the high court had directed sub-inspector Pankaj Kumar Tyagi of UP Police to be present before it after the man’s two family members were arrested and taken out of Delhi in an alleged kidnapping case, without informing the Delhi Police.Justice Gupta, while hearing a plea by the couple, said Delhi Police must be informed before arresting anyone from the city.On Thursday, the court reproached Tyagi for not verifying the woman’s age. “Did you ask whether the girl was a minor or a major? If the girl was a major, then will it be her wish or the parents’ wish that would prevail?” it asked the police officer.Tyagi, on his part, responded that he had sought the birth details from the mother, but she did not give the requisite documents. He maintained that the arrest was not made from Delhi but from Khudana in Shamli, UP.The court then asked the station house officer of Shamli police station to submit a report as to what efforts were made to trace the woman from Delhi and whether the UP Police gave any intimation to the Delhi Police before arriving in the city. The court also directed him to get the statement of the woman recorded by the magistrate at the Patiala court by Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-might-work-in-up-won-t-work-here-delhi-high-court-pulls-up-state-police-101635462609357.html
29-10-2021||India||Laying the foundation of a strong democracy||The foundation of all democracies is free and fair elections. India enjoys a pride of place as the largest democracy in the world with the most highly rated elections, described by Hillary Clinton as a gold standard. The country’s mind-boggling diversity and the vibrancy of its voters makes its elections a grand festival. The credit for envisioning this great institution goes to the founding fathers of the Constitution of India, and for making it a physical reality, to Sukumar Sen, an Indian Civil Service (ICS) officer, who was appointed as the first Chief Election Commissioner of India.
29-10-2021||India||A lifetime of nation building||The year is 1919. The embers of the first World War are still smouldering. The massacre at Jallianwala Bagh is reverberating across the Indian subcontinent, coalescing the fledgling independence movement into a potent force. A new form of passive resistance, called Satyagraha, against a draconian new British law is taking root, championed by a rising political leader called MK Gandhi.
29-10-2021||India||Suicides increase 10% to highest since 1967, accidental deaths down 11%: National data||How did the Covid-19 pandemic affect accidental deaths and suicides in India? The 2020 National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report released on October 28 confirms intuitive wisdom on this question. While the number of road accidents and associated deaths fell sharply, suicides saw a large increase. Among those who died by suicide, students and small entrepreneurs saw the biggest jump, supporting anecdotal accounts of the pandemic’s disproportionate stress on them.The annual Accidental Deaths and Suicides (ADSI) report, which is released by the NCRB (it works under the ministry of home affairs) is the official source of statistics on the number of accidents and deaths by accident or suicides in India.
29-10-2021||India||‘Panisagar mosque is safe. Don’t spread rumours’: Tripura police||AGARTALA: Prohibitory orders continued to remain in force in parts of North Tripura district on Thursday even as the Tripura police went on an overdrive, urging people not to spread rumours about the violence in Panisagar where a mosque and some houses and shops were vandalised on October 26.“No mosque was burnt in Panisagar. We have already registered a case and legal action will be taken against those spreading all the fake news,” North district superintendent of police Bhanupada Chakraborty told the reporters on Thursday.No arrest has been made in this case so far.Sharing some photographs of a mosque in Panisagar on their Twitter handle on Thursday, police wrote, “Tripura Police appeals to all not to spread rumours... Below are photographs of masjid in Panisagar. It is evident that masjid is safe and secure.”Meanwhile, Tripura state imam’s committee alleged that efforts were made to disrupt peace in at least ten places across the state after the violence in Bangladesh.“We condemn the attacks on Hindu minorities in Bangladesh. Similarly, we also condemn the situation of unrest in different parts of the state. We request the administration to take prompt action to maintain peace,” said general secretary of Tripura state Imam’s committee Sahid Ahmed.Later, Tripura State Jamiat Ulama ( Hind) chief Mufti Tayebur Rahman said, “We don’t support whatever happened in Bangladesh. That is a foreign country. We are Indians here. We believe that Hindus and Muslims are brothers and we all want peace here.”Chairman of TIPRA Motha party Pradyot Kishore Debbarma asked people not to react to provocations on social media and appealed for communal harmony.“TIPRA Motha and I will protest if anyone takes attempt to create communal disturbances, “ said Pradyot in a video message circulated on social media.Vinod Sonkar, a member of Parliament and BJP’s Tripura in charge, on Wednesday said the party has set up a five-member committee to probe the violence. “The committee has been asked to visit the (violence-hit) areas and submit its report in the next two or three days. Since our political opponents accuse us of being biased, we asked the members of the minority cell to probe the incident.”A mosque was vandalised and two shops were set ablaze at Chamtilla on Tuesday evening during a VHP rally taken out to protest against recent violence against Hindus in neighbouring Bangladesh. Three houses and a few shops, reportedly owned by members of the minority community, were also ransacked in nearby Rowa Bazar, Bhanupada Chakraborty said after the violence on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/panisagar-mosque-is-safe-don-t-spread-rumours-tripura-police-101635451608758.html
29-10-2021||India||Uttarakhand govt reduces fee for MBBS courses from ₹ 4 lakh to ₹ 1.45 lakh||DEHRADUN: The Uttarakhand government on Thursday decided to reduce the annual fee for MBBS courses in the state’s 18 government medical colleges from ₹ 4 lakh to ₹ 1.45 lakh, claiming it to be the lowest in the country. The proposal was approved in the cabinet meeting convened by chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on Thursday evening, said Subodh Uniyal, cabinet minister and spokesperson of the state government.Uniyal also said the cabinet also cleared the Mukyamantri Mahila Poshan Yojana, under which women in the state will be provided nutritious food such fruits, dry fruits and eggs for two days a week. The minister said the cabinet also approved the proposal for increasing the incentive being provided to ASHA facilitators for tours from ₹1,000 to ₹2,000 for 20 tours.The cabinet has also cleared the stone crusher policy 2021, Uttarakhand river dredging policy 2021, change in tender conditions to expedite the procurement of preloaded tablets for class 10 and class 12 students, and simplification of the provisions related to subsidy being provided under Veer Chandra Singh Garhwali Tourism Self-employment Scheme.He said it was also decided that a two-day assembly session on November 29 and 30 will be held at Gairsain.Uniyal said it was also decided that state government employees with a pay grade of 4800 will be provided a maximum bonus of ₹ 7,000 and daily wagers a bonus of ₹ 1,184. “This decision will benefit nearly 1.6 lakh employees and daily wagers in the state. It will incur a financial implication of around ₹ 130 crores to the state exchequer”, he said. Before the cabinet meeting, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya met chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami at his residence here. They discussed various issues including elections and the current political situation in the state where state elections are due to the held next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-govt-reduces-fee-for-mbbs-courses-from-4-lakh-to-1-45-lakh-101635449448243.html
29-10-2021||India||Supreme Court stays HC’s NEET order, says can’t delay results of 16 lakh students||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Thursday paved the way for declaration of the National Eligibility Entrance Test (NEET) results for admission to medical courses after it stayed an order of the Bombay High Court requiring the National Testing Agency (NTA), the agency which conducts NEET, to hold the re-examination for two students on account of a mix-up of test booklets.“We cannot delay the results for 16 lakh students,” said a bench of justices L Nageswar Rao, Sanjiv Khanna and BR Gavai while issuing notice to the two students on an appeal filed by NTA challenging the Bombay high court order of October 20.Further, the bench said, “There shall be stay of the impugned order passed by the high court, until further orders.”Two students, Vaishnavi Vijay Bhopale and Abhishek Shivaji Kapse, who appeared for NEET on September 12, filed a petition before the Bombay high court complaining that they got little time to write the examination due to a mistake by the invigilator who dropped the test booklets leading to a mismatch of OMR sheet and test booklets of six students. Of them, two went to the high court demanding a re-examination.Also Read: Bombay HC ordered special NEET exam for 2 students after invigilators goofed upThe high court directed NTA to hold a fresh examination for the two petitioners and declare the result within two weeks. One of the prayers in the petition filed by the two students required their results to be declared along with the final result of 16 lakh students. The high court gave full effect to this prayer making it absolute. As a result, the direction to hold exams for the two candidates came in the way of the final NEET results announcement.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for NTA along with advocate Rupesh Kumar, informed the court that the two students answered 130 and 160 questions out of a total of 180 questions while the other four candidates attempted all answers. “The four students have not complained of any disadvantage. After we found the mistake, we agreed to rectify it by accepting the mismatch as it is without disqualifying them.”The argument weighed with the court as it observed, “The question papers fell down for all six students. How can you (petitioners in high court) be differently placed as the other four have completed all questions.”Advocate Pooja Thorat, appearing for the two students, said the mismatch was pointed out only by the two candidates and not the other four. “After we pointed out the mistake and said this could result in rejection of our examination sheet, the confusion remained for over two hours into the examination and we had to complete the paper in haste,” Thorat said.The bench told Thorat, “You are not taking into account lakhs of students who are waiting for their results. Whatever confusion is there, the NTA is ready to rectify. They are ready to go by what you have answered.”Abhishek Kapase, one of the two Solapur students to have approached the high court, said the Supreme Court’s verdict might be fair to lakhs of the other aspirants, but they had been penalised.Also Read: SC decision on NEET fair to lakhs but we have been cheated: 2 petitioners“I have attempted the exam with all my knowledge, but due to the error on part of the invigilator, my answers do not match the question paper so I have been marked zero in the exam. None of this is our fault but the judiciary has punished us in this bargain,” Kapase, 19, said.The court posted the matter on November 12 and asked NTA to come out with a plan for the two students. It suggested to Mehta to consider the number of questions answered by the two candidates as 180 and award marks accordingly. Mehta agreed to come back with instructions.In its appeal before the top court, NTA complained that the effect of the high court order is that the petitioner (NTA) who has conducted the NEET (UG) 2021 examination for more than 16 lakh candidates on September 12 is not able to declare their results even though the same is ready for declaration. The delay in declaration of result of NEET (UG) 2021 will affect and further delay the subsequent process of admission to undergraduate medical courses.”The NTA filed an affidavit in the high court accepting the mistake of the invigilators. The high court relied on this fact to ensure that the students do not end up paying the price for the mistake by invigilators. Although the high court held that its order shall not be treated as a precedent, NTA apprehended that for future, similar incidents could lead to cases in courts by students demanding re-examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-stays-hc-s-neet-order-says-can-t-delay-results-of-16-lakh-students-101635448488391.html
29-10-2021||India||AIADMK dismisses minority wing leader for ‘anti-party activities’||The All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) on Thursday sacked minorities wing deputy secretary J M Basheer, who earlier in the day threatened to expose party co-coordinator Edappadi Palaniswami and called for his removal. In a joint statement, Palaniswami and co-coordinator O Panneerselvam announced the party’s decision.“His acts have gone against the principles and values of the party. He has brought disrepute to the party,” the statement read. Basheer was immediately removed from the party’s primary membership and all other posts and responsibilities. “Party members are directed not to have any contact with him,” the statement said. Basheer released a note on Thursday afternoon calling for a press meet in Chennai where he would release evidence against Palaniswami of him being “against minorities”. “I’m going to urge OPS to remove him from the party. He has continuously betrayed minorities,” Basheer said in his letter.At 3.16 pm, the AIADMK released a statement announcing the sacking of Basheer because he indulged in anti-party activities.A senior leader in the party on condition of anonymity said that they felt that Basheer was wrong to bring down the party in the open. “He has been indulging in loose talks and spreading rumours for a while now while holding an important post,” said the leader. “Since the party’s loss (in the rural local body polls in nine districts), this has been happening.”These developments come amidst a volatile time for the AIADMK, with expelled leader V K Sasikala staking a claim as the party’s general secretary and attempting to take control. Her former loyalist turned rebel Panneerselvam had offered support by telling reporters that AIADMK will discuss her re-induction, a claim the party has vehemently denied.“It was OPS who rebelled against her first,” former minister and AIADMK spokesperson D Jayakumar had said on Monday. “The party has passed a resolution that she will not be taken back, and whoever connects with her will be removed. OPS has signed this.” Jayakumar reiterated this on Thursday. “We have also expelled several people who have been in contact with her,” he said. “This was our stance yesterday, and it will continue to be our stance today and tomorrow.”However, a few leaders in the last couple of days have publicly said that Panneerselvam’s opinion that there can be a discussion isn’t wrong. “There is no confusion or problem in our party,” said former AIADMK minister Sellur Raju.Sasikala, meanwhile, is starting a tour on Friday to meet her supporters in the southern districts. With Sasikala not backing down, her thawing with Panneerselvam, and the party speaking in different voices, the situation is tricky for Palaniswami, who has consolidated himself as the numero uno by sidelining his partner-leader Panneerselvam since J Jayalalithaa’s death in 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiadmk-dismisses-minority-wing-leader-for-anti-party-activities-101635448188358.html
29-10-2021||India||Row over Telangana govt decision to stop Rabi paddy cultivation||The Telangana government’s decision to impose an indirect ban on the cultivation of paddy by farmers in the state during the ongoing Rabi season has triggered a major controversy.Though the government has not issued an official order banning the cultivation of paddy this season, it has directed the district collectors to see those seed companies do not sell paddy seeds to farmers at any cost, on the pretext of the problem of plenty. The seed company dealers were asked to procure and stock adequate quantities of seed for alternative crops like pulses and oilseeds such as groundnut, green gram, black gram, Bengal gram, caster, bajra and sesamum but not paddy.At a review meeting held on September 12, the officials of the agriculture department told chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao that it was not advisable to encourage paddy cultivation because of the Central government’s decision not to purchase even a single kg of rice variety being produced in Telangana.The officials said the state produces a huge quantity of boiled rice. In the last Rabi season, the state government had procured 9.2 million tonnes of paddy, and this Kharif, another 5.5 million tonnes of paddy is being procured. Added to this, there are buffer stocks of another 7 million tonnes of paddy.However, the Centre has made it clear that it won’t be able to procure even a single kg of paddy, more than the prescribed quantity of 6 million tonnes through the Food Corporation of India, on the pretext of lack of demand in the country. Union civil supplies minister Piyush Goel told a delegation of the state ministers that there were buffer stocks with the Centre sufficient for the next five years.“Under these circumstances, cultivating paddy again this Rabi season amounting to farmers hanging themselves as there would be no takers for the produce,” the officials told the chief minister.Following a direction from the state government, district collectors have been holding meetings with seed dealers for the last few days and asking them not to sell paddy seeds to farmers this season and encouraging them to go in for alternative crops.At one such meeting held in Siddipet on Monday, collector P Venkatrama Reddy warned the seed dealers against selling paddy seeds lest they would face criminal action. In a video of the meeting, which went viral on social media, the collector was heard saying that if any dealer was found selling even a single kilogram of paddy seed, his shop would be closed and licence suspended.“Even if you get orders from Supreme Court or high court, I don’t care. As long as I am a collector, I won’t allow you. The agriculture officer concerned will also be suspended,” he threatened.The collector’s remarks triggered loud protests from farmers’ organisations and opposition parties. Though Reddy later clarified that his warning was concerning the sale of spurious seeds, the protests have not subsided.Telangana Rythu Sangham on Thursday demanded stringent action against the Siddipet collector for threatening the seed dealers and bringing pressure on farmers not to raise paddy crops.“For the last three years, there has been a steep increase in the groundwater levels due to heavy rains. There is plenty of water in all the reservoirs, irrigation tanks and ponds. It is not possible to grow dry crops in such water-logged fields. Even if they grow, the yield won’t be good. Since there is no support price mechanism for such crops, the farmers won’t get remunerative prices,” Sangham general secretary T Sagar said.However, state agriculture minister S Niranjan Reddy said there was no option for the farmers, but to grow alternative crops. “If the opposition leaders have any love towards farmers, they should bring pressure on the Centre to purchase more paddy from the state,” he said while challenging the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the ruling party at the Centre.BJP state unit president and MP Bandi Sanjay took up a four-hour Deeksha in the state party office on Thursday in protest against the state government’s decision. He threatened to file a criminal case against Siddipet collector for saying that he would defy even the court orders on paddy cultivation.Senior Congress leader and former PCC chief N Uttam Kumar Reddy said it was shameful of the chief minister to ask the farmers not to raise paddy. “He claimed that he would make Telangana the rice bowl of India, but now, he says his government won’t purchase paddy. He cannot take decisions overnight, instead of having foresight,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/row-over-telangana-govt-decision-to-stop-rabi-paddy-cultivation-101635448131543.html
29-10-2021||India||Hyderabad police face ire for checking mobiles in crackdown on drugs||The Hyderabad police have come under heavy criticism for checking the mobile phones of people as part of their crackdown on narcotics peddling in the city.In a video shared on social media on Thursday, policemen were seen stopping vehicles in some parts of the old city in Hyderabad and checking people’s contact information and text messages. “New policing practices alert: stop and search phone chats by the @hydcitypolice. Police are searching phone chats for words like ganja. Wait until they replace words with NRC, Modi or BJP,” tweeted one netizen.Another person asked: “Is it legal? How can police randomly check the phones without any order from the court? Not sure order from the police department to their team is legal (sic).”“Under what rules and guidelines? Pls share rules, so that I’ll update myself,” said a person. “Are they allowed to do this without a search warrant?” asked another one.Speaking to reporters, Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar said the police had been conducting searches and frisking as part of preventing ganja peddling. “We have every right to check anything, whether it is a mobile phone, iPad, laptop, pen drive or a hard disk when we find suspicious about the movement of people in the area of any crime incident,” he said.Stating that two persons were arrested during the special drive on ganja peddling in the last month, the police commissioner said it was found that they were doing monetary transactions through Google Pay on their mobiles.When quizzed about the video circling on social media, Kumar said as per his knowledge, the video was three years old, and the checking of vehicles and mobiles might have been done as part of an investigation related to any crime. Inquiries, however, revealed that the video was the latest one, as it showed the cops wearing masks as part of Covid-19 protocol. The video showed one of the cops, who took part in the checking of vehicles and mobile phones, saying it had been going on for the last few days and would continue for one more month. “We are checking the mobile phones to get any leads on ganja peddling,” he said, adding that the searches were going on three shifts round the clock.A senior police official said on condition of anonymity that the checking of vehicles and mobile phones was being conducted as part of preventing ganja and other narcotic substances. “There is no big issue, as the people are cooperating. So far, we could not find any cases of ganja smuggling,” he said.People’s Union of Civil Liberties (PUCL) leader and advocate Jaya Vindhyala said it was illegal on the part of the Hyderabad police to look into the mobile phones in the name of obtaining info on ganja peddling.“It is against the Right to Privacy, which is also a fundamental right of an individual, but the police would give it a different interpretation. But they should go as per the procedure if they want to check mobile phones. They should first issue notices to them asking them to show their phones. They cannot force the people to part with their mobile phones,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderabad-police-face-ire-for-checking-mobiles-in-crackdown-on-drugs-101635448129747.html
29-10-2021||India||Another sexual assault case against Mavunkal, says SIT||Another woman employee on Thursday registered a sexual assault complaint against self-styled antique collector Monson Mavunkal, accused of multi-crore fraud and raping a minor. The special investigation team (SIT) probing cases against Mavunkal said the team will file a fresh case against him in the matter after recording the victim’s statement before a magistrate.On October 19, Mavunkal was booked under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act for allegedly raping the daughter of one of his employees two years ago. Later his make-up man was also arrested under Pocso after recording her statement. The latest victim said Mavunkal sexually abused her for many months and was scared to file a complaint as many police officers frequented his house, which was also a clinic and museum in Kochi. The SIT suspects many such complaints are likely to surface in the coming days. During the investigation, the SIT also found that some of Mavunkal’s clients were given “special massage”, which he used to discreetly film. He allegedly used some of his female and male employees for this, the SIT said. Mavunkal, who claims to possess “rare and timeless antiques”, was arrested on September 26 for selling fake artefacts and cheating. After his arrest, details of apathy and collusion came to light as many top police officers were reportedly close to Mavunkal. His free run got cut short after five businessmen complained to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan of cheating worth ₹10 crores by Mavunkal, who promised shares in his upcoming international antique museums in Kochi and Thiruvananthapuram. Later, many other businessmen also filed cheating complaints against him. The government constituted the SIT, which also recorded the statement of an Italy-based Malayali woman Anitha Pullayil, who alleged to have introduced many senior police officers to Mavunkal. He allegedly used his connections with the officers to cheat and intimidate gullible antique buyers. Mavunkal has claimed that antiques in his possession included the staff of Moses, a piece of fabric from a garment worn by Jesus, and “Dahi handi” of Lord Krishna. Pullayil has now sought to distance herself from him. She told news channels that she had advised those cheated by him to approach the police. Pullayil added that she was unaware of his shady deals and started avoiding him after she got an inkling regarding some of them. Many police officers regularly visited his house-cum-cosmetology clinic in Kochi that he ran based on a fake degree. Meanwhile, the High Court on Wednesday granted more time to state police chief Anil Kant to furnish details of alleged links of top police officials with the conman. While hearing a plea last month, the court had asked many questions to the DGP, including why police gave protection to Mavunkal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-sexual-assault-case-against-mavunkal-says-sit-101635448128330.html
29-10-2021||India||Kerala begins evacuation as TN set to release water from Mullaperiyar||The Kerala government on Thursday initiated the process of evacuating over 800 families living in the downstream areas of the Mullaperiyar dam after the neighbouring Tamil Nadu announced its decision to open spillways on Friday.Idukki district collector Sheeba George has already announced an alert in the district and ordered the shifting of people from nearby areas of the dam. State water resources minister Roshy Augustine said all arrangements have been made, and there is no need for panic. A native of the district, Augustine has also called a meeting of district officials on Friday to monitor the situation.“We will shift 3,220 people belonging to 884 families. We are keeping a strict vigil. We have opened enough relief camps. This is only a precautionary measure, and there is no need of panic,” the minister said, adding that the Tamil Nadu government hasn’t announced the exact quantum of water to be released.Districts officials said once the water is released, it will reach the first downstream village Vallakadavu in 20 minutes, and the Idukki reservoir will be filled by noon. Initially, spillways of the reservoir will be opened to ease pressure, and if needed, shutters will also be opened. Sluice gates of the Idukki reservoir were opened two weeks ago after catchment areas received heavy downpours. Fast floods and landslides induced by heavy rains claimed 40 lives in two districts, Kottayam and Idukki on October 17.One of the oldest dams of the country, neighbouring states Kerala and Tamil Nadu have been fighting over the water level of Mullaperiyar for many years. While Kerala wants to build a new dam citing frequent tremors and changing rain patterns in the Idukki district, Tamil Nadu opposed it fearing the loss of control over it. After the 2014 SC verdict, Tamil Nadu carried out repairs and retrofitted, but Kerala maintained that these measures were not enough to check the dam’s durability.The dam was built under an agreement between the erstwhile royal family of Travancore and the British administration in 1886 to take water to famine-hit Tamil Nadu for irrigation. Post-independence, the dam became part of Kerala, and since then, its main share of water flows to the southern districts of Tamil Nadu.The contentious issue came up before the apex court on Monday after a resident of Idukki, Dr Joe Joseph, approached it with a plea that the water level should not go above 139 feet because of heavy rains in the area. The Supreme Court on Thursday ordered that the dam supervisory committee’s view to maintain water level at 139.5 feet till Nov 10 should be met. While hearing the case the TN counsel said Kerala was whipping up fear unnecessarily but Kerala maintained that a new dam is a final solution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-begins-evacuation-as-tn-set-to-release-water-from-mullaperiyar-101635448071088.html
29-10-2021||India||Madras high court rejects spl DGP’s plea to transfer sexual harassment case||The Madras high court on Wednesday dismissed a plea by suspended Special Director General of Police (DGP) Rajesh Das challenging the jurisdictional competence of the Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM), Villupuram to adjudicate upon a sexual harassment case filed by a female Indian Police Service (IPS) officer against him in February this year.Das said that the alleged crime occurred in Namakkal, Ulundurpet and Chengalpattu, thus putting the jurisdiction of CJM, Villupuram under question.Justice P Velmurugan dismissed the plea saying that the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Villupuram has got jurisdiction to proceed with the case. “Considering the facts and circumstances of the above-said case, this Court does not find any perversity in the order passed by the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Villupuram (which had previously rejected a similar petition, which the petitioner challenged at the high court). The petitioner at any point of time, on an earlier occasion, has not challenged the power of CBCID to investigate the matter,” the court said in its orders. “However, no prejudice would be caused to the petitioner.”The state public prosecutor submitted that as per the order of the high court dated May 2010, the CJM court, Villupuram has been designated to exercise all or any of the powers of the Magistrate of First Class, under Section 14(1) of Code of Criminal Procedure 1973 to deal with the cases registered under the CBCID. “Therefore, the contention raised by the learned counsel for the petitioner is not legally tenable,” the court said. The CBCID has filed a charge sheet against him in the Villupuram lower court. The court also noted that in the suo moto hearing of the case where another justice Anand Venkatesh had taken up to monitor the investigation in the case had in August directed for the case to proceed on a day-to-day basis and dispose of the case within three months. It was posted for compliance with the report on December 23.Das has been booked under section 354(A) (2), 341, 506(i) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and section 4 of Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Women Act. The alleged crime took place when the previous chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami was on an official tour in February 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-high-court-rejects-spl-dgp-s-plea-to-transfer-sexual-harassment-case-101635448068289.html
29-10-2021||India||Victory of ‘new India’, health workers: Reddy on 1BN doses||Union minister G Kishan Reddy on Thursday hailed the country’s milestone of 1 billion Covid vaccine doses administered by calling it a victory of ‘Corona warriors’, “new India”, and the spirit of cooperative federalism.Addressing a tourism conference here, he asserted that there can be sno bigger confidence booster for revival of tourism than vaccination against Covid-19.The minister said, a decision has been taken by the ministry of external affairs to have dedicated tourism officers in 20 Indian missions abroad and this will help in branding and promoting India’s culture and heritage abroad.The Union culture and tourism minister congratulated each and every citizen of the country on India achieving the milestone in its vaccination drive against Covid.“We have witnessed the victory of scientists, victory of healthcare workers and the collective spirit of 130 crore Indians. It is a victory of ‘new India’ and team India; and a victory of the spirit of cooperative federalism, and of our Corona warriors,” Reddy said.He said vaccination against Covid and tourism will go together in the current scenario and without vaccination, tourism will not survive and no tourists will come.He later tweeted: “Spoke on @tourismgoi’s initiatives to boost tourism and also encourage investment. Congratulated all the scientists, health care workers & vaccine manufacturers on crossing the 100 crores vaccine mark and dwelt on how this will be a big boost for the tourism industry”.“We should use challenging times as an opportunity to rethink, regenerate and reinvent the tourism sector,” the minister said.A two-day conference of tourism and culture ministers of southern India began in Bengaluru on Thursday, aiming to apprise various stakeholders about the projects and initiatives being taken by the Centre for the development of the region.The conference is taking place three months after the Ramappa temple at Palampet in Telangana’s Warangal was conferred the tag of UNESCO World Heritage site.The temple, a 13th century engineering marvel named after its architect Ramappa, was proposed by the government as its only nomination for the UNESCO World Heritage site tag for the year 2019.Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai was scheduled to attend the event but could not make it.Reddy said the government’s decision to scale up vaccination at this speed was to ensure that both lives and livelihoods are protected.The event, hosted by the tourism ministry, is in line with the prime minister’s idea of cooperative federalism where the government of India and the state governments come together to find solutions for a better India, Reddy said.And, to utilise this huge advantage that our country has, the tourism ministry has taken several measures to boost tourism and also encourage investment, he said.The initiatives include a National Tourism Policy that “we wish to unveil after close consultations with states and all stakeholders”, he said.Also, it includes consultations to provide industry status to various tourism projects, unsecured loans of ₹10 lakh to tour operators and ₹1 lakh to tourist guides who have been affected by the pandemic; and a new data-driven ‘Incredible India 2.0’ campaign, Reddy added.Also, five lakh free visas to international visitors once international travel opens up and extension of e-visa to 169 countries are the other initiatives, he said.Tourism ministers of Tamil Nadu (M Mathiventhan), Telangana (Srinivas Goud, Karnataka (Anand Singh), and Puducherry (K Lakshminarayan) also participated and addressed the event.Union Minister of State for Tourism Ajay Bhatt, senior officials of the Archaeological Survey of India, railway ministry and other departments, besides, industry stakeholders also attended the conference on its opening day.Describing south India’s cultural heritage as a “treasure trove”, Reddy hailed the recent listing of the Ramappa Temple as a UNESCO World Heritage Site.From exquisitely carved caves to breathtaking hill stations, serene temples for the spiritually inclined to beautiful beaches and backwaters, the southern region has much to offer, he said.The ministry is also providing branding and marketing assistance to the states and Union Territories in the southern region via its various schemes and flagship initiatives.Under the ‘Swadesh Darshan Scheme’, which focuses on integrated development of theme-based tourist circuits, the ministry has sanctioned 15 projects in the southern states worth ₹1,088 crore, he said.Under the PRASHAD (Pilgrimage Rejuvenation and Spirituality Augmentation Drive) scheme, the ministry has sanctioned six projects in the region that amounts to 15 per cent of the entire budget, the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/victory-of-new-india-health-workers-reddy-on-1bn-doses-101635448011700.html
29-10-2021||India||Karnataka school shut after 33 students test Covid positive||Authorities had to shut down a school near Madikeri town in Karnataka’s Kodagu district after at least 33 students at the institution tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. According to health officials, the outbreak was reported at Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya in Galibeedu village. School authorities told government health officials that the cases were confirmed after Class 10 students were tested for Covid-19. The state government had reopened in-person classes for classes 9 and 10 in all its districts after the daily Covid-19 case tally dipped in recent weeks. Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya was among the schools that reopened on September 20. “Within five days of reopening, two students reported fever. When they were tested, coronavirus [infection] was confirmed,” said a health department official. After that case, all Class 10 students were isolated and tested. Classes reopened after their tests turned negative. A little over a month after that episode, two more students showed symptoms of Covid-19 and later tested positive. Around 270 Class 10 students were then tested for the virus, and 33 of them tested positive on Wednesday. All 33 students are asymptomatic and have been isolated. While the positivity rate in the district stood at 0.19% on Tuesday, it rose to 1.21% on Wednesday following the detection of the new cluster of Covid-19 cases. Pankajashan, the principal of the school said that the condition of any student is of concern. “There is nothing to worry about. The entire campus has been sanitised and other precautionary measures are being taken. The interaction between students and teachers is going on though it has affected the smooth functioning of the school,” he said. The district collector, district health officer, and other officials visited the school and said that appropriate measures have been taken to ensure the safety of the students and prevent further infection. Karnataka on Thursday reported 365 new cases of Covid-19 and 8 deaths, taking the caseload to 29,84,849 and death toll to 37,984, the health department said. The day also saw 443 discharges, pushing the total number of recoveries to 29,37,848, leaving 8,988 active cases. Bengaluru Urban accounted for 210 new infections, as the city saw 220 discharges and 4 deaths. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.31 per cent, the case fatality rate (CFR) was at 2.19 per cent. After Bengaluru Urban, Dakshina Kannada and Hassan each logged the highest of 33 fresh cases, Mysuru 17 and Shivamogga 12. Bengaluru Urban district now has a total of 12,50,125 positive cases, followed by Mysuru 1,78,862 and Tumakuru 1,20,617.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-school-shut-after-33-students-test-covid-positive-101635448009021.html
29-10-2021||India||Row over absence of Kannada banners at Karnataka govt conference||The Karnataka government was left red-faced on Thursday after the tourism department failed to put up banners in Kannada during the conference of Tourism and Culture Ministers of the Southern Region here, forcing the state minister to make alternate arrangements.Soon after the error was flashed across local TV news channels, Anand Singh, Karnataka’s minister for tourism, environment and ecology Singh took officials to task after which the digital display behind the dias appeared in Kannada.The absence of Kannada was conspicuous during the inauguration of the two-day conference on tourism and culture on Thursday.Interestingly, the incident on Thursday coincided with an event by the Kannada and Culture department in which it mobilized large number of people across the state to sing pro-Kannada songs and speak only in the native tongue as part of the Karnataka Rajyotsava celebrations on November 1.The drive was also to encourage more people to speak in Kannada across a state where there has been stiff resistance to the imposition of Hindi.Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai, during the Kannada and Culture event, said that there was emphasis being given for the usage of native tongue not just in school but in graduate courses as well.“We had brought an ordinance making Kannada compulsory not only in primary or secondary education but also in degree level. The matter is presently before the high court. We will continue our struggle for it.” Bommai told the gathering that the government is making complete engineering course available in Kannada language..There were programmes held across the state with people from all sections of society taking the pledge and singing pro-Kannada songs.Recently, the absence of Kannada during the Namma Metro inauguration and the event at NIMHANS had seen the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ducking for cover as criticism grew from opposition and pro-Kannada groups over what they call “Hindi imposition” by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led union government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/row-over-absence-of-kannada-banners-at-karnataka-govt-conference-101635447948888.html
29-10-2021||India||Karnataka high court restrains police action against Dream 11 founders||The Karnataka high court on Thursday directed the state government not to take any coercive action against the founders of Dream 11 who were charged with operating the gaming platform despite a new legislation that bans online gambling apps.Bhavit Sheth and Harsh Jain were named in a complaint filed by a private individual in Bengaluru’s Annapoorneshwari Nagar police station on October 7 for continuing to operate their app despite the ban on online gambling.Justice Sreenivas Harish Kumar asked the Karnataka government not to take any coercive steps like arresting the duo till November 9 or the next date of hearing in the case.“Since the matter is sub judice, we are unable to comment,” a spokesperson from Dream 11 told Hindustan Times on Thursday. The directions come almost three weeks after a private complainant, Manjunath, filed a complaint with the Annapoorneshwari Nagar police station for violating the new law that was notified on October 5 by the state government.The Basavaraj Bommai-led government had tabled and passed the Bill despite opposition during the monsoon session of the legislature held between September 13 to 24.Home minister Araga Jnanendra has defended the Bill despite concerns being raised over the financial impact of the same on the state as well as the dent of Bengaluru’s image as the tech and startup capital of the country.The Karnataka Police (Amendment) Bill, 2021 which among other changes, has banned “any act or risking money, or otherwise on the unknown result of an event including on a game of skill,” which has added to apprehensions as it proposes to include skill in what was earlier only on a game of chance.Police in Bengaluru and other places continue to crackdown on such companies and service providers especially during the recently concluded Indian Premiere League (IPL).The police have booked 20 cases against 27 persons during the 2021 IPL season with most of them with the old laws that bans gambling.There has been at least one case filed for violation of the new legislation, people aware of the developments said.The online gaming industry, which gained significant traction during the Covid-19 pandemic-induced lockdown, is slated to grow from 360 million gamers to 510 million by 2022, according to a 2021 report by All India Gaming Federation (AIGF) and EY.The report adds that 85% of these are mobile gamers.It also estimates that online real money game players are expected to grow from 80 million in 2020 to 150 million by 2023.Estimates indicate that Karnataka, known for its prowess in technology, accounts for around 15% of the country’s market. According to the Internet and Mobile Association of India (IMAI) there are 92 gaming companies registered in Bengaluru which employ over 4,000 people and have, in the last three years alone, attracted ₹3000 crores in investments.Forums like AIGF and others have approached the court for securing a stay on the ban itself.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-high-court-restrains-police-action-against-dream-11-founders-101635447889575.html
29-10-2021||India||Influential politicians linked to bitcoin scam: Congress accuses BJP of cover-up||An Enforcement Directorate (ED) probe into an 11-month-old case in Bengaluru involving a cryptocurrency hacker is snowballing into a political controversy with the Opposition accusing the ruling BJP of a cover-up. Opposition leader Siddaramaiah told the media that two influential politicians were involved and there was an attempt to cover up their role in the case. “There is information about the involvement of influential politicians of Karnataka in drugs and bitcoin scam. It is concerning that the investigating officers are trying to close the case to help those politicians,” tweeted Siddaramaiah on Thursday.Talking to reporters on Thursday, he said: “If they had to refer it to ED, what were they doing till now. If it has to be referred to ED, it means there is something. If they have stayed quiet all these days and now saying that they have referred it to ED, it means that protection was given till now,” Siddaramaiah, the former chief minister and Congress leader of the opposition said. Responding to the allegation, Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said that it was the state government that referred the investigation to the ED. “All investigations have been done at the state level and then we referred it to ED and CBI. The investigations will continue and there is no scope for any interference in it by anyone,” Bommai said on Thursday. On charges made by Siddaramaiah, Bommai said, “If there are any specific allegations, let them tell us; and we will investigate”. Karnataka home minister Jnanendra, however, contradicted Bommai’s statement and said that that the case is being probed by the state Criminal Investigation Department (CID). “Investigation is underway. The CID is doing it. So, whatever statement I make may come in the way of the investigation. Our police have taken it seriously. They’re going to the root, and they’ll bring it out soon,” he said. “Whoever is involved, be it, politicians, from any of the three parties here or non-politicians, will be brought to book. The inquiry is going on well. CID officers are experts. They’re on top of this,” he said, adding that nobody will be saved or protected. “It’s a very serious case and investigation is on,” he added. The case involving influential politicians in Karnataka continues to get murkier with allegations of misappropriation of around 15,000 bitcoins, valued at roughly ₹2,600 crore, said one person aware of the developments, requesting anonymity. On November 18, 2020, the Central Crime Branch (CCB) sleuths had seized bitcoins worth ₹9 crore from a Bengaluru-based hacker Srikrishna alias Sriki. He was also accused of breaking into government portals and of sourcing drugs through the darknet while paying for it. He is also accused of hacking into some bitcoin exchanges and was also involved in money laundering by converting Indian currency to bitcoins. Officers in Karnataka Police, who didn’t want to be named said that the suspect despite having cases of serious financial crimes against him is out of bail. It is alleged that while the official records show that 33 bitcoins were recovered from him, in fact, that seizure was much bigger. “A tip-off from an international intelligence, which was tracking the hacker’s activity, had tipped off India’s central agencies. From the information available to us, a probe is being conducted into whether there was a coverup and bribe paid in the form of cryptocurrency,” said the officer. The allegations come at a time even though there is at least three serious growing discontentment over portfolio distribution, lack of funds being released for development works and rumblings over the projection of the incumbent as the next chief ministerial candidate within the BJP ranks against Basavaraj Bommai, who was chosen by overlooking several seniors within the party. There have been talks of a change in leadership and the allegations may fuel it, said another person aware of the developments. The BJP had forced BS Yediyurappa to step down from the top post over allegations of corruption by him and his family members and hoped to make a smooth transition of power in order to suffer the least number of damages before the 2023 assembly elections. The Congress has spared no opportunity to corner the BJP on charges of corruption that could further dent the saffron outfits’ chances in Karnataka which it is its strongest base in southern India and its gateway to the other regions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/influential-politicians-linked-to-bitcoin-scam-congress-accuses-bjp-of-coverup-101635447888269.html
29-10-2021||India||Karnataka HC grants bail to Bineesh Kodiyeri in money Laundering case||The Karnataka high court on Thursday granted bail to Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of senior CPI(M) leader Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, who was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) under money laundering charges linked to a drug haul in Bengaluru last year. The single judge bench of Justice M G Uma granted bail to Kodiyeri under several conditions overruling objections of additional solicitor general Aman Lekhi who appeared for the ED. The counsel for the accused Guru Krishnakumar contended that the Narcotics Control Bureau after its detailed investigation failed to find any involvement of Kodiyeri in drug trade and his transaction with some of the accused were through banks. He also said his client was not aware of the alleged drug dealings of his business partner Mohammad Anoop. The ED’s counsel, however, said he amassed huge wealth and funding for this came through his business partner who was involved in a drug cartel in Bengaluru. But the court overruled his contentions. “The bail is allowed subject to conditions,” the judge said while granting him bail. His father, CPI(M) state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, had to quit last year after the case surfaced and it invited enough embarrassment to the party and government. A small-time actor and cricket player, Bineesh Kodiyeri has often been surrounded by controversy; but he managed to get away due to his high connections. He was also close to many actors and businessmen. The drug case surfaced on Aug 2020 after the arrest of Anoop Mohammad and two others in Bengaluru and Mohammad later took the name of Bineesh Kodiyeri and said he was his business partner. Later the ED took over the case and Kodiyeri was arrested and charged under Section 19 (1) of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. The ED said he pumped in unaccounted money into the bank account of alleged drug peddler Anoop Mohammad and took heavy returns from it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-hc-grants-bail-to-bineesh-kodiyeri-in-money-laundering-case-101635447710230.html
29-10-2021||India||Report highlights worrying rise in hate crimes in north Karnataka||With more than 100 communal incidents reported every year in the coastal Karnataka region, religious politics has always been a main issue in the elections. However, over the past decade, northern districts of the state, too, have started to report such cases, said police report. The recent murder of a 24-year-old Muslim man Arbaz Mullah, allegedly orchestrated by a Hindutva group, on September 28, and murder of a Hindu man who was in a relationship with a Muslim woman in Vijayapura district on October 24, have put the spotlight on north Karnataka’s growing communal problem. However, a local activist claimed that while the murder brought attention to the problem, communal tensions in the region have been brewing for years now, but went unnoticed. On April 22, a pastor, Sanjay Bhandari, had come to Belagavi to visit his sister-in-law after they arrived in the city for a medical check-up for his wife. While they were having tea at home, a mob of 50-60 men came there while some of them barged into the house. They accused him of indulging religious conversion and ignored the pleas of his wife’s family, paraded him around the city. They beat him and asked him to chant ‘Jai Sri Ram’, as per police compliant. These incidents that often go under the media’s radar have been reported in the region for a while, claim activists. A city-based lawyer said that the number of communal incidents in Belagavi district in north Karnataka has been on the rise for years now. “A decade earlier, the conflict in the district was over language. The Marathi and Kannada-speaking population in the district were at loggerhead over whether Belagavi should go to Maharashtra or not. Over these, the groups that were active on his issue moved to Hindutva politics. Now compared to coastal Karnataka these groups are well organized. But the biggest concern is the fact that their activities will be as well coordinated as the coastal region,” he said.“The coastal region is infamous for the moral policing and communal incident, but the biggest concern for us the syndicates like that emerging from north Karnataka. The region now has an illegal arms market. As of now, several right-wing group members are on watch after the discovery of this syndicate,” said a senior police officer, who didn’t want to be named. A fact-finding report on the murder of Arbaz by a citizen’s team that visited Belagavi too reported that the radicalization of society along religious lines has been a key factor in the rise of the BJP in the district. “The handiwork of the RSS over the last two decades, outfits like the Bajrang Dal, Sanatan Sanstha, Sri Ram Sene, and Sri Ram Sene (Hindustan) now compete with each other in showcasing their allegiance to the tenets of Hindutva,” read the report. R Mohanraj, an activist based in Belagavi, said that the biggest concern in recent years has been complacency from the government. “We did have communal tensions in this region in the past but there was a fear of the law. The police during those times cracked down on such elements as well. But in the past years, there is certain impunity these groups are enjoying since police are not actively stopping these groups,” he said. Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on October 13 had even stoked a controversy with his statements that appeared to justify incidents of moral policing and communal disharmony in the state. “There are several sentiments in the society. Those emotions should not be affected and such should be the behaviour. When such emotions are hurt there is likely to be an action and reaction,” Bommai told reporters. Another activist said that the chief minister’s statement was an open admission of what has been happening behind the scene for several years. “There are clear instructions from the government not to act against Hindutva group. Unless there is an internal squabble within these organizations or if cases get media attention, you wouldn’t hear about police taking action,” said the activist. According to the Special Investigation Team (SIT) that probed the murder of journalist turned activist Gauri Lankesh had said as many as 22 Karnataka youths got training in the use of firearms so they could carry out assassinations of intellectuals. Parashuram Waghmore, who pulled the trigger on Lankesh was one among them. The SIT investigation on the conspiracy found that the syndicate that murdered Lankesh was recruiting young men from various right-wing organizations, who had a tussle with the law in the past. Waghmore was recruited from Sri Rama Sene. The investigation also unearthed a link between the murders of four rationalists – MM Kalburgi, Govind Pansare, Narendra Dhabolkar, and Lankesh. During the initial days of the investigation, the SIT found a connection between the murders of Lankesh and professor Kalburgi, who was killed on August 30, 2015. The four bullet slugs and cartridges recovered from Lankesh’s house matched with the slugs and cartridges of the Kalburgi murder case. The forensic labs found that both bullets were fired from the same gun. The Maharashtra SIT, which is probing the murder of another rationalist, Govind Pansare, also found that the same was used in Lankesh and Pansare murders. The link between the murders of Lankesh and Narendra Dhabolkar, another Maharashtra-based rationalist, murdered on August 20, 2013, emerged during the later stages of the investigation. It was found that 50-year-old Rajesh Bangera, a second division assistant in the Education Department, who was the 10th person arrested by Karnataka SIT, provided weapons training to the killers of Dhabolkar and Lankesh in Belagavi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/report-highlights-worrying-rise-in-hate-crimes-in-north-karnataka-101635447708597.html
29-10-2021||India||Ex-CAG tenders apology to Sanjay Nirupam for ‘factually incorrect’ accusations||Former Comptroller and Auditor General of India Vinod Rai tendered an unconditional apology to Congress leader Sanjay Nirupam on Thursday in response to a defamation case filed by the latter on Rai’s claim that he was pressured by Nirupam and other lawmakers to keep former PM Manmohan Singh’s name out of the government auditor’s report on 2G spectrum auctions.“...The statements made by me against Shri Sanjay Nirupam, as televised and published ... are factually incorrect. …I understand the pain and agony my statements have caused to Shri Sanjay Nirupam , his family and his well-wishers and thus, would like to offer my unconditional apology for the hurt caused by my such statements to Shri Sanjay Nirupam, his family, friends and his well-wishers,” Rai’s statement (in the form of an affidavit) read.Rai did not respond to HT’s messages seeking comment.Former MP Sanjay Nirupam on Thursday tweeted, “Finally former CAG Vinod Rai tendered an unconditional apology to me in a defamation case filed by me in MM Court, Patiala house, New Delhi today. He must apologize to the nation now for all his forged reports about 2G and Coal block allocations done by the UPA Govt.”Rai’s report on the notional losses incurred by the exchequer in the 2G spectrum and coal block auctions -- ₹1.76 lakh crore and ₹1.86 lakh crore respectively -- caused a stir when they were released in 2011 and 2012 respectively. In 2014, the Congress-led UPA was voted out of power for corruption and misgovernance. In 2014, Vinod Rai said in multiple interviews that Nirupam was one of the MPs who pressured him to keep then PM Manmohan Singh’s name out of the CAG report on 2-G Spectrum allocation.In his affidavit he said his charges against Nirupam were factually incorrect.“I have realised that, in answer to questions posed to me by the interviewers, I had inadvertently and wrongly mentioned the name of Shri Sanjay Nirupam as one of the MPs, who pressurised me to keep the then Prime Minister Dr. Manmohan Singh’s name out of the CAG report on 2-G Spectrum allocation during the meetings in the PAC or the sidelines of the JPC etc.”A jubilant Nirupam also put out a video where he said, “Today is a great day as former CAG Vinod Rai has provided an unconditional apology to me for his false claim that I pressured him to keep PM Singh’s name out of the 2G spectrum report.” He further remarked that Rai’s reports on the 2G spectrum and coal block allocation were “nonesense”, saying that “after several hearings spanning across seven years on the 2G report, the court also noted that there was no evidence of a scam.” “The entire report was fabricated, and Vinod Rai must also tender an apology to the entire nation for these false reports,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/excag-vinod-rai-tenders-apology-to-sanjay-nirupam-for-factually-incorrect-accusations-101635446927555.html
29-10-2021||India||Live-in relationships part and parcel of life: Allahabad high court||The Allahabad high court has said that live-in relationships have become part and parcel of life and need to be viewed through the lens of personal autonomy rather than the notions of social morality.A bench of justices Pritinker Diwaker and Ashutosh Srivastava made the observation while disposing of petitions filed by two interfaith live-in couples. The two couples filed separate petitions, alleging that the families of the women were interfering in their day-to-day life.One petition was filed by Shayara Khatun and her partner of Kushi Nagar (both major and in live-in-relationship for the past more than two years) and another by Zeenat Parveen and her partner of Meerut (both major and in a live-in relationship for the past year). The partners in both the cases were unnamed in the lawsuit.It was stated that they approached the concerned police authorities, but did not get any help and consequently, their life and liberty were undermined. The court at the outset underscored that the right to life enshrined under Article 21 of the Constitution was liable to be protected at all costs and further went on to observe: “Live-in relationships have become part and parcel of life and stand approved by the Hon’ble apex court. Live-in relationship is required to be viewed through the lens of personal autonomy arising out of the right to live guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India, rather than notions of social morality.” The court said that police authorities were obligated to protect the rights of the petitioners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/livein-relationships-part-of-life-hc-101635446627459.html
29-10-2021||India||HT Tourism Conclave: Covid led to digital surge among travellers, says Thomas Cook MD||The Covid-19 pandemic has accelerated the rollout of technologies in the travel sector, thereby easing ways in which people access hospitality services, Madhavan Menon, managing director, Thomas Cook (India) Limited, said on Thursday. Swifter adoption of technology and shift in priorities of domestic travellers were some of the changes that the pandemic brought to the fore, he added. Speaking at the Hindustan Times Tourism Conclave here, Menon said, “Application of technology was an expensive proposition years ago. Until a few years ago, we decided the options that we gave to customers. Today, in the outbound business, the customer seeks details on the manner in which they want to interact with us in a medium comfortable to them. Our ways of working have changed and now, the customer gets to decide how they want to interact with us. They can make transactions remotely through video if they don’t want to visit our stores.” Another change that the sector witnessed was a rise in road travel on the domestic front and increased focus on hygiene and comfort, Menon said. “We have witnessed a new aspect of people driving to destinations. Earlier, people drove to a destination four-five hours away but now, they are covering a much longer distance. Hygiene has become a very important element too,” he said.The Thomas Cook (India) Limited MD said that revival of both inbound and outbound tourism was expected in the coming months as borders open up. “This season will look very different when it comes to inbound tourism. From November 15, the government will issue visas for foreigners. We need to open our borders and bilateral flights are not good enough. The inbound business in its true form will only come back in 2022. By 2023, there will be a full-blown impact,” he said.Menon also said that Indians would eagerly opt for outbound travel but were only kept away by the limited number of destinations and the requirements of RT-PCR tests and the fear of getting infected. “The outbound travel also looks positive,” he said. He added that while high flight rates were a deterrent, they were expected to stabilise soon. “There are not enough routes for airlines to fly. Airlines are waiting for borders to open. Airfares will start settling down from November 1 as the US opens. The fares should settle down soon,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-tourism-conclave-covid-led-to-digital-surge-among-travellers-says-thomas-cook-md-101635446568434.html
29-10-2021||India||Incredible India 3.0 need of the hour to revive industry: Expert||Promotion of brand India, a re-energized and well-marketed Incredible India campaign, focus on experiential travel and increased budgetary allocation for tourism are some of the key factors necessary for revival of tourism in the post-pandemic world, say industry experts.Dipak Deva, co-chairman, FICCI Travel, Tourism and Hospitality Committee, on Thursday said there were ample opportunities to revive the travel industry but it is necessary to begin work now.“Every country is standing on the same starting line today. All of them want to open up after the pandemic and are waiting for customers. There is a huge opportunity for incredible India. The government needs to grab the opportunity and bring tourists back in a sustainable manner. It needs to bring a fantastic Incredible India 3.0 campaign that instills trust in India,” Deva, who is also the chairman of FICCI Inbound Tourism Committee and Managing Director, SITA, TCI and Distant Frontier, said.Speaking at the Hindustan Times Tourism Conclave here, Deva said the revival of tourism in a post-pandemic world would require good promotion and marketing to send out a message that the country is safe for travel and tourism.“We should go back to four or five key markets such as the UK, France, Germany, Russia and Japan. Through a digital campaign that is popular on social media, we need to drive home the message that India is open for tourism. The most important thing is to have smart marketing companies aboard who can carry the message that India is safe and secure across geographies,” Deva said.The recovery of inbound tourists into India is expected from January next year, he said. “Once recovery starts, we can expect a steady growth by 2023-24. The aim is to bring growth back to 2019 levels, the best year ever for tourism, by 2024,” he added.Deva said that while the government has taken steps such as reduction of GST and visa fee and issued 500,000 free tourist visas, it was crucial to grant export status to tourism and increase budget allocation for it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/httourism-conclave-incredible-india-3-0-need-of-the-hour-for-tourism-revival-says-expert-101635446388450.html
29-10-2021||India||‘Traditional itinerary must change to meet new demands’, says IRCTC official||There is a need to move out of the traditional itinerary and adopt new ways of travel amid a change in pattern in the tourism sector, Indian Rail Catering Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) official Rajni Hasjia said on Thursday, citing Covid-19 pandemic.Speaking at the Hindustan Times Tourism Conclave in Delhi, Hasjia, who is the tourism and marketing director of IRCTC, said the travel sector is set to undergo a transition from multi-destination tours to offbeat and slow-paced destinations.“The hospitality and the tourism industry are still finding it difficult to come to terms after being hit badly during the pandemic. IRCTC has a pan-India presence and has products ranging from ₹800 to 800 dollars a day. Mass tourism is gradually coming back to normal. However, we cannot forget that there is a certain transition from the multi-destination and fast pace tours to the offbeat destinations and the slow-paced tours. We need to explore and move out of the traditional itinerary and come to the adventure itineraries. The time has come to think of adopting new ways and methods on dealing with tourism,” she said.The official said that IRCTC has already introduced river cruise tourism, biking and caravan tours to meet the changing needs of travellers and will soon introduce wellness tours in the country.Amid a spurt in domestic tourism, IRCTC has been working on the deluxe luxury segment and has also received a good response from consumers, Hasjia said.“IRCTC is blessed with the strength of railways that we carry along. We are an extended arm of Indian Railways. We were anticipating that due to visa restrictions, luxury tourism is not going to happen... We have done a lot of work for domestic tourism as well and launched several products in the deluxe segment, for example Char Dham, Padharo Rajasthan and the Ramayana Express. To our surprise, we got a very good response and were able to sell the full inventory,” she said.The railways-owned body is hoping to get back its foreign tourism with India gradually opening its economy. People are waiting for India to open and we are likely to have a good number of bookings from the UK and USA market, she said.Speaking on the public private partnership (PPP) with the hospitality and travel agents sector, Hasjia said IRCTC believes that showcasing the infrastructure of the states through virtual mode would help promote digital marketing.“When infrastructure comes up, tourism activity gets facilitated. When services are improved, there is a direct impact on tourism. At this time, focus is directed on tourism and the ministry of tourism is going its way,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/httourism-conclave-traditional-itinerary-must-change-to-meet-new-demands-says-irctc-official-101635446268532.html
29-10-2021||India||‘Tourism on road to recovery in Maharashtra’, says Aaditya Thackeray||Maharashtra tourism and environment minister Aaditya Thackeray on Thursday expressed confidence that the tourism industry in the state, which was deeply impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic, will register a V-shaped recovery in coming months amid a steady drop in infections.The minister, who was speaking at the 3rd edition of the Hindustan Times Tourism Conclave in New Delhi, said the tourism industry would act as a sponge to absorb the highest number of jobs and generate revenue for states in the post-Covid world.“I am really optimistic about the tourism sector. In those areas where Covid cases are low, we saw this concept of ‘revenge tourism’ because people want to step out and travel to places they have not gone to. It may be isolated villas, or staycation or boating. I am highly optimistic and see a V-shaped recovery for this sector in the coming few months,” he said. “In the post-Covid world, this sector will be our sponge industry which will absorb the highest number of employment growth, highest revenue for the state, and it will have a ripple effect on the country’s economy,” he added.The state tourism minister also said there has been a change in the pattern of tourists since the onset of Covid-19. People have turned to forests, farms, open areas and isolated properties instead of the usual tourist spots, he said.“The two-three day vacations have changed to three-four day vacations within the city. People book hotels and stay there. Another trend that we have seen in Karjat, Mahabaleshwar, Matheran and even in Konkan is that people are visiting these areas for five to six weeks and during their stay here, they are working from home. The forest sector is picking up and people want to go into the wild and explore. Caravan tourism has picked up,” he said.“Agritourism is doing really well in Maharashtra as we have seen in Tuscany. Wineries in Nashik, strawberry farms in Mahabaleshwar, mango farms in Konkan, just staying on a farm is an experience because they are safe and being in nature, as opposed to being in a crowd in a hotel. The Agritourism concept is catching on like wildfire. Wherever we have space and where farmers can expand their homes, agritourism is developing,” he added.The minister described the last one-and-a-half-years of Covid-19 pandemic as a time for reflection and reformation for his department, which came up with several policies and also eased processes of granting clearances.Thackeray acknowledged that the Maharashtra government has been slow in relaxing Covid-19 restrictions but said it will continue to go forward cautiously.“We are one of the few sub-national governments that have been painfully slow and staggered, and we will continue to be so. For us, healthcare is a priority. We do not want people to visit hospitals but we want them to safely visit tourist spots. We have been hard on the double-vaccination protocol, masking and the overall reopening. We will cautiously follow this,” he said.The minister also spoke about the environment and climate crisis mitigation, and adaptation measures, saying a combined effort by states will help India lead the way.Making a pitch for sustainable development, Thackeray said: “Sustainable development is needed today. The development where we cut trees for roads, highways or trains is having an impact on climate. We need development that will lead to climate crisis mitigation or adaptation. Only Maharashtra or Delhi or Tamil Nadu doing something will leave us in isolation. We need to meet and ideate to adopt what has worked elsewhere. This will have a huge impact and India can lead the world.”Recently, Thackeray had written to environment ministers of other states on the “climate emergency” that the world is facing. “Just like Covid has hit us without any barriers, the climate crisis too will hit all the countries without barriers. The greatest inequality of the climate crisis is that it hits the worst to the ones who are least responsible for it. Landslides, rising sea levels, drought, famines, unseasonal rainfall… we need to think about these issues when we think about India,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tourism-on-road-to-recovery-in-maharashtra-says-aaditya-thackeray-101635445939503.html
29-10-2021||India||HT Tourism Conclave: Tourism on road to recovery in Maharashtra, says Aaditya Thackeray||Maharashtra tourism and environment minister Aaditya Thackeray on Thursday expressed confidence that the tourism industry in the state, which was deeply impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic, will register a V-shaped recovery in coming months amid a steady drop in infections. The minister, who was speaking at the 3rd edition of the Hindustan Times Tourism Conclave in New Delhi, said the tourism industry would act as a sponge to absorb the highest number of jobs and generate revenue for states in the post-Covid world. “I am really optimistic about the tourism sector. In those areas where Covid cases are low, we saw this concept of ‘revenge tourism’ because people want to step out and travel to places they have not gone to. It may be isolated villas, or staycation or boating. I am highly optimistic and see a V-shaped recovery for this sector in the coming few months,” he said.“In the post-Covid world, this sector will be our sponge industry which will absorb the highest number of employment growth, highest revenue for the state, and it will have a ripple effect on the country’s economy,” he added.The state tourism minister also said there has been a change in the pattern of tourists since the onset of Covid-19. People have turned to forests, farms, open areas and isolated properties instead of the usual tourist spots, he said.“The two-three day vacations have changed to three-four day vacations within the city. People book hotels and stay there. Another trend that we have seen in Karjat, Mahabaleshwar, Matheran and even in Konkan is that people are visiting these areas for five to six weeks and during their stay here, they are working from home. The forest sector is picking up and people want to go into the wild and explore. Caravan tourism has picked up,” he said.“Agritourism is doing really well in Maharashtra as we have seen in Tuscany. Wineries in Nashik, strawberry farms in Mahabaleshwar, mango farms in Konkan, just staying on a farm is an experience because they are safe and being in nature, as opposed to being in a crowd in a hotel. The Agritourism concept is catching on like wildfire. Wherever we have space and where farmers can expand their homes, agritourism is developing,” he added. The minister described the last one-and-a-half-years of Covid-19 pandemic as a time for reflection and reformation for his department, which came up with several policies and also eased processes of granting clearances. Thackeray acknowledged that the Maharashtra government has been slow in relaxing Covid-19 restrictions but said it will continue to go forward cautiously.“We are one of the few sub-national governments that have been painfully slow and staggered, and we will continue to be so. For us, healthcare is a priority. We do not want people to visit hospitals but we want them to safely visit tourist spots. We have been hard on the double-vaccination protocol, masking and the overall reopening. We will cautiously follow this,” he said. The minister also spoke about the environment and climate crisis mitigation, and adaptation measures, saying a combined effort by states will help India lead the way. Making a pitch for sustainable development, Thackeray said: “Sustainable development is needed today. The development where we cut trees for roads, highways or trains is having an impact on climate. We need development that will lead to climate crisis mitigation or adaptation. Only Maharashtra or Delhi or Tamil Nadu doing something will leave us in isolation. We need to meet and ideate to adopt what has worked elsewhere. This will have a huge impact and India can lead the world.” Recently, Thackeray had written to environment ministers of other states on the “climate emergency” that the world is facing.“Just like Covid has hit us without any barriers, the climate crisis too will hit all the countries without barriers. The greatest inequality of the climate crisis is that it hits the worst to the ones who are least responsible for it. Landslides, rising sea levels, drought, famines, unseasonal rainfall… we need to think about these issues when we think about India,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-tourism-conclave-tourism-on-road-to-recovery-in-maharashtra-says-aaditya-thackeray-101635446028614.html
29-10-2021||India||Mere links with terrorist organisation not enough to attract UAPA: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Thursday observed that mere association with a terrorist organisation is not sufficient to attract action under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), as it granted bail to two Kerala students arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) for alleged Maoist links.“Mere association with a terrorist organisation is not sufficient to attract section 38 (punishment for being member of terrorist outfit) of UAPA and mere support given to a terrorist organisation is not sufficient to attract section 39 (offence related to support given to a terrorist outfit) of UAPA,” a bench of Justices Ajay Rastogi and Abhay S Oka said.“The association and the support have to be with the intention of furthering the activities of a terrorist organisation,” the bench added. “We clarify that the observations and findings recorded in this judgment are only for the limited purposes of considering the applications for bail… The Special Court will not be influenced by the observations in this case,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mere-association-with-terrorist-organisation-not-enough-to-attract-uapa-supreme-court-101635445789286.html
29-10-2021||India||Opposition to meet in November to discuss key issues ahead of winter session||Top leaders from more than 18 opposition parties will meet in the last week of November, a few days before the winter session of Parliament, to discuss farmers’ issues, developments in the Pegasus spyware controversy and floor strategy for the session, a senior leader told HT. The winter session is likely to start on November 29.Congress president Sonia Gandhi had earlier presided over the first such meeting on August 21 and appealed to India’s top opposition leaders to rise above individual compulsions “in the interest of the nation” and start planning “systematically” as the “ultimate goal is the 2024 Lok Sabha elections”.The next meeting assumes significance as the undercurrent of tension between the Congress and the Trinamool Congress has resurfaced after key Congress leaders switched over to the West Bengal’s ruling party in recent times. “There was an earlier proposal to hold a meeting in October, but some Congress leaders suggested more time should be given before the meeting,” said a senior Congress leader requesting anonymity.This group of 18 parties holds the promise of a united fight against the formidable Bharatiya Janata Party-led NDA in the 2024 polls. But the parties also face internal challenges of accommodating the political ambitions and interests of one another. While the United Progressive Alliance (2005-2014) and National Democratic Alliance (1998-2004; 2014-now) have been successful examples of coalition politics in the history of India, the failure of the United Front government (1996-98) and National Front (1989-90) are stark reminders of the collapse of such political dreams.Political analyst Nilanjan Sircar said in a tweet, “Despite the rhetoric, the main states in which TMC is pushing so far (Goa, Tripura, WB) are not particularly critical to Cong’s seat share. Until we see more, this is not obviously a threat to Opposition outcomes/unity in 2024.”The Congress, however, questioned Trinamool’s intention of fighting the Goa election. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala remarked that “election is not tourism”. “But they (TMC) should ask themselves what is the objective? Are they strengthening the cause of BJP or are they really in the contest for their own place in the polity of Goa?”Trinamool brushed aside the allegations and one of its senior leaders argued that both the Congress and the BJP have lost the support of the people.A senior leader said that while CPI(Marxist) general secretary Sitaram Yechury will be coordinating with some parties, Congress leaders will coordinate with TMC for the meeting. A section of the Congress, however, remains sceptical. “If things go like this, we can’t see how to work with TMC,” said a Congress strategist who didn’t want to be identified.In this situation, the next meeting, leaders suggest, might just focus on immediate issues such as Pegasus, farmers, and the Parliament session and not the larger 2024 election for now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-to-meet-in-november-to-discuss-farmers-issue-pegasus-floor-strategy-101635445548175.html
29-10-2021||India||11 killed after minibus falls into gorge in J&K’s Doda||At least 11 passengers were killed and 15 others injured after a minibus they were travelling in plunged into a 200-foot deep gorge in Jammu and Kashmir’s Doda on Thursday, police said. The minibus was on its way to Pul Doda from Thathri when the driver lost control of the bus at Sui Gwari around 10 am, 165 km from Jammu, and fell into the gorge along the river Chenab.“At least nine passengers died on the spot and two others succumbed to injuries at the Government Medical College in Doda. Seven people were critically injured and airlifted to Jammu,” additional superintendent of police, Abdul Qayoom, said. “The bus was not overloaded. It was being driven negligently and was trying to overtake another vehicle.”An Air Force MI-17 helicopter from Jammu, captained by Squadron Leader Ganeshprasad Honakuppe, assisted in evacuating passengers following a request from Jammu’s divisional commissioner.Expressing grief, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a compensation of ₹2 lakh each to kin of the deceased and ₹50,000 each for the injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/11-killed-after-minibus-falls-into-gorge-in-j-k-s-doda-101635445488860.html
29-10-2021||India||India expecting concrete outcomes at COP26: Harsh Shringla||India is expecting concrete outcomes at COP26 on developed countries providing more financing and technology for tackling climate change since the country is well on its way to meeting targets set under the Paris Accord, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said on Thursday.New Delhi is looking towards “very concrete outcomes” at the upcoming G20 Summit in Rome in combating the Covid-19 pandemic and similar challenges in future, Shringla told a news briefing ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s participation in the G20 Summit and COP26 in Glasgow.In a departure statement ahead of his visit to Italy and the UK, Modi said India is taking “ambitious action” on expanding clean and renewable energy and “creating new records in collective effort for climate adaptation, mitigation and resilience”.Modi said he would highlight the need to “comprehensively address climate change issues, including equitable distribution of carbon space, support for mitigation and adaptation and resilience building measures, mobilisation of finance, technology transfer and importance of sustainable lifestyles” at COP 26.He also said he would join other leaders of the world’s largest economies at the G20 Summit in Rome to discuss global economic and health recovery from the pandemic, sustainable development, and climate change. The summit will allow the leaders to exchange ideas on how G20 can be an engine for “strengthening economic resilience and building back inclusively” from the pandemic, he added.India has been pushing developed countries to share more finances and technology to cope with climate change. On the other hand, the developed countries want India to frame updated Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) or targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions.Shringla told a news briefing ahead of Modi’s departure for the G20 Summit and COP26 that India has been “one of the best performers” in G20 as far as meeting the commitments of COP26 is concerned.“We are well on our way to meeting our NDC commitments and even doing better than that,” he said. In addition to commitments under the Paris Accord, India has made unilateral announcements that set much higher benchmarks.With developed countries announcing this week that they will miss by three years their promise of $100 billion a year as funding to developing countries to manage the climate crisis, Shringla said India wants clearly defined commitments in this regard. The means of delivering “green financing and green technology” is key to enabling developing countries to meet their climate action commitments, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-expecting-concrete-outcomes-at-cop26-shringla-101635445191760.html
29-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan's ordeal opens legal debate||The 25-day ordeal of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan in a drug consumption case has thrown open a legal debate on whether the Supreme Court should lay down guidelines to distinguish betw-een small consumers or those found in the company of small consumers and the carriers, who are part of drug syndicates.Legal experts feel that traditionally, the stringent Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) was used to check traffickers, drug peddlers and people procuring and transporting a large quantity of narcotic drugs.Such investigations, therefore, warranted the trial courts to exercise their discretion in granting bail with utmost caution. But since the Act makes consumption or possession of even small quantity of drugs an offence, the line of distinction has faded.Senior advocate KV Vishwanathan said: “There is a need to categorise and distinguish small consumers of drugs from carriers who are part of international drug mafia. How can all categories of offenders under the broad rubric of NDPS be put in the same boat? There is a need for a graded mechanism for adjudicating bail applications in NDPS cases. The Supreme Court should step in and lay down guidelines so that this area of discretion exercised by courts below is guided by certain principles in matters of grant of bail.”He lamented that the principle of ‘bail and not jail’ is reversed to ‘jail and not bail’. “One must also see it from the perspective of whether keeping such persons in jail will reform them as they are victim themselves,” said Vishwanathan.Aryan Khan is not alone in suffering he rigours of the law and the procedure that it entails. Although the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) did not recover contraband from his possession, based on WhatsApp chats, he was sought to be linked to a drug syndicate and accused of consuming charas at a rave party onboard a Goa-bound cruise ship. Similar charges were pressed against Bollywood actor Rhea Chakraborty who was accused of procuring and financing drugs for her boyfriend and film actor Sushant Singh Rajput. A month after her arrest, she secured bail from the Bombay High Court on October 7, 2020.Kannada film actress Ragini Nayak had to suffer the same fate after the Karnataka police alleged she was part of a drug syndicate responsible for supplying and transporting drugs. She was arrested on September 4, 2020 and had to wage a protracted legal battle to secure bail from the Supreme Court on January 21 this year.Former Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Maninder Singh seconded the view for framing guidelines on bail under NDPS cases. “When it comes to liberty of citizens, the Supreme Court has stood up and exercised its extraordinary powers to cut discretion of police and law enforcement agencies to arrest a person.” “If the quantity of narcotic drug involved is of small quantity and is meant for personal consumption, the Union Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, while reviewing the NDPS Act, issued a circular last week to end punishment for offences under this category, treating them to be victims who require compulsory treatment and not jail,” he said.Senior advocate Rebecca John said that Aryan should have been given bail two weeks ago by the trial court. “From a young man who had no possession and you have some artificial story relating to international conspiracy…Basically, NCB was snubbed by the high court today as they were not even allowed to complete their arguments. You can see how muddied this investigation has become with all the drama.”Senior lawyer Vikas Pahwa said he is pained to see how a premier agency like NCB is focusing all its energies only on issues of consumption of small quantities by young individuals, instead of focusing on illicit traffickers of drugs in the country.“The arrest, police remands and subsequent judicial remands of Aryan Khan in my view were completely illegal and beyond the provisions of code of criminal procedure. No offences under NDPS Act were made out against Aryan, since nothing was recovered from his person and there was no evidence of consumption by him. The allegations of conspiracy and illicit trafficking of drugs made against him for opposing his bail, look completely misplaced and without any evidence,” said Pahwa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aryans-ordeal-opens-legal-debate-101635445188345.html
29-10-2021||India||Supreme Court returns Gujarat lawyer Yatin Oza’s gown, asks him to behave||The Supreme Court on Thursday returned the senior advocate’s gown to Gujarat lawyer Yatin Oza, on the condition that he must keep behaving well.A bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and RS Reddy restored the senior designation of Oza on a trial basis, making it clear that his “fate is dependent on his appropriate conduct as a senior counsel before his own High Court (Gujarat), which will have the final say”.The bench “temporarily” restored Oza’s designation as a senior counsel for a period of two years starting January 1, 2022, during which the Gujarat HC will keep a watch over his conduct and may even decide to take back the gown within two years if there is any misdemeanour on his part. “It is the high court which will watch and can best decide how the petitioner behaves and conducts himself as a senior counsel without any further opportunity,” held the bench, adding it is only providing Oza a window of two years to show that he truly means what he has assured the bench about never repeating his misdeeds.Oza was stripped off his designation as a senior counsel in July 2020 after the full court of the Gujarat HC voted in favour of withdrawing his robe.The judges in the high court took note of Oza’s misconduct in levelling allegations against the judges; calling the HC a “Gamblers Den”; circulating contentious messages on WhatsApp against the HC and finally calling a press conference on June 5, 2020 where he made accusations of impropriety against the institution of the HC itself.The HC initiated dual proceedings— one of contempt and the other of a notice as to why the privilege of the gown should not be withdrawn.The lawyer was held guilty on both counts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-returns-gujarat-lawyer-yatin-oza-s-gown-asks-him-to-behave-101635445131959.html
29-10-2021||India||No Sameer Wankhede arrest without notice: Maharashtra govt to Bombay high court||Sameer Wankhede, the Mumbai zonal chief of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), whose alleged motives and methods have come under scrutiny of his own agency and the Mumbai Police sought and received protection from arrest from the Bombay high court on Thursday.The Maharashtra government on Thursday assured the court that no coercive action would be taken against the 42-year-old Indian Revenue Service officer without issuing him three working days advance notice.Public prosecutor Aruna Pai, who represented the state, informed the division bench of justices Nitin Jamdar and Sarang Kotwal that the Mumbai police has received four complaints against Wankhede, including one from Prabhakar Sail, a panch (procedural investigation document) witness in the NCB’s cruise ship drug raid case in which actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan was arrested along with several others.Pai said the Mumbai police are conducted only a preliminary enquiry and assured the court that they will not take any coercive action against Wankhede without issuing him three working days advance notice.Wankhede on Thursday, filed a petition, seeking a direction that all/any FIR(s) registered or proposed to be registered by the state government against him in relation to allegations of corruption be investigated by the Central Bureau of Investigation or the National Investigating Agency in view of “the malice, mala fides and ulterior motives of the political party in power in the state”.Meanwhile, Kranti Redkar Wankhede, the wife Sameer Wankhede, wrote to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, seeking justice in the wake of the “attack on her family and her personal life”. Wankhede’s sister, Yasmeen, has filed a police complaint seeking registration of a first information report (FIR) against Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik for allegedly defaming her, a senior official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-wankhede-arrest-without-notice-maharashtra-govt-to-high-court-101635445130296.html
29-10-2021||India||‘India to push for climate finance at global summit’, says Bhupender Yadav||India will pursue ways to mitigate the climate crisis beyond its present nationally determined contribution (NDC), and will act constructively to combat the problem, Union environment minister Bhupender Yadav told Jayashree Nandi in an interview before leaving for the Glasgow climate change conference (COP 26). Yadav said India is considering several options ahead of COP 26 but it will argue for a “common level playing field” for developed and developing nations so that their climate ambitions can be comparable. Climate finance and technology access provided by developed countries will be instrumental in determining actions that India will take. Excerpts:Excerpts:What will India’s stance at COP 26 be?Under the leadership of PM Modi, India has almost achieved its present NDCs that it declared in 2015. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) in its sixth assessment report informed humanity that global warming will pose a danger to each and every one of us. So, we believe that individual effort by each country will resolve this global crisis. How India is pursuing its present NDCs should set an example for all countries. India has also initiated some new forums like the International Solar Alliance, Coalition of Disaster Resilient Infrastructure, Leadership Group for Industry Transition. Apart from dialogues with other countries, such forums also provide avenues to innovate and cooperate. At COP 26 too, India will push for a common level playing field for all countries by pushing for climate finance and technology transfer. India will act to solve the problem.What are key issues for India at COP 26?Like I said, for a common level playing field for both developed and developing countries, finance mobilisation and technology transfer is a must. Countries with historic responsibility for high carbon emissions should have a commensurate role in mitigation of the climate crisis. It’s the duty of developed nations.In this COP following the IPCC report, a transparency framework (review of mitigation actions taken by countries), climate finance, and mitigation will be very important. India will play a constructive role during negotiations on these issues.Will India’s goal of 450 GW of renewable energy by 2030 be announced as part of its NDC?We have nearly achieved our present NDCs and we have already made our goals more ambitious. We can do more than what is in our NDC. Whether the 450 GW goal is in our NDC or not India will do more than what it has promised.Have you rejected the idea of a net zero goal for India?No. We haven’t said anything like that. Options are open for us. We are a solution provider. We haven’t claimed anything like rejecting net zero goal. Our leadership will announce our climate goal at an appropriate time and appropriate forum.How will India argue for equity and common but differentiated responsibility in climate crisis mitigation?Climate crisis mitigation is a common goal for all countries but every country’s social, economic, and geographic circumstances are different. We are not on the same level playing field. I think our mitigation targets can be similar only when technological innovation and finance is made available to all. Vulnerable countries need to be supported on priority. Negotiations are not about competing; they are for everyone’s well-being and benefit. We need a consensus on saving the planet.What will India’s view on carbon markets be?Under the Kyoto protocol, we had market mechanisms. Some developed countries moved away from them. That mechanism needs to be considered. When we talk about carbon credits under Article 6 (of the Paris agreement), we should also consider historical wrongs and contribution to climate change. There should be a provision of green credits also which can contribute to climate finance. The new market mechanism shouldn’t be an approach where one part of the planet becomes a dump yard and another cleans up its emissions at the cost of the other side. That should not happen. There should be a balancing act and green contribution to climate finance which can support developing nations. Article 6 is a matter of negotiation. It’s important to us.Chinese President Xi Jinping may not be attending COP 26. In the recent past China has occupied a very large share of carbon space. How do you see their role?Carbon space will be a matter of negotiation. There should be consensus that whoever occupies carbon space has an impact on the world by contributing to global warming. The impacts will also be felt across their boundary wall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhupender-yadav-interview-india-to-push-for-climate-finance-technology-transfer-at-cop26-101635444408129.html
29-10-2021||India||Why Aryan’s case highlights aberrations||The first lesson taught in law college when dealing with the topic of personal liberty under Article 21, is that bail is a rule and jail an exception.While this principle was honoured for long, in the past three decades this declared judicial principle, though ceaselessly repeated and reiterated, has become an elusive goal, and we have witnessed a transition from a liberal attitude towards bail to judicial conservatism. Add to this the trend of imposing additional legislative restrictions that obligate an accused to first show that he is not guilty of the offence before bail can even be considered.The post-Emergency era till the early 1990s was liberty oriented. However, economic liberalisation led to an increased incursion of the reach of criminal law to almost every aspect of life accompanied by restrictive approach in matters of bail. Compounding the problem is the oppressive twin conditions of bail, ie, proving your innocence and that you will not commit any such offence, applied rampantly across statutes such as PMLA (money laundering), UAPA (terror cases), and Companies Act.The extinguishment of the presumption of innocence, the reversal of the burden of proving innocence on the accused and the consequent circumventing of the protections under the Indian Constitution (Article 14, 21, 22) has led to a divorce between the Constitution and these special statutes, especially in matters of bail.Even after the Supreme Court struck down the restrictive twin conditions stipulated in PMLA in Nikesh Tarachand Shah [2017], Parliament has brought them back through an amendment to PMLA. Although the twin conditions are presently under challenge before the Supreme Court, these conditions ensured that the presumption of innocence (part of our constitutionally protected rights) is rendered otiose. Such restrictive bail conditions have adversely impacted discretion in matters of bail and individuals are now left at the mercy of the investigating agencies.Till about three decades ago, the high court was the last court in matters of bail. That position has changed and the approach even at the high court level is based on the individual philosophy of individual judge. The consequence of all these factors is that with a restrictive exercise of discretion at the magisterial court, sessions court and often at the high court level, the Supreme Court is overwhelmed with challenges to orders cancelling bail as also seeking bail under Article 136 of the Constitution of India.Repeated challenges to the grant of bail by high courts and trial courts have resulted into an adverse impact in the exercise of discretion.Aggravating the problem is incessant 24x7 electronic media debate and social media discourse. Such media trials often question exercise of discretion in matters of bail amid an incessant attack dehors appreciation of facts or of the law.Power of arrest vests both with state police agencies and the central agencies, some of which have co-ordinate investigative powers in the states.Though the Narcotics Control Bureau has to look at fundamental issues such as eradicating illicit drug crops, implementing domestic and international trade control and assisting states in their drug law enforcement efforts, yet it is witnessed that of late it has chosen to exercise its investigating power in the states, despite the fact that the state police is fully empowered to investigate cases under the NDPS Act.The difficulty that arises is when police seek to justify their existence by using their authority to target cases of individual allegations and then hype them up to justify such arrests and detention.In 2020, there have been cases in Karnataka and Chhattisgarh where a similar pattern was followed with arbitrary arrests even of those who had no narcotics in their possession and such persons have languished in jail for as long as six months or more, till bail was finally granted by the Supreme Court.Under the NDPS Act where there is no recovery of drugs, the reverse burden of proving one’s innocence is not attracted and nor can the presumption of guilt in NDPS be drawn. Yet, bail is refused at the first instance as agencies vehemently oppose bail irrespective of lack of evidence. Whether such cases will ever reach trial is ignored. Aryan Khan’s case has highlighted these aberrations in the criminal justice system.Meanwhile, there are countless many who continue to languish in custody without trial and conviction, waiting for their bail pleas to be heard while investigations and trials are delayed inordinately.(Sidharth Luthra is a senior advocate and former additional solicitor general of India. Ketaki Goswami is a well-known lawyer)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-aryan-s-case-highlights-aberrations-101635444288123.html
29-10-2021||India||ASEAN meet: PM Modi stresses need for open Indo-Pacific region||India and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Asean) on Thursday agreed to build on convergences in their vision of the Indo-Pacific to work for a free, open, inclusive, and rules-based region against the backdrop of China’s assertiveness.Leaders of the two sides welcomed the adoption of the “Asean-India joint statement on cooperation on the Asean outlook on the Indo-Pacific for peace, stability and prosperity in the region” at their virtual summit. Prime Minister Narendra Modi stressed the importance of strengthening convergences between India’s Indo-Pacific Oceans Initiative (IPOI) and Asean’s outlook on Indo-Pacific to ensure freedom of navigation and overflight in line with international laws.Modi also called for an early review of the Asean-India Trade in Goods Agreement, which has been pending for long, and this was backed by the 10-member grouping. Brunei’s Sultan Hassanal Bolkiah, the current chair of Asean, said the review should make the pact more business-friendly to support economic recovery efforts.“This special role of Asean, India’s Act East policy which is contained in our Security and Growth for All in the Region, ie SAGAR policy, India’s Indo-Pacific Oceans Initiative and Asean’s outlook for the Indo-Pacific are the framework for our shared vision and mutual cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region,” Modi said in his opening remarks at the summit.Riva Ganguly Das, secretary (East) in the external affairs ministry, said the joint statement on the Indo-Pacific was “one of the very major highlights of this summit”. The statement “charts a way forward for practical implementation of the convergences in our vision of the Indo-Pacific” to ensure peace, prosperity, and stability in the region, she said.Modi also asked Asean leaders to join any of the seven pillars of IPOI. Indonesia is currently a member of the marine resources pillar.The joint statement seeks to build on maritime connectivity between India and Asean states and work done by the two sides since they became summit-level partners in 2002 and strategic partners in 2012. It embraces Asean centrality, openness, transparency, a rules-based framework, respect for sovereignty, non-intervention, and respect for international laws, including the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS).According to the joint statement, the two sides will support Asean community building and strengthen the bilateral strategic partnership in politics, security, economic matters, and development cooperation by using existing Asean-led mechanisms such as the East Asia Summit, and Asean Regional Forum.The two sides will reinforce the Asean-centred regional architecture to deal with challenges and to focus on opportunities “arising from current and future regional and global environments with a focus on the open, inclusive and rules-based regional architecture”. They will explore potential cooperation between in the four areas outlined in the Asean Outlook on the Indo-Pacific — maritime cooperation, connectivity, sustainable development goals (SDGs) and economic cooperation.In addition, the two sides will also explore possible cooperation in areas such as capacity building, scholarships and training courses, enhancing trade facilitation, social infrastructure development, enhanced capacities for response to pandemics and public health emergencies and for vaccine and pharmaceutical research, prevention and management of zoonoses, and maritime transport cooperation.While exchanging views on the Covid-19 crisis, Modi assured Asean of India’s support as exemplified by the provision of medical supplies worth $200,000 for a humanitarian initiative for Myanmar and $1 million for the Asean Covid-19 Response Fund.Hassanal Bolkiah said Asean and India should work on sustainable economic recovery by exploring new opportunities under the “Blue Economy”, including developing key industries that can generate jobs and enhance connectivity, such as fisheries and maritime transport.The two sides also highlighted the importance of greater physical and digital connectivity, and cooperation on digital inclusion to ensure a comprehensive post-pandemic recovery. In the realm of connectivity, secretary (East) Ganguly Das described the eastward expansion of the India-Myanmar-Thailand highway as an important proposal. A report on this is ready and India is waiting for the Asean response on how to proceed, she said.The situation in Myanmar following the military coup in February also figured in the India-Asean Summit and Ganguly Das said the Indian side remains engaged on providing humanitarian aid, including vaccines and medicines, to the neighbouring country.“As a close neighbour of Myanmar, India will continue to support restoration of peace and democratic process in Myanmar for it to emerge as a stable, democratic federal union,” she said.The two sides also declared 2022 as the India-Asean Friendship Year to mark 30 years of the partnership and decided to hold a series of events round the year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/asean-meet-modi-stresses-need-for-open-indo-pacific-region-101635443989577.html
29-10-2021||India||Deliberate weaponisation of pathogens big concern: NSA Ajit Doval||National Security Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval on Thursday called for the need to build comprehensive national capabilities and bio-defence, bio-safety, and bio-security, saying that “deliberate weaponisation of dangerous pathogens” was a matter of serious concern.Doval was speaking on ‘National security preparedness in the age of disasters and pandemics’, at the Pune Dialogue on National Security (PDNS) 2021 organised by Pune International Centre. “The deliberate weaponisation of dangerous pathogens is a serious concern. This has heightened the need to build comprehensive national capabilities and bio-defence, bio-safety, and bio-security,” he said.He said the Covid-19 pandemic has reinforced the need to predict threats and while biological research has legitimate scientific purposes, its dual-use application can be misused.Doval said new areas of warfare have shifted from territorial frontiers to civil societies, adding that factors like people’s health, sense of wellbeing and security, and their perception of government impact the will of a nation.Pointing at the changes taking place in global security landscape, he said, “Wars are increasingly becoming cost-ineffective instruments of achieving the nation’s political and military objectives. The new areas of warfare have shifted from merely territorial frontiers to the civil societies. The common people’s thinking, health, sense of well-being and their perception of their government have assumed new importance.”All these elements, Doval said, impact the will of the nation.Protecting people from false and motivated propaganda also becomes “absolutely necessary” in the age of information revolution, the NSA said. National security planning needs to factor in all these challenges and strategies to maximum international cooperation, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deliberate-weaponisation-of-pathogens-big-concern-need-to-develop-bio-defence-nsa-ajit-doval-101635443929268.html
29-10-2021||India||6th Delhi sero survey shows 97% prevalence of antibodies||For every 100 people in Delhi, 97 have some level of antibodies that react with Sars-CoV-2 because they have had an infection or a vaccine dose, the latest serological survey suggests, according to preliminary results released by the government on Thursday.Experts said the findings are consistent with two significant factors: Delhi had a devastating wave of infections in April-May that appeared to leave very few people uninfected, and the city’s cases have not risen even though almost all activities have opened up and the public appears not to be adhering to Covid-safe behaviour such as wearing masks and maintaining distance.“The report of the sixth sero-survey has come in and the overall positivity was found to be 97%. In all the 11 districts, the positivity was over 90%. This shows that a huge proportion of the people in Delhi have had the infection and many others have been vaccinated. This report is very positive,” said Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain.
29-10-2021||India||Cricket and patriotism: What links them in India||Pakistan’s victory over India in the ongoing T20 cricket World Cup match on October 24 has kicked up a political storm in India. First there was uproar over online trolling which targeted India’s pace bowler Mohammad Shami along religious lines. Many Opposition leaders came out in Shami’s support, and several cricketers and the Board of Control for Cricket in India also spoke up for him. Meanwhile, reports of Muslims celebrating Pakistan’s victory started doing the rounds. Those who did so will be booked under sedition charges, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said in a tweet on October 28.Politics around India-Pakistan matches is not new in India. But what drives such politics? Is it just social media noise, or does it have widespread resonance in the country ? Do most Indians see supporting India’s cricket team as the litmus test of patriotism? Is there a difference in how Hindus and Muslims think about this question? What about political rhetoric which tries to portray Indian Muslims as pro-Pakistan? Is jingoism around cricket the most dangerous communal threat in India?A survey conducted by the Pew Research Centre, a Washington based “nonpartisan fact tank” provides some answers. The survey, Religion in India: Tolerance and Segregation, is based on 30,000 interviews conducted between November 2019 and March 2020.1. Supporting the Indian cricket team is not the biggest test of being Indian, but the idea has large tractionOne of the questions the survey asked was what one has to do in order to be considered “truly Indian”. 56% of the respondents listed supporting the Indian cricket team as an answer. While this was not the most popular answer to this question ( 70% cited having Indian ancestry and 69% said having knowledge of India’s freedom struggle matters), it is still significant.As it to be expected, the response to what makes someone truly Indian varies significantly across religion and region. Cricket nationalism is more prevalent in the northern and eastern regions of the country and among Hindus and Jains. India’s non-Muslim religious minorities (Sikhs and Christians) are less receptive to the idea of supporting the Indian cricket team being sacrosanct to one’s Indian identity than Muslims.
29-10-2021||India||It is India’s internal matter: Israel envoy on Pegasus issue||Israel’s ambassador Naor Gilon on Thursday said his country allows the sale of spyware such as Pegasus only to governments, but declined to discuss its alleged use in India on the grounds that it is an internal matter.Gilon’s remarks came a day after the Supreme Court set up a three-member expert committee, to be supervised by a three-member monitoring committee led by its former judge, to inquire into the alleged use of Pegasus for surveillance of Indian citizens.The top court noted that the issues raised in the matter concern “the potential chilling effect” on the right to privacy and said the state’s power to conduct surveillance in the name of national security is not absolute.“NSO [Group] is a private Israeli company. I was dealing with it in the past. Every export of NSO or [such companies] needs an export licence of the Israeli government. We grant this export licence only [for] exporting to governments,” the envoy said in response to questions on the Pegasus issue at his first news briefing after presenting his credentials.“This is the only main requirement that... under the requirements, they cannot sell it to non-governmental actors. What’s happening here in India is an internal thing for India and I [would] rather not go into your internal matters,” he said.The Supreme Court on Wednesday said that the technical committee will go into issues related to the right to privacy, procedure followed for interception, and involvement of foreign agencies in conducting surveillance on Indian citizens.The Pegasus row erupted on July 18 after an international consortium of media outlets and investigative journalists reported that the phones of Indian ministers, politicians, activists, businessmen and journalists were among the 50,000 that were potentially targeted by Pegasus, NSO’s phone hacking software.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pegasus-spyware-issue-is-india-s-internal-matter-says-israel-s-envoy-naor-gilon-101635407445263.html
29-10-2021||India||Focus on G23 leaders ahead of Congress organisational polls||With limited influence over the Congress party’s state units, the G23 leaders appear to have a slim chance of gaining power in the political party’s organisational polls next year. The focus will be on the rebel group of 23 senior Congress leaders, dubbed G23, who came together last year to openly seek a rejig of the party structure, as the Congress gears up for the 2022 organisational elections.The elections will start at the block level, then go up to the state level, before culminating into polls for the overall party president, the Congress working committee (CWC) and the central election committee (CEC).In mid-October, the Congress party finalised the election schedule that will start on April 16 next year, kicking off with polls for the block-level committees.The district-level committees will be elected by July 20, while the state-level bodies, known as Pradesh Congress Committees, will be picked by August 20.The much awaited election for overall party president will take place by September 20 next year.The G23 leaders will need support from the party’s state units to push their luck in the elections for the CWC and the CEC.Nearly the entire Congress working committee wanted Rahul Gandhi to take over as the next president. Rahul Gandhi, the previous Congress president, resigned after the party’s debacle in the 2019 general elections.The party elections are significant as the G23 leaders wrote to Congress president Sonia Gandhi last year, demanding a major reshuffle within the organisation. They also sought more say in the decision-making process.The party’s last organisational polls before the 2024 general elections also give the Congress scope to get battle-ready and find ways to settle issues with the G23 leaders.“To win any election, be it assembly or the Congress party’s internal polls, one needs popular votes. And that would be the biggest impediment for the senior leaders. All state units barring one or two are firmly with the ruling dispensation,” said a senior Congress leader.The leader said Ghulam Nabi Azad is likely to remain in the party’s apex executive body, but at least two other seniors, both Rajya Sabha members, face an uncertain future.“The G23 could have flexed some muscles in Punjab, but with the exit of Captain Amarinder Singh from the party and the appointment of Charanjit Singh Channi as CM and Navjot Singh Sidhu as PCC chief, things are firmly in control of the Congress high command,” said another Congress leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spotlight-on-g23-leaders-as-congress-gears-up-for-2022-organisational-polls-101635400845735.html
