30-10-2021||India||‘Disclose if you’ve converted…can’t take double benefits’: RSS||The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) said on Saturday that religious conversions must stop in the country, and individuals who change their faith should declare the same, according to news agency PTI. “There are people who get converted and do not disclose that they have converted. They take double benefits,” RSS general secretary Dattatreya Hosabale informed at a press conference in Karnataka’s Dharwad.Hosabale further stated that the opposition to anti-conversion laws by the members of the minority community is an “open secret.” “Increasing the number by any methods, fraudulent or other such methods cannot be accepted,” he added, while speaking at the conclusion of the three-day Akhil Bharatiya Karyakari Mandal (ABKM) meeting of the RSS in the southern state.Also Read | Marriage being used for unlawful conversion: UPThe Sangh top leader claimed that over 10 Indian states have passed anti-conversion bills in India. He alleged that the Congress government led by chief minister Vidarbha Singh had passed the bill in Himachal Pradesh when the party was in power before the current Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ruling dispensation. “In Arunachal Pradesh, it was the Congress government who did it (passed an anti-conversion bill). Gegong Apang was the chief minister,” he was quoted as saying by PTI.Drawing reference to former Prime Minister of India Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Hosabale said that the BJP leader had urged to initiate a national debate on religious conversion. The RSS general secretary also stated that while every individual has the liberty to change their religion, “what is happening today is not that.”Also Read | BJP government in Arunachal Pradesh plans to repeal anti-conversion lawNotably, three BJP-ruled states in the country – Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh, have passed anti-conversion laws. Meanwhile, the Karnataka government, which is also led by the saffron party and is looking to introduce a similar bill into the state, has faced backlash from the Christian community. Bengaluru Archbishop recently termed the bill to be “unnecessary” and stated that it will disrupt the religious harmony in the state.However, the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) had in February this year clarified in a response at the Parliament that the central government doesn’t plan to impose a nationwide anti-conversion law.The Supreme Court in April had also quashed a plea seeking for a stringent law to regulate religious conversion in India, saying such a direction is “very harmful” and that every adult is free to choose their desired faith.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disclose-if-you-ve-converted-can-t-take-double-benefits-rss-101635617260275.html
30-10-2021||India||India, Italy to collaborate on green hydrogen, gas sector||Rome/New Delhi India and Italy have agreed to explore development of green hydrogen, setting up renewable energy corridors, and joint projects in the natural gas sector as the two nations sought to strengthen partnership in energy transition.A joint statement issued after Prime Minister Narendra Modi held the first in-person meeting with his Italian counterpart Mario Draghi on the sidelines of the G20 Summit in Rome, said the two leaders agreed to encourage joint investments of Indian and Italian companies in energy transition-related fields.They agreed to “initiate a dialogue to support the development and deployment of green hydrogen and related technologies in India” as well as to “consider working together to support a large size green corridor project in India to capitalize on India’s target to produce and integrate 450 GW of renewable energy by 2030.” The two leaders also agreed to “encourage Italian and Indian companies to develop joint projects in natural gas sector, technological innovation for decarbonisation, smart cities and other specific domains (i.e.: electrification of urban public transport).” India set an ambitious target of building capacity to generate 450 gigawatts of electricity from renewable sources such as solar and wind and more than double the share of natural gas in its energy basket to 15 per cent by 2030 as its transitions to a low carbon emitting economy. It is also looking at scaling up hydrogen production from all sources, particularly green hydrogen as part of its energy transition pathway.The joint statement said a joint working Group established by the Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation in the field of Energy, signed in Delhi on October 30, 2017, will be tasked to explore cooperation in areas such as smart cities; mobility, smart-grids. The group will also explore cooperation in electricity distribution and storage solutions; gas transportation and promoting natural gas as a bridge fuel; integrated waste management (waste-to-wealth); and green energies (green hydrogen; CNG & LNG; bio-methane; bio-refinery; second-generation bio-ethanol; castor oil; bio-oil –waste to fuel).The two leaders also agreed to “share useful information and experiences especially in the field of policy and regulatory framework, including possible means to facilitate the transition to cleaner and commercially viable fuels/technologies, long-term grid planning, incentivizing schemes for renewables and efficiency measures, as well as with regard to financial instruments for accelerating clean energy transition.” They acknowledged significant progress in bilateral relations since the adoption of the Action Plan for an enhanced Partnership between India and Italy (2020-2024) on November 6, 2020. They expressed their resolve to strengthen cooperation in the strategic sectors addressed by the Action Plan, including the cross-cutting issue of accelerating the clean energy transition to fight climate change, central to both the G20 Leaders Summit in Rome and the COP26 in Glasgow.They also recalled the India-EU Leaders’ Meeting held in Porto on May 8, 2021, where the European Union and India highlighted the urgency of addressing the interdependent challenges of climate change, biodiversity loss and pollution. Th two leaders agreed to deepen cooperation for accelerating the deployment of renewable energy, including deployment of innovative renewable technologies such as offshore wind energy and exploiting the potential of green hydrogen, promoting energy efficiency, developing smart grids and storage technologies, modernizing the electricity market.“In addition, both sides agreed on the utmost importance of cost effective integration of a growing amount of renewable energy into their respective power systems, as a key asset for an effective clean transition that generates jobs, GDP growth, reinforces universal energy access while eradicating energy poverty,” it said. “In this perspective, the two Prime Ministers appreciated India’s resolve to deploy 450 GW of renewable energy by 2030 as well as Italy’s prompt ratification and active support to the International Solar Alliance, and agreed to launch a bilateral strategic partnership in the domain of energy transition.” Such a partnership could build on existing bilateral mechanisms, including by giving new impetus to the cooperation on renewable energy and sustainable development between the Italian Ministry of Ecological Transition and its Indian counterparts, namely Ministry of New and Renewable Energy, Ministry of Power and Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-italy-to-collaborate-on-green-hydrogen-gas-sector-101635616743069.html
30-10-2021||India||Pope accepts PM’s invite to visit India||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Pope Francis discussed a wide range of global issues, including the Covid-19 crisis, fighting climate change and alleviating poverty, during their maiden meeting at the Vatican City. In a tweet, PM Modi described the meeting “warm” and said he invited the Pope to India. The meeting was scheduled to last only 20 minutes, but went on for an hour, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity. Modi and the Pope discussed a range of issues “aimed at making the planet better”, such as climate change and poverty.Modi was the first Indian prime minister to meet Pope Francis since he became head of the Catholic Church in 2013. It was also the first meeting between an Indian prime minister and a pope since June 2000, when late PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee visited the Vatican and met Pope John Paul II.Modi was accompanied to the Vatican by National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and external affairs minister S Jaishankar.“Had a very warm meeting with Pope Francis. I had the opportunity to discuss a wide range of issues with him and also invited him to visit India,” Modi said in his tweet. The external affairs ministry said the Pope granted Modi a private audience at the Apostolic Palace, and the two leaders discussed the Covid-19 pandemic and its consequences for people around the world.They also discussed the challenge posed by climate crisis. Modi briefed the Pope about The Pope appreciated India’s assistance to countries in need during the pandemic, the ministry said. The Pope also accepted Modi’s invitation to visit India. A statement from the Vatican said: “During a brief conversation, the cordial relations between the Holy See and India were discussed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-pope-talk-covid-climate-crisis-in-first-meeting-at-the-vatican-city-101635616443544.html
30-10-2021||India||PM pitches ‘One Earth, One Health’ before G20||A collaborative approach is needed for the world community to fight the Covid-19 pandemic and to develop mechanisms to deal with future pandemics and global health issues, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said at the G20 Summit on Saturday.Modi stressed the need for resilient global supply chains and invited the G20 states to make India their partner in economic recovery and supply chain diversification. He also welcomed the G20’s move for a 15% minimum corporate tax, saying it would make the global financial architecture more just and ensure that mult-national corporations (MNCs) pay their share of taxes to countries they are located in.The Prime Minister made the remarks during his intervention at the first session of the G20 Summit focused on the global economy and health, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla told a news briefing in Rome.Before the start of the summit, Modi held a one-on-one meeting with Pope Francis at the Vatican City. He also met French President Emmanuel Macron and Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong on the margins of the summit and reviewed bilateral relations.In his intervention at the summit of the leaders of the world’s 20 largest economies, Modi highlighted India’s contribution to the fight against Covid-19, including provision of medical supplies to more than 150 countries, and outlined the country’s vision of “one earth, one health”, which is aimed at a collaborative approach in the international domain in the fight against Covid-19.This includes collaboration on research and development and developing mechanisms to cope with future pandemics and global health issues, Shringla said. It is also part of the efforts to forge comprehensive global solutions that can deal with problems of inequity faced by developing countries, he said.“This is another approach towards the overall concept of the global common good that the Prime Minister has spoken of on a number of occasions,” Shringla said.While pointing to the need for resilient global supply chains, Modi mentioned India’s economic reforms and steps to lower the cost of doing business and invited G20 states to make India their partner in economic recovery and supply chain diversification.Modi expressed satisfaction at the G20’s decision to come up with the 15% minimum corporate tax to make the global financial setup more just and fair, and to ensure companies don’t go to tax havens to minimise their burden. Shringla noted that Modi had first proposed such a minimum tax at the 2014 G20 Summit.“This has become a global norm and I think this is a very important step in ensuring a more rationalised global tax structures and better cooperation in the international domain when it comes to issues like tax evasion, money laundering [and] corruption,” Shringla said.Modi also told the G20 summit that India plans to make more than 5 billion Covid-19 vaccine doses by the end of 2022, a step that will reduce vaccine inequities in the developing world. He also spoke about facilitating international travel through the mechanism of mutual recognition of vaccine certificates.Shringla said the World Health Organization’s approval for the emergency use authorisation for India’s Covaxin vaccine will facilitate the process of helping other countries.During his meeting with French President Macron, Modi discussed bilateral cooperation on various subjects and global and regional developments. Shringla said Modi had welcomed the European Union’s Indo-Pacific strategy and the important role played by France in facilitating the policy.The two leaders reaffirmed their commitment to cooperate in the Indo-Pacific, and to work for an open, free and rules-based order in the region. Modi also invited Macron to visit India.Modi and his Singapore counterpart Lee Hsien Loong reviewed the full range of bilateral ties during their meeting, and discussed climate change and facilitating international travel. They also discussed steps aimed at expedited vaccination and enhancing people-to-people ties, including the early resumption of travel between the two countries.On Sunday, Modi will participate in two sessions of the G20 Summit focused on climate change and the environment. Modi will also attend a meeting on supply change resilience to be hosted by US President Joe Biden on the margins of the summit.Shringla brushed aside speculation that the G20 states are divided on issued related to climate action, and said there was agreement within the grouping that climate change is a global problem. The G20 states could have different views on dealing with this problem, but the grouping is expected to come up with solutions and outcomes that reflect consensual views, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-pitches-one-earth-one-health-before-g20-101635616440880.html
30-10-2021||India||28-yr-old killed by husband in UP for refusing to convert, say police||A 28-year-old woman was allegedly murdered in Churai Dalpatpur village under Mirganj Police Station area here by her husband who was forcing her to convert, police said on Saturday. The deceased, Nisha, was found hanging in her room on Tuesday night, police said. Next day her post mortem report confirmed that the murder was caused by strangulation with a rope, Superintendent of Police (rural) Raj Kumar Agarwal said. Kaushal Devi, the mother of the deceased, lodged a complaint on Thursday against her son-in-law Iqbal and his unknown associates, alleging that Iqbal killed her daughter with his friends’ help for she opposed his repeated attempts to convert her to Islam, Agarwal said. Devi alleged that Iqbal had married Nisha 10 years ago claiming to be a Hindu, but her daughter came to know of his real identity soon after. In the meantime, the couple had two daughters but pressure on Nisha to convert continued, according to her mother, the officer said. Her mother alleged that Iqbal strangled her daughter with the help of his associates and later hanged her body to pass it on as a case of suicide. Based on her complaint, a case has been registered and efforts are on to nab the absconding accused, the SP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/28yrold-killed-by-husband-in-up-for-refusing-to-convert-say-police-101635615002059.html
30-10-2021||India||Library visit, interaction with inmates: How Aryan Khan spent 22 days in jail||Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan walked out of the Arthur Road prison in Mumbai on the morning of October 30, after spending 22 days in the jail, in connection with the drugs-on-cruise case. He was arrested on October 3, but from October 3 to October 7, he was in the custody of the Narcotics Control Bureau.The first few days of Aryan Khan's judicial custody was spent in the quarantine cell of the prison, which is a must for all prisoners. Then he was moved to the main prison and was given prisoner number 956. He was lodged at barrack number 1.According to earlier reports, Aryan Khan spent his days like other prisoners following the prison routine. As his bail plea was rejected by the Special NDPS court before his lawyers moved to the Bombay high court, he was feeling anxious and was advised by the prison officials to read some books from the jail's library. Reports said, Aryan then read a book written on Lord Ram. Prior to that, he read a book called 'The Lion's Gate'.Burglar boasts about his short stint with Aryan Khan in jail, lands in police net againAryan had also interacted with other inmates in the prison. Reports said he promised financial and legal help to some inmates.During his stay in the jail, he was allowed a video call to his parents once. After the jail authorities allowed the physical visit of the family members of the inmates, Shah Rukh Khan went to meet him on October 21.Aryan Khan will have to stay put in Mumbai for the time being as he would need prior permission to leave the city. Under his bail conditions, he is not allowed to meet any of the co-accused in the case. Reports said Aryan's parents have planned to ground him for a few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/library-visit-interaction-with-inmates-how-aryan-khan-spent-22-days-in-jail-101635614439264.html
30-10-2021||India||At G20 Summit, PM Modi calls for collaborative approach in global fight against Covid-19||A collaborative approach is needed for the world community to fight the Covid-19 pandemic and develop mechanisms to deal with future pandemics and global health issues, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said at the G20 Summit on Saturday.Modi stressed the need for resilient global supply chains and invited the G20 state to make India their partner in economic recovery and supply chain diversification. He also welcomed the G20’s move for a 15% minimum corporate tax, saying it would make the global financial architecture more just and ensure that MNCs pay their share of taxes to countries they are located in.The prime minister made the remarks during his intervention at the first session of the G20 Summit focused on the global economy and health, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla told a news briefing in Rome.Before the start of the summit, Modi held a one-on-one meeting with Pope Francis at the Vatican City. He also met French President Emmanuel Macron and Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong on the margins of the summit and reviewed bilateral relations.In his intervention at the summit of the leaders of the world’s 20 largest economies, Modi highlighted India’s contribution to the fight against Covid-19, including the provision of medical supplies to more than 150 countries, and outlined the country’s vision of “one earth, one health”, which is aimed at a collaborative approach in the international domain in the fight against Covid-19.This includes collaboration on research and development and developing mechanisms to cope with future pandemics and global health issues, Shringla said. It is also part of the efforts to forge comprehensive global solutions that can deal with problems of inequity faced by developing countries, he said.“This is another approach towards the overall concept of the global common good that the prime minister has spoken of on a number of occasions,” Shringla said.While pointing to the need for resilient global supply chains, Modi mentioned India’s economic reforms and steps to lower the cost of doing business and invited G20 states to make India their partner in economic recovery and supply chain diversification.Modi expressed satisfaction at the G20’s decision to come up with the 15% minimum corporate tax to make the global financial setup more just and fair, and to ensure companies don’t go to tax havens to minimise their burden. Shringla noted that Modi had first proposed such a minimum tax at the 2014 G20 Summit.“This has become a global norm and I think this is a very important step in ensuring a more rationalised global tax structure and better cooperation in the international domain when it comes to issues like tax evasion, money laundering [and] corruption,” Shringla said.Modi also told the G20 summit that India plans to make more than five billion Covid-19 vaccine doses by the end of 2022, a step that will reduce vaccine inequities in the developing world. He also spoke about facilitating international travel through the mechanism of mutual recognition of vaccine certificates. Shringla said the World Health Organization’s approval for the emergency use authorisation for India’s Covaxin vaccine will facilitate the process of helping other countries. During his meeting with French President Macron, Modi discussed bilateral cooperation on various subjects and global and regional developments. Shringla said Modi had welcomed the European Union’s Indo-Pacific strategy and the important role played by France in facilitating the policy. The two leaders reaffirmed their commitment to cooperate in the Indo-Pacific, and to work for an open, free and rules-based order in the region. Modi also invited Macron to visit India.Modi and his Singapore counterpart Lee Hsien Loong reviewed the full range of bilateral ties during their meeting, and discussed climate change and facilitating international travel. They also discussed steps aimed at expediting vaccination and enhancing people-to-people ties, including the early resumption of travel between the two countries. On Sunday, Modi will participate in two sessions of the G20 Summit focused on climate change and the environment. Modi will also attend a meeting on supply change resilience to be hosted by US President Joe Biden on the margins of the summit.Shringla brushed aside speculation that the G20 states are divided on issues related to climate action, and said there was agreement within the grouping that climate change is a global problem. The G20 states could have different views on dealing with this problem but the grouping is expected to come up with solutions and outcomes that reflect consensual views, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-g20-summit-pm-modi-calls-for-collaborative-approach-in-global-fight-against-covid19-101635614162204.html
30-10-2021||India||NCB team probing extortion allegations against Sameer Wankhede fails to meet Prabhakar Sail; leaves Mumbai||The special team of the Narcotics Control Bureau which was sent to Mumbai to probe into the extortion allegations against NCB Mumbai zone director Sameer Wankhede left Mumbai on Saturday without recording the statement of Prabhakar Sail, the ex-aide of KP Gosavi who levelled the allegations against Wankhede. According to reports, Sail remained unreachable for the central agency even after NCB Deputy Director General (northern region) Gyaneshwar Singh wrote to Mumbai Police Commissioner Hemant Nagrale to convey to Sail to make himself present before the NCB team on Saturday.Prabhakar Sail is a key witness in the case as he, based on an overheard conversation, claimed that a payoff of ₹25 crore was discussed in connection with the case of which ₹8 crore was meant for Wankhede.Following the allegation, a five-member team was sent to Mumbai who recorded the statements of eight persons, including Sameer Wankhede. On Friday, Gyaneshwar Singh said the investigation team can not make any progress unless it speaks to Sail.Kiran Gosavi, the independent witness of the NCB whose selfie with Aryan Khan went viral after Khan was arrested on October 3, was arrested in Pune on Thursday in connection with a 2018 cheating case.Prabhakar Sail was, however, in touch with the Mumbai Police as on the night of October 27, the Mumbai Police took Prabhakar to different locations in Mumbai where he alleged the transfer of money took place.The Mumbai Police also said that following NCB's request, it conveyed to Prabhakar that NCB wants him to appear before the special team.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncb-team-probing-extortion-allegations-against-sameer-wankhede-fails-to-meet-prabhakar-sail-leaves-mumbai-101635611315664.html
30-10-2021||India||At G20 Summit, PM Modi says India ready to produce 5 billion Covid vaccine doses by 2022 end||Prime Minister Narendra Modi highlighted India’s contribution to the fight against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) during his intervention at the first G20 session on Saturday, foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said. The top diplomat told a press briefing that PM Modi mentioned India’s medical supplies to over 150 countries as he spoke about the country’s vision of ‘One Earth, One Health’ for a collaborative approach in combating the pandemic.Speaking at the Group of 20 Leaders’ Summit in Rome, the prime minister conveyed that India is ready to produce 5 billion Covid-19 vaccine doses by 2022 end which will be available for the world. PM Modi invited G20 countries to make India their partner in economic recovery and supply chain diversification.“He also brought out the fact that despite challenges of the pandemic, India continued to be a trusted partner in the context of reliable supply chains,” Shringla told the special briefing in Rome.“We also believe that WHO's EUA for Covaxin would felicitate this process of assisting other countries,” he added.Also Read | PM Modi-Pope meeting historic, says BJP; For RSS, it's 'Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam'On Sunday, PM Modi will attend an event hosted by US President Joe Biden on "Supply Chain Resilience" and hold other bilateral meetings on the sidelines of the G20 Summit. He will then fly to Glasgow to attend the 26th Conference of Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.Earlier today, the prime minister met Pope Francis at the Vatican and extended an invitation to visit India. He was accompanied by external affairs minister S Jaishankar and national security adviser Ajit Doval. Shringla said the Pope has accepted the invitation."You (PM Modi) have given me the greatest gift. I am looking forward to visiting India," Shringla quoted Pope as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/g20-summit-pm-modi-says-india-ready-to-produce-5-billion-covid-vaccine-doses-by-2022-end-101635610199473.html
30-10-2021||India||PM Modi-Pope meeting historic, says BJP; For RSS, it's 'Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam'||The meeting between PM Modi and Pope Francis on Saturday is an occasion fit for the history books and a great step towards peace, harmony and inter-faith dialogue, BJP president JP Nadda said. During the meeting, which went for an hour and was "very warm", as described by PM Modi, Pope was invited to India by the Prime Minister.The ministry of external affairs said Pope Francis has accepted PM Modi's invitation and is looking forward to visiting India. "The last papal visit to India was in 1999 when Pope John Paul II visited the country. Pope Francis has accepted PM Modi's invitation. In his own words, he said: 'You (PM Modi) have given me the greatest gift. I am looking forward to visiting India'," foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said."India is a vibrant and inclusive democracy, where the Christian community has played a pivotal role in areas like politics, films, business & armed forces. Under Modi Ji's leadership India is marching ahead on the path of 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas, Sabka Prayas'," Nadda said in a tweet.RSS general secretary Dattatreya Hosable said the meeting enhanced the prestige of the country."What is wrong if the head of the government meets anyone in the existing civil system in the world? We welcome it because we believe in 'Vasudhava Kutumbakam' (the world is one family). We respect all the religions," Dattatreya Hosabale said.The Kerala Catholic Bishops' Council (KCBC), a body of Catholic Bishops in the State, on Saturday welcomed the meeting and said, "Inviting Pope Francis to India was a historic decision and this will raise the stature of the country among the nations of the world. His visit will help to strengthen the diplomatic relation between both countries. It will also help to nurture the relationship between various sects of Christianity and other religions."This was the first meeting between an Indian Prime Minister and the Pope in more than two decades. The last such meeting was in June 2000, when then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee visited the Vatican and met the then Pope, His Holiness John Paul II.In 2017, Francis visited Myanmar and Bangladesh but could not visit India because of "scheduling problems".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-pope-meeting-historic-says-bjp-for-rss-it-s-vasudhaiva-kutumbakam-101635608170728.html
30-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: China's Xi Jinping urges for mutual recognition of Covid vaccines and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.China's Xi calls for mutual recognition of Covid-19 vaccines based on WHO's emergency use listChinese President Xi Jinping on Saturday called for mutual recognition of vaccines against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) based on the emergency use listing of the World Health Organisation (WHO), the state media reported. Read more.Orange, yellow alerts issued for several Kerala districts amid incessant rainThe Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) on Saturday issued orange and yellow alerts for several districts of Kerala for the next four days amid widespread rainfall in the region. Read more.'I think he is from a Scheduled Caste': Wankhede gets support from SC CommissionAfter meeting Narcotics Control Bureau Mumbai zone director Sameer Wankhede on Saturday, National Commission for Scheduled Castes vice-chairman Arun Halder said he thinks Sameer Wankhede indeed belongs to the Scheduled Caste. Read more.When Gigi Hadid said Zayn Malik took her mom Yolanda Hadid's side during family argumentsSupermodel Gigi Hadid and singer Zayn Malik have reportedly broken up again. The latest split comes after her mother, reality show star Yolanda Hadid accused Zayn of getting violent with her and even filed an official complaint against him. Read more.'I could also have bowled 1 or 2 overs': Kohli addresses need for 6th bowler; gives status update on Hardik's bowlingTeam India captain Virat Kohli has admitted to the need of having a sixth bowling option in the side for the ongoing T20 World Cup after questions over all-rounder Hardik Pandya's fitness continue to soar. Read more.Diwali 2021: Diet tips to follow if you are planning to go for late night dinnerDiwali is just round the corner and if we plan to soak in the spirit of the festivities, all the healthy eating goes for a toss even with best of our efforts. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-xi-jinping-urges-for-mutual-recognition-of-covid-vaccines-101635605910525.html
30-10-2021||India||Two army personnel killed in mine blast along LoC in Rajouri||Amid aprotracted encounter in the forest belt of Poonch, an army officer and a soldier were killed in a mine blast along the Line of Control (LoC) in Nowshera sector of adjoining Rajouri district, officials said. The deceased officer was a lieutenant while the soldier was a sepoy.“An officer and a soldier were critically injured in a mysterious explosion along the LoC around 4.30 pm in Kalal area of Nowshera. They were evacuated to Command Hospital in Udhampur in a helicopter but succumbed to their injuries,” said officials familiar with the matter.They were on a patrol near a forward post along the LoC when the blast took place, said people cited above.The deceased have been identified as Lieutenant Rishi Kumar and Sepoy Manjit Singh“GOC #WhiteKnight_IA and all ranks salute bravehearts Lt Rishi Kumar and Sep Manjit Singh, who made the supreme sacrifice in line of duty along the Line of Control in Naushera sector on 30 Oct 21 and offer deep condolences to their families,” the White Knight Corps tweeted.“On 30 Oct 2021, during an area domination patrol in Naushera Sector, District Rajouri (J&K), a mine blast occurred wherein two Indian Army soldiers suffered critical injuries and later succumbed to their injuries. Another soldier who received injuries was evacuated and is under treatment,” the Army said in a statement.With two more deaths, the army has lost a total of 11 soldiers, including three officers in October, in the twin districts of Rajouri and Poonch.Before India and Pakistan renewed the mutually brokered ceasefire pact on February 25, rogue elements in connivance with Pak Army and Pak Rangers used to plant IEDs on the Indian side of 744 km-long LoC and 200 km-long international border (IB) to inflict casualties on the Indian forces.On February 16, 2019, an army Major was killed and a soldier was injured in a similar mine blast along the Line of Control (LoC) in the Nowshera sector.Meanwhile, search operation in the Nar Khas forests near Bhata Dhurian in Poonch district entered its 20th day on Saturday.However, success continues to elude the security forces as terrorists hiding in the dense jungle are well trained in guerilla warfare tactics, using natural caves and poor visibility to their advantage.An arrested member of the terror outfit Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) was killed and three security personnel were injured when terrorists opened fire on a search team of the army and police in the same forests on Sunday.A total of nine soldiers, including two JCOs and an arrested terrorist, who was taken to the encounter site for identification of a hideout, have died in the ongoing operation.The operation in the forest areas in the twin border districts began on October 11 when terrorists ambushed a search party killing five soldiers including a Junior Commissioned Officer (JCO) in Surankote forest of Poonch.On October 14, four soldiers, including a JCO, were killed by the terrorists in Nar Khas forest in another gunfight.Drones and helicopters have been pressed into service to assist the marching troops, which includes para-commandos, in the jungle.Army chief General MM Naravane also visited the encounter site. According to DGP Dilbag Singh, two groups of terrorists came from across the Line of Control through the Rajouri-Poonch area and they are embedded somewhere in the jungle area.“Going by their sighting at three places and cross-fire between them and us at two places, I guess their number is 5 to 7,” he told a TV channel recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-army-personnel-killed-in-blast-along-loc-in-rajouri-101635607141370.html
30-10-2021||India||Specially-made candle holder to bronze plaque: PM Modi, Pope Francis exchange gifts in Vatican City||Prime Minister Narendra Modi gifted a specially made silver candle holder and a book on India's climate initiatives to Pope Francis on Saturday as they held their first one-to-one meeting in a private audience at the Apostolic Palace in Vatican City. Modi is the first Indian Prime Minister to meet Francis since he became the Pope in 2013.According to the Vatican News, Prime Minister Modi gifted the head of the Roman Catholic church a specially-made silver candelabra and a book titled, “The Climate Climb: India's strategy, actions and achievements" during their meeting which lasted for an hour.Pope reciprocated the gesture with a bronze plaque which had the inscription “The desert will become a garden”. He also gifted the Indian Prime Minister volumes of papal documents, his message for World Day of Peace and the document on Human Fraternity, signed on February 4 of 2019 in Abu Dhabi and the Grand Imam of Al-Azhar, the report stated.PM Modi explained that the candelabra was specially made and the book is on climate change, an issue close to the 84-year-old pontiff who took charge in 2013. The two leaders discussed a variety of issues including the Covid-19 pandemic and its consequences, as well as the challenge posed by climate change around the world.This was also the first meeting between an Indian Prime Minister and the Pope in more than two decades. Late Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee was the last prime minister to visit the Vatican in June 2000, when he met the then Pope, His Holiness John Paul II.PM Modi also extended an invitation to Pope Francis to visit India, a request that was accepted with pleasure.India and The Holy See have friendly relations dating back to the establishment of diplomatic relations in 1948. India is home to the second largest Catholic population in Asia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/speciallymade-candle-holder-to-bronze-plaque-pm-modi-pope-francis-exchange-gifts-in-vatican-city-101635603117538.html
30-10-2021||India||Voting ends in bypolls across 13 states, 1 UT; high turnout recorded||The voting in bypolls to three Lok Sabha seats and 29 assembly constituencies across 13 states and union territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli was held on Saturday. The three seats where Lok Sabha bypolls were held are Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Himachal Pradesh's Mandi and Madhya Pradesh's Khandwa.Voting was also scheduled to be held in Nagaland's Shamator-Chessore assembly constituency, but Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party (NDPP) candidate was elected uncontested from there on October 13.Among the Lok Sabha seats, Khandwa recorded 59.02% voter turnout until 5pm, according to data released by Election Commission of India (ECI). While Himachal Pradesh's Mandi recorded 47.17 voter turnout until 4pm, Dadra and Nagar Haveli Lok Sabha constituency recorded 67% voter turnout until 5pm. There was no news of any disturbances but Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan alleged that voters are being threatened by Congress workers. “Congress has gone mad due to fear of defeat in the by-elections. Voters are being threatened at many polling booths in Prithvipur. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) agents are being assaulted,” Chouhan was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Bypolls were also held in Gossaigaon, Bhabanipur, Tamulpur, Mariani and Thowra constituencies in Assam. Gossaigaon recorded the highest voter turnout with 76.71% followed by Thawra (75.07%), Bhabanipur (74%), Tamulpur (62%) and Mariani (61.62%).Four assembly constituencies in West Bengal - Dinhata, Santipur, Khardah and Gosaba - also went to bypolls on Saturday. Gosaba and Santipur recorded higher voter turnout (76%) while voter turnout remained 70% in Dinhata. Khardah recorded 64% voter turnout. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Trinamool Congress (TMC) are going head-to-head in all of these assembly seats.Tarapur and Kusheshwar constituencies in Bihar also went to bypolls and recorded an average voter turnout of 49.59%.Jobat, Raigaon and Prithvipur assembly seats in Madhya Pradesh also went to bypolls. Jobat and Raigaon assembly constituencies are reserved for Scheduled Tribe and Scheduled Caste candidates respectively. Prithvipur saw a high voter turnout of 76.05% while Raigaon reported 66.66% and Jobat 50.90% until 5pm.Vallabhnagar and Dhariawad in Rajasthan also went to bypolls and recorded an average 65% voter turnout until 5pm. Ellenabad in Haryana also went to bypolls and recorded 73% voter turnout till 5pm.Arki, Fatehpur and Jubbal-Kotkhai legislative assembly constituencies in Himachal Pradesh recorded an average turnout of 55.70%.Huzurabad in Telangana, which witnessed a triangular contest between, ruling TRS, opposition BJP and Congress 61.66% voter turnout till 3.30pm. Hanagal and Sindgi constituencies in Karnataka also went to bypolls and recorded an average turnout of 70.76%.Andhra Pradesh's Badvel also went to bypolls along with Meghalaya's Rajabala, Mawryngkneng and Mawphlang seats. Maharashtra’s Deglur assembly constituency and Tuirial assembly constituency of Mizoram also went to bypolls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/voting-ends-in-bypolls-across-13-states-1-ut-high-turnout-recorded-101635602417840.html
30-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan case timeline: From October 3-30, what happened in 28 days||Actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan was released from Mumbai's Arthur Road Jail on Saturday. The release comes two days after his bail in the drugs-on-cruise case. Khan, along with his friends Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha, was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on October 3.Also Read | Here is where the drugs-on-cruise case stands nowThe NCB arrested these three - along with 20 others (who were arrested on different dates) - on October 3. This followed a raid the agency conducted on a cruise ship off the coast of Mumbai.Aryan Khan's release was ordered by the Bombay high court on Thursday, after his earlier petitions seeking bail were rejected, first by sessions court and then by the special NDPS court.A battery of lawyers, including former Attorney General Mukul Rohatgi, was roped in by Shah Rukh Khan to get his son out of jail. It took them more than three weeks, but Aryan finally reached his home Mannat on Saturday morning, days before his father's birthday.Here's a look at the sequence of events:October 2: NCB conducted a raid on Cordelia cruise ship going from Mumbai to Goa. The agency raided the ship after receiving a tip-off about a rave party. Eight people, including Aryan, Arbaaz and Munmun, were detained.October 3: The agency registered case against all three and arrested them. They were produced before a magistrate's court, which sent them to NCB custody for one day.October 4: NCB claimed it found evidence linking Aryan Khan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha to international drug trafficking. It sought further custody of the trio and the magistrate's court sent them to further remand till October 7.October 7: The NCB sought an extension of remand of all three people, but the request was denied. The court sent Aryan and others to judicial custody. While Aryan and Arbaaz were sent to Arthur Road jail, Munmun Dhamecha was lodged in Mumbai's Byculla Ladies Jail.October 8: Aryan's lawyer Satish Maneshinde applies for bail. A sessions court in Mumbai rejected their bail applications, saying it is non-maintanable in that particular court. The lawyers of all the three accused then moved the special NDPS court.October 11: The NDPS court asked NCB to file its reply on October 13.October 13: The hearing adjourned to the next day i.e. October 14.October 14: The court heard the arguments from both the sides, where the lawyers of Aryan and other accused again sought bail, while the NCB opposed the petition. The verdict was reserved for October 20.October 20: Special NDPS court rejected Aryan Khan's bail petition. Their lawyers then moved Bombay high court.October 21: Shah Rukh Khan visited Arthur Road Jail to meet Aryan.October 26: Bombay high court began hearing, arguments continue for three days.October 28: High court granted bail to Aryan Khan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha.October 29: Bail formalities and paperwork completed. Shah Rukh Khan's actor-friend Juhi Chawla stood as surety for his 23-year-old son before the special court.October 30: Aryan Khan released from jail at 11.02am. He is immediately taken inside a waiting car by Shah Rukh Khan's staff outside the Arthur Road prison. He heads to Mannat where SRK's fans welcome him with 'stay strong' posters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aryan-khan-case-timeline-from-october-3-30-what-happened-in-27-days-101635600663160.html
30-10-2021||India||Orange, yellow alerts issued for several Kerala districts amid incessant rain||The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) on Saturday issued orange and yellow alerts for several districts of Kerala for the next four days amid widespread rainfall in the region. The Met department has predicted heavy to heavy rain in Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam for the next three days and in Pathanamthitta, Kottayam and Idukki for the next four. Yellow alerts have been issued for districts like Alappuzha, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Palakkad, and Malappuram.“Heavy (7- 11 cm in 24 hours) to Very Heavy (12-20 cm in 24 hours) rainfall is very likely to occur at one or two places in Kerala from 30th October to 2nd November 2021. Heavy (7- 11 cm in 24 hours) rainfall is very likely to occur at one or two places in Kerala on 3rd October,” the IMD said.Several parts of Kerala have been witnessing incessant rainfall that has caused widespread destruction and damaged some portions of the national highway after huge boulders fell down, according to news agencies. In the Punalur-Thenmala region, rainwater entered several houses while three vehicles were washed away in the overnight heavy rains and flooding.On Thursday, the weather department said a low-pressure area lying over southwest Bay of Bengal off Sri Lanka coast and the associated cyclonic circulation were likely to cause isolated heavy rainfall over Kerala & Mahe between October 28-November 1, 2021. The IMD said thunderstorms and lightning were very likely over Kerala, Tamilnadu, Puducherry and Karaikal and Coastal Andhra Pradesh.Earlier this month, torrential rains in Kerala triggered flash floods and landslides leading to loss of lives and destruction.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/orange-yellow-alerts-issued-for-several-kerala-districts-amid-incessant-rain-101635599551173.html
30-10-2021||India||'I think he is from a Scheduled Caste': Wankhede gets support from SC Commission||After meeting Narcotics Control Bureau Mumbai zone director Sameer Wankhede on Saturday, National Commission for Scheduled Castes vice-chairman Arun Halder said he thinks Sameer Wankhede indeed belongs to the Scheduled Caste. "He has denied the allegation of any religious conversion," the official said.The commission sought a response from the Maharashtra government on Friday on the letter written by Wankhede in which he alleged harassment. “Whereas a complaint/information has been received by the National Commission of Scheduled Castes from Shri Sameer Dyandev Wankhede ..dated 26.10.2021 as enclosed and the Commission has decided to investigate/enquire into the matter in pursuance of the powers conferred upon it under Article 338 of the Constitution of India," the letter said.
30-10-2021||India||Ahead of Diwali, these states have put a ban on firecrackers in view of Covid-19||As Diwali is only a few days away, several state governments across the country have imposed guidelines and curbs pertaining to manufacture, sale and burning of firecrackers for the festival. In a latest update, Karnataka government has given nod to selling green crackers at designated places outside residential areas in the state between November 1 and 10, according to news agency ANI. “Six-meter distance between shops [is] a must,” the ANI report added, citing the government.A host of states and Union territories, including Delhi, West Bengal, Odisha and Punjab have put restrictions on firecrackers ahead of Diwali this year. Referring to this, the Supreme Court said that the prohibition is not aimed to target any particular community or festival but to safeguard the right to life of the citizens of the country. “We are not against any particular community. We are not against any particular festival or celebration. But we cannot permit anyone to play with the right to life of others in the guise of celebration. We want to send [a] strong message that we are here for the protection of fundamental rights of the citizens,” justice AS Bopanna said.The court also cautioned against any violation of the firecracker ban, saying that chief secretaries of states and UTs, police superintendents, police district superintendents, and station house officers will be personally held accountable for the same.However, the apex court clarified that there will be no blanket ban on firecrackers because green crackers will be allowed. It said that only those containing Barium salts will be prohibited.Here’s a list of all states and UTs that have imposed ban on firecrackers for Diwali:1.     DelhiLast month, the AAP-led government in the national capital declared a blanket ban on the sale, use and storage of firecrackers in the city. In a series of tweets, chief minister and AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal said that the decision was made in view of the deteriorating air quality level of the city.2.     PunjabOn Tuesday, the state government announced that people will only be allowed to burn green crackers on Diwali for two hours (between 8 and 10pm) across the state. Similar relaxation has been given for Gurupurab on November 19 with the timings being from 4 to 5am, and 9 to 10pm.3. MaharashtraThe Uddhav Thackeray-led government has although not put a ban on firecrackers, it has asked the citizens of the state to keep away from it and instead light lamps during the upcoming Diwali celebrations in view of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.3.     RajasthanCongress’ Ashok Gehlot-led Rajasthan government has allowed the sale and use of only “green crackers” in the state. Furthermore, the crackers can be burst between 8pm and 10pm during Diwali and Gurupurab, between 6am and 8am on Chhat Puja, and from 11.55pm to 12.30am on Christmas and New Year’s Eve. Use and sale of any other form of firecracker will be prohibited across the northern state.4.     HaryanaThe Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) in September issued a directive banning the sale and use of firecrackers in the national capital region (NCR) on the basis of an advisory by the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM). Complete ban has been ordered in regions where the air quality falls under ‘poor’ or ‘more than poor’ category.6. Uttar PradeshYogi Adityanath-led government has like many states allowed the use of green crackers during Diwali but not more than two hours in areas where air quality falls in the ‘moderate’ or better category.5.     OdishaIn a bid to protect the health of the people of the state and to check the spread of Covid-19 infection, the state government had last month ordered a ban on the sale and use of firecrackers during the ongoing festive season.6.     West BengalThe TMC chief Mamata Banerjee-led state government has imposed a blanket ban on the manufacture, sale and use of all kinds of firecrackers, including green crackers, ahead of Diwali and Kali Puja celebrations across the state.7. AssamAssam government has also imposed a ban on firecrackers during Diwali, and has only permitted bursting green crackers for two hours between 8pm and 10pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-diwali-these-states-have-put-a-ban-on-firecrackers-in-view-of-covid19-101635598040088.html
30-10-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: October 31, 2011 — Sebastian Vettel is the champ, India the winner||Greater Noida- They came expecting the worst. They left dazzled. Not only did India offer Formula One a racing circuit rivalling the best in the world, it did so with typical Indian warmth. Good tracks these F1 fellows are used to but friendly, open people proved to be India’s greatest ambassadors.World champion and winner of the first Indian Grand Prix, Sebastian Vettel’s take on the country after his race was a touch philosophical but insightful: “If you keep your eyes and ears open I think you are able to learn a lot (from) the way people handle things here. It is a big country, a lot of people… but they get along and are happy… even though peopledon’t have a lot here, in a way they are much richer than a lot of people back in Europe. It is a great race, great event.”Second-placed Jenson Button has been effusive in his praise for the facility ever since he got here. But on Sunday he went the distance: “In the years to come, we are going to think of it (the circuit) as one of the greats. It is a very special circuit.”F1 is the technical pinnacle of motorsports. The fastest machines on the planet can onlyrun in high-tech arenas built to exacting standards.There are jumbo-loads of communication equipment and track-monitoring systems thatneed to be laid out. Instant emergency response is mandatory.Drivers have to be confident of the safety features if they have to floor their foot. Theydid that with great regularity on Sunday as the 95,000-strong crowd screamed on.“The response here has been incredible. I am amazed and impressed,” said F1 boss BernieEcclestone. “I see it (the event) getting bigger.”Its people are anyway going to be India’s greatest asset as far as F1 is concerned. Thereis already a significant fan following to bring in the crowds.Then, most major brands associated with F1 are looking to exploit the burgeoning Indianmarket.Problems arose aplenty over the first two days but the best bit was that the same glitch did not surface again.By pulling off one of the most demanding and sophisticated sporting spectacles, the Jaypee Group has illustrated the ingenuity and entrepreneurship of our private sector.Of course, the moment the crowds poured out of the track and onto the roads controlledby our public authorities, the usual chaos surfaced. Huge traffic jams were the norm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-october-31-2011-sebastian-vettel-is-the-champ-india-the-winner-101635598380287.html
30-10-2021||India||Ahead of PM Modi's visit to Uttarakhand, Amit Shah seeks another term for BJP||Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday sought another term for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to bring prosperity to every home. Launching the BJP's Uttarakhand poll campaign in Dehradun, Shah said the state has developed on all fronts under the BJP rule.He also promised further developments under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami if the party is given another chance."Congress was in power at the Centre for 10 years under the leadership of Manmohan Singh. What did it do for Uttarakhand during the period? It should tell the people of the state," he said.PM Modi's vision for the reconstruction of Kedarnath which had suffered extensive damage in the 2013 disaster led to the never-seen-before development in and around the temple, he said.Shah's rally comes nearly a week before PM Modi's visit to Uttarakhand. He will go to the hill state on November 5, and during the day-long visit, will unveil a statue of Adi Guru Shankaracharya in Kedarnath.PM Modi will also lay the foundation stone for multiple projects worth over ₹180 crore.The Prime Minister's visit to the Himalayan temple will mark the completion of the first phase of reconstruction works in Kedarpuri and beginning of the second phase.Taking a jibe at the opposition, Shah said today that PM Modi brought road and rail infrastructure development projects worth ₹85,000 crore during his tenure and challenged the Congress to show what it had done for the state during its time.Shah launched three major schemes for the benefit of rural women, including the chief minister Ghasyari Kalyan Yojana which will rid women in the hill areas of the compulsion of traversing long distances to fetch fodder for their livestock.The home minister also praised chief secretary S S Sandhu and Director General of Police (DGP) Ashok Kumar, who accompanied him on an aerial survey of the rain-hit areas, for having a detailed knowledge of all vulnerable spots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-pm-modi-s-visit-to-uttarakhand-amit-shah-seeks-another-term-for-bjp-101635597609698.html
30-10-2021||India||Mehbooba Mufti writes to PM Modi, seeks intervention in release of Kashmiri students in UP||Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti has written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking his intervention in the release of Kashmiri students’ arrests in Uttar Pradesh.PDP president Mehbooba Mufti has appealed to PM that the future of young students shouldn’t be destroyed. Three students were arrested in Uttar Pradesh after the India Pakistan T20 match on Sunday.“I write to you with a deep sense of disappointment and concern about the alarming situation in Jammu and Kashmir. Not too long ago when you presided over an all-party meeting in Delhi, you expressed your intention to remove “dill ke doori between Delhi and J&K”. In my capacity as the president of the PDP, I suggest a few confidence-building measures that would have provided a sense of relief and breathing space to the people of J&K,” said Mehbooba Mufti in her letter addressed to the prime minister.She also said that they have been waiting for the CBMs after the meeting of J&K leaders with the PM in New Delhi.“We had been waiting for the roll-out of a policy to address the hearts and minds of people, especially youth. While the spree of raids, arrests, killings continue unabated, the level of repression and state intolerance has touched a new low.”Mehbooba Mufti said that they had expected that Union home minister Amit Shah’s recent visit to J&K would lead to a meaningful reach out.“Especially after his statement about engaging with the youth here. Instead, what followed was shocking and worrying. A friendly cricket match between India and Pakistan that was solely a source of entertainment for people here bruised by incessant lockdowns, Internet gag and restriction of the movement led to booking youngsters under the draconian UAPA for simply choosing to cheer the winning side.”Mehbooba Mufti said that even doctors are being targetted, a reference towards the cases registered against students of Medical College.“Our brightest young people pursuing professional courses like MBBS have been targeted and slapped with anti-terror laws. While within Kashmir, youth are no strangers to the state excesses, three students in Agra too have been arrested and charged with sedition for the same reasons. This despite the college’s own admission that they didn’t engage in any activity that might be construed as anti-national,” she wrote in her letter.Mufti in her letter further said that patriotism and a sense of loyalty have to be cultivated with compassion and can’t be forced by wielding the baton or by the barrel of a gun.“Such punitive actions laced with contempt will only further the sense of mistrust and alienation between the younger generation and rest of the country. Political parties and their fortunes will wax and wane over the course of time. But what matters most is the future generation that will have to carry the burdens of the past yet strive to fulfil the expectations of a better tomorrow. Especially, when it comes to a state like J&K steeped in its history of repeated betrayals and past wounds.”Mehbooba Mufti while seeking the PM’s intervention, said that wisdom deems it prudent for this government to engage with them, understand their aspirations and goals.“I fervently request you to intervene so that the future of these young bright minds is not destroyed,” the letter said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mehbooba-mufti-writes-to-pm-modi-seeks-intervention-in-release-of-kashmiri-students-in-up-101635597660988.html
30-10-2021||India||Centre's word of caution for Assam, Bengal amid rise in Covid-19 cases||Amid a spike in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in Assam and West Bengal, the central government has advised the two states to enforce Covid-appropriate norms.Additional secretary in the Union health ministry, Arti Ahuja, wrote a letter to the chief secretaries of Assam and West Bengal on October 26 where she highlighted the increase in weekly new Covid-19 cases (from October 20-26), and early signs of rise in positivity since the last four weeks till October 25, news agency PTI reported today. Ahuja asked the governments in the respective states to undertake a review of these parametres and take action accordingly.In her letter to Assam, Ahuja pointed out that there has been 41 per cent increase in weekly new cases since the past week (October 20-26) and that there have been early signs of rise in positivity since last four weeks from 1.89 per cent in the week of September 28-October 4 to 2.22 per cent in the week of October 19-25."The state has also witnessed decline in tests conducted from 1,64,071 in the week of September 28-October 4 to 1,27,048 in the week of October 19-25. Because of the rising positivity, the state needs to conduct enhanced testing while maintaining the required RT-PCR share as it will aid in early identification of infection in the state," PTI quoted her as saying.The additional secretary also identified Assam's Barpeta and Kamrup Metro as districts of concern due to the high number of Covid-19 cases and weekly positivity rate.Similarly, in West Bengal, Ahuja said two districts - Kolkata and Howrah - have been identified as districts of concern. The additional secretary noted that the state has shown approximately 41 per cent rise in weekly new cases since the past week, 6,040 cases in the week of October 20-26 compared to 4,277 cases in the week of October 13-19 and that there have been early signs of increase in positivity since the past four weeks from 1.93 per cent in the week of September 28- October 4 to 2.39 per cent during October 19-25.West Bengal has also witnessed decline in the tests conducted from 2,62,319 during September 28-October 4 to 2,61,515 in the week of October 19-25, she pointed out.“It has been observed that Covid cases surge exponentially where basic public health strategy (testing, tracking, treatment, Covid-appropriate behaviour and vaccination) is not followed rigorously,” PTI quoted her as saying in the letter.The officer has suggested possible measures to control the surge including proper implementation of containment-zones, increased focus on house-to-house search for active Covid-19 cases within these zones and strict and daily monitoring of cases under home isolation and their referral to hospitals.The officer also suggested strengthening contact tracing of Covid-19 positive people, and reviewing containment zones in Assam and West Bengal.Among other measures suggested by the additional secretary are a detailed district-wise and facility-wise analysis of deaths and strengthening the system for early and smooth admission of cases, along with a real-time public dashboard highlighting the available hospital or bed infrastructure.The officer also issued an advisory for super spreader events, asking the states to maintain strict surveillance and monitoring as per standard operating protocols (SOPs) of the health ministry and testing as per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines. It also stressed ensuring Covid-appropriate behaviour: Mask-wearing and physical distancing must be strictly enforced.Further, both the states were encouraged to aim for 100 per cent first dose coverage of the 18-plus population, along with increasing the pace of the second dose of vaccination for the eligible lot.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centres-word-of-caution-for-assam-bengal-amid-rise-in-covid-19-cases-101635595030776.html
30-10-2021||India||Sanjay Raut doesn't agree with Prashant Kishor, says ‘BJP will stay but as opposition’||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Saturday said the BJP rule in the country will be put to an end by a Congress-ruled coalition government in 2024 and that he does not personally believe what poll strategist Prashant Kishor has predicted about BJP. "No government can be formed without the Congress, which is a major and a deeply rooted party in the country. Congress is the main opposition party too. Others are regional parties," Raut said."BJP claims that it is the world's biggest party. If the world's biggest party loses elections they will become an opposition party. For example, in Maharashtra, the BJP is the main opposition party with 105 MLAs," Raut said amid Shiv Sena's 'mixed signals' to the BJP.Recently, poll strategist Prashant Kishor during his visit to Goa said the BJP will continue to be a force to reckon with in Indian politics for decades to come. “The BJP is going to be in the centre of Indian politics, whether they win, whether they lose - like it was for the first 40 years for the Congress. The BJP is going nowhere. Once you secure 30% vote at the India level, you are not going away in a hurry,” Prashant Kishore said.The poll strategist behind some spectacular poll results in the country also criticised the Congress and said Rahul Gandhi is the problem of the Congress. “That is where the problem lies with Rahul Gandhi. Probably, he thinks that it is just a matter of time when people will throw him (Narendra Modi) away. That’s not happening,” Kishor said.BJP's long-term ally Shiv Sena is in the power in Maharashtra with the Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party, though the chemistry among the allies of the Maha Vikas Aghadi in Maharashtra remains on and off, with speculations often doing the rounds that the Sena might think of going back to its old partner BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sanjay-raut-doesn-t-agree-with-prashant-kishor-says-bjp-will-stay-but-as-opposition-101635596234114.html
30-10-2021||India||Amarinder Singh rubbishes report of backend talks with Congress, says 'time for rapprochement is over'||Former Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday rubbished the report of backend dialogue with the Congress party, saying the time for rapprochement is over, according to his media advisor Raveen Thukral. Singh said his decision to part ways with Congress is final as it was taken after giving it a lot of thought.“I'm grateful to Sonia Gandhi ji for her support but will not stay in Congress now,” Thukral quoted Singh as saying.The rebuttal came after a media report claimed that Congress leaders were engaged in backend talks to persuade Captain to stay in the party. Reiterating his earlier announcement of launching his own political party, Amarinder Singh said he will soon hold talks with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), breakaway Akali factions and other parties over seat-sharing for the upcoming Assembly elections in Punjab.“I will soon launch my own party and will hold talks for seat sharing with @BJP4India, breakaway Akali factions & others for #PunjabElections2022 once farmers' issue is resolved. I want to build strong collective force in interest of Punjab & its farmers’,” the former Congress leader said.Also Read | A day after Capt announces to form new party, Channi meets RahulThe political tussle between Navjot Singh Sidhu and Amarinder Singh resulted in the latter’s exit from Congress after he was asked to step down as Punjab chief minister. After his resignation, Singh intensified his criticism of Sidhu who was recently appointed as Punjab Congress chief against Captain's wish.Meanwhile, newly appointed Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi met former party president Rahul Gandhi in New Delhi earlier this week where the two leaders discussed the current political situation in the state, the upcoming assembly elections and Amarinder Singh's announcement of floating a new party, reported news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amarinder-singh-rubbishes-report-of-backend-talks-with-congress-says-time-for-rapprochement-is-over-101635595784034.html
30-10-2021||India||With Aryan Khan back home, here is where the drugs-on-cruise case stands||Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan was released from the Arthur Road jail on Saturday, two days after he was granted bail in connection with the drugs-on-cruise case. Narcotics Control Bureau Mumbai zone chief Sameer Wankhede is an investigating officer of the case. The NCB team raided the cruise party on October 2 and detained around 14 people. Eight of them, including Aryan Khan, were arrested. Based on the information revealed by the arrested during the interrogation, the NCB conducted several raids in October and the number of arrested in the case reached 20. The case took a controversial turn after Sammer Wankhede was accused of several irregularities and charges like extortion etc.Aryan Khan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha were granted bail on October 28. Those were not the first bail in the case. Odisha residents Avin Sahu and Manush Rajgaria who were there on the cruise were the first to be granted bail in the case.Where the drugs-on-cruise case stands now:Aryan Khan, Arbaaz Merchant, Munmun Dhamecha: Arrested on October 3, the three were granted bail on October 28. While no drugs were found on Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan, Arbaaz Merchant was found with six gram charas and Munmun was found with a packet of five gram contraband.Achit Kumar: Achit Kumar was not present on the cruise but was arrested based on what Aryan Khan and Arbaaz Merchant told the NCB. Both of them named Achit Kumar as their 'drug dealer'. The agency found 2.6 gram of ganja from him. He has also got bail.Manish Rajgaria and Avin Sahu: They were present on the cruise and were not found with drugs. They got bail on October 26.Nupur Satija, Gomit Chopra, Gopal Anand, Samir Sehgal, Manav Singhal and Bhaskar Arora, Ishmeet Singh Chadha,Shreyas Nair:All of them got bail on Saturday. Among these people, Gopal Anand, Samir Sehgal, Manav Singhal and Bhaskar Arora are allegedly the organisers of the cruise party.Gomit Chopra is a makeup artist and Nupur Satija is a Delhi resident. They were found with MDMA pills, the agency had claimed.Ishmeet Singh Chadha is a Delhi resident who was found with drugs and Shreyas Nair was accused by the NCB as a drug peddler.How many people are still in jailSo far, 14 people have been granted bail while six are still in jail, including Vikrant Chhokar, Mohak Jaswal, Abdul Kadir Sheikh, Shivraj Harijan and Nigerian nationals Chinedu Igwe and Okaro Ouzamo.What's next in the investigation?The agency alleged that it found links to an international drug network. It had also claimed that drug dealing has been done in the darknet and through bitcoins. As the case stands today, the agency is interrogating more people in connection with the case. Aryan, Arbaaz and Munmun will have to be present at the NCB office as and when required according to the development of the investigation. Sameer Wankhede remains the investigating officer of the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-aryan-khan-back-home-here-is-where-the-drugs-on-cruise-case-stands-101635593360436.html
30-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: Pak allows Taliban-appointed envoys for Afghan embassies and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Pak allows Taliban-appointed envoys to take charge in Afghan embassies: ReportPakistan allowed diplomats appointed by the Taliban-led government to take charge of the Afghan embassy and consulates in Pakistan, Dawn reported on Saturday. Read more5 big changes coming into effect from November 1. Check detailsFrom Monday (November 1), many sectors and things associated with day-to-day affairs will see changes. While some of these changes will affect the common people, others will give them a chance to earn money. Read morePuneeth Rajkumar's last rites to be performed on Sunday, says Karnataka CMKannada star Puneeth Rajkumar's last rites will be performed on Sunday at Sree Kanteerava Stadium on Sunday, Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Saturday. Read moreAfghan cricketer Rashid Khan reacts to Shehnaaz Gill's tribute video for Sidharth Shukla, prays for her strengthSinger-actor Shehnaaz Gill got her fans emotional after she released a tribute video for late rumoured boyfriend Sidharth Shukla. One of those was also cricketer Rashid Khan. Read moreT20 World Cup: 'There's a reason why we are playing on the field and not them': Kohli slams online trolls, backs ShamiAhead of India's second T20 World Cup match against New Zealand, skipper Virat Kohli slammed the social media trolls with stern words. Read moreDiwali 2021: Detox diets may damage your liver, warns Rujuta DiwekarWhile Diwali time brings with it loads of joy and cheer, going on a guilt-trip after binge-eating could make people consider detox diets. Read moreThese two sentences horror stories on Reddit may leave you spookedIf you are looking for a post that may make your Saturday a bit more interesting, then here is share about two sentences horror stories. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pak-allows-taliban-appointed-envoys-for-afghan-embassies-and-all-the-latest-news-101635590967730.html
30-10-2021||India||PM Modi meets Pope Francis, discuss ways to make ‘planet better’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Pope Francis discussed a wide range of global issues, including the Covid-19 crisis, fighting climate change and alleviating poverty, during their maiden meeting at the Vatican City on Saturday. In a tweet, Modi described the meeting as “warm” and said he had invited the Pope to visit India. The visit to the Vatican was scheduled to last only 20 minutes but went on for an hour, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity. Modi and the Pope discussed a range of issues “aimed at making the planet better”, such as climate change and poverty, the people said. Modi was the first Indian prime minister to meet Pope Francis since he became head of the Catholic Church in 2013. It was also the first meeting between an Indian prime minister and a pope since June 2000, when late prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee visited the Vatican and met Pope John Paul II. Pope John Paul II also made the last papal visit to India in 1999, when Vajpayee was the prime minister. Modi was accompanied to the Vatican by National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and external affairs minister S Jaishankar. Modi also met Cardinal Pietro Parolin, secretary of state of the Vatican City, and Archbishop Paul Richard Gallagher, the Vatican secretary for relations with states. “Had a very warm meeting with Pope Francis. I had the opportunity to discuss a wide range of issues with him and also invited him to visit India,” Modi said in his tweet. The external affairs ministry said the Pope granted Modi a private audience at the Apostolic Palace, and the two leaders discussed the Covid-19 pandemic and its consequences for people around the world. They also discussed the challenge posed by climate change, and Modi briefed the Pope about India’s initiatives to combat the phenomenon and the country’s success in administering one billion Covid-19 vaccination doses. The Pope appreciated India’s assistance to countries in need during the pandemic, the ministry said. The Pope also accepted Modi’s invitation to visit India.A statement from the Vatican said, “During a brief conversation, the cordial relations between the Holy See and India were discussed.” The official Vatican News reported Modi gifted the Pope a silver candlestick and a book on the commitment to the environment. The Pope reciprocated with a bronze plaque with the inscription “The desert will become a garden”, volumes of papal documents, his message for World Day of Peace and the document on Human Fraternity, signed on February 4, 2019 in Abu Dhabi by the Pope and the Grand Imam of Al-Azhar. Ahead of Modi’s meeting with the Pope, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla told reporters on Friday the Vatican had not set an agenda for the meet. Shringla had also said that issues covering a range of areas, including general global perspectives, Covid-19 and health issues, and working together to maintain peace and tranquillity were expected to figure in the discussions. Modi is in Italy to attend the G20 Summit during October 30-31. He will then travel to the UK to attend COP26 at Glasgow. He is set to meet French President Emmanuel Macron, Indonesian President Joko Widodo and Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong on the margins of the G20 Summit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-meets-pope-francis-discuss-ways-to-make-planet-better-101635591542433.html
30-10-2021||India||Watch: Rahul Gandhi takes a ride on Goa's 'motorcycle taxi' in Panaji||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday kickstarted the party's poll campaigning in Goa where he arrived for a day-long visit earlier today. During the campaigning, the Congress leader was spotted taking a ride on Goa's so-called motorcycle taxi 'Pilot', in the state capital Panaji.The video of Rahul Gandhi taking the ride was shared by news agency ANI on its Twitter handle. In the video, Gandhi, wearing a mask and a helmet, is seen sitting behind another person who is riding the 'motorcycle taxi' as they take the ride together from Bambolim to Azad Maidan in Panaji.“How best to connect with our people? Reach out to them when they are in their comfort zone. Shri@RahulGandhi setting examples for all leaders in India to follow,” the Congress party, which also shared the video, said in the caption on Twitter, with a hashtag #RahulGandhiWithGoa.#WATCH | Congress leader Rahul Gandhi takes a ride on Goa's motorcycle taxi known as 'Pilot', from Bambolim to Azad Maidan in Panaji(Source: Congress party) pic.twitter.com/kCc0KVQsoYRahul Gandhi also interacted with members of the fishermen community at Velsao beach in South Goa following his arrival in the state. He asserted that the assurances that his party will give in its election manifesto in the state will not just be a commitment, but a "guarantee" as not keeping the word will dent his credibility.Gandhi added that his party will prepare the poll manifesto in an open and transparent manner after holding talks with different stakeholders in the state, and its focus will be environment protection.The Congress leader also attacked the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), alleging it indulges in hatred and divides people."I am not here to waste your time or my time. Just as your time is important, my time is important...The commitment that we will make to you in manifesto is not just a commitment, but a guarantee," he said."My credibility is important to me. Unlike many other leaders, when I say something here, I will make sure it happens. If I come here I say to you that we will not allow coal hub and I don't do it, next time I come here I will have no credibility," he added.The assembly elections in Goa are due early next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-rahul-gandhi-takes-a-ride-on-goa-s-motorcycle-taxi-in-panaji-101635589999977.html
30-10-2021||India||'Patriotism can't be forced': Mehbooba Mufti urges PM Modi to intervene in arrests of Kashmiri students||People’s Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi regarding the arrests of three Kashmiri students in Agra for allegedly celebrating Pakistan's win over India in a T20 World Cup cricket match, urging him to intervene in the matter. Mufti said that the cricket match between India and Pakistan was “solely a source of entertainment” for Kashmiri people but led to booking the youngsters under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act “for simply choosing to cheer the winning side.”“While within Kashmir youth are no strangers to the state excesses, three students in Agra too have been arrested and charged with sedition for the same reasons. This despite the college's own admission that they didn't engage in any activity that might construed as anti national,” the former J&K chief minister wrote.Earlier this week, three Kashmiri students were suspended by an engineering college in Agra for allegedly raising pro-Pakistan slogans and sharing “anti-national” chats after India lost the World T-20 match on Sunday night. Police said that the students posted stories on social media praising Pakistan and disowned India as their country.In the letter to PM Modi, Mufti said that patriotism and a sense of loyalty have to be cultivated with compassion and can't be forced by “wielding the baton or by the barrel of a gun.” She argued that such punitive action, laced with contempt, against Kashmiri students will further the “sense of mistrust and alienation” between the younger generation and the rest of the country.“Wisdom deems it prudent for this government to engage with them, understand their aspirations and goals. I fervently request you to intervene so that the future of these young bright minds is not destroyed,” she wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/engage-with-them-mehbooba-mufti-urges-pm-modi-to-intervene-in-arrests-of-kashmiri-students-101635590618373.html
30-10-2021||India||5 big changes coming into effect from November 1. Check details here||From Monday (November 1), many sectors and things associated with day-to-day affairs will see changes. While some of these changes will affect the common people, others will give them a chance to earn money.These changes are coming into effect just days before the country celebrates Diwali, the festival of light.On the technological front too, a major change will be implemented by instant messaging service WhatsApp which will affect many users across the country as well as the world.Here is a look at some of these changes:Price of LPG cylinders expected to go up: News agency PTI reported earlier this month that the price of the the cylinders with liquefied petroleum gas (LPG), used for cooking food in many houses, can be increased by oil marketing companies. The news agency said that under-recovery on the fuel widened to over ₹100 per cylinder. However, the increase depends on the permission from the government, PTI reported. If allowed, this will be the fifth increase in cooking gas rates across all categories households. At present, LPG cylinder costs ₹899.50 in national capital Delhi.Relief for pensioners: The State Bank of India (SBI) is launching a new service from November 1. Under it, the pensioners won't have to visit a bank branch to submit lifer certificate. The facility will allow the pensioners to do so via a video call.Good news for investors: Those looking to invest their hard-earned money will get a chance on November 1, when the initial public offer (IPO) of Policybazaar will open. They will get more chance when the IPO of digital payments company Paytm launches on November 8. Apart from Policybazaar, the IPOs of SJS Enterprice, chemical maker Sigachi industries will also open on November 1. It is also the date when Nykaa's IPO closes for public.Special trains in festival season: The Indian Railways will run special traisn in view of Diwali, Chhath and other festivals in the month of November. While some of these traisn will start from November 1, others will be launched on different dates spread across the month. Apart from that, the Southern Railway announced on October 25 that their non-monsoon timetable will be effective from November 1.On and from 1st November 2021, the Non-Monsoon timetable will be effective!All Passengers are requested to please check the Railway Websites (NTES) and/or (IRCTC) for the timings before boarding their respective Trains#srupdates #SouthernRailway pic.twitter.com/pogGkMPzd6WhatsApp to end support for some Android and iOS users: Instant messaging platform WhatsApp has shared the list of smartphones which use old software - both Android and iOS - and won't be able to use the messaging platform from November 1. The users who have not updated their operating systems have been asked to do so before that date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-big-changes-coming-into-effect-from-november-1-check-details-here-101635589969919.html
30-10-2021||India||Cruise ship drugs case: NDPS court grants bail to nine more||A special Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) court on Saturday granted bail to nine accused in the cruise ship drugs case including Aachit Kumar, arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) for allegedly supplying drugs to Bollywood star Shahrukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan and his friend Arbaaz Merchant. Others granted bail by special NDPS judge Vaibhav Patil include make-up artist Gomit Chopra, Gurgaon resident Nupur Satija and four persons associated with a Delhi-based event management firm, Canplus Trading Private Limited. They include directors Sameer Sehgal and Gopalji Anand, and employees Manav Singhal and Bhaskar Arora. Later in the day, the special court also granted bail to Ishmeet Singh Chadha, a new Delhi resident arrested for alleged possession and consumption of narcotics, and Shreyas Nair, whom the agency termed as a drug peddler. The court also granted their request for temporary cash bail, so as to ensure their quick release from the jail instead of waiting till sureties are arranged. In all, 14 out of the 20 people arrested in the case, have received bail, while six accused -- Vikrant Chhokar, Mohak Jaswal, Abdul Kadir Sheikh, Shivraj Harijan and Nigerian nationals Chinedu Igwe and Okaro Ouzamo -- have either not applied for bail or their bail pleas have yet not been heard. Aachit Kumar was arrested by NCB on October 6, purportedly on the basis of WhatsApp chats exchanged between him and Aryan and Arbaaz. NCB claimed that it had seized 2.6 grams of marijuana from his Powai residence. While the agency claimed that Aachit was a drug peddler, his lawyers refuted the claim and maintained that the young boy, studying in United Kingodom was innocent. He argued that the college student cannot be termed a drug peddler and that the seizure memorandum was fabricated. Also Read | Aryan Khan out of jail, but not allowed to do these things: The bail conditionsThe four event organisers argued that they had no role to play with the drug seizures on the cruise and had specifically and clearly warned the guests about the need to abstain from drugs or other illegal substances in view of their zero tolerance policy towards consumption and distribution of drugs. NCB claimed to have seized four MDMA pills from Nupur Satija and Gomit Chopra. Gomit argued that the mandatory procedure under section 50 of NDPS Act was not followed while seizing the contraband material and therefore the seizure itself was illegal. The panchanama was not done at the spot, as mandated by the law, his lawyer had argued said. The special NDPS court on October 26 granted bail to two Odisha residents – Manish Rajgaria and Avin Sahu, both of whom were arrested by NCB for alleged consumption after the holiday cruise returned from Goa on October 5. Besides, Bombay high court granted bail to Aryan, Arbaaz and model Munmun Dhamecha. Aryan came out of Arthur Road jail on Saturday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cruise-ship-drugs-case-ndps-court-grants-bail-to-nine-more-101635587219464.html
30-10-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir gets its first ever floating theatre at Dal Lake||The first-ever open-air floating theatre in Jammu and Kashmir has been launched in the famous Dal lake.During the concluding ceremony of the ongoing Iconic week celebrations, the theatre was inaugurated by J&K chief secretary Arun Kumar Mehta.This theatre aims to attract tourism to the union territory. Kashmir has earned fame on a global level for its natural beauty and Bollywood filmmakers have called it a 'photographers paradise'.On this occasion, a Shikara rally, adorned with shining lights passed through Nehru Park to Kabootar Khana with local artists singing and dancing to Kashmiri songs which entertained guests and passersby.Bollywood film 'Kashmir ki Kali' was shown to tourists and residents of the area in the theatre.Sarmad Hafeez, secretary, tourism and culture, J&K government said that the theatre will benefit tourism in the Union territory (UT).
30-10-2021||India||Puneeth Rajkumar's last rites to be performed on Sunday, says Karnataka CM||Kannada star Puneeth Rajkumar's last rites will be performed on Sunday at Sree Kanteerava Stadium on Sunday, Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Saturday. The last rites were expected to be performed on Saturday for which the Bengaluru authorities imposed strict security measures in the city. However, the last rites could not be performed on Saturday and Puneeth Rajkumar's daughter, who stays in the United States, has only reached Delhi and will arrive in Bengaluru by 7pm. "As per our tradition, we don't perform funeral after sunset. His last rites will be performed at Sree Kanteerava Stadium in Bengaluru tomorrow," the chief minister said.The untimely and sudden death of the 46-year-old Kannada superstar has shaken the film fraternities across the country while politicians paid their tribute to the actor. For public viewing, his mortal remains were shifted to Sree Kanteerava Stadium, where thousands of his fans gathered to the last glimpse of the actor.
30-10-2021||India||Tripura mandates negative Covid-19 report from visitors from states with 5%+ positivity rate||The Tripura government has made it mandatory from Saturday for all visitors from different states where more than one district has a Covid positivity rate of 5% or more to produce negative Covid-19 test report irrespective of their Covid-19 vaccination status. The concerned visitors will have to undergo Covid-19 test at the entry point as per the norms announced by the state government. “Negative test report for Covid-19 done by RTPCR/True NAT/CBNAAT of 48 hrs prior to journey is required for entry into the state through Airport/Railway Station/Churaibari from those states of the country where more than one district has positivity rate of 5% or more as on 26.10.2021,” reads a notification served by the directorate of Family Welfare and Preventive Medicines. The state has recorded total 84,449 Covid-19 cases so far with 813 infection related deaths. Also Read: High court takes note of Tripura violenceIn the past 24 hours, 11 positive cases have been recorded with no deaths, according to the health department. Earlier in June this year, an audit report of the health department claimed that nearly 154 people infected with Covid-19 including 49 females and one child, died in Tripura during the second wave of the pandemic and most of them didn’t undergo tests in time and were not vaccinated. Among the dead patients, 63 were found to be suffering from comorbid diseases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-mandates-covid-19-negative-report-from-visitors-from-states-with-5-positivity-rate-101635586019766.html
30-10-2021||India||One BJP MLA, 6 rebel BSP MLAs join Samajwadi Party||One Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislature and six rebel Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MLAs (member of legislative assembly) joined Samajwadi Party on Saturday in the presence of Samajwadi Party national president Akhilesh Yadav at the SP state headquarters in Lucknow.The development came a day after SP chief Akhilesh Yadav inducted two western UP Congress heavyweights Harendra Malik (former parliamentarian) and his former MLA son Pankaj Malik. Rakesh Rathore, a BJP MLA from Sitapur Sadar assembly constituency joined Akhilesh’s party along with six BSP rebel MLAs - Aslam Raini, MLA from Bhigna (Shravasti), Mujtaba Siddiqui (Pratapur, Prayagraj), Aslam Ali Chaudhary (Dhalauna, Hapur), Hakim Lal Bind (Handia, Prayagraj), Sushma Patel (Mungra Badshapur, Jaunpur), and Hargovind Bhargava (Sidhauli, Sitapur).BSP had suspended these MLAs after they opposed the nomination of BSP’s official candidate for Rajya Sabha polls last October.After inducting the seven MLAs, Akhilesh said: “After today, the chief minister (Yogi Adityanath) will change his slogan from ‘Mera Parivaar, BhaJaPa (My family, BJP)’ to ‘Mera Parivaar, Bhaagta Parivaar (My family is running away)”. Also Read | ‘Won’t find 4 to 3 ticket seekers’: Akhilesh Yadav attacks Shah, BJPThe six rebel BSP MLAs had met Akhilesh Yadav then for the first time and now later in June this year. The BJP MLA, Rakesh Rathore too had met Akhilesh more than once in the last six months and had been speaking against the BJP.On Monday, former Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) leaders Lalji Verma and Ramachal Rajbhar had announced that they will formally join the Samajwadi Party at a rally in Ambedkar Nagar district on November 7 in the presence of party chief Akhilesh Yadav.Samajwadi Party, for the last one-and-a-half years, has been attracting leaders from other parties--largely BSP and Congress, and the switch overs have intensified as the assembly polls draw close. Akhilesh Yadav has been repeatedly saying that “any leader who wishes to join SP is welcome” and “SP will not ally with any big political party and will instead opt for strategic alliances with small regional parties”. Last week, Akhilesh Yadav stitched an alliance with SBSP (Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party)--a former BJP ally-turned-rival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-bjp-mla-6-rebel-bsp-mlas-join-samajwadiparty-101635585179350.html
30-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan out of jail, but not allowed to do these things: The bail conditions||Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan, walked out of the Arthur Road prison on Saturday, after spending more than three weeks in the central Mumbai facility following his arrest during a drug raid on a cruise ship off the city coast.Watch: Aryan Khan released from jail, driven away in white SUV amid heavy securityThe 23-year-old, arrested on October 3 by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), walked out of the prison at 11.02am and got into a waiting car, which reached his home Mannat in suburban Bandra shortly after 11.30am.The fans of SRK (as Shah Rukh Khan is popularly called) thronged in large numbers outside the actor's bungalow, celebrating with music, dance and firecrackers.Aryan Khan was given bail on Thursday, but the Bombay high court also put some conditions (actually 14 of them) which the 23-year-old has to follow. If any of these bail conditions is violated, then the NCB is entitled to apply for cancellation of bail straightaway, the court said.The bail conditions given by the high court apply on Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha too, who got bail along with Khan.Here's a look at those conditions:• Applicant/accused should not indulge in activity similar to what they are charged with.• He should not establish contact with any co-accused or any other person directly or indirectly involved in similar activities as alleged against them, through any mode of communication.• Applicant/accused shall not make any statement regarding the proceedings pending before the Special NDPS court to any media, including social media.• Applicant/accused shall surrender their passports and shall not leave country without prior permission of the Special NDPS court.• If the accused has to leave Mumbai, he should inform about the itinerary to the investigating officer.• Applicant/accused appear before the investigating officer of NCB every Friday between 11am and 2pm and join the investigation as and when called.• Applicant/accused shall not make any attempt to tamper evidence, influence witnesses - neither personally, nor through anyone.Each of them were asked to execute a personal bond of ₹1 lakh with one or more sureties in a similar amount by the high court which granted them bail. The court also said that once the trail begins, the accused should not try and delay it in any manner.All the accused have been ordered to be attend all the hearings in the court unless prevented by any "reasonable cause".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aryan-khan-out-of-jail-but-not-allowed-to-do-these-things-the-bail-conditions-101635584231010.html
30-10-2021||India||PM Modi invites Pope Francis to India during a ‘very warm meeting’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday had a “very warm meeting” with Pope Francis and invited him to visit India. The meeting was scheduled for only 20 minutes but went on for an hour where they discussed a wide range of issues, including climate change and poverty, according to the people familiar with the details of the meeting.“Had a very warm meeting with Pope Francis. I had the opportunity to discuss a wide range of issues with him and also invited him to visit India. @Pontifex,” PM Modi tweeted.Had a very warm meeting with Pope Francis. I had the opportunity to discuss a wide range of issues with him and also invited him to visit India. @Pontifex pic.twitter.com/QP0If1uJACPope John Paul II's was the last Papal visit to India in 1999 when Atal Bihari Vajpayee was the prime minister. The invitation for another Papal visit to India has been extended during PM Modi’s prime ministerial term. He is also the first Indian prime minister to meet Francis since the latter became the head of the Catholic Church in 2013.PM Modi paid a visit to Pope ahead of G20 Summit hosted by Italy. The prime minister was accompanied by external affairs minister S Jaishankar and national security adviser Ajit Doval.He also met the secretary of state of the Vatican City State, Cardinal Pietro Parolin.On Friday, foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said that the Vatican had not set an agenda for the meeting since the tradition is not to have an agenda when discussing issues with the Pope, adding that India would respect that.“I'm sure the issues would cover a range of areas of interest in terms of the general global perspectives and issues that are important to all of us, Covid-19, health issues, how we can work together, how we can work together to maintain peace and tranquillity and this is something that, I think would be the general trend in the discussions,” Shringla said during a special briefing on PM Modi's visit to Italy.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-invites-pope-francis-to-india-during-a-very-warm-meeting-101635584079730.html
30-10-2021||India||‘Won’t find 4 to 3 ticket seekers’: Akhilesh Yadav attacks Shah, BJP||The Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday attacked the Bharatiya Janata Party and Union home minister Amit Shah in the run up to the assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh and said that the saffron party was “unlikely” to find ticket-seeking candidates due to people’s “anger” against the ruling party.He also took a dig at Shah, who was busy meeting BJP leaders, office-bearers, and cadres in Lucknow on Saturday, over Union minister of state Ajay Mishra Teni’s presence in Shah’s rally yesterday. “Even if the BJP announces 403 chief ministers in Uttar Pradesh, it will still not get even 4 to 3 ticket seekers considering the public anger against the party...How will the party get ticket seekers when it is visibly heading towards defeat. The public which is distressed because of the BJP will make it suffer for every vote...The BJP is finished,” Akhilesh tweeted on a day when 6 Bahujan Samaj Party and one BJP MLA switched over to the SP. Amit Shah ask BJP workers to set a target of winning more than 300 of the 403 seats in the upcoming UP assembly polls. He had also made it clear that the incumbent chief minister Yogi Adityanath will be the chief minister if the party wins the elections. He also attacked opposition parties and leaders, especially Akhilesh Yadav and his poll-related activities. “Earlier mafia and criminals ruled the state, now when I look through ‘durbeen’ then I can’t see them anywhere in UP.” Shah had said, making a binocular gesture by curling his figures over his eyes.Also Read | UP people suffering due to ‘loot’ of electricity bills: Priyanka GandhiAkhilesh launched a counter attack on Shah on Saturday and tweeted: “The search with the fake binocular was a drama while the culprit was right next (to Amit Shah)”. His comment seemed to be a reference to minister of state, Ajay Mishra ‘Teni’, who was sharing the stage with Shah at a BJP event in the city. Ajay Mishra is the father of Ashish Mishra, a top accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence incident in which eight persons including four farmers were killed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wont-find-4-to-3-ticket-seekers-akhilesh-yadav-attacks-shah-bjp-101635583019225.html
30-10-2021||India||Three workers died in a factory in Raipur||Three workers died while cleaning a tank at a ‘gudakhu’ manufacturing unit located in Raipur’s Sadar Bazar area on Friday night, Raipur superintendent of police Prashant Agarwal said . ‘Gudakhu’ is a paste-like mix made from powdered tobacco and molasses, used widely in Orissa, Chhattisgarh and neighbouring states.“ The tank was used to ferment molasses and tobacco, which led to some poisonous gas. Purshottam Sahu (28), Netram Sahu (59) and Jogeshwar Uike (40) were cleaning a tank used to mix raw materials when they suddenly fell unconscious,” the SP said. They were rushed to a nearby hospital where they died during treatment, he added. “We have registered a case and the exact cause of death will be known after we get the autopsy reports,” the SP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-workers-died-in-a-factory-in-raipur-101635581279278.html
30-10-2021||India||Arunachal Pradesh river turns black, thousands of fish die; locals blame China: Report||A river in Arunachal Pradesh suddenly turned black leading to death of thousands of fish, news agency PTI reported on Saturday. The officials have warned people against eating the fish found floating on the surface of Kameng river, the news agency further reported.The district officials have pointed towards the high content of total dissolved substances (TDS) as the reason for the river, situated in East Kameng district, turning black.PTI quoted district fisheries officials as saying that the TDS leads to breathing issues for aquatic species. The fish under the water are also experience reduced visibility due to high level of TDS, the officials further said.The TDS in the Kameng river was 6,800 mg per liter, much higher than the normal range of 300-1,200 mg per liter, said District Fisheries Development Officer (DFDO) Hali Tajo.Meanwhile, the residents of Seppa village, where the incident took place, have blamed China, claiming the TDS level went dangerously high due to the construction activities being carried out by the neighbouring country across the border.Watch: Is China's increase in Arunachal LAC activity new tactic after Ladakh jolt?Seppa East MLA Tapuk Taku appealed to the state government to immediately constitute a committee of experts to ascertain the cause behind the abrupt change in the colour of the Kameng river's water and the death of a large quantity of fish."If it continues for more than a few days, the aquatic life from the river will be totally eliminated," PTI quoted him as saying.Earlier this week, India picked up increased activities and intensified patrolling by China's People's Liberation Army (PLA) in sensitive areas across the contested border in Arunachal Pradesh.The data accessed by Hindustan Times showed that the Indian Army detected PLA's increased operational tempo in Lungro La, Zimithang and Bum La, which are areas of historical significance in the context of Chinese aggression in the eastern sector. The army further told HT that counter measures have been taken.The army used satellites, long-range unmanned aerial vehicles, superior network of radars and hi-tech night vision systems to monito PLA's activities. The surveillance picked up increased vehicular movement due to infrastructure development activities and a large number of excavators and bulldozers to keep road axes open across the Lungro La, Zimithang and Bum La sectors, an official told Hindustan Times.In 2017, a similar blackening of Siang river at Pasighat was reported. At that time, then Congress MP from Arunachal East Ninong Ering had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking his intervention, claiming that it was the result of the construction of a 10,000-km-long tunnel in China, which diverted water from Siang to Xinjiang province in the Taklamakan desert.China had denied the allegation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arunachal-river-turns-black-thousands-of-fish-die-locals-blame-china-report-101635579642411.html
30-10-2021||India||‘You're only making Modi stronger’: After Prashant Kishor, Mamata pans Congress||Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is only going to be “more powerful” because the Congress is not serious about politics. Speaking at a TMC event in Goa, Mamata also accused the principal opposition party at the national level of not taking decisions, adding that the country is suffering because of that.Mamata's sharp critique of the Congress comes days after political strategist Prashant Kishor hit out at party leader Rahul Gandhi, saying he was probably under an illusion that it’s only a matter of time until PM Modi’s power wanes.Also Read | BJP will remain powerful for decades, predicts poll strategist Prashant KishorAddressing a group of media persons in Panaji on the last day of her three-day visit to the coastal state, where assembly polls are due early next year, Mamata said, “I cannot say everything right now because they [the Congress] didn't take politics seriously. Modi ji is going to be more powerful because of Congress… If one cannot make a decision, why should the country suffer for that?”“They [the Congress] got an opportunity in the past,” the PTI news agency quoted Mamata Banerjee as saying. “Instead of fighting against the BJP, they contested against me in my state.”The Trinamool supremo apparently sent a message to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), too, in her Saturday speech, saying that her state has had enough of Delhi's “dadagiri” (a Bengali colloquial term that roughly equates to “bullying”). “Delhi ka dadagiri amka naka (We don't want Delhi's bullying), enough is enough,” she said.She said that her party believes in distributions for the regional parties in elections. Speaking of the upcoming Goa elections, the Bengal chief minister said, “I want the regional parties to be strong, and we want that the federal structure of India to be strong. We should make the states strong. If states are strong, only then shall the Centre be strong.”Notably, the Trinamool Congress has announced that it will be contesting all the 40 seats in the upcoming Goa assembly elections. Prashant Kishor, whose profile as a poll strategist shot up after he helped the TMC retain power in West Bengal earlier this year by giving Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s BJP a rare snub in the state elections, is also in Goa now, assisting Mamata in finding a foothold to contest the upcoming elections.Also Read | Congress leader Rahul Gandhi to visit Goa today, months ahead of 2022 pollsKishor, speaking at a private event two days ago, said, “The BJP is going to be the centre of Indian politics, whether they win, whether they lose - like it was for the first 40 years for Congress. The BJP is going nowhere. Once you secure 30 per cent of the vote at the India-level, you are not going away in a hurry.”Meanwhile, Kishor’s Indian Political Action Committee (IPAC), a poll consultancy firm, has begun surveys on behalf of the TMC in Goa to help the party expand beyond Bengal. In Goa, the TMC has taken on board former Congress leader Luizinho Faleiro to lead the party in elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/youre-only-making-modi-stronger-after-prashant-kishor-mamata-pans-congress-101635577181641.html
30-10-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: After Prashant Kishor, Mamata attacks Congress and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is only going to be “more powerful” because the Congress is not serious about politics. Speaking at a TMC event in Goa, Mamata also accused the principal opposition party at the national level of not taking decisions, adding that the country is suffering because of that. Read moreIn less than three weeks after the Karnataka government told the Supreme Court that it does not intend to deport or take any coercive action against Rohingya Muslims, the state government has filed a fresh affidavit, leaving it open for the court to determine the action to be taken against these refugees. Read moreNew Zealand pacer Tim Southee termed India ‘a quality side’ and predicted ‘a great contest’ between the two sides in what could well turn out to be a virtual quarterfinal in T20 World Cup 2021 Super 12, Group 2. India and New Zealand are coming off defeats to Pakistan in their opening matches and after the Babar Azam-led side's victory against Afghanistan, it is more or less certain only one among New Zealand, India and Afghanistan can make it to the semi-final from Group 2. Read moreToyota has recently unveiled its first all-electric SUV called the bZ4X. It is the first model in the company's bZ series which will host a range of new models in the near future. The name bZ stands for ‘beyond Zero’ which reflects Toyota's approach towards carbon neutrality. Read moreKatrina Kaif is all set to join her Ek Tha Tiger co-star Salman Khan on the upcoming Bigg Boss 15 Weekend Ka Vaar episode. She will promote her upcoming film Sooryavanshi along with director Rohit Shetty. A new promo for the episode shows Katrina making certain allegations on Salman during a game. Read moreBollywood actor Sunny Leone attended an award show in the United Arab Emirates wearing a smoking hot all-black gown. The star even shared pictures of her wearing the dress before hitting the red carpet, and they will leave you weak in the knees. In the sensuous ensemble, Sunny proved once again that one could never go wrong with black, and we agree. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-after-prashant-kishor-mamata-attacks-congress-and-all-the-latest-news-101635577751097.html
30-10-2021||India||2022 UP Assembly Polls: Six rebel BSP MLAs to join SP today||Six rebel Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MLAs are set to join the Samajwadi Party on Saturday in the presence of its national president Akhilesh Yadav at party’s state headquarters in Lucknow, people aware of the development said.The development comes a day after SP chief Akhilesh Yadav inducted two western UP Congress heavyweights Harendra Malik (former MP) and his former MLA son Pankaj Malik into SP fold. The BSP MLAs who are joining SP are: Aslam Raini, Mujtaba Siddiqui, Aslam Ali Chaudhary, Hakim Lal Bind, Sushma Patel, and Hargovind Bhargava. BSP had suspended these MLAs after they opposed the nomination of BSP’s official candidate for Rajya Sabha polls last October.The six MLAs had met Akhilesh Yadav then for the first time and now later in June this year.On Monday, former Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) leaders Lalji Verma and Ramachal Rajbhar had announced that they will formally join the Samajwadi Party at a rally in Ambedkar Nagar district on November 7 in the presence of party chief Akhilesh Yadav.Ramachal Rajbhar is the MLA from UP’s Akbarpur and Lalji Verma from the state’s Katehari constituency in Ambedkar Nagar district. “We worked hard for the BSP for very long but were expelled from the party on June 3,” Verma said, while speaking at Akhilesh Yadav’s press conference in Lucknow.BSP had expelled the two, accusing them of anti-party activities during the panchayat election earlier this year.Once considered close to BSP chief Mayawati, both Lalji Verma and Ramachal Rajbhar served as cabinet ministers during the BSP regime in the state. Before their expulsion, Verma was the state president of the party and Rajbhar the BSP Legislature Party leader in the UP assembly.Also Read: One of UP’s most wanted gunned down in Chitrakoot jungleThe six rebel BSP MLAs delayed their formal switch to the Samajwadi Party to protect their assembly memberships. The BSP has 18 MLAs in the UP assembly, but 11 of them are either suspended or expelled.Aslam Raini is an MLA from Bhigna in Shravasti; Mujtaba Siddiqui from Pratapur in Prayagraj; Aslam Ali Chaudhary from Dhalauna, Hapur; Hakim Lal Bind from Handia, Prayagraj; Sushma Patel from Mungra Badshapur in Jaunpur, and Hargovind Bhargava represents Sidhauli, Sitapur.Samajwadi Party, for the last one-and-a-half years, has been attracting leaders from other parties--largely BSP and Congress, and the switch overs have intensified as the assembly polls draw close. Akhilesh Yadav has been repeatedly saying that “any leader who wishes to join SP is welcome” and “SP will not ally with any big political party and will instead opt for strategic alliances with small regional parties”. Last week, Akhilesh Yadav stitched an alliance with SBSP (Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party)--a former BJP ally-turned-rival.Uttar Pradesh is likely to go to polls early next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2022-up-assembly-polls-six-rebel-bsp-mlas-to-join-sp-today-101635577619286.html
30-10-2021||India||Karnataka revises its stand on Rohingyas in SC||In less than three weeks after the Karnataka government told the Supreme Court that it does not intend to deport or take any coercive action against Rohingya Muslims, the state government has filed a fresh affidavit, leaving it open for the court to determine the action to be taken against these refugees.The state filed its second affidavit in response to a petition filed by a lawyer and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay on October 26. The petition sought an order from the court to identify, detain and deport illegal immigrants and infiltrators including Bangladeshis and Rohingyas within a year.The new affidavit filed by KN Vanaja, under secretary in the state Department of Home disclosed that a total of 126 Rohingyas have been identified in the state who were not staying in any camp or detention centre. “This Respondent undertakes that whatever the order that would be passed by this court will be scrupulously adhered to and followed in its letter and spirit,” the affidavit said.This affidavit lacked the clear assertion made by the state in its previous affidavit filed on October 7 while responding to the same petition, where it was said, “72 Rohingyas identified in Bengaluru City are working in various fields and Bengaluru City police have not taken any coercive action against them as of now and there is no immediate plan of deporting them.” This affidavit was filed by YS Chandrashekhara, police inspector in the office of the director general and inspector general of police.The previous response by the Basavaraj Bommai-led government of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was at variance with the firm stand against the continuation of Rohingya immigrants in the country, taken by the Centre. In an affidavit filed in September 2017, in response to a petition filed by two Rohingya immigrants seeking refugee status, the Ministry of Home Affairs said, “Continuance of Rohingyas’ illegal immigration into India and their continued stay has serious national security ramifications and threats.”Also Read: Puneeth Rajkumar’s last rites expected today, says Bengaluru Police commissionerThe affidavit had then estimated presence of over 40,000 Rohingya Muslims in the country and disclosed that intelligence inputs pointed out their links with Pakistan-based terror organisations and indulgence in anti-national activities such as mobilisation of funds through hawala channels, procuring fake identities and involvement in human trafficking.It was for this reason that Upadhyay in his petition filed in 2017 demanded the Centre and state governments to amend laws to make illegal immigration and infiltration a cognisable, non-bailable and non-compoundable offence. In addition, he sought directions from the court to declare the preparation of forged/fabricated PAN Cards, AADHAR cards, passports, ration cards and voter i-cards and such other identity documents a non-bailable, non-compoundable offence.The earlier response by Karnataka urged for dismissal of the petition by saying, “The Petition is devoid of merits. Hence, the petition is liable to be dismissed.” However, the recent affidavit has steered clear of this stand and has left it to the courts to decide the issue..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-revises-its-stand-on-rohingyas-in-sc-101635576058658.html
30-10-2021||India||NCB under fire: 5 drugs cases in a year, same witness in all, says report||Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan was on Saturday released from Mumbai's Arthur Road jail, where he was being held in a drugs-related case initiated by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB). The federal agency has now come under fresh fire over how it is dealing with drug-peddling charges, a number of cases related to which were probed by it over one year. A recent media report claimed that not only has the NCB initiated as many as five drugs-related cases in a year, but only one witness – Adil Fazal Usmani – has been produced by the probe agency as ‘panch witness’ while investigating all of them.Also Read | NCB’s Sameer Wankhede asked HC for arrest shield, told he will get 3-day noticeThe Indian Express reported that the NCB has been using Usmani, who was among the 10 panch witnesses cited by the agency in the cruise ship raid involving Aryan Khan, in at least five drugs-related cases since 2020. The newspaper reported, citing records seen by it, that Usmani, a resident of the Jogeshwari area in Mumbai, was cited by the NCB as a panch witness in these five cases – two of them in 2020 and three in 2021.Apart from Usmani, two other panch witnesses cited by the NCB reportedly include Kiran Gosavi and Manish Bahubali. The Hindustan Times reported earlier this week that Gosavi was arrested in Pune in connection with a 2018 cheating case.Prabhakar Sail, a bodyguard of NCB witness Kiran Gosavi, earlier alleged that Gosavi took ₹50 lakh from an individual after the raid at the cruise ship. Gosavi however, has denied the allegations. Notably, Sail, too, has been listed as one of the 10 panch witnesses in the Mumbai cruise case. The other six, apart from Usmani, Gosavi, Bahubali, and Sail are – Aparna Rane, Prakash Bahadur, Shoaib Faiz, Aubrey Gomez, Muzammil Ibrahim, and V Waigankar. A few of these people, reported the Indian Express, are security staff in the Cordelia cruise luxury liner from which Aryan Khan and others were held during the drugs bust on October 2.A controversy erupted after Prabhakar Sail, one of the witnesses cited by the NCB for the raid, filed an affidavit sworn before a notary on October 23 alleging that he overheard his former employer Kiran Gosavi, also a witness in the Aryan Khan-cruise drug case, talking to a person about settling the matter for ₹18 crore and that amount of ₹8 crore would be required to be paid to NCB official Sameer Wankhede.Aryan Khan, his friend Arbaaz Merchant and model Munmun Dhamecha were arrested by a team led by Sameer Wankhede on October 3 after a raid on a cruise ship have all been in custody for 23 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncb-under-fire-5-drugs-cases-in-a-year-same-witness-in-all-says-report-101635570591979.html
30-10-2021||India||Bypolls 2021: Bengal turnout crosses 34%; big battles for BJP, Congress||The voting in bypolls to three Lok Sabha constituencies and 30 Assembly seats spread across 13 states and one union territory is being held on Saturday. The voting is expected to continue till 6pm.Track Live UpdatesIn Bihar, the turnout reached 21.79 per cent by 11am, according to the figures released by polling officials. The voting is being held on Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan assembly constituencies in the state.Assam, where polling is being held on four assembly seats - Gossaigaon, Bhabanipur, Tamulpur, Mariani and Thowra - registered 31.44 per cent turnout till 11am, according to polling officials.The polling has been peaceful so far, in the northeastern state and long queues were seen outside polling booths where voters queued up to cast their vote beginning 7am. Thirty one candidates are in then fray in Assam.Madhya Pradesh is witnessing polling in one Lok Sabha (Khandwa) and three Assembly constituencies - Raigaon, Jobat and Prithvipur. While Khandwa recorded 25.23 per cent turnout till 11am, Raigaon saw 33.62 per cent voters exercising their franchise. In Prithvipur, 34.52 per cent turnout was recorded, while Jobat saw 28.52 per cent turnout.In Karnataka, Sindgi recorded a voting percentage of 26.75 per cent till 9am, whereas Hangal saw 24.31 per cent turnout. The overall turnout stands at 25.61 at 11am, according to the figures released by Eldction Commission of India (ECI).In West Bengal, the highest turnout of 34 per cent was recorded in Gosaba till 11am. Dinhata recorded 29 per cent turnout, whereas Khardah saw 24 per cent voting. Meanwhile, Santipur saw 32 per cent turnout till 11am.In Rajasthan too, there is a direct contest between the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Dhariawad and Vallabhnagar assembly seats. The polling percentage in the state reached 25.23 per cent at 11am. While Vallabhnagar recorded 23.3 per cent turnout,  Dhariawad saw 27.13 per cent voters exercising their franchise.In Maharashtra, 12 candidtaes are in the fray for the single assembly seat of Deglur, including those from the Congress and the BJP.In Haryana, the Ellenabad assembly seat is seeing a triangular contest between the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD), the Congress and the ruling BJP-Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) alliance.The other states where polling is taking place are Himachal Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Meghalaya, Mizoram and Nagaland.Campaigning for all three Lok Sabha and 30 assembly seats concluded on October 27 and the counting will take place on November 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bypolls-2021-bihar-turnout-crosses-21-big-battles-for-bjp-congress-101635573223380.html
30-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan released after spending 22 days in Mumbai jail||Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood star Shah Rukh Khan, was released from Mumbai’s Arthur Road jail at about 11am on Saturday, two days after the Bombay high court granted him bail and after spending 22 days behind bars in the cruise drugs abuse case .On Saturday, at about 10.25 am, Shah Rukh Khan’s security team reached the jail to receive and take Aryan back home. The Bombay high court on Friday had granted Aryan, his friend Arbaaz Merchant and model Munmun Dhamecha bail in a drug case that made many raise issues of questionable proof and investigative overreach.They were arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on October 3, along with several others, a day after the agency conducted searches at the International Cruise Terminal in Mumbai and a holiday cruise anchored at the terminal and purportedly seized multiple drugs from a number of persons.They spent first five days in NCB custody and were shifted to jail on October 8, a day after the Esplanade metropolitan magistrate court remanded them to judicial custody. The high court on Friday issued a five-page bail order and listed 14 bail conditions, including surrendering of passport, no influencing of witnesses or contacting co-accused, and presenting themselves in the NCB office every week.The court stipulated a personal bond of ₹1 lakh each with one or two sureties of the same amount, and said it will release a detailed order with reasons next week.Shortly thereafter, actor Juhi Chawla appeared before the special NDPS court along with Aryan’s counsel, advocate Satish Maneshinde, as surety for Aryan. No sureties were presented for Merchant and Dhamecha.But a Friday release for the 23-year-old was thwarted because the bail documents did not reach Arthur Road jail -- where Aryan spent 22 days for alleged consumption of drugs and conspiracy - in time.“As per the jail manual, the procedure is that documentation (for release on bail) should be completed by 5:30pm and his documents did not reach us. After due course process, he will be released from jail tomorrow (Saturday),” Nitin Vaychal, superintendent of Arthur Road jail said on Friday.Also Read | Extortion charges: Police begin probe against Wankhede, other NCB officersFor a prison inmate to get out on bail, the court papers have to be put inside a rusted steel letter box that is installed outside the jail. The box is opened four times everyday at 5.30 am, 9.30 am, 3.30 pm and 5.30 pm.Aryan’s legal team dropped his bail papers in the box late in Friday evening and the jail authorities collected the same at 5.30 am. Vaychal said the 23-year-old will be released along with other inmates lodged in the jail, whose bail papers were received and processed by the jail staff.Aryan and others were arrested by NCB on October 3, a day after NCB Mumbai zonal chief Sameer Wankhede led a raid on the cruise ship Cordelia, docked off the Mumbai coast. Wankhede said that 13 grams of cocaine, 5 grams of mephedrone, 21 grams of charas, 22 pills of MDMA (ecstasy), and ₹1.33 lakh in cash were recovered from the ship. He also claimed that Aryan was linked to a foreign international drug trafficker, and therefore needed to remain in custody.Dhamecha’s counsel, Kashif Ali Khan Deshmukh, said on Friday that they will approach the Bombay high court again. ”We are moving for cash bail as Munmun is not a resident of Mumbai and facing problems with surety for her release,” he said.The case turned on its head last Sunday, when a key NCB witness alleged that Wankhede was part of a ₹25 crore extortion racket targeting Aryan. The witness, Prabhakar Sail, also alleged that he was forced to sign sheets of blank paper, prompting the anti-drug agency to set up a vigilance inquiry into Wankhede’s conduct.As delays mounted, experts doubted whether protocol was breached during the raid – private individuals like Sail’s employer Kiran Gosavi, who was arrested in Pune on extortion charges on Thursday, were seen assisting officials and walking into the NCB office despite holding no official position in any law enforcement agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aryan-khan-released-from-arthur-road-jail-101635573478762.html
30-10-2021||India||Villagers oppose opening up of Hasdeo Arand forest for coal mining in Chhattisgarh||The grant of stage II or final forest clearance to Parsa opencast coal mine in Chhattisgarh’s Hasdeo Arand region has led to widespread protests by the affected villagers. Ten villagers along with farmer and environmental groups are in Delhi to register their opposition to opening up of 841.538 ha forest land which supports their livelihoods and to the opening up of Hasdeo Arand forests.The groups met Congress leader, Rahul Gandhi on Thursday, and plans to approach the Forest Advisory Committee (FAC) against its decision to grant a final clearance to Parsa. The FAC in a letter dated October 21 granted the final approval for coal mining in 841.538 ha of forest land under the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980. HT had reported on February 10, 2019 that the FAC had granted stage 1 or the preliminary forest clearance to the mine despite finding that a part of the forest included “very dense” forest cover. The mine falls in one of the largest contiguous stretches of very dense forest in central India called Hasdeo Arand that spans 170,000 ha (hectares).The FAC had granted stage 1 clearance based on certain conditions like: State government shall reconfirm the presence/absence of very dense forest in the northeastern part of the proposed forest land and exclude it; state government will comply with an Indian Council of Forestry Research and Education biodiversity study of the Hasdeo Arand region including the Parsa block; legal status of the forest land will remain unchanged and many others. FAC’s letter granting stage II forest clearance suggests that these conditions may have been fulfilled.“The state government has forwarded the Draft Biodiversity Assessment Report which has been considered in the ministry as final report from the state government and the recommendations in the report have been considered to be accepted by the state government for their compliance. Therefore, in view of the compliance of Stage-I approval and submission of the Biodiversity Assessment Report, approval of the proposal has been considered by the ministry,” the October 21 final approval states.But villagers likely to be displaced have a completely different view of the forest diversion in Hasdeo Arand. Villagers of Fatehpur, Hariharpur and Salhi have alleged that gram sabha consent was forged for stage 1 approval. “First thing is gram sabha did not approve the diversion of this forest. It was forged. Secondly, for us tribals, the entire Hadeo Arand forest is like our bank account. We depend completely on it for food and fodder. We will be devastated if we are thrown out of our forest,” said Ramlal Karyam, who is in Delhi to meet Congress leaders. Also Read: Chhattisgarh’s Hasdeo Arand residents plan protest in Delhi against mining clearanceSonki Singh of Fatehpur said, “The forest gives us mahua, tendu, all kinds of fruits and fodder. The forest is being handed over for mining by force and not by consent. Our deities live in Hasdeo Arand. All villagers for Hariharpur, Fatehpur and Salhi and the entire Hasdeo region will oppose this move.” She is also travelling with others from Parsa region.“It’s a big lie that there are no dense forests here. Parsa region has very dense sal forests and presence of elephants, leopards, sloth bear, jackals, porcupines, sambhars and many other wildlife. First, they need to verify if a wildlife and biodiversity study was conducted at all. If yes, then how did they not find rich wildlife presence?” asked Muneshwar from Fatehpur.“If we don’t hear from the environment ministry, we will have to move the Supreme Court or the National Green Tribunal. We met Congress leader Rahul Gandhi who has promised to intervene. We expect the Congress government in Chhattisgarh to cancel the final approval to the mine,” said Alok Shukla, convener of the Chhattisgarh Bachao Andolan.The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of the unions of farmers leading the agitation against the three new farm laws is also supporting Chhattisgarh villagers in the campaign against diversion of Hasdeo Arand forest. “We are farmers. They are indigenous farmers and their way of farming is unique. They depend on forests and protect forests like their own property. The government cannot take it away from them without following the due process. We have been told by villagers that gram sabha consent was forged. We will provide them whatever legal, political assistance needed in this case,” said Yudhvir Singh of SKM.HT mailed Adani Enterprises on October 26 regarding protests by villagers but did not receive a response until Friday. The mine is owned by Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Limited (RRVUNL), which has handed over the mining operations to Rajasthan Collieries Limited, a subsidiary of Adani Enterprises.A senior member of the FAC and forest ministry official said: “Yes stage II clearance has been granted. We were not aware of these issues. We will check.” Villagers had raised these concerns in a letter sent to the ministry’s forest conservation division on May 3, 2021.“The call of the Hasdeo Arand Bachao Sangharsh Samiti is ‘Hasdeo Bachega to Desh Bachega’, signalling that protecting Hasdeo Arand symbolises much more than a localised struggle. It is a call to recognise the constitutional mandate of gram sabhas (village assemblies) and restoring faith in rule of law which has been seriously challenged in the case of land acquisition, forest and environmental approvals. Other than that, this is a call to foreground food security, nature-based jobs, biodiversity and water security in policy decisions, all of which are threatened in the case of Hasdeo,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher, Centre for Policy Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/villagers-oppose-opening-up-of-hasdeo-arand-forest-for-coal-mining-in-chhattisgarh-101635572458456.html
30-10-2021||India||Puneeth Rajkumar's last rites expected today, says Bengaluru Police commissioner||The last rites of Kannada actor Puneeth Rajkumar are expected to be performed on Saturday, Bengaluru Police commissioner said, adding, the final call about the funeral will be taken by his family. Puneeth Rajkumar, a Kannada film star and celebrity television host, died on Friday following a heart attack. He was 46.“On the basis of the decision taken by Puneeth Rajkumar's family, the next stage of security arrangements will be made. The family will take a call on when the final rites will be performed. Probably, the last rites will be done today itself,” news agency ANI quoted Bengaluru Police commissioner Kamal Pant as saying.Meanwhile, hundreds of thousands of Puneeth Rajkumar’s fans gathered in large numbers to pay their last respects to the actor at Kanteerava Stadium in Bengaluru, reported ANI. Mortal remains of the actor, wrapped in the national tri-colour, have been kept at the stadium to enable fans and well-wishers to pay their respects all day on Saturday. The actor died on Friday after a massive heart attack following a two-hour workout in the gym, leaving his fans and colleagues stunned and grief-stricken. Many were left wondering just how a young man so seemingly fit and healthy could have died so suddenly.Soon after the news of Puneeth's demise emerged, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai and several other political leaders paid homage to the actor."A cruel twist of fate has snatched away from us a prolific and talented actor, Puneeth Rajkumar. This was no age to go. The coming generations will remember him fondly for his works and wonderful personality. Condolences to his family and admirers. Om Shanti," PM Modi tweeted.He was popularly known as 'Powerstar' for his strong performance in a number of commercially-successful Kannada films. He was not just a star of films such as Appu but also a celebrity television host and the occasional singer too.The actor is survived by his wife and two daughters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/puneeth-rajkumar-last-rites-expected-today-says-bengaluru-police-commissioner-101635568236447.html
30-10-2021||India||Bengal firm seeks Mamata Banerjee’s intervention; alleges kidnapping, extortion||Purti Realty, a well-known real estate group based in West Bengal, on Friday alleged that three of its engineers were kidnapped from Hooghly district after the company received extortion demands from a man who claimed to be a “close aide” of a Trinamool Congress (TMC) legislator from the district. Mahesh Agarwal, managing director of Purti Realty, which is carrying out two projects worth about ₹1000 crore in Hooghly, wrote an e-mail to chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday while she was on a political tour of Goa and sought her intervention. One of these projects is a logistics hub of online retail giant Amazon and the other is a resort of the Marriott group, Agarwal mentioned in his mail to Banerjee. Agarwal alleged that a man who identified himself as Rajib Basu Roy and claimed to be a close aide of a TMC legislator from the district, called up and demanded 50,000 T-shirts during the recent Durga puja. Agarwal wrote that Basu Roy hung up the phone when he was told that if one T-shirt costs ₹70, the company would incur an expenditure of around ₹35 lakh. “He instantly disconnected the telephone and messaged us for 5000 T-shirts,” wrote Agarwal. HT saw a copy of the mail and decided not to name the TMC legislator because the person in question could not be contacted for his comments despite several efforts. HT talked to Agarwal on Friday night. He said he had lodged a formal complaint with the police. “Yesterday (28-10-2021) he entered our site and asked for extortion amount and threatened [that] if not paid by 29-10-2021, he will enter our site and show us his muscle and political power,” wrote Agarwal. “Today, at about 9.00-9.30 am he entered our site in a white Scorpio and started beating our men with sticks and bamboos and kidnapped our three men (engineers) namely Piyush Kanti Poral, Tanmoy Barik and Sudip Sarkar and post which, he has sent information to us to bring money and take away our men,” Agarwal wrote in the mail. Also Read: One more held for murder of Kolkata corporate executive, driver; main accused still at largeHe said that the white SUV had a Jharkhand registration number and the alleged kidnapper wanted the ransom money to be sent to a hotel located on the Durgapur Expressway. The hotel’s name was mentioned in the mail. “Respected Madam, we, with folded hands, request your good self to look into the matter and save the investment environment of the state initiated by you. These type of local goons are spoiling the image and creating fear factor for West Bengal’s peace loving environment,” Agarwal wrote. Locket Chatterjee, the Bharatiya Janata Party Lok Sabha member from Hooghly district, took up the issue and targeted the chief minister. “A glaring example of how a businessman became a victim of extortion. His employees got kidnapped! It shows how Mamata Banerjee is running the extortion industry in West Bengal with the help of her MLA’s and party cadres. The prime reason why Bengal reeks of backwardness!” Chatterjee tweeted on Friday night. Headquartered in south Kolkata, Purti Realty has so far completed 24 residential and commercial projects in Bengal. These include some high-end housing projects and shopping malls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-firm-seeks-mamata-banerjee-s-intervention-alleges-kidnapping-extortion-101635570838409.html
30-10-2021||India||China will take one-third of carbon space by 2030, India 7%, says CSE||China will take away almost one-third of the remaining global carbon space between 2020 and 2030 and India just seven per cent, says a new analysis by Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) based on trajectory of climate change causing emissions from across the world.The CSE said China with rich countries including Europe would occupy 70% of the world’s carbon space and very less carbon budget would be left for the developing world.The report comes two days before the start of climate conference of 192 countries in Glasgow, Scotland, to chalk out a plan to restrict temperature rise to less than 1.5 degree Celsius by the turn of the century. The CSE data analysis highlights the importance of carbon space for the developing world including India and Africa.The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change(IPCC) in its sixth assessment report released in 2019, said starting 2020, the world was left with total carbon budget of 400 GtCO2 for all times to come. GTCO2 is short for gigatonnes of carbon dioxide.“As per IPCC, global emissions need to reduce by 45 per cent over 2010 levels by 2030 to keep the temperature rise to 1.5°C. In 2010, global CO2 emissions were 33 Gt (Gegatonnes),” the CSE said.“Therefore, the world needs to keep its annual CO2 emissions under 18.2 Gt in 2030 to meet this target. But, even if the world achieves the enhanced Nationally Determined Contributions (NDC), it would be emitting 37.71 GtCO2 in 2030. This is more than double the amount of CO2 the world should be emitting in 2030…The world will emit 409 GtCO2 in 2020-30, against the available budget of 400 GtCO2,” the CSE said, in its analysis.And, the CSE analysis says that available carbon space would be occupied by 2030 even with the enhanced NDCs, the voluntary mitigation submission of all countries, which so far 142 countries of the total 192 signatories to the United Nations Climate Framework Convention have submitted. Sunita Narain, CSE’s director general, said that even with enhanced NDCs the world will cross the 1.5 degree Celsius temperature rise threshold since pre-industrial era by 2030 and in this a major contributor would be China.Also Read | COP26: Play both the good and bad cop“If we look at the emission data since 2000, China has been the foremost polluter,” she said. China accounts for 31% of the total global emissions and seven historical polluters --- United States, United Kingdom, Russia, Australia, Japan, Canada and European Union --- account for 34%. India, through the fourth biggest emitter in absolute terms, contributed just seven per cent. “So, the developed world and China is responsible for over 70 per cent of the carbon emissions so far,” she said.And, don’t expect China’s emissions to go down even though it has announced phasing out of coal by 2040 and achieving net zero emissions by 2060. “In the coming 10 years, China will take up 33% of the remaining carbon budget. Despite heavy reduction targets, the original seven big polluters, along with China will occupy 62%. The remaining world, with 66% of the population will be left with 38%,” CSE said.The arguments presented by the CSE advocated the concept of climate justice which calls for right of the developing world to grow to provide basic facilities to its people. In the past, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has explicitly spoken about climate justice saying any climate deal has been pillared on equity and common but differentiated responsibilities.Under these principles, the historical polluters have to take higher emission cuts and provide money to the developing world to adapt to the changing weather because of climate change whereas the developing world needs to take some mitigation measures. “There is a need to discuss the remaining carbon budget, necessary to limit the temperature rise to 1.5 degree C, and how it should be allocated - not just appropriated. We cannot have an ambitious agreement unless it is equitable. So, CoP26 must not repeat the mistakes of the past by trying to erase equity and climate justice,” the CSE said.Chandra Bhushan, CEO, IForest, an advocacy group working in the area of environmental issues, said the debate on carbon space was unending. “China is now the new historical emitter and has replaced the United States in this debate on carbon budget. I don’t think there is any space left for this fight to go on. We need to think out of the box to reduce emissions and check devastating impacts of climate change.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-will-take-one-third-of-carbon-space-by-2030-india-7-says-cse-101635569758446.html
30-10-2021||India||India sees major dip in daily Covid death toll at 549; new infections at 14,313||India saw a major dip in its daily death toll due to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Saturday after 549 fatalities were registered in the last 24 hours, taking the overall toll to 457,740, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. On Friday, 805 deaths were registered and 733 patients succumbed to Covid-19 on Thursday.The country recorded 14,313 infections and 13,543 recoveries in the last 24 hours, which pushed the cumulative count of infections and recoveries to 34,260,470 and 33,641,175 respectively. The overall recovery rate from Covid-19 is at 98.19 per cent. The daily positivity rate, meanwhile, is 1.22 per cent and has been below 2 per cent for 26 consecutive days.However, the active cases on Saturday saw an increase of 221 and currently stand at 161,555. But they remain below the 1 per cent mark of total caseload and have been the lowest since March 2020.According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 607,062,619 samples have been tested for Covid-19 so far of which 1,176,850 were tested in the last 24 hours.In view of the current pandemic situation in India along with the ongoing festival season, the Union ministry of home affairs on Thursday extended the existing Covid-19 restrictions till November 30. Previously, these restrictions were in place till October 31."In exercise of the powers, conferred under Section 10 (2) (1) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, the undersigned hereby directs that the order of the Ministry of Home Affairs of even number, dated 28th September 2021, to ensure compliance with Prompt and Effective Containment measures for Covid-19, as conveyed vide Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW), dated 21st September 2021 will remain in force up to November 30, 2021," the home ministry order read.Meanwhile, the cumulative vaccination coverage against Covid-19 in India has exceeded 1.054 billion with nearly 5.7 million doses administered in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry said on Saturday. Of the total beneficiaries inoculated in the country, 728,940,103 have received the first dose and the remaining 325,373,874 beneficiaries have received both doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sees-major-dip-in-daily-covid-death-toll-at-549-new-infections-at-14313-101635566131666.html
30-10-2021||India||India ‘Aatmanirbhar’ this Diwali. Chinese exports set to suffer 50k crore in losses||Chinese goods are set to suffer major losses in India ahead of Diwali and other festivals. The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) has said that they are looking at estimated losses to the tune of ₹50,000 crore on part of Chinese exporters this year due to Indians boycotting products from China in the domestic markets.That Indians are banning crackers and other cheap festive products from China this season directly equates to more profits for India's homegrown industries. In a statement issued on Friday, the traders' body said that India's domestic sales are expected to receive a major boost this Diwali in view of a surge in the number of customers in markets across the country ahead of the festive season. The Indian economy may see an inflow to the tune of ₹2 lakh crore through consumer spending during Diwali sales.Also Read | Diwali melas bring festive cheer in Delhi-NCR"Like previous year, this year too CAIT has given a call of 'boycott Chinese goods' and it is certain that China is going to suffer a business loss of about ₹50,000 crore in terms of stoppage of import of Chinese goods by Indian traders," CAIT stated in the statement on Friday.Another important change, observed recently, is that consumers across major cities in the country do not really seem interested in buying Chinese products, which is likely to increase the demand for Indian goods instead. CAIT secretary general Praveen Khandelwal said a recent survey conducted by the body's research arm in 20 ‘distribution cities’ showed that so far no orders for Diwali goods, firecrackers, or other items have been placed with Chinese exporters by Indian traders or importers.These 20 cities are – New Delhi, Ahmedabad, Mumbai, Nagpur Jaipur, Lucknow, Chandigarh, Raipur, Bhubaneswar, Kolkata, Ranchi, Guwahati, Patna, Chennai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Madurai, Pondicherry, Bhopal, and Jammu.Also Read | Diwali boom: Festive spirit is back, sales up in Chandigarh marketsFor context, during the five-month festive season from Rakhi to New Year's Day every year, Indian traders and exporters usually import goods worth about ₹70,000 crore from China. However, during the Rakhi festival this time, the Dragon was reported to have suffered losses to the tune of ₹5,000 crore and then again to the tune of ₹500 crores in Ganush Chathurthi.If the same trend continues for Diwali, it would clearly indicate that not only are Indian traders boycotting Chinese goods, but consumers, too, are losing the will to buy products made in China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-is-aatmanirbhar-this-diwali-chinese-exports-set-to-suffer-rs-50k-in-losses-101635565987923.html
30-10-2021||India||Need to revive ridership in Covid-hit public transport||As cities plan for sustainable and resilient public transport systems, experts say ridership needs to return close to the pre-Covid levels, especially in metro rail networks, to minimise long-term impact.At the day-long 14th Urban Mobility India conference, organised online by the ministry of housing and urban affairs, experts deliberated on refashioning transport systems to ensure ‘Mobility for all’, which was the theme of the conference. They also stressed on the need for integrated planning, innovative measures and mobility audits while planning for capital intensive public transport infrastructure.Housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri said the country has 733 km of operational metro rail network in 18 cities. “It (metro network) provides a reliable and accessible transit medium for the vulnerable sections…With another 1,046 km of network in the pipeline in 27 cities, the ministry’s endeavours to connect 50 cities and towns with metro network by 2024,” said Puri.Durga Shanker Mishra, MoHUA secretary, said that the focus was on achieving ease of living with suitable urban mobility policies through innovation and technology in the sector.The Covid-19 pandemic has adversely impacted the public transport system including the Metro network that is incurring huge losses due to continuing travel restrictions, the experts noted.Mangu Singh, managing director of Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), said that the ridership has decreased by 48% from September 2019 to September 2021. “But to ensure social distancing and Covid protocols, we decided to provide maximum services so that the space available for passengers is maximum… As on today, our ridership is around 27 lakh per day,” said Singh.Even private bus operators say that their business has been badly affected. At a time when the Centre is planning to introduce a scheme for operating public transport buses in second tier cities on Public Private Partnership model, bus operators say there is a need to provide financial support to tide over the losses incurred due to Covid. Also Read: BJP Kisan Morcha to hold national executive meeting in Delhi todayPrasanna Patwardhan, chairperson and managing director, Prasanna Purple Mobility Solutions, said, “Public transport should be treated as a priority sector.” He pointed out that in many states, payments are pending for the past one-and-a-half-years while fuel rates have increased without any revision of ticket prices. “All these aspects have to be looked into while planning for a resilient transport system,” he said.Experts say that there is a need to reassess the restrictions or re-strategise transport system planning to stop people from switching from public transport to personal vehicles.  “The drop in ridership in public transport systems, which are capital intensive projects, and revenue, will have a long-term impact as it will delay in fleet expansion and technology advancements if right interventions or financial assistance is not given to agencies,” said Laghu Parashar, deputy project head, SMART-SUT, GIZ India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-to-revive-ridership-in-covid-hit-public-transport-101635568318371.html
30-10-2021||India||Assembly by poll: Voting begins for 9 constituencies in northeast||Voting for bye-elections on nine assembly seats in three states of northeast including five in Assam, three in Meghalaya and one in Mizoram has begun on Saturday morning. The Bye-election to one seat in Nagaland was won uncontested earlier this month by the ruling Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party (NDPP) candidate. . A total of 796,456 voters (403,374 males, 393,078 females) are eligible to vote for Assam’s five assembly seats, apart from 3,165 service voters, to elect their representative from among the 31 candidates in the fray. In order to ensure free and fair voting, webcasting will be done from all 1176 polling stations in the five constituencies, where adequate security arrangements have been made along with implementation of Covid-19 containment protocols at all polling stations. Tamulpur and Gossaigaon assembly seats had fallen vacant due to deaths of opposition MLA from the Bodoland Peoples’ Front (BPF) and ruling party MLA from the United Peoples Party Liberal (UPPL) due to Covid-19 related complications. The other three seats are going to polls since two Congress MLAs, from Mariani and Thawra, and one All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) MLA from Bhabanipur, joined the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). At present, the BJP has 59 MLAs, UPPL 5 and Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) 9, while opposition Congress has 27, AIUDF 15, BPF-3, CPM 1 and newly floated Raijor Das has 1 seat in the 126-member house. Bye-election to the Majuli seat, which fell vacant after union minister Sarbananda Sonowal resigned last month, will take place later. Also Read | Uttarakhand polls: Amit Shah to kick off BJP campaign with a rally at DehradunIn Meghalaya, voting is taking place at Mawryngkneng, Rajabala and Mawphlang seats. The seats had fallen vacant due to deaths of sitting MLAs. Around 100,000 voters are eligible to vote in the by polls for the three seats. In Mizoram, ruling Mizo National Front (MNF) is taking on Congress, Zoram Peoples Movement (ZPM) and Bharatiya Janata Party in the bye-election for the Tuirial assembly seat. The bye-election was necessitated due to death of sitting ZPM MLA Andrew H Thangliana in August this year. In 2018, Thangliana had defeated MNF’s Sailothanga Sailo by a margin of just 204 votes. A total of 17,911 voters will decide the fates of the four prominent candidates including K Laldawngliana (MNF), Laltlanmawia (ZPM), Chalrosanga Ralte (Congress) and K Laldinthara (BJP). In Nagaland, the ruling Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party (NDPP) was declared winner on the Shamator-Chessore assembly seat where by polls were scheduled today as its candidate S Keoshu Yimchunger faced no challenge. Yimchunger, a newcomer in the state electoral politics, was the consensus candidate of the newly formed opposition-less United Democratic Alliance (UDA) in Nagaland where the NDPP, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Naga People’s Front (NPF) and two independent MLAs are partners. The by-poll to Shamatore-Chessore seat in the Nagaland Legislative Assembly was necessitated by the demise of the then sitting NDPP MLA Toshi Wungtung in July this year. Yimchunger was the sole candidate to file nomination papers for the by-poll and was declared winner after the last hour for withdrawal of candidature on October 13. The NDPP’s total strength in the house of 60 now stands at 21, while NPF has 25 MLAs and BJP has 12. There are two independent legislators in the house. (With inputs from Alice Yhoshu in Kohima and David Laitphlang in Shillong)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assembly-by-poll-voting-begins-for-9-constituencies-in-northeast-101635565197873.html
30-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: BJP Kisan Morcha to hold meeting in Delhi today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.BJP Kisan Morcha to hold national executive meeting in Delhi todayThe Bharatiya Janata Party Kisan Morcha will hold its national executive meeting in Delhi on Saturday as the farmers' protest against the Centre's three new farm laws continues. Read moreFormer Himachal Pradesh minister GS Bali passes awaySenior Congress leader and former Himachal Pradesh minister Gurmukh Singh Bali passed away early on Saturday after a prolonged illness. He was 67. Read moreUttarakhand polls: Amit Shah to kick off BJP campaign with a rally at DehradunUnion home minister Amit Shah is all set to visit the poll-bound Uttarakhand on Saturday to launch the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) election campaign with a planned mega rally in Dehradun, the capital of the hill state. Read morePrince Andrew never sexually assaulted American, says lawyerLawyers for Prince Andrew asked a New York judge Friday to throw out a lawsuit accusing the prince of sexually abusing an American when she was 17, saying the prince “never sexually abused or assaulted” the plaintiff. Read morePiyush Mishra wrote dialogues for Ranbir Kapoor’s Shamshera, complains about not starring in it: ‘Koi karwata hi nahi'Piyush Mishra is happy about how he made his own way from Gwalior to making a name in theatre and later featuring in Bollywood films such as Gangs of Wasseypur, Happy Bhag Jayegi, and more. Read moreKatrina Kaif's bespoke sarees for Sooryavanshi promotion are ideal for Diwali 2021, which do you prefer?Bollywood actor Katrina Kaif may have refuted the reports about her December wedding with actor Vicky Kaushal, but that does not mean you cannot take festive or wedding-fashion cues from her ethnic closet. Read moreBen Stokes recreates famous Ian Bishop quotes after Asif Ali hits 4 sixes in an over, seals Pakistan win vs AfghanistanIt was five years ago in a jam-packed Eden Gardens in Kolkata that West Indies all-rounder Carlos Braithwaite forced the cricketing world to ‘remember his name’ by hitting four sixes in the last over of the final against England to lead his team to their second T20 World Cup title. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-bjp-kisan-morcha-to-hold-meeting-in-delhi-today-101635563017378.html
30-10-2021||India||BJP Kisan Morcha to hold national executive meeting in Delhi today||The Bharatiya Janata Party Kisan Morcha will hold its national executive meeting in Delhi on Saturday as the farmers' protest against the Centre's three new farm laws continues.People familiar with the matter told news agency ANI on October 13 that the likely impact of the farmers' protest on the elections to be held in different states next year might be discussed in the meeting. While BJP national president JP Nadda will address the morcha's meeting, the party’s national general secretary BL Santosh and Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar will also be a part.ANI reported citing the people mentioned above said that the BJP may come up with further plans on the ongoing agitation, adding a political plan and a resolution on agriculture can be passed during the meeting.Other possible topics which can be discussed include measures undertaken by the Centre to double the income of farmers and measures undertaken by both the Centre and state governments in the interest of farmers, ANI further reported.The BJP Kisan Morcha meeting holds significance after the Lakhimpur Kheri violence on October 3 in which eight people, including four farmers' protesting against the three new farm laws, died. Thirteen people, including Union minister Ajay Mishra's son Ashish, have been arrested so far in connection with the case.Farmers have been protesting against the farm laws since November last year.Till now, 11 rounds of talks have been held between the farmers' unions and the Centre to arrive at a consensus over the legislation but the discussions have remained inconclusive.The meetings between the unions and the Centre have not resumed after widespread violence erupted during the farmers' tractor rally on Republic Day this year.The farmer unions have repeatedly said that these new laws will eliminate the mandi and the minimum support price (MSP) policy, and leave them at the mercy of big corporations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-kisan-morcha-to-hold-national-executive-meeting-in-delhi-today-101635557404855.html
30-10-2021||NA||Bypolls highlights: World's highest polling booth sees 100% voter turnout||Bypolls to three Lok Sabha and 30 assembly seats across 13 states and one Union Territory (UT) have ended.The Lok Sabha seats which witnessed polling are Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Mandi in Himachal Pradesh and Khandwa in Madhya Pradesh.Also Read| 3 parliamentary seats, 30 assembly seats across 14 states set for bypollsThe 30 assembly seats where polling took place are situated in West Bengal, Haryana, Bihar, Assam, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Rajasthan, Telangana, Meghalaya, Mizoram and Nagaland.In Madhya Pradesh, there is a direct contest between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress in Prithvipur, Raigaon (SC) and Jobat (ST) assembly seats.In Rajasthan too, there was a direct contest between the Congress and the BJP in Dhariawad and Vallabhnagar assembly seats. In Maharashtra, the single assembly seat of Deglur saw a total of 12 candidates on the ballot, including those from the Congress and the BJP.While in West Bengal, the main contenders in the Dinhata, Santipur, Khardaha and Gosaba (SC) assembly seats are the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the BJP.In Haryana, the Ellenabad assembly seat saw a triangular contest between the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD), the Congress and the ruling BJP-JJP alliance.Campaigning for all three Lok Sabha and 30 assembly seats concluded on October 27 and the counting will take place on November 2. Follow all the updates here:World's highest polling booth sees 100% voter turnoutWorld's highest polling booth in Himachal Pradesh's Tashigang village recorded 100% voter turnout for Mandi Lok Sabha bypoll on Saturday. Read full report.Villagers of HP's Kinnaur panchayats boycott Mandi bypollVillagers in as many as three panchayats in Himachal Pradesh's Kinnaur district boycotted the bypoll to the Mandi seat on Saturday as a mark of protest against the construction of a hydroelectric project, which they alleged will adversely affect the environment, PTI reported.At least 81.28% votes registered in MizoramAt least 81.28% electorates cast their votes for the bypoll to the Tuirial assembly seat in Mizoram on Saturday, state chief electoral officer P Jawahar told PTI. It was held amidst tight security.Santipur, Gosaba in Bengal record 76% voter turnout till 5pmSantipur and Gosaba in West bengal registered 76% voter turnout for bypoll till 5pm. In other constituencies of Dinhata and Khardah, the turnout was recorded at 70% and 64%, respectively, till 5pm.Karnataka bypoll voter turnout surpasses 70% till 5pmThe voter turnout recorded in both Sindgi and Hangal constituencies in Karnataka was 70.76% till 5pm. While the turnout was 77.9% in Hangal, it was 64.54% in Sindgi.Voter turnout in Bihar assembly bypolls nears 50% markThe voter turnout for two seats of Bihar assembly bypolls was around 50% at 4pm. While the Tarapur constituency in Munger district reported a 50.05% voter turnout, 49% voters polled in Kusheshwar Asthan.More than 50% voter turnout in Karnataka till 3.30pmFor the bypolls currently underway in Hangal and Sindgi assembly constituencies in Karnataka, a voter turnout of 56.78% was recorded till 3.30 pm on Saturday, ANI reported citing the Election Commission. The voting began at 7am and will continue till 7.30 pm.Over 58% voter turnout in Haryana's EllenabadTill 3pm, 58.33% voter turnout recorded in Haryana's Ellenabad. Peaceful voting is underway for the by-election to the constituency. The voting began at 7am and will end at 6pm. Read full report.Voter turnout in all 4 constituencies of MP surpass 45% till 3pmTill 3pm on Saturday, all the four constituencies in Madhya Pradesh where bypolls are currently underway, recorded at least 45% voter turnout. In Raigaon, the turnout was 55.86%, 46.12% in Jobat, 68.16% in Prithvipur, and 51.11% in Khandwa loksabha.Over 45% voter turnout registered in Bihar till 3pmAs per the latest updates, till 3pm, 45.91% of voter turnout has been registered in both the constituencies of - Kusheshwar Asthan and Tarapur, till 3pm. In Kusheshwar, the voter turnout till 3pm was 45.80% while in Tarapur, 46% turnout was recorded.At least 35% voter turnout in both constituencies of Rajasthan till 1pmMore than 43% and 37% voter turnout was recorded in bypolls of Rajasthan's Dhariawad and Vallabhnagar assembly constituencies, respectively, till 1pm. Voting for these two seats began amid tight security arrangements at 7am.All 4 Bengal constituencies register at least 35% voter turnout till 1pmAccording to latest updates by the Election Commission of India (ECI), voter turnout in all four constituencies of West Bengal for bypolls has surpassed at least 35%. Gosaba recorded 52% turnout, Dinhata 48%, Santipur 48%, and Khardah 37% till 1pm.Over 51% voter turnout reported in Assam so far A 51% voter turnout has been reported in Gossaigaon, Bhabanipur, Tamulpur, Mariani and Thowra assembly seats of Assam till now. Nearly 38% turnout recorded in Bihar till 1pmKusheshwar Asthan and Tarapur assembly seats in Bihar, which are currently witnessing voting for the by elections, have recorded a voter turnout of 37.92% till now.In Himachal, Jubbal-Kotkhai seat records highest turnoutThe Jubbal-Kotkhai assembly seat recorded the highest voter turnout of more than 27% while the Mandi Lok Sabha seat saw only 19% turnout till 12pm. Over 33% voter turnout recorded in Telangana till nowTelangana reported a voter turnout of 33.27% by 11 am for the by-polls in the Huzurabad assembly seat, as per the Election Commission of India (ECI).Over 25% voter turnout recorded in Rajasthan till nowThe voter turnout in Rajasthan's Vallabhnagar and Dhariawad assembly seats currently stands at 25.23%. Nearly 22% voter turnout recorded in Bihar so farKusheshwar Asthan and Tarapur assembly seats in Bihar, have recorded a voter turnout of 5% till now.Himachal CM Thakur votes in Mandi Lok Sabha seatHimachal Pradesh CM Jairam Thakur along with his family cast his vote at polling station number 36 in Murhag in Mandi Parliamentary constituency bypolls pic.twitter.com/QJ7qXolqv9Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jairam Thakur along with his family, cast his vote at the Mandi Lok Sabha seat in the state. 9.77% voter turnout recorded in 2 assembly seats in K'takaSindgi and Hanagal assembly seats in Karnataka have recorded a voter turnout of 9.77% till now. 17% voter turnout recorded in Mizoram so far, says Election CommissionIn Tuirial Assembly bypolls in Mizoram, a voter turnout of 17% has been recorded so far, the Election Commission said on Saturday. 12.86% voter turnout recorded in Assam bypolls so farAccording to data, a voter turnout of 12.86% has been recorded in Assam so far. Voting is currently underway in five assembly seats- Gossaigaon, Bhabanipur, Tamulpur, Mariani and Thowra. Bihar bypolls: Over 5% voter turnout recorded till nowKusheshwar Asthan and Tarapur assembly seats in Bihar, which are currently witnessing voting for the by elections, have recorded a voter turnout of 5% till now. Himachal Pradesh: Nearly 13 lakh voters voting for Mandi Lok Sabha seatVoting for the Mandi Lok Sabha seat in Himachal Pradesh on Saturday with 12,99,756 voters exercising their franchise. Over 1.85 lakh voters to decide fate of 19 candidates in HaryanaVoting for bypolls to Haryana's Ellenabad assembly seat began on Saturday morning. The seat is seeing a triangular contest between the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD), the Congress and the ruling BJP-JJP alliance. Over 1.85 lakh voters will decide the fate of 19 candidates in the fray. Voting underway at 27 polling stations in MizoramVoting for bypolls is underway at 27 polling stations in Tuirial Assembly constituency of Mizoram(Photo source: Election Commission of India) pic.twitter.com/5S5ahR4GQZVoting is currently underway at 27 polling stations in Mizoram's Tuirial assembly seat. Meghalaya bypolls: Voters queue at polling station in Mawryngkneng amid tight securityVoters queue at polling station in Mawryngkneng Assembly constituency for Meghalaya bypollsCAPF personnel deployed at a polling station under Gosaba (SC) Assembly Constituency of South 24 Parganas in West Bengal(Photo source: Election Commission of India) pic.twitter.com/oqmFiavdLaBihar: Voting underway in Kusheshwar Asthan assembly seatBihar | Voting for bypoll to Kusheshwar Asthan assembly seat in Darbhanga underwayBy-elections are being held in three parliamentary constituencies and 30 assembly constituencies in different states today pic.twitter.com/lROdE2Y1wAVoters in Bihar's Kusheshwar Asthan assembly seat were seen exercising their franchise on Saturday morning. Voting begins in 3 Lok Sabha seats, 30 assembly seatsVoting is currently underway in three Lok Sabha seats and 30 assembly seats across 13 states and one Union Territory (UT). West Bengal: Voters queue up outside polling booths in Dinhata and Khardah assembly seatsWest Bengal | People queue up outside polling booths in North Parganas and Dinhata Cooch Behar where Assembly polls have been scheduled for today.Other places where bypolls will be held today include Santipur in Nadia district and Gosaba in South 24 Parganas. pic.twitter.com/CEVI5SE4VrOn Saturday morning, voters were seen lining up outside polling booths in Dinhata assembly seat in Cooch Behar and Khardah seat in North 24 Parganas, where bypolls will take place in few hours from now. Elections in 3 Lok Sabha seats, 30 assembly seats todayBypolls to three Lok Sabha and 30 assembly seats across 13 states and one Union Territory (UT) will be held on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bypolls-to-3-lok-sabha-seats-30-assembly-seats-october-30-live-updates-101635555978713.html
30-10-2021||India||All about Indian Navy's latest stealth warship Tushil||The Indian Navy said on Friday that the seventh frigate of the P1135.6 class has been launched at the Yantar Shipyard in Russia’s Kaliningrad, which will add a significant capability to the navy for projecting power in the Indian Ocean region.The Indian Navy said in a statement on Friday that the ship was formally named Tushil—a Sanskrit word which means protector shield—during a ceremony attended by D Bala Venkatesh Varma, India's ambassador to Russia, and senior dignitaries of the Russian Federation and other officials.Tushil is part of an over $2.5-billion deal with India’s top weapon supplier Russia for four more Krivak/Talwar class stealth frigates for the Indian Navy.The contract for the construction of two ships was signed between India and Russia on October 18 based on an Inter-Governmental Agreement (IGA) between India and Russia for the construction of two ships of Project 1135.6 ships in Russia and two ships in India at Goa Shipyard Limited (GSL) with technology transfer from Russia.According to officials, Tushil is expected to be commissioned into the Indian Navy in mid-2023 followed by its sister ship at the end of that year.The release that the construction of these ships is based on the Indian Navy's specific requirements to meet the entire spectrum of naval warfare in all three dimensions of air, surface and sub-surface. “The ships with a potent combination of state-of-art Indian and Russian Weapons and Sensors are equipped to operate in Littoral and Blue waters, both as a single unit and as consort in a naval task force,” the release said.7th ship of P1135.6 class #Tushillaunched at Yantar Shipyard, #Kaliningrad on 28 Oct 21 by Smt Datla Vidya Varma in presence of Shri D Bala Venkatesh Varma, Ambassador @IndEmbMoscow (1/2). pic.twitter.com/oFzU4JklipThey feature "stealth technology" in terms of low radar and underwater noise signatures. These ships are being equipped with major Indian supplied equipment such as surface to surface missiles, sonar system, surface surveillance radar, communication suite and anti-submarine warfare (ASW)  system along with Russian surface to air missiles and gun mounts.The new Grigorovich-class ‘Project 1135.6’ frigates will be powered by gas turbine engines supplied by Ukrainian firm Ukroboronprom’s Gas Turbine Research & Production Complex Zorya-Mashproekt.Ilya Samarin, Yantar Shipyard's director general, talked about the challenges faced by the shipyard in executing the complex shipbuilding project. He thanked the Indian government for its unstinted support and reiterated the shipyard's commitment to delivering the ships as per contractual timelines.India’s ambassador to Russia D Bala Venkatesh Varma highlighted the long-standing tradition of military-technical cooperation between the two countries. Varma also acknowledged the efforts put in by the Yantar Shipyard to ensure that the ship was launched on time overcoming the challenges imposed by the coronavirus pandemic.The Indian Navy currently has six stealth frigates—three Talwar class and three Teg class—bought from Russia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-about-indian-navy-s-latest-stealth-warship-tushil-101635555725634.html
30-10-2021||India||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi to visit Goa today, months ahead of 2022 polls||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will visit Goa on Saturday, months ahead of the assembly elections in the coastal state scheduled to be held next year, to meet party workers and people.Congress Goa unit president Girish Chodankar told news agency PTI on Tuesday that Gandhi will address a convention of party workers at the SPM Stadium in Bambolim near Panaji and will take part in various other party-level events during the day.On Sunday, the Congress leader will meet fishermen at Velsao. “Rahul Gandhi will interact with fishermen at Velsao (a coastal village) as well as with the people who will be affected by the railway doubling project (that passes through the same village),” Chodankar said.Chodankar added that Gandhi will also meet people who have been affected by the closure of the mining industry in Panaji, before addressing the convention of party workers at the SPM stadium.Gandhi's visit comes just two days after Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee began her three-day visit to Goa on Thursday.On Tuesday, Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi and other senior Congress leaders attended a meeting in New Delhi to discuss the upcoming assembly elections in Goa along with Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Manipur in 2022.The Congress, which is among the main opposition parties in Goa, is preparing to contest a majority of seats in the upcoming assembly elections.Party leader P Chidambaram, who has been appointed as the Congress' senior election observer for the 2022 mandate, asserted that the Congress is best positioned to defeat the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and form the next government in Goa."We enter the election arena with the intention of winning the election and forming a Congress government in 2022," Chidambaram told PTI on October 24, adding that the party's preparations are methodical and strong.In the 2017 elections, the Congress party emerged as the single-largest party in Goa, but could not come into power as the BJP forged an alliance with some independents and regional parties to form the government.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leader-rahul-gandhi-to-visit-goa-today-months-ahead-of-2022-polls-101635552091538.html
30-10-2021||NA||Breaking News: 12 dead in blast near Yemen's Aden airport, reports AFP||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:12 killed in Yemen's airport blast, probe onAt least 12 persons have died in a massive explosion near Yemen's Aden airport. The blast took place near the entrance to the international airport of Yemen's southern port city of Aden on Saturday. It was not immediately clear if it was an attack.An airport official told Reuters that a small truck blew up at an outer gate to the airport, while a local official and two security sources said the vehicle was carrying petroleum products.The loud explosion was heard across the city and it smashed the windows of nearby residents.Three protesters killed in Sudan anti-coup demonstrations, reports AFPAt least three people have been killed by Sudanese security forces in the ongoing anti-coup protests, AFP reported, quoting the country's central medical committee. "A third protester died... from a gunshot to the chest by the putschist military council," the independent Central Committee for Sudanese Doctors said, adding he was also killed in the city of Omdurman.Thousands of protesters took the streets of Sudan's city of Omdurman earlier today following the recent developments where several senior officials were detained and the government dissolved. Over a hundred protesters have been injured in the demonstrations held across the country today after the military committee deployed force and tear gas.Delhi's Karol Bagh market flooded with shoppersShoppers in large numbers were seen at Karol Bagh Market earlier today, reports ANI."Generally, people are following COVID protocols in the market... We are having a better season than before. Sales are improving," said Sanjeev Kapoor, General Secretary, Vyapay Mandal, Ajmal Khan Road.12 dead in blast near Yemen's Aden airport, reports AFPAt least 12 people have died in a blast near Yemen's Aden airport, a security official said, as quoted by AFP.PM Modi invites French President Emmanuel Macron to visit IndiaPM Modi has invited French President Emmanuel Macron to visit India, says Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla in Rome, Italy.The Prime Minister will also attend an event hosted by US President Joe Biden on "Supply China Resilience" and hold other bilateral meetings on the sidelines of the G20 summit in Rome tomorrow, Shringla noted.PM Modi invited G20 countries to make India partner in economic recovery: ShringlaAt the first session of the G20 Summit, PM Modi highlighted India's contribution to fight against Covid-19. He mentioned India's medical supplies to over 150 countries &spoke about our vision of One Earth, One Health which is essentially collaborative approach in fight against COVID, said Foreign Secretary HV Shringla in Rome.PM Modi invited G20 countries to make India their partner in economic recovery and supply chain diversification. He also brought out the fact that despite challenges of the pandemic, India continued to be a trusted partner in context of reliable supply chains, Shringla noted.India's Covid-19 vaccine coverage crosses 106 crore landmark, 61 lakh jabs given todayIndia’s COVID-19 vaccination coverage crossed 106 Crore landmark milestone (1,06,07,39,866) on Saturday. More than 61 lakh (61,99,429) vaccine doses have been administered till 7 pm today, Union Health Ministry said in a statement.2 Army personnel killed in blast in J&K's Rajouri districtTwo army personnel have been killed in a blast while patrolling along Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri district, PTI reported.Mumbai drugs case: Arbaz Merchant, Munmun Dhamecha, granted bail, to stay in jail tonightArbaz Merchant and Munmum Dhamecha, who were granted bail by Bombay high court in the drugs-on-cruise case, will not be released from the jail today. The necessary documentation for the release is in process, said Munmum's lawyer Kashif Khan Deshmukh.PM Modi, Pope Francis exchange gifts during their first meeting in Vatican CityPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Satruday gifted a specially-made silver candelabra and a book on India's climate initiatives to Pope Francis, who reciprocated with a bronze plaque with the inscription “The desert will become a garden”, volumes of papal documents, along with a few other gifts.Watch: Fans throng to Sree Kanteerava Stadium in Bengaluru where last rites of Puneeth Rajkumar will be performed#WATCH | Fans throng to Sree Kanteerava Stadium in Bengaluru to pay their last respects to actor Puneeth Rajkumar who passed away on FridayHis last rites will be performed with state honours at Kanteerava Studio in the city tomorrow, as per the Karnataka CM pic.twitter.com/A03TpBmHisFans throng to Sree Kanteerava Stadium in Bengaluru to pay their last respects to actor Puneeth Rajkumar who passed away on Friday. His last rites will be performed with state honours at Kanteerava Studio in the city tomorrow. Delhi Police reopens carriageway at farmers' protest site at Tikri borderDelhi Police on Saturday reopened the carriageway of the road leading to Haryana, at farmers' protest site at Tikri border."There are still some temporary structures on the road. As per farmers' request, only 2-wheelers, 3-wheelers & emergency vehicles will ply on this road," DCP Parvinder Singh told news agency ANI.Reports of backend talks with Congress are incorrect: Amarinder SinghFormer Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday said that he will not stay in the Congress now as the time for rapprochement is over. "Reports of backend talks with Congress are incorrect. The time for rapprochement is over. I'm grateful to Sonia Gandhi ji for her support but will not stay in Congress now," Amarinder Singh's aide Raveen Thukral quoted Captain as saying.Singh added he will will soon launch his own party and will hold talks for seat sharing with BJP, breakaway Akali factions and others for Punjab elections once the farmers' issue is resolved. “I want to build strong collective force in interest of Punjab & its farmers," he added.Russian President Vladamir Putin urges G20 countries to make quicker decisions on approving Covid-19 vaccinesRussian President Vladimir Putin, who remotely addressed the G20 summit in Rome by video link, on Saturday called on G20 countries to accelerate the mutual recognition of each other's COVID-19 vaccines.Mumbai court issues non-bailable warrant against Param Bir Singh, 2 othersMumbai's Esplanade court has issued a non-bailable warrant against former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh and two others in the extortion case.Three more Zika virus cases found in KanpurThree more cases of Zika virus have been found in Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh. The total number of cases have increased to four now.PM Modi interacts with French President Macron at G20 SummitPM Narendra Modi had a brief interaction with French President Emmanuel Macron before 'family photo' at Roma Convention Center.G20 Summit: PM Modi, world leaders join for 'Global Economy and Global Health' sessionPrime Minister Narendra Modi and other world leaders at the G20 meeting participated in a session on the 'Global Economy and Global Health (Working Lunch)' at Roma Convention Centre in Rome, Italy.Frontline workers join PM Modi, world leaders for a picture at G20 SummitFrontline workers join PM Narendra Modi and other world leaders for 'family photo' at Roma Convention Center in Rome, Italy.Last rites of Kannada actor Puneeth Rajkumar tomorrow, says CM Basavaraj Bommai“Daughter of actor Puneeth Rajkumar has reached Delhi (from US) & will arrive in Bengaluru by 7 pm today. As per our tradition, we don't perform funeral after sunset. His last rites will be performed at Sree Kanteerava Stadium in Bengaluru tomorrow,” announced Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai.G20 Agenda: $100 billion for developing countries, limiting global warming and othersG20 leaders will stress "the importance" of fulfilling a commitment to mobilize $100 billion annually until 2025 for developing countries. They aim to remain committed to capping global warming "well below" 2 degrees celsius, will "Pursue efforts to limit it to 1.5c", , according to a draft statement obtained by Reuters.G20 leaders will also pledge for concrete measures to stop unregulated fishing, illegal logging, illegal mining, illegal wildlife trade, the statement read.Watch: PM Modi arrives at G20 Summit venue in Rome#WATCH Prime Minister Narendra Modi arrives at G20 Summit venue in Rome. He is received by Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi pic.twitter.com/Xlf97TgIUSPM Modi has arrived for G20 Summit at Roma Convention Center in Rome. He was received by Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi.PM Modi invites Pope Francis to IndiaPrime Minister Narendra Modi has invited Pope Francis for a visit to India.It may be recalled that the last Papal Visit happened in 1999 when Atal Ji was the PM and Pope John Paul II came. Now it is during PM Modi’s Prime Ministerial term that the Pope has been invited to visit India, sources told Hindustan Times.PM Modi invites Pope Francis to visit India, reports ANI citing sourcesPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday called on Pope Francis at the Vatican and discussed with him issues covering a range of areas of interest, including COVID-19, general global perspectives and maintaining peace and tranquility.According to sources cited by news agency ANI, PM Modi invited Pope Francis to visit India. The sources added that the Prime Minister had a very warm meeting with Pope Francis at the Vatican. “The meeting was scheduled only for 20 minutes but went on for an hour. PM & the Pope discussed a wide range of issues aimed at making our planet better such as fighting climate change & removing poverty,” sources told ANI.6 rebel BSP MLAs join SP in presence of Akhilesh YadavSix suspended BSP MLAs -- Hargovind Bhargav, Mujtaba Siddiqui, Hakim Lal Bind, Aslam Raini, Sushma Patel, and Aslam Chaudhary, and BJP MLA from Sitapur Sadar Rakesh Rathore on Saturday joined Samajwadi Party in the presence of party president Akhilesh Yadav.UP people suffering due to 'loot' of electricity bills, will end once...: Priyanka GandhiCongress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday attacked the Yogi Adityanath-led Uttar Pradesh government, alleging that the state’s people are suffering due to the “loot” of electricity bills. Gandhi assured the “loot” will end once the Congress party comes to power in the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly polls, slated to be held next year. Read moreWhatever goes in our manifesto is a guarantee, not just a promise: Rahul GandhiCongress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday interacted with members of the fishermen community in Velsao, Goa. “We will not allow Goa to become a polluted place. We will not allow it to become a Coal hub. We are protecting the environment for everyone,” Rahul Gandhi said.“We fought elections in Chhattisgarh and promised to waive the loan of farmers and we did it. You can go and confirm it in Punjab, Karnataka also. Whatever goes in our manifesto is a guarantee, not only a promise,” he added.Reliance unveils JioPhone Next, jointly designed by Jio & GoogleMukesh Ambani-owned Reliance has unveiled ‘JioPhone Next’ which has been jointly designed by Jio & Google. JioPhone Next is a first-of-its-kind smartphone, featuring Pragati OS, an optimized version of Android made specifically for the JioPhone Next.PM Modi arrives at Vatican City to meet Pope FrancisPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday arrived at the Vatican City to meet Pope Francis. He was accompanied by national security advisor of India Ajit Doval and external affairs minister Dr S Jaishankar.Fans welcome Aryan Khan outside Shah Rukh Khan's residence ‘Mannat’ in Mumbai Fans of Aryan Khan were spotted outside Shah Rukh Khan's residence 'Mannat', carrying with them posters that read "welcome home Aryan Khan". Aryan Khan came home after spending weeks in Arthur Road jail in drugs-on-cruise case. Aryan Khan arrives at his home ‘Mannat’#WATCH Aryan Khan reaches his home 'Mannat' after being released from Arthur Road Jail in MumbaiA large gathering of media personnel outside Shah Rukh Khan's residence delayed the car's entry into the residential premises pic.twitter.com/Zgay7BQQ8NAryan Khan has arrived at his home 'Mannat' after being released from Mumbai's Arthur Road jail nearly a month after his arrest in connection with the drugs-on-cruise case. He was greeted by a large gathering of media personnel waiting outside Shah Rukh Khan's residence.Aryan Khan walks out of Mumbai jail nearly a month after arrest in drugs-on-cruise case#WATCH Aryan Khan released from Mumbai's Arthur Road Jail few weeks after being arrested in drugs-on-cruise case pic.twitter.com/gSH8awCMqoAryan Khan, the son of Bollywood star Shah Rukh Khan, was released from the Arthur Road prison on Saturday after nearly a month of his arrest in connection with the drugs-on-cruise case. Khan was received by Shah Rukh Khan's bodyguards outside the jail. Read moreAryan Khan's release procedure completed: Jail officialsAryan Khan's release procedure has been completed, news agency quoted Mumbai's Arthur Road jail officials as saying.Mumbai Police rope in more security personnel to control crowd outside Arthur Road jailMumbai police have called in more security personnel to control crowd outside the jail. Traffic police have also been deployed. Police are likely to stop vehicle movement on the narrow road right outside the jail when the Aryan Khan and his co-accused come out, to ensure no untoward incident is occurred, people familair with the matter said.Ahead of Aryan Khan's release, Shah Rukh Khan's security team arrives at Arthur jailAhead of Aryan Khan's release from Mumbai's Arthur jail following his bail in the drugs-on-cruise case, Shah Rukh Khan's security team was spotted at the prison, people familiar with the matter said.  No new death in Thane for first time since Covid-19 outbreakMaharashtra's Thane district did not report any fresh death due to Covid-19, news agency PTI quoted an official as saying on Saturday. "Not a single fatality was reported on Friday. This has happened for the first time since the pandemic broke out," he said.Lasty rites of Puneeth Rajkumar expected to be preformed today: Bengaluru police commissionerThe Bengaluru police commissioner told news agency ANI that the last rites of Indian actor Puneeth Rajkumar are expected to be performed today. “On the basis of the decision taken by Puneeth Rajkumar's family, next stage of security arrangements will be made. Family will take a call on when the final rites will be performed. Probably, the last rites will be done today itself,” Kamal Pant said. Locals gathered outside Mumbai jail to get glimpse of Aryan KhanLocals have gathered in large numbers outside Arthur Road Central prison to get a glimpse of Aryan Khan, who will soon walk out of the prison following his bail, people familiar with the development said.Police have tightened security outside the jail to ensure that no untoward incident happens when Shah Rukh Khan arrives to receive his son Aryan.India sees major dip in daily Covid-19 death toll at 549; new cases at 14,313India has reported 14,313 fresh Covid-19 cases and 549 deaths in the past 24 hours. According to the Union health ministry, at least 13,543 people recovered from the disease in the same time span. Aryan Khan to walk out of Mumbai jail in 1-2 hours: OfficialShah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan is all set to walk out of Mumbai's Arthur jail today.  “We have received Aryan Khan's release order. The process of his release should be completed in 1-2 hours,” news agency ANI quoted Nitin Waychal, Superintendent, Arthur Road Jail, as saying.Former Himachal Pradesh minister GS Bali passes awaySenior Congress leader and former Himachal Pradesh minister Gurmukh Singh Bali passed away early on Saturday after a prolonged illness. Read moreBJP Kisan Morcha to hold national executive meeting in Delhi todayThe Bharatiya Janata Party Kisan Morcha will hold its national executive meeting in Delhi on Saturday as the farmers' protest against the Centre's three new farm laws continues. Read moreCruise drugs case: Aryan Khan likely to be released around 10am from Mumbai jailBollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan is likely to be released from Mumbai's Arthur Road Jail at 10am today.  Nearly 40,000 people inoculated daily against Covid in AfghanistanThe UNICEF said on Sunday that nearly 40,000 people have been vaccinated daily against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Afghanistan since the beginning of the vaccination camp in mid-October. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi to visit Goa today, months ahead of 2022 pollsCongress leader Rahul Gandhi will visit Goa on Saturday, months ahead of the assembly elections in the coastal state scheduled to be held next year, to meet party workers and people. Read moreAfghanistan experiencing one of world's worst humanitarian crisis: United NationsAfghanistan is experiencing one of the world's worst humanitarian crises, with the health system and social services at a breaking point, said the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) representative in Afghanistan Salam Al-Janabi. "Afghanistan now is amongst the world's worst crises and the needs are growing by the day," Al Janabi was quoted as saying by Sputnik on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-october-30-2021-101635554256005.html
30-10-2021||India||‘Good government is necessary for the happiness of a nation’||"Good government is no substitute for self-government,” said Campbell-Bannerman and Dadabhai Naoroji quoted it in 1906 at Calcutta. It is a very true statement.But the converse also is true. Good government is most necessary for the happiness of a modern nation and independence is no consolation in its place. A good administrative machinery, with just, industrious and honest people manning it, is a prime requisite for national happiness and progress.The machine should not be cluttered up with too many men and women, for that means waste in all directions. The object of an administrative machine is not either wholly or partially the removal of unemployment. Full employment must result from the policies of the government and from the enterprise, industry and integrity of citizens. To make the administrative machine itself a means of allaying unemployment would be a short-sighted and suicidal plan incapable of justification.The character of the administration must reflect the character of the people. But this cannot be a wholly limiting principle. It would be a vicious circle indeed, if the faults of a people were not to be mitigated but just reflected in the administration guiding and serving them. The better men must pull up the weaker ones, and the administrative machinery should be one of the agencies for the upward pull.Much more can be said and should be said on this subject. But I shall not attempt to do so here. All that I wish to emphasise on this day is that it is high time we campaigned for good administration as we did once for Independence. But this campaign should not degenerate into each one of us accusing ‘others’ of laziness or dishonesty or stupidity, all the while imagining that oneself is above blame.This will not help but only hinder by creating a general psychology of “ We are all worthless, there is no hope.” We should rather find ways for generating self-confidence, mutual trust, creative energy and just pride. We should not say to one another “ you are sinners“ and get into the habit of finding self-satisfaction in that process. We should rather try to remind one another that we are inherently good and should not allow ourselves to go bad. One school of philosophy holds that we are all pure and sinless. Another doctrine is that we are all born in sin. Swami Vivekananda used to say the former was the better thing to preach. The campaign of righteousness that I am deprecating is a third doctrine which says “Not I, but ‘you’ are sinners.” This, of course, is worse than what Swami Vivekananda deprecated.(The article appeared in the Hindustan Times on August 15, 1951. The writer was a freedom fighter and former governor general of India.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/good-government-is-necessary-for-the-happiness-of-a-nation-101635544050941.html
30-10-2021||India||‘Elections in India are a modern innovation’||Elections in India, for all practical purposes, are a modern innovation, although it is stated that in ancient India there were sabhas and samitis and kin were elected, but all those traditions simply ceased to exist for centuries.The various Government of India Acts that were passed in course of the 19th and the 20th centuries gradually widened the franchise. A small beginning was made in the 80s of the last century. Then the India Council Act of 1893 brought peoples’ elected representatives in provincial as well as central legislatures. The Government of India Act of 1919 further widened the franchise. Under the Government of India Act of 1935, 10% of the population roughly was enfranchised. There was differential franchise both in terms of property and in terms of religion and sex. Three crores of people were enfranchised. Two general elections were held under that act--one in 1937 and the other in 1946. The percentage of people who exercised their right to vote hardly exceeded 50% in any province and the overall percentage was about 40%.The new Constitution of India provides for what is called adult franchise. In the opinion of many, this step is not merely revolutionary but is fraught with great danger. There are critics who think that India has taken a great risk. In the modern states of Europe and of America, the journey towards adult franchise has not been so sudden or so rapid as in India.In Europe this development is entirely modern. For, although the ancient world had its democracy, notably in Greece and, to some extent, in the Roman Republic, the forces which have determined the democratic trend of modern times were absent then. The older states have carried electoral reforms which have led to either adult or manhood suffrage; while the newly established states almost invariably wrote into their Constitution a clause bestowing universal suffrage irrespective of sex. India is thus following the example of all the modern states.It is evident that India could not have acted otherwise. The Preamble of the Constitution vests sovereignty in the people and it guarantees equality of status and of opportunity. There cannot be any discrimination between citizen and citizen.(The article appeared in the Hindustan Times on January 26, 1950. The writer was a freedom fighter and India’s first public works, mines and power minister.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elections-in-india-are-a-modern-innovation-101635543578524.html
30-10-2021||India||Tribals protest in Bijapur jungles to seek action on Edesmetta encounter report||Around 200 tribals are protesting in the jungles of Bijapur district in Chhattisgarh’s Bastar region since October 9 to demand action on the judicial inquiry report about the Edesmetta encounter and seek compensation, police said.The protest is being held near Pusnar village under Gangaloor police station of the district.In September 2021, a judicial inquiry report on the Edesmetta encounter was submitted to the state cabinet, eight years after security personnel allegedly gunned down eight people, including four minors in Edesmetta village. The inquiry report said that the people killed in the encounter were not Maoists and the security forces ‘might have opened fire due to panic’.On Tuesday, hundreds of tribals of Edesmetta and nearby villages gathered in Pusnaar and started a protest.On Wednesday, the villagers also handed over a memorandum to a tehsildar and demanded an FIR against the accused and ₹1 crore compensation to each tribal who died in the encounter.Tribal activist of Bastar, Soni Sori also reached the spot, on Wednesday, and expressed her support. “We are demanding FIR against security personnel accused of killing innocent tribals,” said Sori.Human rights activists working in the region said the government should punish the policemen as soon as possible.“A judicial inquiry has little meaning if there is no follow up. The report has not yet been tabled in the assembly, as is the official procedure. The government is duty-bound to act on the findings of the report: punish the guilty policemen including the officials in command and compensate victim families. The government cannot go in hiding like any ordinary murderer,” said Bela Bhatia, a human rights activist who works in the Bastar region.Police officials said the government may issue necessary instructions based on the recommendations of the judicial commission.“The local administration and police are in communication with the villagers and explained to them that the Edesmetta judicial inquiry report is yet to be tabled in the Vidhan Sabha. After following the due procedure, the government might issue necessary instructions based on the recommendations of the judicial commission,” said Inspector General of Police, Bastar range, Sunderaj P.The IG further said that as far as the opposition for opening new base camps is concerned, villagers are aware of the benefits of security camps in their locality.“Each and every security camp opened in Bastar has acted as an integrated development centre and brought positive changes to the region. Because of compulsion from naxal cadres, villagers are forced to stage such protest,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tribals-protest-in-bijapur-jungles-demand-action-on-edesmetta-encounter-report-101635543501515.html
30-10-2021||India||An epic exercise in 4 months||How different was India’s first Lok Sabha election?Independent India’s first Lok Sabha election was unlike most that would follow. This is not just because of the challenges involved in holding an election for the first time in a country where an overwhelming majority was still illiterate. The nature of seats — the basic unit of contest in the election — themselves were unlike today’s seats. And while the nature of the contest and the result seems a given (at least in hindsight), there were some surprises. Here are three charts that detail India’s first Lok Sabha election.Multiple seat constituenciesIn the first two Lok Sabha elections, parliamentary constituencies (PCs) could have more than one seat. In the 1951-1952 election, there were 314 PCs with one seat, 86 with two seats, and the North Bengal PC had three seats. While only 10 seats in the single-seat PCs were reserved for Scheduled Tribes (ST), the multiple seat PCs had equal representation for general and Scheduled Caste (SC) or ST categories. In the two-seat PCs, one seat was reserved for either SC or ST candidates. Of the 86 such PCs, in 71 the reserved seat was for SCs and in 15 for STs. In the three-seat PCs, one seat each was for SC, ST, and general category candidates. A 1961 law abolished such PCs by breaking them up into single-seat PCs of the kind we know today.The number of contesting parties was significantFifty two parties participated in the 1951-52 election. Then there were the independents. This number was not matched subsequently until the 1971 election when 53 parties contested the election. The number again dropped to the mid-30s until 1989. Since then, though, the number of contesting parties has always been above 100.To be sure, only the Congress contested a large proportion of the seats on offer. Since the Election Commission of India (ECI) has only published PC-wise statistics, it is only possible to count the number of unique candidates fielded by each party. The Congress fielded 479 candidates across all states except in the one-PC Bilaspur (located in present-day Himachal Pradesh). Jayapraskash Narayan’s Socialist Party (SP), which fielded the second-highest number of candidates, fielded only about half that number (254 candidates) across all big states. J B Kripalani’s Kisan Mazdoor Praja Party (KMPP) fielded only 145. All other parties fielded less than 100 candidates. The Communist Party of India (CPI), for example, fielded 49 candidates, 25 of them in Madras and West Bengal. (Chart 1: Parties that fielded more than 10 candidates)
30-10-2021||India||‘I am from Brahmin family but…’: Mamata’s sharp counterattack at BJP in Goa||PANAJI: Trinamool Congress supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday vowed to take her fight to the BJP, accusing them of propagating a culture of bullying and hate, contrasting it with her party that she promises Goa “a new dawn”.Addressing multiple events during her packed schedule - she said it was the first of her many visits to the state in the future - the West Bengal chief minister said she was determined to fight what she called “the poison of communalism”.Referring to the events in Tripura where anti-Muslim violence was witnessed earlier this week, Mamata said: “Wherever the BJP government is there, they are not allowing people to go out, they are not allowing people to be in a peaceful manner... It is not only Tripura. Under the Assam BJP government, the same thing you will see, you come to Goa they will deface you, they will show you the black flags,” Banerjee said. “If I come to Goa they deface my posters. Go ahead and deface. One day you will be defaced from India then you will know. What they are doing we will not take revenge like this. We will work for the people,” Banerjee said.Many billboards, posters and banners put up by the TMC were defaced or ripped out allegedly by persons sympathetic to the local BJP ahead of Mamta’s visit. At the airport, a group of around two dozen people shouted slogans and waved black flags as her convoy passed by. “We don’t divide the people like Hindu, Muslim, Sikh, Isai (Christian) we unite the people. That is our motto. I may die but I will not divide the country. I am proud to say every drop of my blood is for unity. I don’t divide. Sometimes BJP says: ‘She’s anti-Hindu.’ I am Hindu. Will you give me [a] character certificate? That I am Hindu or that I am Muslim? Who are you to give the character certificate? First you decide your character certificate, then for others. I’m also from a Brahmin family but I didn’t say all these things,” she added.Mamata Banerjee also defended her party’s decision to enter the political space in Goa and rubbished claims that she was in Goa to split anti-BJP votes. “When other parties came here, did you ask them whether they were here to split the votes? Should only Delhi parties be allowed to come here?” Banerjee asked, an apparent reference to the Arvind Kejriwal-led Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) which is taking its second shot at attempting to enter Goa’s political space.“You can trust that Dilli ka dadagiri nahi chalega (The bullying from Delhi will not be tolerated). Dadagiri amkam naka (We don’t want bullying),” she said.“Some are asking ‘I’m in Bengal, how can I go to Goa?’ I’m Indian, I can go anywhere. I came here because my brothers and sisters want it. We are a national party. If we go anywhere, you (BJP) will deface us, you will show us the black flag, you will not give us the permission, why? Because they know that TMC will die but they will never compromise. That is the thing they are afraid of,” she said.“We have also decided that we will work for Goa in a strong manner. It is not that we want to divide the vote. You have got so many opportunities for political parties, give one opportunity for other political parties. Give one opportunity to AITC. It is also a national party and simply we say TMC -- Temple, Mosque Church, that is our motto,” she added.Banerjee sidestepped questions on her party’s plans to enter into an alliance with regional or like-minded political parties, saying that it was too early to make a decision or to announce her party’s presumptive chief minister.“I cannot discuss details in this meeting because it depends on the situation and everything, local leaders, we have to discuss everything, it’s a collective decision. It is not an individual decision so I cannot tell you right now. If anybody is interested to work with us, we will be happy,” she said.Earlier in the day, Banerjee welcomed into the party former professional tennis player Leander Paes as well as actress and politician Nafisa Ali who back in 2004 had contested against her on a Congress ticket in the 2004 Lok Sabha polls. “I was born in Bengal, but at the end of the day, I am a very patriotic Indian. For me, whether it is in Bengal or whether it is in Goa, or whether it is playing at Wimbledon. For me it is about making India proud and in that, now living in Goa I would like to make a difference in my roots,” Paes said after being formally inducted in the party.“The only leader today that can take on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Amit Shah’s brand of politics is Mamata Banerjee… The BJP needs to be addressed in all sincerity and Mamata has proved that she and she alone can become the tigress that can take on the likes of Narendra Modi,” Nafisa Ali said soon after she was inducted into the party at her home.Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said he was not worried by the increasing number of parties setting up shop in Goa.“In 2017 too, many parties both from within Goa and those from outside set up shop in Goa. After the election, they went away and now it is election season once again they are back. I believe that besides the BJP and Congress -- BJP will be in ruling and Congress will be in opposition -- other parties won’t have an impact. Finally, it depends on the voters,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-am-from-brahmin-family-but-mamata-s-sharp-counterattack-at-bjp-in-goa-101635542874993.html
30-10-2021||India||Can’t go abroad with Covaxin, allow revaccination, said plea in SC. Declined||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday said that it cannot play with the lives of people by directing persons who have received both doses of Covaxin to get re-vaccinated with Covishield pending the decision of the World Health Organization (WHO) to grant emergency use approval to the Indian-made vaccine.The wait for WHO decision on Covaxin has stalled travel plans of persons who were fully vaccinated with Covaxin.Representing their cause, a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by lawyer Kartik Seth said, “All the individuals fully vaccinated with Covaxin are being treated by all major countries as un-vaccinated individuals and are made to either quarantine or are not completely allowed within their borders.”Seth wished to take his aged parents to the United Kingdom but could not do so for this reason. He urged the court to pass an order allowing their revaccination with Covishield, which has received WHO approval in February this year. “Under the present scenario, a person is not permitted to get vaccinated with Covishield by registering on the official website of Government of India, “CoWIN” after having been fully vaccinated with Covaxin,” the petition said, seeking an order from the top court.“We cannot play with the lives of people,” said a bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and BV Nagarathna as it asked the petitioner to await WHO’s decision. “How can we direct that those who had full doses of Covaxin should get Covishield. This involves scientific data.”The petitioner pointed to the delay faced by Covaxin in getting WHO approval and sought details on the material supplied by the vaccine manufacturer Bharat Biotech Limited to WHO. “How are you entitled to the data supplied by WHO,” the bench shot back, wondering if the petitioner was pursuing the cause of a rival vaccine manufacturer.“This is the reason we do not want to entertain such petitions. This is the danger that competitors can use this court to fight their battle,” the bench observed. Seth told the court that his interest was purely in the public interest as several students and professionals were unable to travel despite being fully vaccinated.The bench said, “Let us keep a watch on what is happening. We have read in the newspapers that Bharat Biotech has lately submitted additional documents to the WHO. If the authorization comes, your purpose will be served.” The court posted the matter after a week.According to the petitioner, till August, 70 million Covaxin doses were administered in the country ever since the vaccination process commenced in the country on January 16. The petition asked why the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) gave emergency use authorization to Covaxin at a time when its Phase-3 trial results were awaited. It came in only in July.“The respondents (Centre), at the time of rolling out of Covaxin for use in the market, failed to make the public aware that it was not approved by WHO and that it has not even submitted an application before WHO for approval which was submitted as late as in April 2021…. Another blemish in the vaccination drive was that only from May 1, (commencement of third phase of vaccination in India) that the public was allowed to choose the vaccine as per their wish,” the petition stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cant-go-abroad-with-covaxin-allow-revaccination-said-plea-in-sc-declined-101635541734982.html
30-10-2021||India||PM Modi's governance model should be a case study in b-schools: Rajnath Singh||Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on Friday said that after Mahatma Gandhi and Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has initiated “Swadeshi 4.0” with his “vocal for local” and “Atmanirbhar Bharat” campaigns, and suggested that his governance model should be taught as a case study at management schools.“If we look at his (Modi’s) journey of twenty years, we will find that new challenges kept coming before him. But the way he faced those challenges should be taught in management schools as a case study of effective leadership and efficient governance. A hundred years ago, Gandhi ji was advocating Swadeshi in this country. About sixty years ago, Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay was talking about Swadeshi. In the nineties, the BJP also raised this issue in a big way. Now Modi has brought Swadeshi 4.0,” Singh said, while addressing a conference on “Delivering Democracy: Reviewing two decades of Narendra Modi as head of government”, organised by a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-linked think tank, Rambhau Mhalgi Prabodhini.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-governance-model-should-be-a-case-study-in-b-schools-rajnath-singh-101635541130716.html
30-10-2021||India||High court takes note of Tripura violence||The Tripura high court on Friday took suo moto cognisance of the violence that broke out in Tripura’s Panisagar during a rally organised against the attack on Hindus in Bangladesh.“ The High Court takes suo moto on vandalism incident... The government has been asked to submit a report on it by November 10,” said a senior advocate on condition of anonymity.According to police, a mosque was vandalised and some houses were set on fire on October 26 as violence broke out in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-tripura-violence-high-court-asks-govt-to-list-preventive-steps-taken-101635539042591.html
30-10-2021||India||NGT stays Telangana govt’s ₹32,000 crore lift irrigation work||Hyderabad In a setback to the Telangana government, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Friday ordered a stay on the construction of the prestigious Palamuru Ranga Reddy lift irrigation scheme (PRLIS) being built on Krishna river on the grounds that it has no environmental clearance.An interim order to this effect was issued by the southern bench of the NGT at Chennai, after a prolonged hearing on the petitions filed by the Andhra Pradesh government and a couple of farmers.Senior counsel for Andhra Pradesh government in the tribunal D Madhuri Reddy told Hindustan Times that the tribunal had asked the Telangana government to stop all the works on Palamuru-Ranga Reddy lift irrigation project until it obtained environmental clearance from the ministry of environment and forests (MOEF), Government of India.“The tribunal has also rejected the Telangana government’s argument that AP government has no locus standi in raising objections over the project five years after its commencement,” Madhuri Reddy said.The PRLIS is aimed at drawing 90 tmcft (thousand million cubic feet) of Krishna river from the backwaters of Srisailam reservoir for 60 days during the flood season to irrigate 1.23 million acres in Nagarkurnool, Rangareddy, Narayanpet, Mahbubnagar, Vikarabad and Nalgonda districts, besides providing drinking water to en route villages and Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, besides industrial use. The estimated cost of the project is ₹32,500 crore.In July this year, a couple of farmers - Kosigi Venkataiah from Mahabubnagar district and D Chandramouli Reddy from Kadapa district- filed petitions before the NGT, Chennai bench. The Mahbubnagar farmer opposed the project stating that the authorities were indulging in indiscriminate extraction of soil from lakes to build a huge bund for Udandapur reservoir. The Kadapa farmer contended that the PRLIS was being constructed in the name of drinking water scheme without obtaining environmental clearance from the Centre.Later, the Andhra Pradesh government, too, impleaded in the case, stating that there is no need to excavate huge canals, tunnels and construct six reservoirs, if the PRLIS is meant for drinking water supply purposes.Subsequently, the NGT constituted a joint committee consisting of a senior officer from the Union environment and forest ministry, a senior scientist from CPCB, Chennai, district collector, Mahabubnagar, director, mines and geology, and a senior scientist from National Environment Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) to inspect the project works and submit a report by August 27.However, the committee failed to take up the inspection and submit the report as directed by the NGT due to the non-cooperation of Telangana government. Later, the tribunal appointed Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) chairman as nodal officer to get the inspection panel report.The joint committee inspected project works in September and submitted a report to the NGT in October first week stating that Telangana took up irrigation works in PRLIS, instead of permitted drinking water component works. Following this, the NGT ordered a stay on Palarmaru-Rangareddy project works.“The tribunal said the objections raised by the Andhra Pradesh government were valid and the responses given by the Telangana government were not satisfactory,” the AP government’s counsel said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ngt-stays-telangana-govt-s-32-crore-lift-irrigation-work-101635535376508.html
30-10-2021||India||India, Israel to work on 10-year roadmap in defence sector||The India-Israel joint working group (JWG) on defence cooperation has decided to set up a task force to put together a comprehensive 10-year road map to identify new areas of collaboration, the defence ministry said on Friday.Israel has been among India’s top three arms suppliers for the last five years, according to a report published by the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (Sipri) in March 2021. Israel accounted for 13% of India’s imports during 2016-20 after Russia (49%) and France (18%).The decision to form the task force to identify new areas of cooperation for the next decade was taken during the 15th JWG meeting co-chaired by defence secretary Ajay Kumar and the director general of the Israel’s Ministry of Defence, Maj Gen Amir Eshel (retd) earlier this week.“The two sides reviewed the progress made in military-to-military engagements including exercises and industry cooperation. The co-chairs were apprised of the progress made by the sub working groups (SWGs) on defence procurement and production and research & development,” the ministry said in a statement. India and Israel also agreed to form an SWG on defence industry cooperation for efficient utilisation of resources, effective flow of technologies and sharing industrial capabilities, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indiaisrael-to-work-on-10-year-roadmap-in-defence-sector-101635533935943.html
30-10-2021||India||Karnataka, UIDAI, I-T dept flag concerns over Personal Data Protection Bill||The Karnataka government, the Income Tax (I-T) department and Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) officials have flagged concerns regarding the current form of the Personal Data Protection (PDP) Bill, 2019 as the house panel met stakeholders in Bengaluru on Thursday and Friday, people familiar with the matter said.“Concerns have been raised by government of Karnataka about various provisions of the PDP Bill. The government feels that some of the provisions are onerous and will not provide the state much flexibility considering the manner in which bill is presently structured,” one of the people mentioned above said.The Joint Parliamentary Committee, set up to look into the draft law since 2019 and submit its report, has been given several deadline extensions. The report drafted was yet to be circulated for final inputs by members despite their demands.As per the summary now shared, the report proposes to treat social media platforms as publishers -- a move that would make them liable for content posted by users -- and to add back the condition of “just, fair, reasonable and proportionate” in Section 35, which deals with exemptions that the government can claim in accessing personal data, one of the people cited above said.This was of particular concern because the bill cleared by the government allowed for the government to claim an exemption as long as it felt it was “necessary or expedient” to do so in a particular set of circumstances, such as those relating to national security.There has also been pushback against social media companies being treated as publishers and both the I-T department and UIDAI have sought exemptions under section 35.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-uidai-i-t-dept-flag-concerns-over-personal-data-protection-bill-101635533754592.html
30-10-2021||India||CVC directs depts to keep eye on ‘officers of doubtful integrity’||Updating its manual after a gap of four years, the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) has directed government departments and administrations to prepare a list of “unscrupulous contractors, suppliers, firms and clearing agents” suspected of indulging in corrupt practices and share the names with the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). On its part, the central anti-corruption probe agency will also pass information pertaining to any corrupt practices by contractors and agents to the concerned departments.A drafting committee, headed by chief vigilance commissioner Suresh N Patel and assisted by CBI special director Praveen Sinha, made public the updates earlier this week.The updated CVC manual is the eighth since 1968, and is a compilation of various rules, instructions and guidelines issued from time to time. It acts as a guidebook for government departments and enforcement agencies in vigilance matters.For the first time, the CVC has included in its manual the mode of keeping a secret watch on “gazetted officers of doubtful integrity (ODI)” in the “Agreed List”. An “Agreed List” is prepared by concerned government departments in consultation with the CBI.Similarly, the CVC has explained the procedure for adding or deleting names from the list of gazetted ODI, as well as the list of undesirable contact men (UCM), prepared by the CBI, who are suspected of resorting to corrupt or irregular practices in their dealings with official agencies. Another key addition in the latest document is preparing an “Agreed List of Points and Places of Corruption”, which will be prepared by the CBI after discussion with the concerned head of department or chief vigilance officers (CVOs) at its local offices in the beginning of the calendar year.“The latest CVC manual is comprehensive and has several new additions. The plan is to update it annually so that administrative authorities and vigilance officers/agencies empowered to investigate corruption matters have the latest information,” an official said, seeking anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cvc-directs-depts-to-keep-eye-on-officers-of-doubtful-integrity-101635533334367.html
30-10-2021||India||US firm eyes trials for Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin but delay in EUL a concern||Even as World Health Organization (WHO) will decide on the grant of emergency use listing for Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin on November 3, US biopharmaceutical company, Ocugen, has announced the filing of an Investigational New Drug (IND) application with USFDA to begin US trials of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin.Ocugen has the rights to commercialize Bharat Biotech’s inactivated whole virion anti-Covid-19 vaccine in the United States and Canada. “…submitted an Investigational New Drug application (IND) with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to evaluate the COVID-19 vaccine candidate, BBV152, known as COVAXIN™ outside the United States,” Ocugen said in a statement on WednesdayThe Phase 3 trial proposed to be done in the US will be more like a bridging study.“We are hopeful that the study conducted under the IND, if allowed to proceed, will help demonstrate that the data from India will be applicable to the U.S. population,” said Shankar Musunuri, chairman of the board, chief executive officer, and co-founder of Ocugen.Bharat Biotech itself seems stuck in a regulatory loop, with WHO on Tuesday missing another deadline for the grant of emergency use listing. Independent technical experts of the UN health body analysing the data instead sought more clarification from the vaccine maker.Earlier, a decision on Covaxin EUL was expected on October 5, after WHO representatives sought additional information on September 27.“Let me say that Bharat has been submitting data regularly and very quickly, but they submitted the last batch of data on the 18th of October,” said Dr Mariangela Simao, assistant director general, access to medicines and health products, WHO, on Thursday. She was responding to a question on the delay.It is not yet clear, what data has been submitted to the WHO for grant of EUL, as neither the company nor the UN health body has made it public. Interestingly, the company has been claiming that Covaxin data has been ready for perusal since June, this year.Bharat Biotech did not respond to queries on the latest delay.WHO’s emergency use licences typically assess safety and efficacy, risk management plans, cold chain requirements, and sometimes extend to physical inspection of manufacturing sites. For instance, in the case of Sinopharm’s vaccine, which, like Bharat Biotech’s, is an inactivated one, WHO conducted onsite inspections of the manufacturing facility.Bharat Biotech is yet to publish the results of its Phase 3 trials in any of the peer-reviewed journals, and the clinical efficacy results against Covid-19 infection have made their way into the public domain through a pre-print study that was posted on medRxiv in July, this year, or press notes declaring 93.4% efficacy against severe disease, 77.8% efficacy against symptomatic disease, and 63.6% efficacy against asymptomatic disease.“Let me just clarify and without wanting to mention any specific manufacturer but saying that we have assessed an Indian manufacturer earlier in the year and it took 30 days… So, this is not about moving quicker with one or another vaccine…,” added Simao.Dr Bruce Aylward, senior advisor to WHO director general, said, “We’re committed at the organisation from the very top under the Director General to move these processes as rapidly as possible. But let’s be very clear, the timeline for EULing a vaccine depends 99% on manufacturers, the speed, the completeness with which they can get data to the independent groups that assesses for WHO. We just want to be very, very clear on that point.”The grant of emergency use authorisation to Covaxin by India’s drugs regulator on January 3, 2021, also was severely criticised as the company was yet to make public even interim efficacy results at the time. A government official directly involved in the process said “the vaccine data is robust”. He added: “These are procedural measures that need to be duly followed. Experts seek clarification on some points, which the company provides. Not too much should be read into it.”But WHO’s delay in granting an EUL to Covaxin has raised questions in some quarters, especially because the body has not delayed approvals to many of the other vaccines that are part of the vaccine drives of countries.“Look at vaccines such as Pfizer, Moderna, and one of the Chinese vaccines, they were cleared pretty fast. Bharat Biotech needs to present its case properly. And if there are data discrepancies, then what was the Indian regulator doing? Why haven’t the Indian experts asked similar questions? On what basis was the emergency use authorisation given?” asked a senior public health expert, requesting anonymity.But most experts believe that it is just a matter of time now before the approval is granted. “The technical expert group has to look at the data from various angles... therefore, you do need additional data at times. Whatever is causing the delay seems to be a minor issue,” said Dr Narinder Kumar Mehra, senior immunologist, and former dean, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi.With inputs from pti||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-firm-eyes-trials-for-bharat-biotech-s-covaxin-but-delay-in-eul-a-concern-101635533279027.html
30-10-2021||India||India’s stealth warship launched in Russia||The Indian Navy’s latest frigate was on Thursday launched at Russia’s Yantar Shipyard in Kaliningrad, as Russia prepares to deliver two new warships to India in 2023, adding significant capability to the navy for projecting power in the Indian Ocean Region where the Chinese People’s Liberation Army Navy (PLAN) is seeking to enhance its presence, officials familiar with the developments said on Friday.The warship’s launch marks a significant milestone in its construction and refers to the ship entering water for the first time.The warship, named Tushil, is part of an over $2.5-billion deal with Russia for four more Krivak/Talwar class stealth frigates for the Indian Navy, two of which are being constructed at the Yantar Shipyard and the remaining two will be built at the Goa Shipyard Limited (GSL) with technology transfer from Russia, which is India’s top arms supplier, said one of the officials cited above. Tushil is expected to be commissioned into the Indian Navy in mid-2023 followed by its sister ship in 2023-end, said a second official.The construction of these ships is based on the Indian Navy’s specific requirements to meet the entire spectrum of naval warfare in air, surface and sub-surface domains. “The ships with a potent combination of state-of-art Indian and Russian weapons and sensors are equipped to operate in littoral (near the shores) and blue waters, both as a single unit and as consort in a naval task force,” the Navy said in a statement.The warships feature stealth technology and have low radar and underwater noise signatures, besides being equipped with Indian-supplied equipment such as surface-to-surface missiles, sonar system, surface surveillance radar, communication suite and anti-submarine warfare systems along with Russian surface-to-air missiles and gun mounts, the navy added.The navy currently operates six stealth frigates — three Talwar class and three Teg class — bought from Russia and inducted between 2003 and 2013.The new Grigorovich-class ‘Project 1135.6’ frigates will be powered by gas turbine engines supplied by Ukrainian firm Ukroboronprom’s Gas Turbine Research & Production Complex Zorya-Mashproekt.“The four new frigates will be armed with cutting-edge technologies, weapons and sensors that will pack a significant punch,” said former GSL chairman Rear Admiral Shekhar Mital (retd), who is now a member of the Public Enterprises Selection Board that advises the Centre on top appointments to public sector enterprises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-stealth-warship-launched-in-russia-101635533277721.html
30-10-2021||India||‘Covid vaccination is currently very uneven’: Gavi deputy CEO Anuradha Gupta interview||The imbalance between demand and supply has led to protectionist measures by countries that are Covid-19 vaccine producers, frantic purchasing by richer economies, and profit-seeking by manufacturers, said Anuradha Gupta, Gavi ‘s deputy CEO, in an interview to HT. Gavi-the Vaccine Alliance leads the Covax facility that was created last year to ensure equitable access to Covid-19 vaccines across the world.How do you see the global Covid vaccination journey so far?Covid vaccination is currently very uneven. 80% of people in high -and upper middle- income countries have already received their first dose compared to only 20% of people in low- and lower middle-income countries. This means that despite Covid-19 vaccines having been developed at an extraordinary pace and despite vaccines proving to be highly effective in reducing serious disease and hospitalizations, the full benefits have not been reaped.mRNA vaccines have been a major breakthrough, signalling huge potential to combat other serious diseases in future. Covid-19 vaccines have been developed, trialled and approved at an unprecedented pace. These are major achievements.How many vaccine doses have been distributed under the Covax facility and to how many countries? And since when?Operating within a supply-constrained environment has been hugely challenging. Still, Covax has managed to deliver nearly 400 million doses across the world.Covax didn’t receive as many vaccine doses for distribution as initially expected.Covax has been steadfast in its goal to deliver 2 billion doses though the timelines have shifted depending on supply availability. Several countries have responded to the call to donate their surplus doses. All things going well, as many as 1.4 billion doses might be made available in 2021 itself.How much did Covax arrangement suffer because of India restricting exports. Since India has opened up exports again, how much is the Covax facility expected to get in the first lot from here, and by when?Our earliest and largest advance purchase agreements were with the Serum Institute of India ( SII). Gavi is the single largest procurer of childhood vaccines and SII is among our major suppliers, with a strong track record... So lack of timely supply from SII has severely impacted the ability of Covax to rapidly deliver doses to lower income countries.Though Covax now has a diversified portfolio comprising of 11 vaccines, SII supplies would greatly help to reduce vaccine inequity.This pandemic also found countries indulging in vaccine nationalism. What are the lessons learnt, and possible solutions to avert similar experiences in future?One of the key lessons we’ve witnessed is that a global mechanism like Covax can succeed in its mission only if all parties including country governments and manufacturers fulfil their commitments. If that doesn’t happen, institutions and leaders lose credibility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gavi-deputy-ceo-anuradha-gupta-interview-covid-vaccination-is-currently-very-uneven-101635533034236.html
30-10-2021||India||Mirzapur school manager arrested for dangling 5-year-old student||The manager of a school in Uttar Pradesh’s Mirzapur district was arrested on Friday for holding a 5-year-old student by his leg and dangling him from the top floor of the school building, allegedly to punish him for bunking the class to have ‘gol gappas’, the police said.A video of the shocking incident has since gone viral.Police said the incident took place on Thursday, when Manoj Vishwakarma, the manager of Sadbhavna Shikshan Sansthan in Ahraura Dih area of Mirzapur found a class 2 student having ‘gol gappas’ at a stall outside the school without informing the teacher.After the child returned to the class, Vishwakarma dragged him to the top floor, and threatened to drop him if he did not say ‘sorry’. The child’s father, Ranjit Yadav, subsequently lodged a complaint with the police following which an FIR was lodged on Thursday night, said Mirzapur district magistrate Praveen Kumar Lakshkar.Vishwakarma was arrested on Friday and booked under sections 352 (criminal force or assault) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 75 of Juvenile Justice Act, an officer added.Vishwakarma, meanwhile, also tendered an apology to the child’s father, regretting his act.Basic shiksha adhikari (BSA), Gautam Prasad, said an explanation has been sought from Vishwakarma and a notice issued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mirzapur-school-manager-arrested-for-dangling-5-year-old-student-101635532854355.html
30-10-2021||India||Extortion charges: Police beginprobe against Wankhede, other NCB officers||Mumbai A four-member Mumbai Police team, headed by an officer of rank of assistant commissioner of police (ACP), has begun its probe into allegations of corruption against officers of Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), including Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede, the lead investigator in the cruise drugs raid case in which actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan was arrested earlier this month.“If the enquiry reveals commission of any cognisable offence, a First Information Report (FIR) would be registered against the concerned person/s and further investigation would be commenced as per due procedure,” an officer familiar with the developments said on condition of anonymity.At least four police stations have received complaints against NCB officials and Wankhede after Prabhakar Sail, an independent witness in the drugs case, in an affidavit on October 23 claimed that investigators made him sign on 10 sheets of blank paper at their office on the day of the raid. Sail also alleged that he overheard his employer, Kiran Gosavi (another witness in the case) speaking on the phone about extorting ₹25 crore to settle the case and release Aryan Khan, which could be negotiated to ₹18 crore, with ₹8 crore purportedly for Wankhede. The affidavit further stated that Gosavi met Shah Rukh Khan’s manager, Pooja Dadlani, and a purported exchange of money took place between them on October 3. Aryan was arrested later that afternoon and released on Friday. Wankhede has denied all allegations made in the affidavit. “This is a malicious allegation to target my reputation. I condemn it,” he said.The Mumbai Police team, led by ACP Milind Khetle of Azad Maidan division, and comprising inspector Ajay Sawant (Colaba police station), sub-inspector Prakash Gawli (cyber police) and assistant inspector Shrikant Karkar (anti-narcotics cell), began examining call detail records (CDR), close circuit television (CCTV) footage at the locations where the alleged meetings took place and where a bag of cash was purportedly exchanged. It also began examining the phone call locations of NCB officials and other individuals who were part of the alleged extortion plan. “The focus of our inquiry is to ascertain how the money transactions, if any, took place. Sail said that there were cash transactions and proving that will be very challenging. We are in the process of identifying witnesses who were part of the alleged transaction or witnessed it. Only after finding strong evidence will we register an FIR,” another officer said on condition of anonymity. “Once we establish that money transactions were made for the purposes of bribery or extortion, we will try to ascertain whether Gosavi was acting on his own or whether he was following any NCB officer’s orders,” the officer added.The police team is being supervised by additional commissioner Dilip Sawant and deputy commissioner of police Hemrajsingh Rajput. Sail, who was interrogated by Mumbai Police for several hours on October 27 and 28, filed an application seeking protection at Sahar police station on October 25. “He has shared all details to substantiate his claims,” Sail’s lawyer Tushar Khandare said. A separate enquiry is being conducted by a vigilance team, led by NCB deputy director general Gyaneshwar Singh, based on Sail’s allegations. The team, which is currently in Mumbai, has recorded the statements of eight people, including Wankhede and four other NCB officers, so far. It has also sought Sail’s participation in the enquiry. “[On Thursday] We requested the Mumbai Police commissioner also to convey our message to Sail, as we learnt through various media reports that he was being investigated by them, to join our inquiry. Surprisingly, Sail has not come forward. In the last three days, we have used all our sources to serve him a notice directly and also through his relatives and also contacted his advocate,” Singh told reporters on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/extortion-charges-police-beginprobe-against-wankhede-other-ncbofficers-101635532733625.html
30-10-2021||India||Bypolls to 3 Lok Sabha, 30 assembly seats to be conducted today||Bypolls to three Lok Sabha seats and 30 assembly seats in 13 states and one Union territory will be held on Saturday amid strict security and Covid safety measures.The Lok Sabha seats where bypolls will be held are Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Mandi in Himachal Pradesh and Khandwa in Madhya Pradesh. Of the 29 assembly seats going to bypolls, five are in Assam, four in West Bengal, three each in Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and Meghalaya, two each in Bihar, Karnataka and Rajasthan and one each in Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Maharashtra, Mizoram and Telangana. The counting of votes will take place on November 2.A look at the states where some of the seats are going to polls:West BengalThe ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) are main contenders in the assembly bypolls at Dinhata in Cooch Behar, Santipur in Nadia, Khardah in North 24 Parganas and Gosaba in South 24 Parganas.AssamAssam will see a direct contest between the ruling BJP and its allies, and the Congress in five assembly seats of Gossaigaon, Bhabanipur, Tamulpur, Mariani and Thowra.MeghalayaElections are being held in three seats – Mawryngkneng, Mawphlang and Rajabala – where the ruling National People’s Party and the Congress are in direct contest.BiharA total of 17 candidates will be contesting the bypoll for two seats, Tarapur and Kushweshwar Asthan, in Bihar.KarnatakaThe bypolls for Sindgi and Hanagal assembly constituencies are seen as the first electoral test for Basavaraj Bommai, who replaced B S Yediyurappa as Karnataka chief minister on July 28 this year.Himachal PradeshThe stakes are high for Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur as bypolls for Mandi Lok Sabha and three assembly seats — Fatehpur, Jubbal-Kothkai and Arki — are being conducted before the assembly elections next year.RajasthanThe Congress and BJP are in direct contest in Dhariawad and Vallabhnagar assembly segments, whose MLAs, Gautam Lal Meena (BJP) and Gajendra Singh Shaktawat (Congress) died this year.TelanganaAn intense battle is expected between the Telangana Rashtra Samithi and BJP, the main contenders, in Huzurabad assembly constituency.MaharashtraThe Deglur bypoll in central Maharashtra is a prestigious fight with BJP fielding Shiv Sena’s three-term MLA Subhash Sabne and the Congress nominating Jitesh Antapurkar.Nagaland and MizoramThe Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party in Nagaland retained the Shamator-Chessore assembly seat after its candidate was elected unopposed. The ruling Mizo National Front will take on opposition Congress, Zoram Peoples Movement (ZPM) and Bharatiya Janata Party, in the bye-election for Tuirial assembly seat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bypolls-to-3-lok-sabha-30-assembly-seats-to-be-conducted-across-13-states-and-1-union-territory-today-101635532619741.html
30-10-2021||India||SC says ‘can’t play with lives’ on plea to allow revaccination with Covishield||The Supreme Court on Friday said that it will await the decision of the World Health Organisation (WHO) on the emergency use authorisation of Bharat Biotech’s Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin, and cannot simply ask the central government to revaccinate people, fully vaccinated with the jab, with Covishield doses.Hearing a petition that called for permitting individuals, inoculated with both shots of Covaxin and voluntarily wanting to get revaccinated with Covishield, the bench of justices DY Chandrachud and BV Nagarathna said that it cannot play with the lives of people as it doesn’t have any data to what will be the effect of such mixing of varied Covid-19 vaccines.“We cannot play with the lives of people by directing the Centre to revaccinate. We don't have any data with us. We have read in newspapers that Bharat Biotech has filed an application with the World Health Organisation for recognition. Let us wait for the response of WHO. We will take up this matter post-Diwali vacation,” news agency ANI reported, quoting the top court.The petition, which was lodged by lawyer Kartik Seth stated that owing to Covaxin’s non-recognition by the WHO, several students and other people, who are willing to go overseas, are facing issues as they’re denied entry into the country.The WHO approval of Covaxin was delayed further on Tuesday after a meeting by the United Nations health agency on the same day. Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech has been asked for additional data by the WHO, and will meet again on November 3 to discuss the emergency use listing (EUL) of the indigenous Covid-19 vaccine.Bharat Biotech had applied for the WHO nod in late April this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-says-can-t-play-with-lives-on-plea-to-allow-revaccination-with-covishield-101635532009757.html
30-10-2021||India||Will ensure a crime, corruption-free govt in Punjab: Arvind Kejriwal||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday intensified his pitch for the 2022 Punjab assembly elections, accusing the ruling Congress in Punjab of “patronising corruption”. He also promised to clear the pending VAT refunds of traders and businessmen in three-four months and provide round-the-clock electricity to the industries in the state, if the AAP is voted to power.“Our goal is to create a prosperous Punjab and lead it towards progress. We will provide a crime-free and corruption-free government,” he said, addressing a gathering of traders and businessmen in Bathinda on the concluding day of his two-day Punjab visit.Responding to the concerns of some traders about the alleged “goonda tax”, he said the AAP will ensure safety of traders. “After our government comes to power in Punjab, from April 1, 2022, it will be our responsibility to ensure the safety of every businessman,” he said.“We will give you an honest government in Punjab like in Delhi. We ended the Inspector Raj and the Raid Raj in Delhi.”“If voted to power, we will ensure prompt clearance of huge arrears of the obsolete VAT (value-added tax). We will ensure transparent governance and safety of businessmen.”Kejriwal also accused other political parties of thinking about the traders and businessmen “only at the time of polls because they need funds”. “But we do not need money from you. I have come to make you a partner in Punjab’s progress. We will create a conducive atmosphere so that trade and industry flourishes,” he said.Taking a dig at the Charanjit Singh Channi-led Congress government in Punjab, which recently hosted an investors’ summit, Kejriwal said, “They invite big industrialists and say so much investment has come. But efforts are not made to save the existing industry, which is shifting out to other places.”Hitting back, Punjab finance minister Manpreet Badal said: “Is it the first time he (Kejriwal) has levelled charges of corruption against his political rivals?... It is typical of a coward. How does he get the right to become a certification authority?"||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arvind-kejriwal-if-voted-to-power-aap-will-ensure-a-crime-corruption-free-govt-in-punjab-101635532315301.html
30-10-2021||India||Congress says Centre will have to 'remove' farm laws like Ghazipur border barricade||In an indirect dig to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Centre following the removal of police barricades from Delhi’s Tikri and Ghazipur borders, Congress took to Twitter to say that the “arrogant power” that was forced to remove the barricades will also “have to remove the black laws.”Scores of farmers from across India have been protesting at Delhi’s Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri borders since November 2020 against the three farm laws passed by the central government. The barricades were brought in after the Republic Day violence this year, following which the Delhi Police had even installed nails and barbed wire at the borders in an attempt to stop the farmers from entering the national capital.बेरिकेड हटाने को मजबूर अहंकारी सत्ता को काले कानून भी हटाने पड़ेंगे।The Delhi Police announced on Thursday that the blockades will be removed from the borders, following an order by the Supreme Court on October 21 stating that while the farmers have every right to protest, roads should not be indefinitely blocked for the purpose. The apex court made the direction while hearing a plea pertaining to the blocking of roads on the Delhi-Noida route due to the protests. Furthermore, the court said that it was the authorities that had stopped the traffic and not the protesting farmers.Traffic movement has been hindered on the Delhi-Ghaziabad route, and also on the Delhi-Meerut expressway with farmers setting up temporary tents and parking their tractor trolleys by the roads.Meanwhile, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait said that with the removal of barricades, which were stopping them from going to Delhi, the farmers will “sell their harvest” in the national capital and will also go to the parliament to sell their crop.“The PM (PM Narendra Modi) said that farmers can sell crops anywhere. Now we will tell the farmers where to sell the crops whose harvest remains unsold. If roads are open, we will go to Delhi. We will go to Parliament to sell our crop,” Tikait told news agency ANI.The farmers’ union later issued a statement as well wherein it clarified that the stir against the three farms laws, which has been active for nearly 11 months, will continue. The BKU said that there is no change in the agitation, and the removal of the barricades is Delhi Police’s move to “correct its mistake” following the order of the Supreme Court. Stressing that a large number of farmers remain at the Ghazipur border, the union also urged other farmers to join the stir by reaching the site. “Every day there is conspiracy against the movement. We have to be prepared against every conspiracy,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-says-centre-will-have-to-remove-farm-laws-like-ghazipur-barricade-101635531295473.html
30-10-2021||India||Fewer convictions in SC/ST cases due to ‘shoddy investigations’: Supreme Court||Atrocities against members of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (SC/STs) are “not a thing of the past”, lamented the Supreme Court on Friday, as it underscored that the conviction rates in SC/ST cases were low in India not due to the falsity of charges but because of shoddy investigations.A bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and BV Nagarathna highlighted that several members of the SC/ST community “face insurmountable hurdles in accessing justice from the stage of filing the complaint to the conclusion of the trial” and that they “specifically suffer on account of procedural lapses in the criminal justice system”.It noted that due to the fear of retribution from members of upper caste groups, ignorance, or police apathy, many SC/ST victims do not register complaints in the first place and when they do so, the police officials are reluctant to register complaints or do not record allegations accurately.“Eventually, if the case does get registered, the victims and witnesses are vulnerable to intimidation, violence, and social and economic boycott. Further, many perpetrators of caste-based atrocities get away scot free due to shoddy investigations and the negligence of prosecuting advocates,” rued the bench. “This results in low conviction rates under the SC/ST Act, giving rise to the erroneous perception that cases registered under the Act are false and that it is being misused. On the contrary, the reality is that many acquittals are a result of improper investigation and prosecution of crime, leading to insufficient evidence,” it added.Crimes registered under the SC/ST Act saw an increase of 9.4% (for SC) and 9.3% (for ST) in 2020 compared to the previous year, according to data released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). A total of 50,291 cases were registered for crimes against SCs last year. The number was 45,961 in 2019. Meanwhile, 8,272 cases were registered for crimes against STs in 2020 as against 7,570 cases in 2019. Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Bihar recorded the highest rate of crimes against SCs. Kerala, Rajasthan and Telangana recorded the highest rate of crimes against STs. Only 216 cases from the 50,291 crimes against SCs in 2020 resulted in convictions. A total of 3,192 cases resulted in acquittals.The bench expressed its views on the implementation of the SC/ST Act while setting aside the bail granted to one Satyanarayan in 2019 in a case of murder of a member of SC/ST community. The appeal against grant of bail was filed in the top court on the grounds that the Punjab & Haryana high court passed the order without hearing the complainant or witness even though the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities Act) makes it mandatory.Noting that all the courts must strictly follow the procedure mandated under the SC/ST Act, the SC held that a victim of a caste-based crime must be given due notice and an opportunity to be heard whenever proceedings relating to bail or trial are taken up.The court cited Section 15A of the SC/ST Act to point out that the legislation makes it mandatory to hear a victim or complainant when the courts hear the petitions by the accused.“Atrocities against members of the SCs and STs are not a thing of the past. They continue to be a reality in our society even today. Hence the statutory provisions which have been enacted by Parliament as a measure of protecting the constitutional rights of persons belonging to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes must be complied with and enforced conscientiously.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fewer-convictions-in-sc-st-cases-due-to-shoddy-investigations-supreme-court-101635531834261.html
30-10-2021||India||PM Modi meets EU leaders over climate, economy||The G20 member-states have reached a “broad consensus” on the issue of recognising vaccine certificates for resumption of travel and economic activities to boost post-pandemic recovery, commerce minister Piyush Goyal said ahead of a meeting of the grouping in Rome, where Prime Minister Narendra Modi reached earlier on Friday.Modi began a series of bilateral meetings on the margins of the G20 Summit, beginning with European Council President Charles Michel and European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen to review India-EU tiesGoyal, who is India’s G20 sherpa or personal representative of the head of government for preparing for the grouping’s summit, told a news briefing in Rome the country had made “significant interventions” in discussions on key issues such as mutual recognition of vaccine certificates, sustainable development and climate change that will figure in the declaration to be issued after the G20 Summit.He said there was “broad consensus” on mutual recognition of vaccine certificates because all the nations wish to resume travel and economic activity. The G20 members are working towards acceptable language to bring the matter within the grouping’s framework, he said.India and some other states pushed for inclusion of vaccine certificates into the health paragraph of the proposed declaration so that it takes centre stage for current and future pandemics. The declaration is expected to address the recognition of both vaccines and certificates, and the G20 is also looking at building capacity and strengthening processes for faster approval of more vaccines, he said.“We are quite confident that there is broad consensus and the language is being worked out on how we can bring it in. To bring in the sense and bring confidence to the world, that we are all committed to faster recovery, resilient recovery, yet at the same time ensuring that there is sufficient policy space for nations to protect their own national interests,” Goyal said.The G20 sherpas have held discussions over the past three days on the proposed declaration to be adopted at the G20 Summit during October 30-31. Goyal said India had spoken for developing and low and middle income countries at these talks, and most G20 states had endorsed the country’s position that “extensive Covid-19 immunisation is a global public good”.On climate change and environment, India spoke on the “need for critical enablers for galvanising global climate action”, including commensurate long-term concessional climate finance, access to affordable and sustainable technology, and a commitment to adopt sustainable lifestyles and responsible consumption patterns, Goyal said.As co-chair of the G20 framework working group on economic recovery, India is ensuring there is no premature withdrawal of financial support for the most vulnerable countries.In the realm of tax reforms, India pushed the G20 to address a “mismatch between the source of generation of profits and jurisdiction where profits are taxed” to ensure that large MNCs pay a minimum effective corporate tax in the country of operation, he said.In the field of digital economy, Goyal said India pushed the need for balancing the free flow of data with a “narrative for cross-border data flows and accommodating development imperatives of developing countries”.Goyal also said India was one of most responsible countries in terms of meeting its nationally determined contributions (NDCs) under the Paris Accord to cut greenhouse gas emissions.Modi is set to hold a string of bilateral meetings on the margins of the G20 Summit.He met his Italian counterpart Mario Draghi and the two leaders are expected to discuss issues of bilateral and mutual interests. “Synergising the India-Italy Partnership! PM @narendramodi was received by the Italian PM Mario Draghi, as he arrived at Palazzo Chigi for their first in-person meeting. Both leaders inspected the guard of honour before proceeding for delegation level talks,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi tweeted.At the meeting with EU leaders, Prime Minister Modi reviewed cooperation covering trade and investment and the Roadmap 2025 agreed at the last India-EU Summit. “We had wide-ranging talks on deepening the India-EU friendship, particularly in areas such as trade, commerce, culture and the environment,” Modi tweeted.Bagchi added in a tweet after the meeting: “The leaders discussed ways to enhance economic as well as people-to-people linkages aimed at creating a better planet.” Von der Leyen said in a tweet that the India-EU strategic agenda was on the right track, and that the two sides “need to join forces to help vaccinate the world and beat the global pandemic”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-meets-eu-leaders-over-climate-economy-101635531236364.html
30-10-2021||India||Behind the con: How three men ‘sold’ a govt hotel in Puri||For years, Tapan Mohanty dreamed that he would one day own the ITDC Nilachal Ashok Hotel in Puri, a mere 4km from his home.For a decade, he prepared himself for it, leasing a lodge in the city, buying land for a hotel on the Puri-Konark highway, and dabbling in real estate. Then came the opportunity. In February 2020, Mohanty executed an agreement between his poultry company and “ITDC” for the sale of the hotel for ₹12 crore, which is to be disinvested as part of the Government of India’s national monetisation pipeline.A year-and-a-half later, Mohanty is debilitated, by a speech infirmity brought on by a stroke and three surgeries between December and February, and the knowledge that he was the victim of an ingenious, elaborate con, only just being unraveled by the Odisha Police. It’s a con that has cost him ₹50 lakh, and his dream.ITDC Nilachal Ashok, which Mohanty sought to acquire from Utkal Ashok Hotel Corporation, a joint venture of ITDC and OTDC, was set up in January 1989 after the state government granted it a lease for 99 years over the land where it sits. The hotel, though now dilapidated, is located on the Blue Flag beach of Puri, next to the Raj Bhawan. In 2004, the hotel was closed down as it was found unviable. Utkal Ashok Hotel Corporation then decided to lease out the hotel for a period of 40 years in 2005-06, but there were no bidders. In 2009, it was re-tendered, and a Kolkata-based company, AFR Paulmech Infrastructure Pvt Ltd, won the bid, but allegedly defaulted on its deposit payments and the lease agreement could not be executed. In 2013, the board of directors of Utkal Ashok Hotel Corporation decided to terminate the agreement, following which AFR Paulmech Infrastructure filed a writ petition before the Orissa high court in October 2013. In 2017, the Orissa high court dismissed the writ petition following which the company approached the Supreme Court, where the case is still pending.The hotel is among the eight ITDC properties that have been listed for monetisation in the National Monetisation Pipeline released by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in August.The man and the conMohanty grew up in Puri, and began his business enterprise, TK Egg and Chicken Centre, shortly after the 1999 Super Cyclone. Over two decades, the business grew to a formidable size, supplying eggs and broiler chicken to as many as 70 centres in Odisha, with the money allowing Mohanty to dabble in real estate. Yet his heart had always been set on owning a hotel. In 2015, he took a small lodge in Puri on lease, but it has not yet taken off, its interior decoration still incomplete. Even before that, in 2011, he purchased 1.2 acre land on the Puri-Konark marine drive, where he intended to build a resort. That land is lying fallow.In December 2019, an acquaintance of Mohanty, who worked with the Life Insurance Coporation of India (LIC), set up a meeting between him and three people for the proposed sale. The roles were well defined: 30- year-old Anikesh Sahu was the contractor who executed different projects of ITDC; Chandan Akash Mohanty, 32, posed as an ITDC official; a third person, yet to be named by the police, accompanied them as a clerk. Mohanty, perhaps blinded by desire, sensed nothing wrong, and fell hard for the con.On February 29, 2020, Mohanty signed an agreement on behalf of his company “TK Chicken and Egg Centre” titled “Expression of interest and qualification of the company” printed on non-judicial stamp papers of ₹90. Chandan Akash Mohanty signed the document on behalf of “ITDC”.“We confirm that our consortium/joint venture satisfies the eligibility criteria including the guidelines for qualification of bidders seeking to acquire the public sector enterprise through the process of disinvestment issued by the government of India vide Department of Disinvestment,” the agreement read. Even in this agreement, there were red flags. The Department of Disinvestment was renamed the Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (Dipam) on April 14, 2016.EOW officials said the trio made Mohanty deposit ₹20 lakh into ITDC’s SBI account in Delhi’s Lodhi Road branch on February 29. “As the final deal was not yet through, the three told Mohanty that he needed to pay another ₹30 lakh to process the agreement with different sections of ITDC before the hotel was finally sold [to him] for ₹12 crore. They even told Mohanty that he needed to pay a bribe of ₹3 crore for pushing the final sale through the bureaucracy of ITDC,” said Dilip Tripathy, superintendent of police of Economic Offences Wing.The confirmation from ITDC, of course, never came. “Mohanty paid ₹30 lakh in cash over a period of time to push his bid for the hotel deal,” said Tripathy.While investigations are still underway, EOW officials said they have approached ITDC to enquire about the ₹20 lakh that Mohanty deposited on February 29, but said that it was not rare for high-value deposits to be made to the ITDC account. “We will try our best to get the amount credited back to Mohanty,” the SP said. When HT reached out for comment, the chief financial officer of ITDC, SD Paul, said he would not be able to speak on the issue as the matter was under investigation by police.The strokeSoon after he signed the agreement, Mohanty told his daughter Tamanna, 20, to prepare for a course in hotel management, in anticipation that she would run the hotel in a matter of years.Instead, in a matter of days, Bijayini Mohanty, Tapan’s wife, says the family began to sense something was wrong. Covid-19 hit, and with normal business thrown out of gear, the three began dodging his phone calls. “Every time he would call Chandan Akash, he would say ITDC office is closed due to Covid-19. There was no way to disbelieve it. However, he stopped responding to my husband’s calls and I started believing that my husband was ripped off,” Bijayini said. In September, Tapan Mohanty contracted Covid-19, and recovered a month later. Calls became infrequent, but even when they were made, there was no response.Then, a bigger tragedy hit.In December, Mohanty suffered a stroke, and was admitted to a private hospital in Bhubaneswar. “Surgery was done in his brain, and a month later it was found that he developed a bacterial infection in his head. So a second surgery was done because his brain was swelling up. He was getting violent too,” said Mohanty’s wife. A third surgery followed soon after, and Mohanty lost the ability to speak. “A brain abscess had developed due to the bacterial fungal infection following the stroke in his brain. The surgery was necessary to evacuate the puss which was life threatening. The trauma has left him without the power to speak,” said neurosurgeon Dr Somnath Jena, who operated on him.Mohanty’s distraught wife kept making calls to the three men to return their money; the treatment cost the family ₹21 lakh, the medication and physiotherapy not included. The main accused even visited Mohanty in hospital in January.The unravelingOn August 21, the Economic Offences Wing of the Odisha Police announced the arrest of a self-proclaimed baba Swami Bijayanandaji Maharaj, also known as Bijayananda Choudhary, and one other accomplice for allegedly duping a contractor for ₹3 crore. Choudhary and the accomplice allegedly took the money from the contractor, giving him fake work orders for the renovation of two OTDC-run properties near Chilika Lake — one at Barkul in Khurda district and the other in Rambha in Ganjam district. The name of the accomplice was Chandan Akash Mohanty.Taking care of her ailing husband in Puri, Bijayini instantly recognised Chandan Mohanty when his name appeared in local newspapers on August 22. “When we arrested Chandan Akash Mohanty in August we found some official stamps of ITDC on him, and knew there must be other frauds too. Then Tapan Mohanty’s wife sent a letter to us complaining that her husband was also conned by the man. Our subsequent investigation led to the arrest of Anikesh Sahu on October 21. The third accused is still on the run, and we are investigating the involvement of more people as well,” said Tripathy, SP, EOW.Police officials said that Sahu worked with an event management company in the state. Chandan Mohanty is a civil engineer who briefly worked with the Odisha Tourism Development Corporation, and was the mastermind of the operation. “He is as polished as one can be, wears branded clothes, and speaks in a calm, gentle voice. He married last year and hosted a lavish reception in a renowned hotel in Bhubaneswar. He probably got the idea of posing as an ITDC official while working with the state-owned OTDC. The other accused, Anikesh Sahu, worked in a jewellery shop owned by his uncle,” said the SP. The accused have been arrested under sections 419 (cheating for impersonation), 420 (cheating and dishonesty inducing delivery of property), 467 (forgery of valuable security), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), and 471(using forged documents) of the Indian Penal Code.The two-storey Puri home of the Mohantys, constructed in 2012, is ornately decorated with a large television in the drawing room. Secured by steel gates, Mohanty lives on the second floor. Yet, this is a family sinking under the weight of a failed enterprise. Mohanty had begun making financial preparations, and planned to approach banks to finance the hotel deal.“He pawned my gold jewellery for about ₹4.5 lakh, took personal loans at high interest rates, and sold some of his land for the deal. Now people are calling me up asking for money that he borrowed,” said Bijayini Mohanty.“This hotel deal has ruined my family.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/behind-the-con-how-three-men-sold-a-govt-hotel-in-puri-101635531233672.html
30-10-2021||India||178,000 women apply for NDA as forces lift gender barrier||A third of the candidates who will appear for the National Defence Academy (NDA) examination on November 14 for entry into the premier joint services training institution are women, government officials familiar with the matter said on the condition of anonymity.This will be their maiden attempt at cracking the entrance exam being conducted by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) at centres across India, after the Supreme Court, in a landmark order on August 18, 2021, opened the doors of the academy to women.“Nearly 570,000 applications have been received and of these 178,000 are women,” said one of the officials cited above.The apex court’s order making women eligible to join NDA, which was formally inaugurated 66 years ago and was thus far a male preserve, came almost three decades after they were allowed to serve in select branches of the army, air force and navy as short-service commission (SSC) officers.Ananyaa Madhur Sharma, a Class 12 student from DLF Public School, Ghaziabad, is among the 178,000 women applicants.
30-10-2021||India||Consensual sex with major not an offence but unethical: Allahabad HC||The Allahabad high court on Friday, while rejecting the bail plea of a gang rape accused, said that having consensual sex with a major is not an offence but “unethical, immoral and against established Indian norms”.Justice Rahul Chaturvedi while dismissing the bail plea one of the four accused in the case, said that it was duty of the man, claiming to be the boyfriend of a minor girl, to protect his girlfriend when she was being sexually harassed by the other co-accused.“The moment the applicant submits that the victim is his beloved, it was his binding duty to protect the dignity, honour and reputation of his girlfriend. If a girl is major one, then to have sex with her consent is not an offence, but certainly it is unethical and immoral and also not in consonance with the established social norms of the Indian society,”observed the court.The court termed the applicant’s act as highly deplorable and unbecoming of a boyfriend, stating that “he remained silent spectator when the co-accused persons were brutally sexually assassinating his beloved in front of him”.As per FIR, the victim, on February 19 this year, went to take stitching lessons at a stitching centre and had spoken to her boyfriend Raju over phone and planned to meet him. Later they meet at a secluded place near a local river. After some time, three other persons reached there, abused and beat the applicant and committed the crime.On February 20, an FIR lodged by the 15-year-old victim against four accused under sections 376-D, 392, 323, 504, and 506 of the IPC and Sections 5 and 6 of POCSO Act at Akil Sarai police station of Kaushambi district.After examining the material placed on record and the contents of the FIR, the court denied bail to the applicant, stating that it cannot be said with certainty that the applicant had got no association or connection with remaining co-accused persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/consensual-sex-with-a-major-girl-not-an-offence-but-immoral-and-against-indian-norms-hc-101635530814508.html
30-10-2021||India||Congress seeks apology from former CAG Vinod Rai over ‘lies’, ‘conspiracy’||The Congress on Friday sought an apology from former Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India Vinod Rai before the entire nation for his “lies” and a “massive conspiracy” to derail the economy and destabilise the previous prime minister Manmohan Singh-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government.“We are convinced beyond any doubt that this was a massive conspiracy to derail the economy, to discredit a popularly-elected government of Manmohan Singh. We demand an apology from Rai and the other co-conspirators and as far as their master is concerned, people will take care of him very soon,” party spokesperson Pawan Khera told reporters.The attack on Rai came a day after he tendered an unconditional apology to Congress leader and former MP Sanjay Nirupam in response to a defamation case filed by the latter following Rai’s claim that Nirupam was one of the lawmakers who sought to pressure him to keep Singh’s name out of the government’s audit report on 2G spectrum auctions. Rai did not respond to two calls seeking comment and a WhatsApp message seen by him. “Imagine a man who can lie to sell a book, what all can he do to push his own agenda and the agenda of his masters,” Khera said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-attacks-vinod-rai-accuses-him-of-conspiring-to-discredit-upa-govt-101635502492494.html
30-10-2021||India||Leander Paes and Nafisa Ali join TMC ahead of Goa polls||Tennis champion Leander Paes and actor Nafisa Ali joined the Trinamool Congress (TMC) in the presence of party supremo Mamata Banerjee and senior leader Derek O’Brien in Goa on Friday, ahead of the assembly polls due early next year.Paes, an 18-time Grand Slam winner, was born in Kolkata and spent some of his college years in the Bengal capital; his father Vece Paes is a Goan. Kolkata-born Nafisa Ali, meanwhile, has been living in Goa for the past few years. “For me, whether it is in Bengal or whether it is in Goa, or whether it is playing at Wimbledon...it is about making India proud and in that, now living in Goa I would like to make a difference in my roots... it is the largest and fastest growing democratic country in the world and I would like to be a part of it and make a difference as I can,” Paes said.Welcoming Paes, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said, “I was the sports minister of the country when I (first) met him (Paes)... I have got my younger brother in the TMC.”Ali said she joined the Trinamool to help it take on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and that the TMC was best-placed to do so. “The only leader today that can take on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and [union home minister] Amit Shah’s brand of politics is Mamata Banerjee… The BJP needs to be addressed in all sincerity and Mamata has proved that she and she alone can become the tigress that can take on the likes of Modi,” she said. Ali was earlier affiliated with the Congress, and took on Banerjee in 2004, contesting on a Congress ticket in the South Kolkata Lok Sabha seat.“The important thing today is that there can be a Nehru Congress, an Indira Congress, and this is a Mamata Trinamool Congress… When the nation needs us, it is important to unite…”“The Congress has let its voters down and Mamata Banjerjee is the new Congress of India. The TMC can fight against a hate-filled agenda that divides secular India,” she added.Reacting to the development, Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant said he was not worried. “I believe that besides the BJP and Congress -- BJP will be in ruling and Congress will be in opposition -- other parties won’t have an impact. Finally, it depends on the voters,” he said.The Congress, meanwhile, accused the TMC of being the B-team of BJP . “They are not here to win, but to ensure that the BJP wins. What other reason do they have for entering Goa. Their game plan is clear,” party spokesperson Amarnath Panjikar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/leander-paes-nafisa-ali-join-trinamool-congress-as-mamata-eyes-goa-polls-101635497452297.html
30-10-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir: Schools, roads to be named after slain personnel||Schools, roads and buildings in Jammu & Kashmir will soon be named after members of security forces who died fighting terrorism, security personnel who received gallantry awards, and prominent literary personalities and artists, a government spokesperson said.The Jammu & Kashmir administration has drawn up a list of 108 persons after whom these public utility structures will be named, the spokesperson added.The majority of the names on the list, a copy of which HT has seen, are those of security forces, including policemen and army personnel, who were killed fighting militants since militancy erupted in Jammu & Kashmir. The list also includes names of top academics and artists who won Sahitya Akademi awards.The J&K administration on Thursday said that its administrative council met under the chairmanship of Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha, and approved the move to name schools, roads and buildings after “martyrs and eminent persons” as part of the Indian government’s Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav initiative aimed at celebrating the country’s 75 years of independence.“As a mark of respect and acknowledgement of the exceptional contributions towards the security and development of the Union territory, the identified infrastructure will be renamed after the martyrs and living legends from Jammu and Kashmir,” the spokesperson said.Those named on the list include late assistant sub-inspector Mohammed Akbar, who lost his life in an attack after militants stormed an army camp at Mohra in Uri in 2014, killing several soldiers and policemen.Also included in the list are former Kashmir University vice chancellor late Habibullah Bhat alias Hamidi Kashmiri and Padma Shri and playwright late Moti Lal Kemu. Welcoming the administration’s move, BJP leader Altaf Thakur said: “The naming of schools and roads after martyrs is a welcome step. They gave their lives to the nation and this is the minimum we can do for them.” National Conference spokesman Imran Dar said: “This government mainly is mainly concerned about optics. On the ground, there is no actual change.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-and-kashmir-schools-roads-to-be-named-after-military-personnel-artists-101635491272016.html
30-10-2021||India||Ensure Afghan territory is not used to attack any nation: India, US urge Taliban||Against the backdrop of a spike in activities of terror groups in Afghanistan, India and the US have jointly called on the Taliban to ensure that Afghan soil is never used again to threaten or attack any country, shelter terrorists, or plan terror attacks.A joint statement issued after a meeting of the US-India counterterrorism joint working group and the bilateral designations dialogue said both countries are committed to close consultations on developments in Afghanistan and potential terror threats from Afghan territory.The development comes against the backdrop of reports of fighters of Islamic State, al Qaeda, and several Pakistan-based terror groups regrouping on Afghan soil after the takeover of the country by the Taliban on August 15.India and the US referred in their joint statement to the UN Security Council resolution 2593, adopted while India held the rotating presidency of the body in August, while urging the Taliban to ensure there was no terrorism from Afghan soil.“In line with UNSC Resolution 2593 (2021), both sides called on the Taliban to ensure Afghan territory is never again used to threaten or attack any country, shelter or train terrorists, or plan or finance terrorist attacks,” the joint statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-us-ask-taliban-to-ensure-afghan-soil-is-not-used-to-plan-terror-attacks-101635484791558.html
30-10-2021||India||RBI governor Shaktikanta Das to remain in office for three more years||The Union government has extended the tenure of Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Shaktikanta Das by three years starting from December 10, 2021, according to a statement released on Friday.He was appointed as RBI governor in December 2018, replacing Urjit Patel.“The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet (ACC) has approved the reappointment of Shri Shaktikanta Das… as governor, Reserve Bank of India, for a period of three years beyond December 10, 2021 or until further orders, whichever is earlier,” the statement said.The ACC is headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.A postgraduate from St. Stephen’s College in New Delhi, Das has more than four decades of experience in various areas of governance as a career bureaucrat.A 1980-batch IAS officer of the Tamil Nadu cadre, he held several positions in the state and central governments in the areas of finance, taxation, industries, and infrastructure. He was directly associated with the preparation of eight Union budgets, and worked as secretary in the department of revenue (DOR) and department of economic affairs (DEA), where he spearheaded the 2016 demonetisation of ₹500 and ₹1,000 currency notes.Before his appointment at the central bank as India’s 25th RBI governor, Das served as a member of the 15th Finance Commission, and as India’s G20 Sherpa.Shaktikanta Das has also served as India’s alternate governor in the World Bank, the Asian Development Bank, the New Development Bank, and the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank. He has represented India in international forums involving the International Monetary Fund, G20, Brics and Saarc.The extension is longer than the norm of a two-year term in the last two decades.Das’ re-appointment will ensure continuity at a critical juncture for the economy that is emerging out of the devastation caused by the Covid-19 pandemic.With inputs from PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rbi-governor-shaktikanta-das-to-remain-in-office-for-three-more-years-101635480531083.html
