31-10-2021||India||Covid-19 rules violated as markets in 3 cities see huge crowd ahead of Diwali||With Diwali only a few days away, gatherings of thousands of people are noticed in markets across three Indian cities without any adherence to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) protocol, such as wearing of masks and maintaining physical distance. According to visuals and videos shared on Twitter by news agency ANI, people were seen flocking to markets in Delhi, Chennai and Indore in large numbers despite the ongoing Covid-19 crisis.Earlier in the day, pictures showed shoppers in popular markets in Delhi, including Lajpat Nagar, Sadar Bazar and Sarojini Nagar. “It is natural to have crowds… during festivals but proper arrangement should be made by the administration, which has not been done," a leader of Sadar Bazar market association was quoted as saying by ANI.Similar scenes were reported from Karol Bagh market, yet another popular market in the national capital. Notably, the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) recently announced several Covid-19 relaxations, including permitting weekly markets to reopen starting November 1, allowing cinema halls, theatres and multiplexes to run at full capacity, and more.Not just Delhi, Rajwada Market in Madhya Pradesh’s Indore, and T Nagar Market in Chennai were also seen filled with hundreds of shoppers. In pictures pertaining to the Rajwada Market, several persons, including shopkeepers were seen without masks and not maintaining social distance. The situation was the same in Chennai as well with the T Market brimming with shoppers ahead of Diwali on November 4.Madhya Pradesh | Heavy footfall seen at Rajwada Market in Indore ahead of Diwali pic.twitter.com/sInBhO5s6A#Watch | Tamil Nadu: Shoppers throng to Chennai T Nagar Market ahead of Diwali pic.twitter.com/ZvZwT7yg6UMeanwhile, Delhi on Sunday reported 45 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the overall tally of the Union territory (UT) to 14,39,870. The city logged zero fatality due to the infection for the ninth straight day.Tamil Nadu, on the other hand, reported a whooping 1,009 new coronavirus cases on Sunday, taking the state’s cumulative tally to 26,55,015, according to health bulletin data. The active caseload in the southern state stands at 11,492. Madhya Pradesh logged 16 new cases on Sunday, following which the state’s tally rose to 7,92,854.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-rules-violated-as-markets-in-3-cities-see-huge-crowd-ahead-of-diwali-101635704113952.html
31-10-2021||India||India, US cement bilateral ties, share ‘regional concerns’ on sidelines of G20 Summit||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar met US Secretary of State Antony Blinken on the sidelines of the G20 Summit here on Saturday, discussing issues relating to the bilateral strategic partnership and updated each other on “important regional concerns”.Jaishankar is accompanying Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the ongoing G20 Summit from October 30-31. Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla and National Security Advisor Ajit Doval are the members of the prime minister’s delegation.“A very good meeting with Secretary of State Antony Blinkien in Rome on sidelines of G20 Summit. Discussed a wide gamut of issues relating to our partnership. Updated each other on important regional concerns,” Jaishankar tweeted along with a photograph of himself with the US Secretary of State.The meeting took place amidst growing international concern over China’s aggressive moves in the Indo-Pacific region.Modi is attending the summit at the invitation of Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi. Italy has held the presidency of the G20 since December last year.Earlier on Saturday, Modi was seen interacting with world leaders, including US President Joe Biden, on the sidelines of the summit. President Biden had hosted Prime Minister Modi at the White House on September 24 for the first in-person meeting. The G20 is a leading global forum that brings together the world’s major economies. Its members account for more than 80 per cent of the global GDP, 75 per cent of global trade and 60 per cent of the population of the planet.The forum has met every year since 1999 and includes, since 2008, a yearly summit, with the participation of the respective heads of state and government.The Rome summit is being attended by heads of state and government of G20 member countries, the European Union, and other invited countries and several international organisations.The summit is centred around the theme ‘People, Planet, Prosperity’, focussing on the areas of recovery from the pandemic and strengthening of global health governance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-us-cement-bilateral-ties-share-regional-concerns-on-sidelines-of-g20-summit-101635704305210.html
31-10-2021||India||After 9 months in BJP, Rajib Banerjee rejoins TMC||Former West Bengal minister Rajib Banerjee on Sunday returned to the Trinamool Congress (TMC) after a nine-month stint with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Expressing regret over his decision to join the BJP ahead of the assembly elections, Banerjee joined the ruling party in the presence of TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee at a party rally in Agartala. “I am repentant now. I am ashamed that I did not listen to Abhishek Banerjee who tried to talk me out of my decision to join the BJP. There was a misunderstanding and I got carried away. I was made to believe that the BJP would usher in development and progress. I do not want people to make the same mistake and regret. I have many friends and relatives in Tripura. Every time they heard me talking about the success of the BJP, they called me to say how they are suffering in their (BJP) regime,” he told the crowd. Referring to chief minister Mamata Banerjee as “goddess” and “our mother”, Banerjee said: “I failed to recognise her. She has transformed Bengal. BJP ruled-states are copying her social welfare schemes.” On January 22, the former forest minister resigned from the Mamata Banerjee-led Cabinet just before the crucial March-April assembly elections. On January 29, he drew much attention when he carried home a large photograph of the chief minister while vacating his chamber at the state assembly. He also broke down after tendering his resignation as minister to governor Jagdeep Dhankhar. A day later, he, along with four other rebel TMC legislators, joined the BJP in presence of Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi. The TMC, however, swept to power for the third time by winning 213 out of the 292 seats in the elections. Banerjee also lost the Domjur assembly seat in Howrah, which he had earlier won twice since 2011, when the TMC first came to power. Banerjee, who had been maintaining silence and distance from the BJP since his poll loss, was inducted in the national executive committee of the BJP on October 5. While this appeared like an attempt by the national leadership to retain him in the party, the action triggered strong resentment in the BJP’s Bengal unit. The former BJP MLA, however, was not welcomed by a few TMC leaders, especially those with whom he had differences in the past. “I don’t know why he was brought back after Abhishek Banerjee said in public that there is no place for traitors in the TMC,” Lok Sabha member Kalyan Banerjee said. Reacting to Banerjee’s latest move, BJP chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said: “BJP leaders and workers in Bengal stopped thinking about Rajib Banerjee a long time ago. He is not a subject of discussion for us.” “It was known for a long time that Banerjee was trying to find a way to return to the TMC. Our party inducted TMC leaders randomly and gave them star treatment. This disillusioned old and dedicated BJP workers,” BJP national secretary, Anupam Hazra, who is also a former TMC Lok Sabha member, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-9-months-in-bjp-rajib-banerjee-rejoins-tmc-101635703645880.html
31-10-2021||India||India highlights north-south divide in emissions on day 1 of COP 26||On the first day of the Glasgow climate change conference (COP 26), India highlighted the large disparity in historical emissions of rich or developed countries and developing countries like India.The Climate Change Group at MS Swaminathan Research Foundation (MSSRF) launched a Climate Equity Monitor, an online dashboard for assessing equity in climate change mitigation.Union environment minister, Bhupender Yadav, said the monitor will encourage discussion on issues related to equity and justice at the ongoing climate negotiations.“Welcome the scientific initiative, Climate Equity Monitor, (https://t.co/KzqShJ1Ggt) which went live today. Its focus on equity & climate action from a data and evidence-based perspective will encourage vigorous discussion on the crucial issue and engage experts from all nations,” he tweeted on Sunday. PM Narendra Modi is likely to address COP 26 and over 120 world leaders on India’s actions to mitigate climate change during the World Leaders Summit scheduled on November 1.The Climate Equity Monitor has a stark map of carbon credit/ debt which shows all the northern countries, including the United States, Russia, Australia, most European countries, have exceeded their fair share of the global carbon budget. Carbon debt, according to the monitor, is the difference between the actual cumulative emissions for a country and its fair share of the global carbon budget already consumed. The values for developed countries clearly indicate their responsibility and the massive carbon debt they owe the world, it states. On the other hand, the southern countries including India, China, Africa, South America and others highlighted in blue indicating that they have generated credits by consuming less than their fair share.A fair share of the carbon budget is defined as the share of the cumulative emissions based on the share in the global population.The monitor also has an interactive graph on historical emissions which indicates China, followed by the US and the EU, have the highest historical greenhouse gas emissions, the monitor was jointly developed with the Natural Sciences and Engineering department at the National Institute of Advanced Studies (NIAS) Bengaluru.“The Climate Equity Monitor is aimed at monitoring the performance of Annex-I Parties (developed countries) based on the foundational principles of the Climate Convention, namely equity and the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities (CBDR-RC). The performance and policies of the Non-Annex-I Parties (developing countries) will be also provided for comparison,” a statement by the union environment ministry welcoming the launch of the monitor said. CBDR RC is a principle under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) which acknowledges different capabilities and differing responsibilities of individual countries in addressing climate change based on their social and economic conditions.“In keeping with the latest scientific results of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) that have underlined the importance of cumulative emissions and carbon budgets, the analysis will be anchored in these two concepts. The equitable sharing of the global carbon budget is the fundamental equity principle that will underpin the assessments that will progressively appear on the website. Existing “tracking” websites on climate policies are based in the global North and routinely do not address the crucial aspects of equity and differentiation. Other websites, according to the researchers, bury the key issues in complexities that are not transparently dealt with,” the ministry further said in its statement.Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) had recently flagged that China is currently the world’s biggest emitter – it has increased its share of global CO2 emissions from 5.11% in 1990 to almost 21% in 2019. According to a recent analysis by CSE, in the coming ten years, China will take up 33% of the remaining carbon budget of 409 GtCO2 and India may occupy only 9.54% of the budget. Between 1870 and 2019 China occupied 13.4% of the global carbon budget; India 3.16% and the seven historical polluters— United Kingdom, United States, European Union-27, Russia, Japan, Australia, and Canada occupied 60.53% of the carbon budget. The share changed quite a bit between 1990 and 2019 when China occupied nearly 21% of the carbon budget. This means China went through a very intense phase of development mainly dependent on fossil fuels during those 20 odd years. “We cannot compare India and China. It’s time we de-hyphenated the two,” Sunita Narain, director general, Centre for Science and Environment, said during a recent briefing to climate journalists.Meanwhile, the Climate Action Tracker also released an analysis on India’s role in climate change mitigation on Sunday. It suggested that coal should be phased out globally, and in India by 2040, to limit warming to 1.5 degrees C. Early retirement of older coal power plants and re-evaluation of the coal pipeline – would align India with the level of policies and action consistent with its own “fair share” contribution to the Paris Agreement. Such measures in India would very likely result in a 1.5 degree C compatible rating by CAT, it said.“We estimate that this reduction in coal-fired capacity, in the absence of additional efficiency measures, would require 160–320 GW of additional renewable capacity to India’s previously communicated 450 GW by 2030 goal. India is likely to achieve, and may even over-achieve, the 450 GW goal, including hydro, under current policies,” the CAT said.HT reported on September 17 that India’s nationally determined contribution (NDC), which was rated as 2 degrees compatible or “almost sufficient” by the Climate Action Tracker until August, had rated India as “highly insufficient” in its action and policies on climate change in September. This is because Climate Action Tracker had updated its rating system. CAT is supported by several foundations and governments including the European Climate Foundation and the German Ministry for Environment, Nature Conservation and Nuclear Safety (BMU) etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-highlights-north-south-divide-in-emissions-on-day-1-of-cop-26-101635703228108.html
31-10-2021||India||In concluding remarks at G20, Goyal calls for need to do more to achieve net-zero emission||Developed countries will have to do more to achieve net-zero carbon emissions and to provide low-cost finance and technologies to developing nations for climate transition, commerce minister Piyush Goyal said at the conclusion of the G20 Summit on Sunday.The Rome Declaration, adopted at the end of the summit after five days of negotiations, acknowledges that the developed world has not done enough in terms of meeting its commitments and will have to be more forthcoming with finance and technology, Goyal told a media briefing in Rome.The grouping of the world’s 20 largest economies further agreed that Covid-19 immunisation is a “global public good” and that Covid-19 vaccines deemed safe and efficacious by the World Health Organization (WHO) will be mutually accepted, said Goyal, who is India’s G20 sherpa or representative of the head of government for negotiations at the summit.“We have got into the text the language which confirms that the developed world has acknowledged that they have not done enough in terms of meeting their commitments and that they will have to be more forthcoming in providing finance, technologies and the enablers to make the transition to a clean energy world in the future,” he said.With the G20 agreeing on achieving net-zero by or around the mid-century, Goyal said a firm date was not identified as technologies needed to “transition in a big way to clean energy and innovation” do not currently exist.“We have discussed and decided [on] global net zero. So, all the countries put together will be net zero, which means the developed countries, which have already enjoyed the fruits of low-cost energy for several years, will have to go in for net-zero much faster and possibly even go in for net negative, so that they can release policy space and some carbon space for the developing countries to pursue their development agenda,” he said.More work will have to be done on technological solutions and innovations to absorb clean energy and maintain grid stability. “We will have to look at more technology and innovation playing an important role before we can identify a year,” he said.Goyal said while responding to a question on India’s capital needs to transition to clean energy that this would be determined by factors such as switching from coal to nuclear power. India will need large amounts of capital to set up more nuclear plants to replace current demand and to meet future demands for development imperatives, and it will also have to become a member of the Nuclear Suppliers Group to get raw materials, he said.The G20 pushed the developed world to deliver on its commitment to provide $100 billion a year from now till 2025 so that greater levels of capital are available for developing countries.Net-zero emissions refer to achieving a balance between a country’s greenhouse gas emissions produced and emissions removed from the atmosphere through natural means or by using carbon capture technology. India is the third-largest emitter of greenhouse gases after China and the US but has pushed back against calls by the developed world to work for net-zero.Goyal said the G20 Summit, with a theme of “people, planet and prosperity”, has delivered a strong message of recovery from the pandemic in terms of the economy, health, employment, education, tourism and climate action. The Rome Declaration also gives a very strong message under the health section, through an agreement that Covid-19 immunisation is a global public good and Covid-19 vaccines declared safe and efficacious by WHO will be mutually accepted, he added.The G20 states agreed to help optimise the processes and procedures of the WHO for approving vaccines, and to strengthen the UN’s health body so that it can approve jabs faster.The G20 states also agreed to extend the Debt Service Suspension Initiative so that vulnerable and low income countries are not burdened with debt repayment amid the Covid-19 crisis.There was also a focus on protecting the livelihood of small and marginal farmers, while energy and climate action were at the centre-stage of discussions. Goyal said India made a concerted push for safeguarding the interests of the developing world.The developed countries in the G20 also identified sustainable and responsible production and consumption, and the provision of finance and technology as critical enablers for achieving the climate goals set by the Paris Accord, he said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for sustainable lifestyles found resonance in the Rome Declaration, which encouraged developed countries to reduce their luxurious and energy-intensive lifestyles, Goyal said. There was also a focus on gender-based violence and increasing women’s participation in the workforce.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-concluding-remarks-at-g20-goyal-calls-for-need-to-do-more-to-achieve-net-zero-emission-101635701965323.html
31-10-2021||India||5 things Kranti Redkar has said so far on Sameer Wankhede caste controversy||Kranti Redkar Wankhede is a Marathi actor and the wife of Narcotics Control Bureau Mumbai zone chief Sameer Wankhede. In the wake of the caste controversy of Wankhede, Kranti Redkar has extended her full support to husband Sameer and issued several statements. She has also written a letter to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray urging justice.Kranti Redkar is Sameer Wankhede's second wife and the duo got married in 2017, 11 years after Sameer Wankhede's first marriage with Shabana Quraishi, which is also at the centre of controversy.Here are 5 things that Kranti Redkar said over the controversy:1. Kranti Redkar said the attack on Sameer Wankhede is well-orchestrated as a number of people may benefit if her husband is removed from his current post.2. On the allegation that Sameer Wankhede's first marriage was conducted according to Islamic rituals, Kranti said it is true but that does not prove that Sameer converted to Islam. The nikahnama that was published by Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik is true, but the marriage was registered under the Special Marriage Act. Had Wankhede been a Muslim, there would have been no need for the Special Marriage Act, Kranti Redkar contested.3. Amid the controversy, Kranti Redkar shared the photos of her wedding with Sameer Wankhede and claimed that neither Sameer nor she ever converted to any other religion. She clarified that her wedding was according to Hindu rituals.4. Countering the allegations of extortion, Kranti Redkar has said that they are not rich people; Sameer Wankhede is an honest government officer. She also said her husband is not after Bollywood.5. In her letter to Uddhav Thackeray, Kranti Redkar invoked her Marathi identity and wrote Uddhav's father Balasaheb Thackeray would not have tolerated such personal attack. "The personal attacks reflect the lowest level of politics. I trust you and feel that there will be no injustice against me or my family,” she had written.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-things-kranti-redkar-has-said-so-far-on-sameer-wankhede-caste-controversy-101635695577478.html
31-10-2021||India||‘No one is allowed to interfere’: On Nawab Malik’s allegations in drugs-on-cruise case, PIL seeks CBI probe||A public interest litigation (PIL) filed in the Supreme Court by a lawyer has sought for an investigation into the Mumbai drugs-on-cruise case by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), claiming that there has been interference in the ongoing probe by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB).Filed by ML Sharma in his personal capacity, the PIL has referred to the ongoing allegations and counter-allegations by Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik and NCB Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede against each other, according to news agency PTI.In the PIL, Sharma asked if a minister can continue to hold their position despite “interfering” with the probe of a case and “maligning” the investigative officer. “No one is allowed to interfere in the criminal justice systems. The state and the state minister are duty bound to protect the Constitution and not to interfere in the investigation and criminal process,” the PIL argued.Also Read | Day after Aryan Khan's bail, Nawab Malik takes swipe at Wankhede, GosaviSharma has also sought for giving “protection to all the witnesses” in the drugs case, thereby, indirectly likening to the extortion allegation raised by Prabhakar Sail – the former bodyguard of NCB’s primary witness in the cruise ship drugs’ case Kiran Gosavi. “Witnesses are liable to be protected and not to be arrested and tortured to give favourable statements favouring the accused persons,” PTI reported quoting the PIL.Controversies engulfing the drugs-on-cruise case has been at its peak with Malik making a myriad of serious allegations against Wankhede, which even includes extortion from one of accused Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan. Notably, Aryan was granted bail by the Bombay high court on Thursday after the 23-year-old spent more than 20 days behind bars. He walked out of Mumbai's Arthur Road jail on Saturday, escorted by his father’s security team.Also Read | Drugs-on-cruise case: Other than Aryan Khan, who all have got bail till nowMalik has also said that he will submit proofs and documents related to his claim that Wankhede has framed as many as 26 innocent people in “fake” drugs cases in the past. Although Wankhede has refuted the allegations saying that they are being made to target his reputation, he was questioned for more than four hours on Wednesday by NCB deputy director general (DDG) Gyaneshwar Singh.Furthermore, the PIL’s reference to witness protection and their arrest emerges from the Pune Police nabbing Gosavi on Thursday in a 2018 cheating scandal. Notably, Sail – who is also one of the witnesses in the ongoing cruise ship drugs’ case said he overheard Gosavi telling one Sam D’Souza about settling Aryan Khan’s case (reference to earlier when he was still lodged in jail) at ₹18 crore – with ₹8 crore to be given to Wankhede. The Mumbai zonal director of NCB has dismissed the claims.Besides Aryan, as many as 13 people have been given bail in the case. This includes actor Arbaaz Merchant and model Munmun Dhamecha as well. Meanwhile, six more individuals continue to remain in jail as the NCB team that Wankhede continues to head, investigates the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pil-seeks-cbi-probe-into-drugs-on-cruise-case-over-interference-by-nawab-malik-101635695246581.html
31-10-2021||India||Govt mounts ‘hub-and-spike’ supply model to ease fertiliser crunch ahead of key sowing season||The Union government has formed a ‘crack team’ to ensure priority movement of fertilisers to key food-bowl states as fears of shortage have sparked panic buying of crop nutrients. For the first time, a hub-and-spoke model was being implemented to reach supplies from nearly 50 factories and ports to be about 1000 railheads, backed by real-time tracking, as farmers scrambled for key crop nutrients. Officials are redirecting railway rakes, or wagons, to areas of shortage and are holding a series of meetings with fertiliser firms and their dealers to quicken shipments to Punjab, Rajasthan, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. Escalating global prices and a supply-chain squeeze have hit the availability of fertilizers, threatening the oncoming winter-sown or rabi farming season. Cultivators have been making beelines for crop nutrients in many districts of states, such as Punjab, where they said some key farm chemicals were selling at higher than label rates. “We are sure there will be no crisis. The team is monitoring movement and dispatch of fertilisers and coordinating with port authorities and railways to ensure faster movement (of fertilisers),” an official of the fertiliser department said, requesting anonymity. Additional railways rakes, or train wagons, were being made available to ship fertilisers on a priority basis and at short notice, the official said. Inventories of key crop nutrients, especially DAP (diammonium phosphate) and murate of potash (MPO), have hit a five-year low, the managing director of one of India’s largest crop-nutrient firms said, requesting anonymity. A sharp increase in international prices, lower production of feedstock or raw materials during the peak pandemic phase and shipping bottlenecks are key reasons for the crisis. The Union, as well as state governments, have pressed authorities to crack down on hoarding, as farmers in grain-bowl Punjab said they were buying some nutrients above the label price. On October 14, the Union government revamped parts of its subsidy regime for fertilisers and crop nutrients to continue providing them at below-market rates, while rolling over special discounts announced for the summer-sown season to the oncoming winter-sown months. International prices of raw materials for some crop nutrients such as DAP and 22 grades of P&K fertilisers have been increasing for over 18 months, trade data show. Most of these fertilisers have seen a jump of over 50% in prices, forcing the government to expand subsidies. India offers subsidies to compensate fertiliser companies who sell them at below-market rates. The country imports up to a third of its fertilizers to meet domestic demand. China, the largest producer of DAP, is a key supplier of nutrients to India. “Prices have gone through the roof and urea, for instance, is very very expensive to buy. That is the main issue,” said KS Raju, chairman of the board at Nagarjuna Fertilizers and Chemicals, a large conglomerate. Although the government has announced additional subsidies under the so-called nutrient-based subsidy regime - the mechanism by which the Centre disburses the subsidy to manufacturers –worth ₹28602 crore, manufacturers could be buying at a slower pace. “Since extra capital is required because of higher global rates, purchase deferment is taking place, adding to the shortage,” said Ashok Agrawal of Comtrade, a commodities trading firm. He said shipments, however, were expected to increase. Data shows that India needs to ratchet up imports as stocks run low. During the summer-sown months, DAP demand outstripped availability by 13.6%, official data accessed by HT show. “Indigenous production of urea at 7.89 million tonnes and DAP at 1.11 million tonnes during April-July 2021 declined by 3.9% and 12.3%, respectively, over April-July 2020,” wrote Satish Chander, the director-general of Fertiliser Association of India in the latest issue of the Indian Journal of Fertilisers. Rumours of a shortage have prompted farmers to panic and buy nutrients like DAP in excess quantities, said Amrik Singh, an official of the Punjab agriculture department. DAP is an essential nutrient for winter-sown wheat. “I bought two bags for ₹1400 each against the label price of ₹1200,” said Lakhbir Singh of Nizampura Vegetable Growers Association in Punjab. The Union government has asked railways to increase railway rakes ferrying fertilisers to states such as Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, a fertilizer department official said, requesting he not be quoted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-mounts-hub-and-spike-supply-model-to-ease-fertiliser-crunch-ahead-of-key-sowing-season-101635694525261.html
31-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: India achieves major success at G20 Summit and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India achieves key successes at G20, shapes language of climate actionIndia achieved major success at the Group of 20 Leaders' Summit in Italy as it, along with other developing nations, was able to introduce the language on what actions are required to be taken to achieve the energy and climate goals, especially by the developed countries, according to people familiar with the development. [Read more..]Delhi reports four Covid deaths in October, lowest in a month since March 2020Delhi ended the month of October by reporting only four deaths due to coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the lowest since the pandemic struck in March 2020, health bulletin data revealed on Sunday. With this, the death toll in the national capital remained at 25,091. [Read more..]From Statue of Unity, Amit Shah attacks Cong on Sardar Patel's birth anniversaryUnion Home Minister Amit Shah paid floral tribute to Sardar Patel on his birth anniversary at the Statue of Unity in Kevadia. A parade was held in which Men's hockey team captain, Olympian Manpreet Singh participated. Watch VideoThird cheating case against Gosavi lodged at Wanowrie police stationThe Pune Police have lodged a third FIR against K P Gosavi at the Wanowrie police station, officials said on Sunday. In the latest case, Gosavi has been charged under IPC sections 420, 409, 506 (2), 120 (b) and Arms Act 3 (25), after a complainant alleged that an offence took place on November 13, 2018, near Krome Mall chowk in Hadapsar and at the Sanpada-based office of Gosavi. [Read more…]'It is ridiculous': Virat Kohli reacts to India's long break between Pakistan and New Zealand matches at T20 World CupIndia are playing New Zealand in only their second match of the T20 World Cup – the first in a week, following the match against Pakistan last Sunday. This is the longest gap any team has had between two matches at the ongoing ICC tournament, to which India captain Virat Kohli gave his verdict during the toss ceremony of the India-New Zealand game at the Dubai International Stadium on Sunday. [Read more…]Aryan Khan’s release from jail was delayed after bail as ‘25 to 35 vital minutes’ were lost, says Arbaaz Merchant’s dadAlthough Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan was granted bail in a drug case on Thursday, he was released from the Arthur Road jail only on Saturday. Senior advocate Aslam Merchant, father of Aryan’s co-accused Arbaaz Merchant, revealed why the release was delayed in a new interview. [Read more…]Pooja Hedge teams yellow bralette with blazer, pants in fresh take on power suitAs lockdowns lift across the world after more than a year of Covid-19 pandemic, power suit fashion became a trend just in time for a return to corporate life and taking a fresh take on it is Bollywood actor Pooja Hedge who teamed a yellow blazer and pants with a matching sultry bralette. [Read more…]||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-india-achieves-major-success-at-g20-summit-and-all-the-latest-news-101635693076402.html
31-10-2021||India||Madhya Pradesh minister says some price rise should be acceptable, cites this reason||Even as fuel prices across the country continue to soar, Madhya Pradesh minister Mahendra Singh Sisodia on Sunday equated it with hike in people's income, saying that if such a rise was acceptable to them, then they should accept some inflation as well. Addressing a press conference in Indore, he also said that it was not possible for the government to give everything for free.“I'd be very practical with you on this. Has there been no increase the income of a common man? If the income was hiked and it was acceptable to us, then a little bit of inflation should be acceptable as well. The government cannot give everything for free. This is where the government gets its revenue from. This is what drives all government schemes,” the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader said. #WATCH | "Hasn't income of the common man increased? Govt can't give everything for free. People should understand that if their income is rising, then they will have to accept inflation also," says Madhya Pradesh Minister Mahendra Singh Sisodia in Indore pic.twitter.com/kpTdogH0RhHe further called upon the public to realise that if they received a hike in their salary, a little bit of price rise was justified as well. “It's very practical. You cannot say that 10 years ago, my salary was ₹10,000 per month and now it is ₹50,000 in a month, but petrol and diesel should cost what they used to 10 years ago,” Sisodia elaborated further.The minister was then asked about the link between the Covid-19 pandemic and price hike. He replied, “If you look at the previous record, then you will see that inflation is not measured on the basis of present day. Covid-19 has been there for the last 12 months, and industries were closed. But, you will have to look from the last five years. I want to ask you, who did not receive hike in their salary? Is it that employees who used to get ₹5000 per month are not getting ₹25,000 in a month? Employees across all categories have seen their income rise.”Sisodia then sought to know if inflation came up only during Prime Minister Narendra Modi's term, and not when the Congress was in power. “This is a cycle which keeps on going, and we will have to accept it,” he said.On Sunday, prices of a litre of petrol and diesel were hiked by 35 paise each to ₹109.34 and ₹98.07 respectively. Among the four metros, fuel prices are the highest in Mumbai, with a litre of petrol and diesel retailing at ₹115.15 and ₹106.23 respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-minister-thinks-some-price-rise-should-be-acceptable-here-s-why-101635686855977.html
31-10-2021||India||Indo-Nepal friendly bus service resumes after 19-month||Indo-Nepal friendly bus service that had been suspended due to the Covid-19 pandemic resumed after 19 months. A bus of UP roadways arrived at Mahendra Nagar in Nepal and went back with Nepalese passengers on Saturday, officials said. “Indo-Nepal friendly bus service has resumed after a long gap. As of now, only UP roadways has started the service. The Nepalese seem to be happy because they get direct buses for their destinations,” said Indra Singh, immigration officer Banbasa check-post in Champawat district. A friendly bus service between Mahendra Nagar of western Nepal and Delhi and Dehradun had started in 2017. Buses of India and Nepal used to ply daily between these stations via Banbasa of Champawat district of Uttarakhand but were suspended on March 23, 2020, due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The Indo-Nepal border had been sealed from both sides in a bid to check the spread of the pandemic. The private committee of Nepal operates bus friendly services on these routes while Uttarakhand and UP roadways perform this responsibility. Efforts were on to resume friendly bus service on these routes as earlier as before the spread of the pandemic but resumed on Saturday. A bus of Sahibabad depo of UP arrived in Mahendra Nagar from Anand Vihar in Delhi with 20 passengers and went back with 36 passengers. Nepalese residing in border areas and families of those Nepalese whose family members work in India hailed the resumption of bus service. Nepalese, in a considerable number, travel between India and Nepal from Banbasa which is a notified entry point of both countries. Uttarakhand and UP roadways earn income by transporting the Nepalese. Besides Nepalese workers, thousands of Nepalese come to India for pilgrimage round the year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indonepal-friendly-bus-service-resumes-after-19month-101635690085274.html
31-10-2021||India||Chandrakant Patil says 'Nawab Malik is in his pocket'. NCP leader replies||Amid the ongoing controversy over the drugs-on-cruise case which has brought Maharashtra minister and Nationalist Congress Party leader Nawab Malik at the forefront of an anti-NCB campaign, BJP leader Chandrakant Patil on Sunday said he keeps Nawab Malik ‘in his pocket’, suggesting that Patil can manage Malik. Reacting to this, the NCP leader said he does not know how big Chandrakant Patil's pocket is, but he is waiting to get inside Patil's pocket so that he can reveal to the world what is inside Patil's pocket."Maharashtra BJP president has said he keeps me inside his pocket. I don't know whether his pocket is this big or not. I am waiting for him to put me inside the pocket. I will bring out whatever is there in his pocket in front of the world," the Maharashtra minister tweeted.
31-10-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: November 1, 1984 — Prime Minister Indira Gandhi shot dead; 12-day mourning announced||New Delhi- Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, who steered the nation for 15 daunting and often turbulent years to bring India on the threshold of greatness, was assassinated this morning on the lawns of her residence here by two of her security guards.Both the assailants were shot at by the other security guards in the Prime Minister’s house. One of them, sub-inspector Beant Singh, died on the spot while the other, constable Sabwant Singh, is reported to be serious in hospital. Beant Singh had been on security duty at the Prime Minister’s house for eight years. A pall of gloom spread over the country as reports came that doctors at the All-India Institute of Medical Sciences were waging a desperate but losing battle to save Mrs Gandhi’s life. The Prime Minister, who received 16 bullets from an automatic gun and a pistol at point-blank range around 9-15 a.m., passed away at 2-30 p.m. Within hours of her passing away, Mr. Rajiv Gandhi was sworn in by President Zail Singh as the new Prime Minister. The President advanced his schedule of a three-nation tour to return to the country on learning of the assassination attempt on Mrs. Gandhi. Mr Rajiv Gandhi also rushed back to the Capital from West Bengal. Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee and Railway Minister Ghani Khan Chaudhury also were away in Calcutta and Home Minister P. V. Narasimha Rao was in Andhra Pradesh. They all flew back to the Capital, and Defence Minister S. B. Chavan was on his way back from Moscow. Mrs Gandhi’s body, draped in tricolour, was taken from the hospital to her residence at 1, Safdarjung Road at 9.30 p.m. The body on a gun carriage will lie in state at the Teen Murti House where her father Jawaharlal Nehru lived as Prime Minister. The funeral takes place on Saturday. State mourning will be observed throughout the country for 12 days (upto Nov. 11), it was officially announced here tonight.Central Government offices all over the country will remain closed tomorrow. During the period of mourning, the national flag will be flown at half-mast throughout the country, and there will be no official entertainments. A black-bordered extraordinary gazette notification was issued this evening announcing the sad demise of the Prime Minister. Signed by the Home Secretary, the gazette notification said the “Government of India announced with most profound regret the death of Shrimati Indira Gandhi, Prime Minister of India at New Delhi, on 31st October. 1984.” Indira Priyadarshini Gandhi, who would have been 67 on Nov. 19, and who was described by Sarojini Naidu at her birth as a “new star on India’s horizon” was respledent in a saffron saree when the assassins struck. She was getting ready for a session with an Irish Television team led by the renowned British actor, Peter Ustinov. Mr Ustinov, who had accompanied Mrs Gandhi on her tour of Orisa from where she returned last night, told a news agency that the TV camera could take shots of the Prime Minister when she lay in a pool of blood. Around 9 a.m.. word was sent to her at the Saidarjung Road bungalow that the TV team was ready for filming. Mrs Gandhi came out and walked towards the lawns of the adjoining 1, Akbar Road bungalow forming part of the Prime Minister’s house complex. Near the gate that led to the Akbar Road bungalow, the two assailants shot at her. There were no family members with the Prime Minister. As she slumped on the lawns, other security guards fired at the assailants. Mr H. Y. Sharada Prasad, Information Adviser to the Prime Minister, who was waiting with the television team, told newsmen he heard the shots and ran towards the direction from where the sound came. The Akbar Road bungalow presented a direct view, and as he reached the spot he found the Prime Minister being attended to by the security staff. Mrs Sonia Gandhi with some relatives rushed out of her house amidst a loud shriek. Behind Mrs Gandhi were her Special Assistant, Mr R. K. Dhawan, and Mr D. K. Bhatt, Assistant Commissioner of Police, Special Security Zone. Mrs Gandhi was helped into an ambassador car and rushed to’ the All-India Institute of Medical Sciences at 9.30 p.m. Dr A. N. Safaya, Medical Superintendent of AIIMS, said that Mrs Gandhi was alive when she was brought to the emergency ward. A team of doctors headed by Prof Venugopal attended on her. The 16 bullets on her chest and abdomen were extricated but, despite the doctors’ heroic efforts, the Prime Minister passed away at 2-30 p.m. Soon after Mrs Gandhi was taken to the AIIMS, Central Ministers, MPs and senior officers converged there. The entire hospital complex was cordoned off and security tightened. A security ring was also placed around the 1, Safdarjang Road bungalow. Cabinet Secretary Krishnaswamy Rao Sahib and Principal Secretary to the Prime Minister, Dr P. C. Alexander, who were away in Bombay returned in the afternoon and went straight to the AIIMS. Among the large number of people at the AIIMS was Mrs Maneka Gandhi, accompanied by her son, Varun. Many others who rushed to Delhi on hearing about the assassination attempt on Mrs Gandhi were, however, prevented from entering the AIIMS by the security staff. Thousands of people were collecting outside newspaper offices eager to learn about the latest on the Prime Minister’s condition. Many among them were heard claiming that some foreign radio stations had pronounced her dead around 12 noon. According to official sources, sub-inspector Beant Singh had endeared himself as a household member. He was not on morning duty, and had been assigned the afternoon shift. But he came on the morning duty, reportedly on the plea of indisposition. It could not be established immediately whether Beant Singh was aware of the fact that the Prime Minister had cancelled all her programmes of the day except three, including the interview with the television team. Mrs Gandhi’s day usually began with meeting a large number of people who would gather at 1, Akbar Road. She did not go through with this today, presumably because of a tiring tour of Orissa from where she flew back last night. By nightfall, security arrangements were being tightened in the city not only to ensure that communal harmony was not ruffled but in preparation of the large number of VIPs expected to arrive in Delhi in the course of the next two days to pay their homage to Mrs Gandhi and attend her funeral.Till late in the night, messages of condolence had been pouring into Delhi from all over the country and the world where she had attained a new stature with her election in March, 1983, as chairperson of the Non-Aligned Movement.PTI, UNI add: The body of Prime Minister Indira Gandhi was brought tonight to her residence in a gun-carriage and was received tearfully by shocked family members and close friends. The body was draped in a tricolour and carried on a gun-carriage towed by an Army three-tonnor. The four-km route was cordoned off by armed policemen. Mrs Gandhi was dressed in a fawn-coloured sari. The family of sub-inspector Beant Singh is reported to be missing from the police officer’s house in the security lines, according to police. Police sources said when a special force set up to investigate the slaying raided the house in Teen Murti lines, they found a padlock and neighbour, when contacted, said that the family had left the house about five days ago. No one seemed to know about their whereabouts. Beant Singh, was a 1950 batch officer of the Delhi Police and had been with the Prime Minister’s security for around 10 years. He was one of the most trusted bodyguards of Mrs Gandhi, security officers at 1, Safdarjung Road said. Satwant Singh, the second assailant, joined duty only three days ago after a two-month leave in Punjab. He belonged to the Seventh Battalion of the Delhi Armed Police and joined the Prime Minister’s security district a few months ago. Satwant Singh’s sten-gun, which carried 30 rounds, was fully emptied, the sources said. Mrs Gandhi was shot from a distance of seven feet, according to the sources. The entire security unit at the Prime Minister’s house is being interrogated for any possible links with the assassins.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-november-1-1984-prime-minister-indira-gandhi-shot-dead-12-day-mourning-announced-101635688584055.html
31-10-2021||India||Tikait threatens fresh escalation if protesters are removed||Farm union leader Rakesh Tikait, at the forefront of the year-long agitation against three agricultural laws, on Sunday threatened to escalate protests and turn all government offices into “galla mandis” or grain markets if authorities dismantled protest sites.Tikait first tweeted his new protest plan and then talked to farmers in Ghazipur asking them to be prepared. “If farmers are forcibly removed from the borders then they will turn government offices in the country into grain markets,” Tikait’s tweet in the morning said. Since November last year, thousands of farmers have pitched tents at five sites near Delhi’s borders - Singhu, Ghaziabad, Tikri, Dhansa and Shahjahanpur (on the Rajasthan-Haryana border) - from where they have been carrying on their protests. “Protest is a constitutional right. Farmers have been peacefully camping at the borders. If that right is taken away, then we will turn all main offices in districts across the country into grain markets. Our farmers are prepared to do it,” Tikait told HT.On October 29, Delhi Police started removing barricades and concrete barriers put up by farmers at the Gazipur and Tikri protest sites. The stretch cleared by the police was closed for nearly a year ever since the farmers’ agitation started. The police said the closure of a section of roads near these sites had caused inconvenience to commuters and traffic.On October 21, the Supreme Court had said farmers had a right to protest but roads should be blocked indefinitely. The court made the observation on a plea against the blockade of roads between Delhi to Noida due to farmers’ protests against the three agriculture laws.Farmers are continuing with their protests demanding the scrapping of new laws brought by the Modi administration to liberalise agricultural trade. The government has argued that these changes were necessary to boost investment in the farm sector which employs half of all Indians.Major farm unions, led by the umbrella platform Samyukt Kisan Morcha, have said the laws will leave cultivators at the mercy of big corporations by dictating prices. Asked about the Supreme Court’s observation on blocking roads, Tikait said farmers had not blocked roads. “The police had placed these barricades. Farmers are cooperating with the public to ensure smooth traffic,” he said.Farmers protesting at different sites since November 26 last year want the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 rolled back. Despite 11 rounds of talks, the last one was held on January 22, there has been no point of agreement between the government and the farmers. The government then offered to freeze the laws for 18 months, a proposal which the farmers rejected.The new laws at the heart of the protests essentially aim to ease restrictions on trade in farm produce by setting up free markets, which will co-exist with regulated markets, allow food traders to stockpile large stocks of food for future sales and lay down a national framework for contract farming based on written agreements. Farm unions say free markets under the laws will erode their bargaining power, weaken a system of assured prices and make them vulnerable to exploitation by corporate giants. The government has said the laws would not impact the current system of assured prices for cereals that farmers are offered in government-run markets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tikait-threatens-fresh-escalation-if-protesters-are-removed-101635688044779.html
31-10-2021||India||Delhi’s markets abuzz with shoppers ahead of Diwali; Covid-19 norms flouted||Hundreds of shoppers thronged the streets of popular markets in Delhi ahead of Diwali celebrations next week, flouting Covid-19 restrictions. Streetside markets including Sarojini Nagar, Lajpat Nagar and Sadar Bazar, among others, witnessed a huge footfall as people headed out on a shopping spree to buy gifts for friends and family, along with decorating items and new clothes for Diwali."It is natural to have crowds in the markets during festivals but proper arrangement should be made by the administration, which has not been done," a leader of Sadar Bazar market association told news agency ANI.Delhi's Sadar Bazar witnesses a huge footfall of shoppers ahead of Diwali"It is natural to have crowds in the markets during festivals but proper arrangement should be made by the administration which has not been done," a leader of the market association says pic.twitter.com/2y2WT4dOe4However, to shopkeepers who rely on these festivities to make big sales and cover for any losses round the year, the resurgence of customers is a welcome surprise compared to the lull of the past two years. "After 2 years, the market is witnessing such a footfall before Diwali. We're hoping for good sales this year," said a shopkeeper at south Delhi’s Lajpat Nagar market.Similar crowds were seen at the Karol Bagh market as well. "Generally, people are following Covid-19 protocols in the market... We are having a better season than before. Sales are improving," Sanjeev Kapoor, general secretary of Vyapay Mandal, Ajmal Khan Road in Karol Bagh, told ANI.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) had on Friday relaxed the coronavirus-infused restrictions in view of the festive season. According to the order, all authorised weekly markets in Delhi have been allowed to reopen from November 1.The Aam Aadmi Party-led Delhi government has also declared a blanket ban on the sale, use and storage of firecrackers in the national capital. In a series of tweets, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had announced that the decision was made to keep a check on the deteriorating air quality levels in the city.Delhi logged 45 new cases of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours on Sunday, taking the total count to 14,39,870, while the active caseload stands at 348. No death due to coronavirus was reported for the 9th consecutive day in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhis-markets-abuzz-with-shoppers-ahead-of-diwali-covid-19-norms-flouted-101635685627008.html
31-10-2021||India||‘Political tourism will help…’ says Goa CM Sawant after Mamata Banerjee, Rahul Gandhi visit state ahead of 2022 polls||Amid the visit by the leaders of rival political parties ahead of the assembly elections next year, Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant on Sunday called it “political tourism” and also said that it would help revive the businesses in the state that have been affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. With the state assembly elections due early next year, Trinamool Congress supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had visited the state in the past week.“This is political tourism. During the next four months, the taxi and hotel businesses, which had suffered due to the pandemic, would get a good business with this kind of tourism,” news agency PTI quoted Sawant as saying on Sunday. He also said that he wanted leaders of national political parties to visit Goa for the taxi and hotel businesses to grow.Also read | ‘They didn’t take politics seriously’: Mamata’s fresh jibe at Congress in GoaThe Bengal CM reached the state earlier on Thursday on a three-day visit, where she met with several party leaders and the electorate. The TMC also gained several new entries into the party, including Bollywood actress Nafisa Ali, Mrinalini Deshprabhu and renowned tennis player Leander Paes.“It is my promise to each and every one of you that all your issues will be heard and addressed. The Trinamool Congress family will stand beside you through thick and thin in this fight for Democracy in Goa. We will fight together for a New Dawn!,” Banerjee tweeted on concluding her visit.Rahul Gandhi visited the poll-bound coastal state on Saturday and alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government at the Centre was “attacking” small and medium businesses. He also promised that his party would offer more jobs to the youth of the state.During his day-long visit, Gandhi also took a ride on a two-wheeler taxi and said that he had a discussion with the driver. He also said that like the driver and the “lakhs of Goans” the Congress also wanted a change in the state.In response, Sawant said, “I felt good that he rode pillion [in] a two-wheeler taxi. It must be the first time for him. We have been travelling on two-wheeler taxis and in rickshaws,” PTI reported. The Goan chief minister also commented on Gandhi’s interaction with the fishing community and said that he listened to their grievances “everyday” during his visit to the markets.Meanwhile, the TMC and the Congress appear to be at loggerheads at the national and state levels. Recently Congress’ Goa election observer and senior leader P Chidambaram called the TMC “a marginal player” in the Goa assembly polls, during an interview with PTI while the TMC had recently commented that the Congress has “limited itself to Twitter space,” in its mouthpiece publication.Adding to the contest in the state, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is also scheduled to visit the state on Monday. Both the TMC and the AAP have already announced that they would contest the state assembly polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/political-tourism-will-help-says-goa-cm-sawant-after-mamata-banerjee-rahul-gandhi-visit-state-ahead-of-2022-polls-101635686284398.html
31-10-2021||India||Caste panel official visits NCB's Sameer Wankhede's home after document forgery allegations||National Commission for Scheduled Castes vice-chairman Arun Halder on Sunday visited the residence of Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) officer Sameer Wankhede who is facing allegations of faking caste documents to get into Indian Revenue Services (IRS) through SC quota. Wankhede’s wife, Kranti Redkar Wankhede, said Halder visited their residence to see some original documents, adding that a probe will now be conducted against those who levelled the allegations, reported news agency ANI.“He (Arun Haldar) came here to see some original documents. Now investigation will be conducted against the people who were making allegations against us,” ANI quoted Kranti Redkar Wankhede as saying.Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik brought a series of allegations against the NCB zonal director following the arrest of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan in the drugs-on-cruise case. Malik alleged that Wankhede was not only running an extortion racket in the garb of anti-drug raids but had converted to Islam and later forged caste documents for getting into civil services through the reserved Schedule Caste quota.Also Read | 'I think he is from a Scheduled Caste': Wankhede gets support from SC CommissionHe tweeted a picture of Wankhede and his first wife, Shabana Quraishi, and also posted a copy of the couple’s ‘nikah nama’, insinuating that Wankhede got married as per Islamic rules and, thus, is a Muslim.“I want to make it clear that the issue I am exposing of Sameer Dawood Wankhede is not about his religion. I want to bring to light the fraudulent means by which he has obtained a caste certificate to get an IRS job and has deprived a deserving scheduled caste person of his future,” Malik wrote on Twitter.Wankhede has repeatedly denied the claims made by Malik, saying the sole intention was to humiliate him and his family. He released caste certificates of several of his family members, showing that all of them belong to Mahar, a Scheduled Caste.After Halder’s visit, Wankhede’s wife said that the safety of her family is in jeopardy, claiming that some people conducted a recce of the house.“We will provide the CCTV footage to the police. Security should be provided to the family,” she told ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/caste-panel-official-visits-ncb-s-sameer-wankhede-s-home-after-document-forgery-allegations-101635683654952.html
31-10-2021||India||'Indira Gandhi sort of sensed she would be killed': Rahul Gandhi recollects daadi's funeral||Congress MP Rahul Gandhi on Sunday posted a video recollecting the day his grandmother Indira Gandhi's died in 1984. It is a three-minute video where an emotional Rahul Gandhi narrates how he lost one of his mothers as Indira Gandhi was his second mom, ‘supermom’, and used to protect him when his father Rajiv Gandhi got angry. The video shows a young Rahul crying at Indira Gandhi's last rites, crying, apart from visuals of Rajiv Gandhi, Sonia Gandhi paying their respect to Indira Gandhi. "That morning before she died she told me don't cry if something happens to me. I didn't understand what she meant. And 2-3 hours later, she was dead. She sort of sensed that she would be killed. And everybody in the house also knew it," Rahul says in the video posted on his YouTube channel.Here is the video That day was the second most difficult day of his life, Rahul said, and also explained why he was hiding his face in the video. Because his grandmother told him to not cry."She once said to me, to all of us, at the dining table, that the biggest curse would be to die of a disease. From her perspective, this was probably the best way to die... for her country... defending the idea she loved," Rahul said. At that time, the young Rahul did not understand the idea behind it, but now he understands, he said."In my house my father was strict... and I essentially had two mothers, including a 'super' mother who was my grandmother, who would defend me when my father got angry," Rahul said. Earlier on Sunday, Rahul Gandhi paid floral tributes to Indira Gandhi at her memorial Shakti Sthal. "My grandmother served the country fearlessly till the last moment -- her life is a source of inspiration for us," Rahul Gandhi tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indira-gandhi-sort-of-sensed-she-would-be-killed-rahul-recollects-dadi-s-funeral-101635682721242.html
31-10-2021||India||UK PM Boris Johnson urges G20 to ‘prioritise rights of women and girls’ in Afghanistan, pledges GBP 50 million||UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Sunday called for the G20 (group of 20) member nations to prioritise the rights of the women and girls in Taliban-ruled Afghanistan amid the ongoing G20 summit. Johnson also said that the United Kingdom would give GBP 50 million for the cause.“We have a responsibility to help those in Afghanistan most at risk under the Taliban regime, particularly women and girls,” Johnson said in a tweet. “The UK will give £50m to that end, and I urge the G20 to prioritise the rights of women and girls in all our international development efforts,” he added.We have a responsibility to help those in Afghanistan most at risk under the Taliban regime, particularly women and girls.The UK will give £50m to that end, and I urge the G20 to prioritise the rights of women and girls in all our international development efforts.#G20ItalyThe remarks from Johnson came a few days after he said that the UK is trying to help the Afghan people, however, cautiously noted that the country can’t “write a completely blank cheque to the Taliban government.”“We must do everything we can also to mitigate the consequences for the people of Afghanistan of the Taliban takeover,” Reuters quoted the British PM as saying earlier on Wednesday. “We have doubled our aid commitment for this year ... what we can't do at the moment is write a completely blank cheque to the Taliban government, the Taliban authorities. We need to ensure that that country does not slip back into being a haven for terrorism,” he added.Also read | Taliban leader Haibatullah Akhundzada makes first public appearanceAhead of the opening session of the G20 summit earlier on Saturday, Johnson said that “he was focused” on Covid-19 and climate change. “At the G20 this weekend I’m focused on the big challenges facing the UK and the world,” he tweeted and mentioned that “Action on climate change so we preserve the planet for future generations” and “Defeating the pandemic by encouraging the rapid global distribution of vaccines” as his two main agenda.The G20 world leaders’ summit is currently in progress in Rome, Italy, where leaders of the 20 member nations have gathered to discuss several important issues, namely, the Covid-19 pandemic and the climate emergency. Italy is currently holding the presidency of the group.Earlier on October 12, the G20 leaders met in a virtual meeting in what the group called “G20 Extraordinary Leaders’ Meeting on Afghanistan.” The G20 released a list of shared goals and principles and also drafted a line of action following the meeting, in which it largely emphasised on human rights, presence of the United Nations in Afghanistan, tackling terror threat along with major emphasis on women rights.“The G20 will continue supporting Afghan women and girls both in their immediate needs and to enable them to contribute to a durable peace and an inclusive development to the benefit of all Afghans,” the G20 said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-pm-boris-johnson-urges-g20-to-prioritise-rights-of-women-and-girls-in-afghanistan-pledges-gbp-50-million-101635681974331.html
31-10-2021||India||Martyr Rishi Kumar’s house engulfed in gloom in Begusarai||Gloom descended on Lieutenant Rishi Kumar’s house at Professor Colony in Pipra locality of Bihar’s Begusarai Town following his death and that of a jawan in an Improvised Explosive Devise (IED) blast near a forward post along the Line of Control (LoC) in Nowshera sector of Jammu and Kashmir’s Rajouri district on Saturday. The incident took place when an army column was on patrol duty to check infiltration of terrorists from across the border. As the news of his death reached the colony, Kumar’s family members and all other residents were shocked. His mother Sarita Devi fell unconscious and father Rajiv Ranjan Singh, a furniture trader, turned speechless and kept staring at the sky blankly. His house was swarmed by mourners from the locality who came to console the bereaved family members. On October 27, Sarita spoke to her son over phone and he promised to come home for Chhath Puja even if it was for a very short stay, however, a day later he said his leave had been rescheduled to November 22. “However, he did not come but we got the heart- wrenching news of martyrdom of my son. I never thought that it would be the last time I will speak to him,” Sarita added. Neighbour Vikas Vaibhav said Rishi Kumar had joined 17 Sikh Infantry of the Indian Army in 2020 and was posted to Jammu and Kashmir only two months ago. The slain officer has two sisters and the elder one is also in the army. Rishi’s younger sister’s wedding was fixed for November 29 during his leave. The martyr’s neighbours described him as a ‘hero’ who always had a smile on his face. Also Read | Patiala serial murder: Retired army officer held for aiding sonRishi’s maternal uncle Sudarshan Singh told HT that the officer’s sister was in a trauma. “She had been weeping for hours. She has not eaten and is not talking to anyone.’’ Meanwhile, Begusarai MP and Union minister Giriraj Singh also saluted Rishi’s bravery and prayed to God to give strength to the family to bear his loss. “My tributes to the undoubting courage of army personnel Lt Rishi Kumar & Sepoy Manjit Singh, who attained martyrdom while safeguarding India’s territorial integrity in Nowshera sector. My deepest condolences to the families of martyrs & prayers for speedy recovery of the injured,” lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/martyr-rishi-kumar-s-house-engulfed-in-gloom-in-begusarai-101635681563350.html
31-10-2021||India||Biennial elections to three Andhra, six Telangana seats on November 29||The Election Commission on Sunday announced biennial elections to three and six seats in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana Legislative Council respectively on November 29.The biennial elections have been necessitated after the term of office of Andhra Pradesh MLCs Chinna Govinda Reddy Devasani, Mohammed Ahmed Shariff and Somu Veerraju and Telangana MLCs Akula Lalitha, Mohammed Fareeduddin, Gutha Sukender Reddy,Vidyasagar Nethi, Venkateshwarlu Bodakunti and Shrihari Kadiyam expired on May 31 and June 3, 2021, respectively.According to an official statement issued by the EC, the last date for filing nominations for the biennial polls is November 16.The counting of votes shall take place on November 29 at 5pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/biennial-elections-to-three-andhra-six-telangana-seats-on-november-29-101635679644979.html
31-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Narendra Modi to visit Kedarnath on November 5 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Narendra Modi to visit Kedarnath on November 5Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Kedarnath, one of the four famous Hindu shrines in Uttarakhand that make up the state’s holy Char Dham pilgrimage, on November 5, said an official aware of the details. Read moreDrugs-on-cruise case: Other than Aryan Khan, who all have got bail till nowThe Mumbai drugs-on-cruise case, which began with a raid by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) earlier this month, garnered enormous buzz across the country due to the arrest of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh’s son Aryan Khan. Read moreDelhi airport resumes flight operations from Terminal 1. Details hereDelhi's Indira Gandhi International Airport on Sunday finally reopened and resumed operations on Terminal 1 after more than 18 months of prolonged closure. Read moreUrmila Matondkar is proud of Shah Rukh Khan for ‘grace, maturity’ he showed after son Aryan Khan's arrestActor-politician Urmila Matondkar has shared how proud she is of actor Shah Rukh Khan. Taking to Twitter, she praised Shah Rukh for the ‘grace’ and ‘maturity’ he has shown since the arrest of his son, Aryan Khan, earlier this month. Read more‘Advantage to New Zealand there’: Ex-Aussie spinner explains why Kiwis have extra edge against Kohli's IndiaAfter going down against Pakistan in their opening clashes, both India and New Zealand will look to get their T20 World Cup campaign back on track when they lock horns in Dubai on Sunday. Read moreChyawanprash to amla murabba: Ways to add amla to your diet this winterWinter is almost here and it's the best time to consume amla, a seasonal fruit. A powerhouse of nutrients, amla is one of the best sources of Vitamin C and an amazing antioxidant and immunity booster. Read moreAudi says high taxes an obstacle in growth of luxury car segment in IndiaGerman automaker Audi has said that high taxation has become a hindrance to the growth of the luxury car segment in India and the government should look into lowering the levies to help the sector to grow. Read more‘India becoming fully capable of…’: PM Modi’s message on National Unity DayWhile addressing the nation on the birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, PM Modi said that India is becoming fully capable of meeting any internal or external challenge. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-narendra-modi-to-visit-kedarnath-on-november-5-and-all-the-latest-news-101635678180283.html
31-10-2021||India||Bypolls to 3 Rajya Sabha seats each in Bengal, Maharashtra, Kerala on Nov 29||The Election Commission on Sunday announced by-polls to one Rajya Sabha seat each in Maharashtra, West Bengal and Kerala to be held on November 29.The need for conducting by-polls in Kerala and West Bengal was necessitated due to the resignation of MPs Jose K Mani and Arpita Ghosh respectively.Meanwhile, one seat in Maharashtra became vacant after the demise of MLC Sharad Namdeo Ranpise.According to an official statement issued by the EC, the last date for filing nominations for the by-polls is November 16.The counting of votes shall take place on November 29 at 5pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bypolls-to-3-rajya-sabha-seats-each-in-bengal-maharashtra-kerala-on-nov-29-101635678871324.html
31-10-2021||India||MP villages to pay for property, water, sanitation as state invokes old law||As a garbage collection vehicle moves around Intkhedi Sadak village in Madhya Pradesh, loudly playing Swacch Bharat song sung by Kailash Kher, it is a signal for eight-year-old Harsiddhi Saini and her friends to rush outside with buckets full of garbage to be emptied into the loading auto. She may live in a village but her 38 year old father, Brijesh Saini, has to still pay tax for the garbage collection service. Saini pays ₹130 every month as water and sanitation tax, introduced two months ago by the village in a gram sabha, for daily collection of garbage from every household in the village. Intkhedi is one of close to 23,000 villages in Madhya Pradesh, where the local panchayat bodies are planning to introduce annual property tax and monthly water and sanitation charges to provide basic civic amenities and drinking water. Most villages in Madhya Pradesh such as Intkhedi lack the basics with open drainage systems and heaps of garbage everywhere. The source of water in these villages is are hand pumps that do not assure a high quality of drinking water. Last year under the Central government’s Nal Jal Yojana, people started getting clean tap water in their households and in June this year, MP Panchayat and Rural Development department trained panchayat secretaries to collect water, sanitation and property tax under section 77 A of MP Panchayat Raj and Gram Swaraj Adhiniyam 1993, which empowers panchayats to levy tax and impose penalties, like urban municipal bodies. Intkhedi sarpanch Leela Bai fixed ₹100 per month as water charge, ₹30 per month for sanitation services apart from ₹200 per lakh as annual property tax, which the panchayat could collect. While the property tax is a fixed rate decided by the district administration, gram sabhas are free to decide the rate of water and sanitation tax as per the Panchayati Raj Act. The sarpanch’s decision is being opposed by some villagers. Ramesh Meena, who runs a shop in Intkhedi village, asks why should he pay tax for a government scheme. He has support from many in the village. Sarpanch Leela Bai, panchayat secretary Gulab Singh Mehra and chief executive officer Phanda janpad panchayat, Upendra Parihar, tried to convince the villagers in the first week of August to pay these taxes but residents said they first wanted to see evidence of change. “The Gram Sabha started cleaning of roads and heaps of garbage and also made an arrangement for door to door collection of garbage and gave cycles to women sanitation workers in August. The panchayat officials have started the supply of uninterrupted clean water. Now, many villagers are convinced and have started paying the tax from October 1,” said Mehra, the panchayat secretary. Out of 400 families, all are paying sanitation tax but only about 300 families are paying water tax leaving those that are below the poverty line. The property tax is yet to be collected. A village’s self-help group member Radha Meena said, “We put in a lot of effort to convince villagers to pay sanitation and water tax but they are yet to be convinced to pay the property tax as they feel that it has no benefit. We are convincing them that under SVAMITWA Scheme, they will get property rights and correct valuation of the property. We are seeing a change in the attitude of villagers but it will take time.” IMPLEMENTATION The success in a few villages including Intkhedi where 100% people have started giving sanitation tax has convinced the MP government that asking villagers to pay for water and sanitation could work. It has now started training of secretaries of 23,000 panchayats to collect money for providing basic amenities to every household. The training started in June and is still going on in several places. Till now, MP government officials said, 10,000 village panchayats have imposed sanitation charge and property tax and 16,000 villages have introduced a water charge from September. “We have just implemented the monthly charge to make villages self-reliant,” said Umakant Umrao, principal secretary, Panchayat and Rural Development department. While payment of the tax is not optional, the state government has asked gram sabhas to exempt families under the poverty line, and those that express an inability to pay can be excused. Gram Sabhas can take a decision on waiving off their tax. Also Read | Sabyasachi gets warning from minister for mangalsutra ad: ‘Take down in 24 hrs’Umrao said that during the second wave of Covid 19 pandemic, panchayats imposed a fine of ₹28 lakh across the state for violation of guidelines such as social distancing and wearing of masks in the villages of MP. “That made us realise that panchayats of MP are getting empowered and can generate funds to become self-reliant. Facing a shortage of funds, we asked panchayats to use their power under the Panchayat Raj Act to impose taxes in a phased manner,” he said. Explaining the scheme, Umrao said in the first phase, fully developed villages will be asked to impose all three taxes while others will be asked to impose any one or two charges as per the services being provided. “If SVAMITWA survey (being done for property evaluation) has been completed, panchayats can come up with property tax. If they get 100% tap connection under Nal Jal Yojna, they can impose water tax and as per cleanliness, they can impose the sanitation tax,” he added. In Madhya Pradesh while 100 per cent of villages have been declared open defecation free (ODF), the last National Family Health Survey (NFHS) revealed that only 19% have sanitation facilities. 16,000 village panchayats have household tap connections under Nal Jal Scheme and in 3000 village panchayats, survey of properties has been completed. OPPOSITION The government plan, however, is being opposed as many villagers feel the villages still lack basic amenities including roads, sanitation and water supply, and therefore, hold the monthly taxes to be unjust. Meherban Gurjar, the sarpanch of Ramha Village, 35 km from Bhopal, said, “When most of the population is poor and get a kg of ration for ₹1 or 2 then how can we ask them to pay ₹50 or 60 for other services. We have imposed the system but I am not convinced enough.” According to the MP statistical department, about 36% of the rural population is below the poverty line, significantly exceeding the urban poverty rate of 21%. Similarly, according to the NFHS, only 79% households in rural MP have access to drinking water while only 19% have access to sanitation. In Jhaliwada village of under developed Balaghat district, sarpanch’s husband Chander Warwade points out that the villagers have an issue of trust as they feel that the government failed to provide basic infrastructure like roads in the past. “For them, the question is how will the taxation change the ground situation? They are opposing it tooth and nail.” Even officials admit that the scheme is facing opposition. Bhopal district panchayat CEO Vikas Mishra said they know it is very tough to impose any tax and that’s why they have asked sarpanchs and panchayat officials to pressurise only warehouse owners, affluent farmers and people having a farm house for recovery of tax. “By using their money, we will develop villages and later we will start compelling others to pay. This will create trust among not so affluent villagers,” he said. Mishra said this plan has worked out and in the past two months, they collected more than 1 crore as water, sanitation and property tax from 187 panchayats in Bhopal. However, Congress leaders attacked the state government for silently introducing taxation system in rural MP. Congress MLA Kunal Chaudhary asked if the government was going to introduce all the taxes provided for in the panchayati raj law. “The BJP-led state and the Central government are putting additional burden on the people through taxation to run development projects. They took this decision when the rural economy was in dire straits due to Covid 19 and people were suffering,” he said. One expert said the state government should first win the trust of people before imposing additional taxes. “This is true that there is a provision in the act as well as in the Constitution that local bodies can create their own fund for the development work by imposing taxes but it shouldn’t be done without winning the trust of people. The rural economy is in bad shape. The villages don’t have basic infrastructure like proper roads and health facilities, leaving alone civic amenities. When people are facing so many troubles, how can we expect them to pay tax,” said Sachin Jain, convener Vikas Samvad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/like-cities-mp-villages-to-pay-for-property-water-sanitation-as-state-invokes-old-law-101635679463363.html
31-10-2021||India||Zydus Cadila agrees to reduce price of each dose of its Covid-19 vaccine to ₹265: Report||Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila, the firm behind ZyCoV-D, one of India's two indigenous jabs against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), has reportedly agreed to reduce the price of each dose of the vaccine to ₹265. The manufacturer had earlier proposed ₹1900 for the regimen, which comprises three doses and is yet to be included in the nationwide inoculation drive, which commenced on January 16 this year.Also Read | Zydus proposes ₹1,900 for its vaccine; talks on to cut price“The company has brought down the price to ₹265 for each dose. Additionally, ₹93 will be charged as the cost of a disposable jet applicator. This was achieved after repeated negotiations with the central government. A final decision in this matter is likely to be taken this week,” news agency PTI quoted officials familiar with developments as saying.The need for a painless jet applicator stems from the fact that ZyCoV-D is a needle-free vaccine. The three doses have to be given on days 0, 28 and 56 respectively; each round of vaccination will see the jab being administered in both the arms.ZyCoV-D, which received clearance from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) on August 20, is the only vaccine to have been approved for an age group below 18, as it was given emergency use authorisation (EUA) by the top drugs regulator for beneficiaries aged 12 and above. At present, every citizen who is 18-years-old or above is eligible for the vaccination drive.Besides ZyCoV-D, Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited's Covaxin is the only other jab to have been recommended by the Subject Experts Committee (SEC) to the DCGI. Covaxin, which is the country's first indigenous anti-Covid shot, is among the two most widely used vaccines in the inoculation drive, Covishield being the other.Thus far, the DCGI has give emergency use approval to six jabs. Among these, two are home-made, while the remaining are foreign-developed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zydus-cadila-agrees-to-cut-price-per-dose-of-its-covid-vaccine-to-rs-265-report-101635676493665.html
31-10-2021||India||PM Modi's plane flies over Pakistan airspace, to return from Italy via same route||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's special VVIP flight, en route to Italy for the G20 Summit, flew over the Pakistani airspace on Friday and the aircraft will use it again on its return journey after getting formal permission from Islamabad, according to a media report here on Sunday.Prime Minister Modi's plane Boeing 777, 300ER, K7066 entered the Pakistani airspace from Bahawalpur, passed through Turbat and Panjgur and via Iran and Turkey reached Italy, The Express Tribune reported.According to the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) sources, Indian authorities had requested Pakistan's Ministry of Foreign Affairs for permission to use the airspace for Modi's special flight.Pakistan accepted the request, allowing the Indian prime minister to fly through its airspace.The relations between India and Pakistan deteriorated after India announced withdrawing special powers of Jammu and Kashmir and bifurcation of the state into two union territories in August, 2019.India has told Pakistan that it desires normal neighbourly relations with Islamabad in an environment free of terror, hostility and violence.Prime Minister Modi arrived in Italy on Friday to participate in the G20 Summit where he is joined by other world leaders in discussions on global economic and health recovery from COVID-19, sustainable development and climate change.The report quoted the CAA spokesperson saying that on its way back to India after the Climate Summit in Glasgow, Prime Minister Modi’s plane will use Pakistan's airspace again.Earlier, an Indian commercial aircraft also used Pakistani airspace after obtaining necessary permission, according to the newspaper.Last month, Prime Minister Modi's plane en route to the United States flew over the Pakistan airspace after Islamabad gave permission for the aircraft.In October 2019, Pakistan had denied India's request to use its airspace for Modi's flight to Saudi Arabia. The same year in September also, Pakistan had denied overflight clearance for the prime minister's aircraft.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-plane-flies-over-pak-airspace-to-return-from-italy-via-same-route-101635678132307.html
31-10-2021||India||Drugs-on-cruise case: Other than Aryan Khan, who all have got bail till now||The Mumbai drugs-on-cruise case, which began with a raid by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) earlier this month, garnered enormous buzz across the country due to the arrest of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh’s son Aryan Khan. Following multiple rejections of bail plea applications, the 23-year-old was granted bail by the Bombay High Court (HC) on Thursday, and Aryan reached his home – Mannat, amid cheers and drumbeats from fans on Saturday.His bail plea, however, was not the only application that received a go-ahead by the court as Aryan’s co-accused actor Arbaaz Merchant and model Munmun Dhamecha, who were arrested along with him on October 3, were also permitted to walk out of jail.According to latest updates, as many as 14 persons have been granted bail so far while six others, including two Nigerian nationals Okaro Ouzamo and Chinedu Igwe, remain behind bars.The case has witnessed numerous twists with Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik and Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede indulging in allegations and counter-allegations against each other. Extorting money from Aryan and framing more than 20 people in fake drug cases in the past are some of the serious allegations that Malik has levelled against Wankhede. This has even made the Mumbai Police commence an investigation into the matter, while Wankhede was interrogated for more than four hours by the NCB deputy director general (DDG) Gyaneshwar Singh on Wednesday.As of now, the investigation of the case continues and although Aryan has been given bail, the Bombay HC has mandated a host of conditions that the 23-year-old must follow.Here’s a list of 14 people who have so far got bail in the Mumbai cruise ship drugs’ case:1.     Aryan KhanOn Saturday at about 11am, Aryan departed from Mumbai’s Arthur Road jail after spending more than 20 days in prison. He was escorted out by his father’s security team, who also took him back home. Notably, on Friday, Bollywood actor Juhi Chawla, reached the Special NDPS court and signed a ₹1 lakh bond for Aryan. Aryan’s counsel Satish Manishinde had named Chawla as his client’s surety, which the court accepted. “We are all happy it is over,” Chawla told reporters.2.     Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun DhamechaAryan’s friend and actor Arbaaz and model Munmun were also granted bail on October 28. Similar to Aryan, they also have been given bail with conditions, which include presenting at the NCB office as per the central agency’s requirement in order to facilitate the drugs’ case. Notably, Arbaaz was found in possession of six grams of charas and Munmun was found with five grams of contraband on the day of the NCB raid on October 2.3.     Avik Sahu and Manish RajgariaThey were the first individuals in the drugs-on-cruise case to get bail after the Special NDPS court granted them the same on October 26. According to the NCB, Rajgaria was held for the possession of a small quantity of hydroponic weed multi-strain cannabis, while Sahu was apprehended on consumption charges.4.     Achit KumarSpecial NDPS court judge VV Patil on Saturday granted bail to alleged drug peddler Achit Kumar in the Mumbai cruise ship drugs case. In their statements of the NCB, both Aryan and Arbaaz had named Kumar as their peddler. He was, however, not present on the Goa-bound cruise on the day of the raid.5.     Organisers of the cruise ship partySamir Sehgal, Bhaskar Arora, Manav Singhal and Gopal Anand, who organised the rave party aboard the Cordelia ship earlier this month, were also granted bail by the special NDPS court on Saturday.6.     Shreyas Nair and Ishmeet Singh ChadhaChadha is a resident of Delhi and drugs were recovered from him when the NCB team raided the cruise ship. Nair, on the other hand, was accused by the central agency as a drug peddler.7.     Nupur Satija and Gomit ChopraAs per the NCB claims, both of them were found on the cruise with MDMA (ecstasy) pills. Like Chadha, Satija is also a resident of the national capital while Chopra is a makeup artist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drugsoncruise-case-other-than-aryan-khan-who-all-have-got-bail-till-now-101635676470308.html
31-10-2021||India||Delhi airport resumes flight operations from T1 after 18 months of Covid lull. Details here||Delhi's Indira Gandhi International Airport on Sunday finally reopened and resumed operations on Terminal 1 after more than 18 months of prolonged closure. As a result, part of flight operations of budget carriers SpiceJet and IndiGo will shift to the IGI Airport Terminal 1 (T1) from Sunday, as they did before the Covid-19 pandemic struck last year.“Attention Delhi Flyers! From October 31 2021, domestic SpiceJet Delhi flights (4 digit flight nos. starting with “8") to operate from T3. Remaining Delhi domestic flights to operate from T1. International flights from T3," read a recent SpiceJet tweet.So far, Terminal 2 and terminal 3 of the Delhi airport have been handling flight operations at the Delhi airport from May 25, 2020, and July 22, 2021, respectively, the GMR group-led DIAL informed. With the reopening of T1, all terminals of the IGI airport will now be functional.Meanwhile, flight operations at Terminal 1 of the Delhi airport have resumed keeping in mind the safety protocols amid an ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.Here it is! We are happy to share a glimpse of the first @IndiGo6E flight arriving at Terminal 1 ✈🙂 #DelhiAirport #T1Resuming pic.twitter.com/8LEnVoQWKd"We would like to assure passengers that at Delhi airport they will be in a safe and healthy environment. We have implemented several measures at the airport to ensure passenger safety without compromising their comfort and experience," Videh Kumar Jaipuriar, CEO of DIAL, earlier told Hindustan Times.The first flight scheduled from T1 was an Indigo flight which departed for Mumbai at 0105 hours. At the same time, the Director-General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) has lifted the capping on passenger capacity for all domestic flights from October 18 onwards.However, the ban on scheduled international flights to and from India has been extended till November 30, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-airport-resumes-flight-operations-from-t1-after-18-months-of-covid-lull-details-here-101635674006498.html
31-10-2021||India||'Craze? Or conspiracy?': Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi's reply to Pritish Nandy over Modi-Pope hug||Union minister of minority affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Sunday asked poet and Bollywood personality Pritish Nandy whether it is a craze to bash Prime Minister Narendra Modi or if there is a conspiracy to bash India, as Nandy raised questions over PM Modi's hug with Pope Francis on Saturday.Sharing a photo of PM Modi and Pope Francis greeting each other with a hug, Nandy wrote, "It's heartwarming to see Prime Minister Narendra Modi embracing the Pope in the Vatican today. Would love to see him do the same with Muslim and Sikh spiritual leaders. It may help to tame the belligerent bhakts embarrassing India."The tweet drew many reactions on social media and one of them was from the minority affairs minister who posted four past photos of PM Modi with Muslim and Sikh spiritual leaders. In one of the photos, the minister himself is also seen. भैय्या.. "मोदी बैशिंग की सनक है".. या "भारत बैशिंग की साजिश"..?https://t.co/LLJLPyWA6Q pic.twitter.com/EM652VCAQJ"Brother, is this a craze of Modi-bashing? Or, a conspiracy of India-bashing?" the minister wrote.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday met Pope Francis and invited him to India, which has been termed as historic as this was the first meeting between an Indian Prime Minister and the Pope in more than two decades. The ministry of external affairs confirmed on Saturday that Pope Francis has accepted the invitation.The Christian community of the country expressed happiness over Modi-Pope meeting and Pope's future visit to India. The RSS too welcomes the meeting and said it believes in the principle of 'Vasudhava Kutumbakam' (the world is one family).The external affairs ministry said Pope accepted the invitation and said it was the greated gift for him. "The Pope has graciously accepted the invitation of PM Modi. And in his own words and I am paraphrasing it, he said you have given me the greatest gift. I am looking forward to visiting India," foreign secretary Harsh V Shringla said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/craze-or-conspiracy-mukhtar-abbas-naqvi-s-reply-to-pritish-nandy-over-modi-pope-hug-101635675189129.html
31-10-2021||India||Will die, but not ally with BJP: Priyanka slams SP-BSP allegations||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday hit out at the Akhilesh Yada-led Samajwadi Party (SP) and Mayawati’s Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) for alleging that the grand old party was colluding with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). She said she would rather die, but have any kind of tie-up with the saffron camp.Addressing a 'Pratigya Rally' of the party in Gorakhpur, Gandhi urged those present at the gathering to think why the SP and BSP leadership was never seen standing by them during their tough times. “They (SP and BSP) say the Congress is working in collusion with the BJP. I want to ask -- why don't they stand with you in your tough times? Only the Congress is fighting. I will die, but never have any kind of relationship with BJP,” Gandhi was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also read | Sunil Jakhar has a 'Capt Saab' twist to Channi govt's no ad on Indira Gandhi's death anniversaryRecalling her grandmother and late Prime Minister Indira Gandhi on her death anniversary, Vadra said she knew she could be murdered, but never bowed down as she promised to keep her own vows. “For her, there was nothing greater than your faith in her. It's because of her teachings that I'm standing in front of you and I'll also never break your faith,” Vadra, who has been on a mission to revive the Congress' fate in the state, said.#WATCH | They (SP & BSP) say Congress is working in collusion with BJP. I want to ask: why don't they stand with you in your tough times. Only Congress is fighting. I will die but never have any kind of relationship with BJP: Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi in Gorakhpur pic.twitter.com/BlyfmK63ZmAddressing women voters of the state, which is scheduled to see assembly election next year, Vadra promised to continue her fight for them and the former would change the face of politics. “I want to tell my sisters -- I'll fight for you. The Congress will fight for you. I want to give power to you so that you can fight your struggle. When 40 per cent women will come into politics, they will change the face of politics,” she said.Further hitting out the SP and BSP, she said it was them who closed down all mills that were opened during previous Congress regimes in the state. “You know who shut down sugarcane mills established during Congress governments here. The governments of SP and BSP closed those mills and they're saying that Congress is working in collusion with BJP.”She also hit out at the Yogi Adityanath-led BJP government for announcing a raise in the minimum support price (MSP) for sugarcane only months ahead of the election. “It has been said that the MSP for sugarcane will be raised. Why are you announcing it now? What were you doing in the last four-and-a-half years? Didn't you find the right time to increase the price of sugarcane till then?” she added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-die-but-not-ally-with-bjp-priyanka-slams-sp-bsp-allegations-101635675078019.html
31-10-2021||India||Rajib Banerjee returns to TMC, regrets 9-month tryst with BJP||Ending his 9-month tryst with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), former Trinamool Congress minister Rajib Banerjee on Sunday returned to the TMC at party national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee’s rally in Agartala, telling Tripura residents that he was regretful.“I am repentant. I am ashamed that I did not listen to Abhishek Banerjee who tried to talk me out of my decision to join the BJP. I was made to believe that the BJP would usher in development and progress. I do not want people to make the same mistake and regret. I have many friends and relatives in Tripura. Every time they heard me talk about the success of the BJP they called me to say they were suffering in the BJP regime,” Banerjee told the crowd.Abhishek Banerjee handed the party flag to Banerjee after the two embraced each other on the dais.On January 30, days after he resigned from the state cabinet and the TMC, Rajib Banerjee drew attention and envy when he and a team of turncoat legislators under his leadership were flown to Delhi in a chartered plane so that they could join the BJP at the residence of Union home minister Amit Shah. The special privilege, which no other TMC leader has enjoyed till now, made bigger news than his shift in allegiance which was anticipated.Banerjee, who had been maintaining silence and also distance from the saffron camp since the TMC returned to power in Bengal for the third time in the March-April polls, was inducted in the national executive committee of the BJP on October 5. While this looked like the national leadership’s effort to keep Banerjee in the party, the action triggered strong resentment in the BJP’s Bengal unit.Also Read | Country suffering as Congress can’t take a decision: Mamata Banerjee in GoaSeveral state office bearers told HT that they were shocked and surprised by the national leadership’s decision because Banerjee not only criticised the BJP’s opposition to Mamata Banerjee but distanced himself from the party after his defeat at the Domjur assembly seat in Howrah. Banerjee had won the seat twice since 2011 when the TMC came to power for the first time.Banerjee drew media attention when he carried home a large photograph of Mamata Banerjee while vacating his chamber at the state assembly. He even broke down after tendering his resignation as minister to governor Jagdeep Dhankhar.On Sunday, he referred to Mamata Banerjee as “goddess” and “our mother.” “I failed to recognise her. She has transformed Bengal. BJP ruled-states are copying her social welfare schemes,” he said.“BJP leaders and workers in Bengal stopped thinking about Rajib Banerjee long time ago. He is not a subject of discussion for us,” Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajib-banerjee-returns-to-tmc-regrets-10-month-tryst-with-bjp-101635675322998.html
31-10-2021||India||Modi to review low Covid-19 vaccine coverage in 40 districts with CMs, magistrates on Nov 3||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on November 3, 12pm, will meet over video conferencing with the district magistrates of 40 districts across various states to discuss the low Covid-19 vaccination coverage, the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said on Sunday. The respective state chief ministers would also be present during the meeting, the PMO said.Modi is on an official visit to Rome, Italy, and Glasgow, UK, to attend the G20 World Leaders’ Summit and the COP-26 climate conference respectively. He is currently in Rome and is slated to travel to the UK on November 1 and 2.“Immediately after returning to the country after attending the G20 Summit and COP26, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a review meeting with districts having low vaccination coverage, on 3rd November at 12 noon via video conferencing,” the PMO said.Also read | India records 12,830 Covid-19 cases, 446 deaths; recovery rate at 98.20%Districts where the vaccination coverage is less than 50% would be the primary focus of the meeting. “The meeting will include districts with less than 50% coverage of the first dose and low coverage of the second dose of Covid vaccine. Prime Minister will interact with District Magistrates of over 40 districts in Jharkhand, Manipur, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh, Maharashtra, Meghalaya, and other States with districts having low vaccination coverage. Chief Ministers of these States will also be present on the occasion,” the PMO further said.Earlier this week on Wednesday, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya held a review meeting with state health ministers, during which he announced the ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ door-to-door vaccination campaign to boost vaccination rates.“We are going to launch a mega vaccination campaign 'Har Ghar Dastak'. We decided that for the next one month, healthcare workers will go door-to-door to vaccinate people eligible for second dose and also those who have not taken the first dose,” news agency ANI quoted the minister as saying following the meeting. He also noted that 48 districts across the country have been identified where the first-dose coverage was less than 50%.On Sunday, the ministry said that the cumulative number of vaccine doses administered under the country’s vaccination drive crossed the 106.14-crore mark as of 7am on the day. Also, 12,830 new cases of the disease and 446 deaths were reported on the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-to-review-low-covid-19-vaccine-coverage-in-40-districts-with-cms-magistrates-on-nov-3-101635672922417.html
31-10-2021||India||PM Narendra Modi to visit Kedarnath on November 5||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Kedarnath, one of the four famous Hindu shrines in Uttarakhand that make up the state’s holy Char Dham pilgrimage, on November 5, said an official aware of the details. The PM will offer prayers at the Kedarnath Temple, inaugurate the samadhi (final resting place) of Shri Adi Shankaracharya, one of the most revered Hindu sages and ideologues, and also unveil his statue, he said. The samadhi has been reconstructed after it was damaged during the devastating 2013 floods that ravaged the state. To mark the occasion, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has invited sadhus and devotees to be part of the nationwide celebrations to be held at the four Dhams, 12 Jyotirlingas and 86 prominent temples, established across the country by Shri Adi Shankaracharya during his travels.Also Read | COP26: World leaders set to kick off UN climate summit in GlasgowGiant screens will be placed at these venues to relay PM’s programme to the masses.The PM Is also expected to inaugurate some infrastructure projects.Modi’s forthcoming visit to the Himalayan temple will mark the completion of the first phase of reconstruction works in Kedarpuri and beginning of the second phase.The programme assumes significance as the hill state is headed for assembly polls next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-to-visit-kedarnath-on-november-5-101635673102933.html
31-10-2021||India||India fully capable of meeting internal, external challenges: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday that India is becoming fully capable of meeting any internal or external challenge and the country’s unity was integral to achieving national goals. He was paying tribute to the country’s first deputy Prime Minister and home minister Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel on his 146th birth anniversary, celebrated as National Unity Day.“Our goals can only be met if we stay united. Sardar Patel always wanted India to be strong, inclusive, sensitive and alert. He always gave importance to the nation’s interest,” PM Modi said in a video message, and added, “Inspired by Sardar Patel, India is becoming fully capable of meeting external and internal challenges.”October 31 is observed as the Rashtriya Ekta Diwas or National Unity Day since 2014, marking the birth anniversary of the leader credited with uniting all the 562 princely states of the pre-Independent country to build the Republic of India among other achievements.Prime Minister Modi, who is currently attending the G20 summit in Rome, also listed his government’s work towards strengthening the country’s unity in the last 7 years. “...the country got rid of unnecessary old laws, strengthened the ideals of unity, and [the] emphasis on connectivity and infrastructure has reduced geographical and cultural differences,” a press release issued by the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) stated. In August 2019, Modi government abrogated Article 370, revoking the temporary special status of Jammu and Kashmir to bring it under direct Central rule to accelerate the development of the region. PM Modi also emphasised the importance and power of ‘Sabka Prayas’ or united effort shown in the fight against the coronavirus disease which has recently resulted in record vaccination with the administration of 100 crore doses. Modi said it was made possible with the collective effort of every citizen.Also Read: PM Modi meets Singapore counterpart, French President Emmanuel Macron on sidelines of G20 summitIn other programmes held on the occasion, Union home minister Amit Shah targeted the opposition, saying efforts were made to forget Patel, who is also referred to as the Iron Man of India and recalled his role in making Lakshadweep an integral part of India.“It is unfortunate that efforts were made to forget Sardar Saheb. After independence, his contributions were never given proper respect and place. He was neither conferred the Bharat Ratna (the country’s highest civilian honour), nor proper respect. But it is said, how long can clouds keep the sun hidden,” the senior BJP leader said. As the situation changed in the country, Sardar Patel received the Bharat Ratna, and the world’s tallest statue, dedicated to Sardar Saheb, was also constructed to pay homage to him, Shah added.Apart from this, President Ram Nath Kovind paid a floral tribute at the Sardar Patel statue at Patel Chowk in New Delhi and said that the countrymen will always be indebted to Sardar Patel for establishing a work culture based on morality and service to the nation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-fully-capable-of-meeting-internal-external-challenges-pm-modi-101635671063008.html
31-10-2021||India||Sabyasachi Mukherjee gets warning from Madhya Pradesh minister for mangalsutra ad: ‘Take down in 24 hrs’||Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra on Sunday issued a warning to designer Sabyasachi Mukherjee for his recent mangalsutra campaign that if the designer does not take down it within 24 hours, he will face legal action. This is not the first backlash from power the celebrity designer is facing for his latest creation, as a legal advisor of the BJP has already issued a legal notice for Mukherjee's Mangalsutra collection advertisement.This comes as several advertisements in the recent past have received flak including that of Fabindia's 'Jash-e-Riwaaz', Ceat's advertisement featuring Bollywood actor Aamir Khan and Dabur's Karwa Chauth ad showing a lesbian couple."I have seen the (mangalsutra) advertisement. It is very objectionable. Also hurtful to religious sentiments. The yellow part of a mangalsutra stands for Parvati, while the black part represents Shiv. A mangalsutra stands for conjugal happiness. I have already raised objections before. Now I am warning designer Sabyasachi Mukherjee personally and giving him an ultimatum of 24 hours," the Madhya Pradesh minister said, issuing a video message.The legal notice sent by BJP-Maharashtra Palghar unit legal advisor Ashutosh Dubey said using semi-naked models for mangalsutra advertisement is obscene and outrageous. फैशन डिजाइनर सब्यसाची मुखर्जी के मंगलसूत्र का विज्ञापन बेहद आपत्तिजनक और मन को आहत करने वाला है।अगर 24 घंटे में आपत्तिजनक विज्ञापन नहीं हटाया तो #SabyasachiMukherjee के खिलाफ केस रजिस्टर्ड कर वैधानिक कार्रवाई की जाएगी।#Sabyasachi pic.twitter.com/iGl9lp3gsRA few days ago, the designer launched his 'Intimate Fine Jewellery' collection, which invited criticism as social media users asked the designer whether the ad is for innerwear or mangalsutra. "Introducing the Royal Bengal Mangalsutra 1.2 and the Bengal Tiger Icon collection of necklaces, earrings and signet rings in 18k gold with VVS diamonds, black onyx and black enamel," the description of Sabyasachi's version of mangalsutra read.
31-10-2021||India||US Embassy says wait for visa appointment to be longer due to Covid-19||The US Embassy here has said there will be significant appointment wait times for some non-immigrant visa categories as it builds back from Covid-19-related interruptions.From November 8, an estimated three million visa holders from India, with proof of vaccination, will be able to travel to the United States under the new international air travel policy, the embassy said."Facilitating legitimate travel to support our strong and growing bilateral ties is our top priority. As we build back from Covid-19-related interruptions, we expect significant appointment wait times for some nonimmigrant visa categories at our Embassy and Consulates," it said.The mission thanked people for their patience while "we work to increase our capacity and maintain the safety of our applicants and staff".Describing the vaccination requirements, the US Embassy said that starting November 8, foreign national air travellers to the United States will be required to be fully vaccinated against Covid-19 and to provide proof of vaccination status prior to boarding an airplane to fly to the US, with only limited exceptions."The CDC (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) has determined that for the purposes of entry into the United States, vaccines accepted will include those FDA approved or authorized, as well as vaccines with an emergency use listing (EUL) from the World Health Organization (WHO)," it said.The embassy said that Covishield will be accepted for the purposes of entry into the United States since it has an emergency use listing from the WHO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-embassy-says-wait-for-visa-appointment-to-be-longer-due-to-covid19-101635669352718.html
31-10-2021||India||Athawale comes out in Wankhede’s support, says Nawab Malik 'conspiring to defame' him||Union minister Ramdas Athawale on Sunday extended his support to Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) zonal director Sameer Wankhede, who has been leading the probe in the drugs-on-cruise case in which Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan is also facing trial. Sameer Wankhede has been under attack from Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik, who has levelled several charges against the NCB official.Athawale, who is also the Republican Party of India (A) president, claimed Nawab Malik was “conspiring to defame” the officer and his family, even as he urged the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) to stop doing so, reported news agency ANI. Recently, Malik accused Wankhede of using forged documents to obtain a government job under the Scheduled Caste (SC) category. According to the Maharashtra minister, Wankhede is a Muslim.Also read | We have more proof against NCB, says Nawab Malik“If he says that Sameer is a Muslim then why is he, a Muslim too, levelling allegations? The Republican Party stands with them. Sameer won't be harmed,” Athawale, the Union minister of state for the ministry of social justice and empowerment, also said responding to the allegations.Wankhede has been refuting all allegations made by Malik.Also read | SRK told his son trapped as he…: Nawab Malik on drugs and Wankhede caseMeanwhile, National Commission for Scheduled Castes vice chairperson Arun Halder on Saturday met Sameer Wankhede and said he thinks the NCB official belongs to the Scheduled Caste. "After listening to his complaint, I think he is from a Scheduled Caste. He has denied the allegation of any religious conversion," news agency ANI quoted Halder as saying.Meanwhile, state social justice minister Dhananjay Munde has said his department can probe if someone objects to the validity of the caste certificate of Sameer Wankhede.Sameer Wankhede's father Dnyandev Wankhede and his wife Kranti Redkar Wankhede on Sunday met Ramdas Athawale, who is also the minister of state for social, justice and empowerment.Malik has been targeting Wankhede since he led a raid on a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast during which drugs were allegedly recovered. On Saturday, Nawab Malik alleged that Wankhede formed a "gang" of private individuals who implicated innocent people by planting drugs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/athawale-comes-out-in-wankhede-s-support-says-nawab-malik-conspiring-to-defame-him-101635667309507.html
31-10-2021||India||Suspected hate crime case in Delhi: Gym trainer shot at by wife’s brother||In a suspected case of hate crime, a 26-year-old gymnasium trainer who married a Muslim girl in July this year was shot at late Saturday night, allegedly by two persons including his wife’s brother, in northwest Delhi’s Shalimar Park under Model Town police station, police said. The condition of the injured trainer, identified as Deva, is serious, they said.Both the alleged attackers were arrested by the special staff team of northwest district police within six hours of the crime and two firearms along with a Bullet bike, suspected to have been used in the crime, were recovered from their possession. The accused were identified as Shahnawaz,21, brother of the gym trainer’s wife and his friend Harshit alias Hritik,20, resident of Budaun in Uttar Pradesh.Police said that their families were opposed to the couple’s interfaith marriage and the woman’s brother had allegedly developed animosity towards Deva.“Prime facie, it appears that Shahnawaz planned the killing and involved his friend Harshit in it. The exact sequence of events leading to the attempted killing and other people’s roles are being ascertained,” said a senior police officer, who did not want to be named.Deputy commissioner of police (north-west) Usha Rangnani said that around midnight, constable Santosh Kapoor of Model Town police station alerted the station house officer (SHO) that a man with gunshot injury was bleeding on the road near Shalimar Park in Model Town. The injured was then shifted to a nearby hospital where his condition was reported to be serious, following which, a case of attempt to murder and firing was registered and several teams, including that of the special staff, were tasked to crack it, she said.Also Read | At least 2 injured as mall construction site caves in at Chandni ChowkDuring the investigation, DCP Rangnani said it was revealed that Deva was riding a motorcycle along with two pillion riders, who reportedly shot him with a countrymade pistol near Shalimar Park and fled. The police then made sure that the suspects were caught within six hours. The details of the operation have not been revealed yet.“The alleged accused Shahnawaz is the brother of Deva’s wife and Harshit aka Hrithik is his friend. Both have confessed to the crime. Their further interrogation is on,” added the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suspected-hate-crime-case-in-delhi-gym-trainer-shot-at-by-wife-s-brother-101635667282835.html
31-10-2021||India||Union home minister’s special operation medals announced, ITBP bags most with 260 awardees||The Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Sunday announced the winners of the “Union Home Minister’s Special Operation Medal” for the current year. More than 390 personnel belonging to the police force in Delhi, Maharashtra, Punjab, Kerala and Karnataka along with those from the NIA, the CISF, the NDRF and the ITBP have been chosen for the medal.The medal is conferred to security forces for special operations in areas such as terrorism, border action, arms control, prevention of narcotics smuggling and rescue operations. It was notified by the MHA in 2018 to be conferred on state and Union territory police forces, Central Police Organisations (CPOs), Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFS) and other security organisations throughout the country.As many as 16 personnel of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) have been awarded the medal this year, according to the home ministry. And among them was senior Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Sonia Narang.“Senior IPS officer Sonia Narang who took concerted action against Islamic State of Khorasan Province’s (ISKP) pan-India network during her tenure in the National Investigation Agency (NIA) has also received HM’s special operation medal,” said an official about Narang’s work against the ISKP network.“A 2002 batch IPS officer, Narang had also been awarded president’s police medal for meritorious services during this year’s Republic Day for successfully solving the 2019 Pulwama attack. She is currently posted as additional director in the Enforcement Directorate (ED),” the official added.Meanwhile, 260 personnel from the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) have also been conferred with the medal this year. “In recognition of their indomitable courage and devotion to duty, 260 personnel of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) have been awarded with the Union Home Minister’s Special Operation Medal on National Unity Day, 2021 for various special operations carried out by the Force in Eastern Ladakh,” ITBP spokesperson Vivek Pandey said.“This is the highest number of Union Home Minister’s Special Operation Medals to ITBP or any other organisation on one occasion,” he added. “The awardees include the name of Deepam Seth, then IG, North West Frontier ITBP who was a member of the Indian delegation for the 10 rounds of Senior Highest Military Commander (SHMC) level talks,” the ITBP further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-home-minister-s-special-operation-medals-announced-itbp-bags-260-101635666673788.html
31-10-2021||India||BJP's Rajib Banerjee rejoins Trinamool in Tripura||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and former minister in the Mamata Banerjee government Rajib Banerjee rejoined the ruling Trinamool Congress on Sunday.Rajib was re-inducted into the party along with Ashish Das, a former BJP leader from Tripura, at a public meeting of the party's general secretary Abhishek Banerjee in the hill state.  The meeting was attended by another new TMC inductee and in-charge of the party's affairs in the northeast, Sushmita Dev, and other senior leaders. Tripura is one of the states where the Mamate Banerjee-led party has set its eyes on as part of its expansion plans to create a platform for a larger national role with the TMC supremo having made her ambitions clear.The former minister had switched over to the saffron camp months ahead of the Assembly election in Bengal, but had been singing a different tune after facing defeat from his traditional Domjur seat as a BJP candidate.His return to the TMC only added to the embarrassment of the state BJP unit, which has seen a large number of turncoats and old leaders making their way to the ruling camp, as his name was recently included in the national executive committee of the saffron party earlier this month.Many BJP leaders were upset about the decision of the national leadership and questioned the move stating no input was sought from the state unit.Ever since the TMC's thumping victory in the Assembly election that brought it back Mamata Banerjee to power for the third straight term, several turncoats, including Mukul Roy and Sabyasachi Dutta, a two-time mayor of Bidhannagar municipality, have rejoined the ruling camp. A number of BJP leaders, including former Union minister Babul Supriyo, have also joined the TMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjps-rajib-banerjee-set-to-officially-return-to-tmc-today-101635664961687.html
31-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: Rahul Gandhi pays tributes to Indira Gandhi on her death anniversary and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'Great example of women power': Rahul pays tributes to Indira Gandhi on her death anniversaryAs India celebrates the 37th death anniversary of former prime minister Indira Gandhi, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday paid floral tributes to the late leader at Shakti Sthal in the national capital. Read more'He was effective in Sharjah, but not in Dubai': Ex-India batting coach believes India will make one change against NZTeam India will face New Zealand in an important Group 2 game of the 2021 T20 World Cup in Dubai on Sunday. Virat Kohli and co. will return to action after a six-day break, following a crushing 10-wicket defeat to rivals Pakistan. Read morePuneeth Rajkumar funeral: Yash pays final respects as actor is laid to rest, fans climb terraces for last glimpseLate actor Puneeth Rajkumar was laid to rest on Sunday morning at the Kanteerava Studios amid grieving family members, friends and thousands of fans. His last rites were conducted with state honours at Dr Rajkumar Punyabhoomi, next to his father and mother. Read moreDeepika Padukone's glam look for Dubai outing features choker necklace worth ₹56kActor Deepika Padukone recently jetted off to Dubai, and pictures from her dinner date in the UAE (United Arab Emirates) city have been making waves. The star's photos with actor, host Nitinn R Miranni and his wife Aarti, Pakistani celebrity stylist Rao Ali Khan, influencers Lailli Mirza and Alizey have flooded social media. Read moreSurprise! China beats US, gets fastest computers in the worldCountries all over the world are working on powerful new supercomputers to get ahead in the race to get the most powerful computers. Now, reportedly, China has managed to gain a big advantage over its rival, with two new powerful supercomputers that leave the competition in the dust, including the US. Read moreOlympian Neeraj Chopra receives his Mahindra XUV700 Javelin Gold EditionMahindra has delivered a customised XUV700 to Olympian Neeraj Chopra who became the first Indian to win a gold medal in athletics at the Tokyo Olympics 2020. Read moreEatery cooks ‘fire momos’, video sparks mixed reactions. Want to try the dish?People have an unwavering love for momos. Be it any season or time of the day, there are many who absolutely love eating this dish. Read more'Parents couldn’t afford wheelchair…': Paralympian Bhavina PatelTable Tennis para-athlete Bhavina Patel talks about the silver medal win at Tokyo Paralympics. In a conversation with Hindustan Times’ Kumkum Chadha talked about the challenges faced while playing against a Chinese opponent. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-rahul-gandhi-pays-tributes-to-indira-gandhi-on-her-death-anniversary-and-all-the-latest-news-101635664900294.html
31-10-2021||India||Pawan Kalyan joins strike against Vizag steel plant privatisation||Tollywood actor and Jana Sena Party president Pawan Kalyan will on Sunday join the ongoing agitation by the workers of Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited (RINL), the corporate entity of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), against the Central government’s decision to privatise it.Pawan Kalyan will address a rally of the steel plant workers under the banner of Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Committee (Committee to fight for protection of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant) at the steel plant entrance near Kurmannapalem junction at around 2 pm.Though the Visakhapatnam police initially denied permission for the meeting on the grounds of law and order, they later consented following protests by the Jana Sena Party activists, who said it was not a political meeting, but was meant only for expressing solidarity with the striking steel plant workers.In January this year, the Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM) under the Union ministry of finance announced 100 per cent disinvestment in RINL through privatisation because of the accumulated losses to the extent of ₹20,000 crore.Since then, the steel plant workers have been agitating against the move and stepped it up after the DIPAM in July invited proposals for the engagement of transaction advisors and legal advisors to complete the disinvestment and later called for expression of interest from various bidders.Barring the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), all the opposition parties in Andhra Pradesh have been strongly opposing the move to privatise the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant. Even Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy government adopted a resolution in the state assembly requesting the Centre to drop the move because of people’s sentiment while suggesting various measures to revive the steel plant.Since the Jana Sena Party has been a political ally of the BJP in Andhra Pradesh, it did not actively participate in the anti-privatisation agitation initially, though Pawan Kalyan made a representation to the BJP leadership in Delhi to reconsider the move.However, in the recent past, relations between the Jana Sena Party and the BJP have strained with both taking independent stance against the Jagan Mohan Reddy government on various issues.Against this backdrop, Pawan Kalyan participation in the agitation is seen as yet another indication of the differences between the alliance partners.“Yes, Jana Sena and the BJP are allies, but the alliance is confined only to the elections. We do have our own independent political ideologies and strategies. The BJP cannot expect that we blindly support their decisions. We cannot nod our heads to whatever they do,” Jana Sena Party state general secretary T Shiva Shankar Rao told reporters on Friday.Also Read: YSRC’s strategy to field deceased MLA’s widow gives them edge in Badvel bypollHe said Jana Sena Party would strongly oppose the BJP’s stand on the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant privatisation. Meanwhile, retired IPS officer and former joint director of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) V V Lakshminarayana, who contested on the Jana Sena ticket from Visakhapatnam in the 2019 general elections, complimented Pawan Kalyan for taking up the agitation in support of steel plant workers against privatisation.“Glad to know that Sri Pawan Kalyan garu is expressing solidarity with the people fighting against the privatisation of Vizag Steel Plant. Hope this will certainly influence government of India to change their decision. #savevizagsteelplant,” the former JD tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pawan-kalyan-joins-strike-against-vizag-steel-plant-privatisation-101635661102297.html
31-10-2021||India||‘Farmers will set up tents in police stations, DM offices’: Rakesh Tikait on attempts to remove them at Ghazipur||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Sunday alleged that the administration was trying to take down the tents of the farmers protesting against the three farm laws at the site in Ghazipur border between Delhi and Uttar Pradesh.“We have come to know that the administration is trying to pull down the tents here with the help of JCB. If they do that, the farmers will set up their tents at police stations and DM offices,” news agency ANI quoted Tikait as saying.“If there is an attempt to forcibly remove the farmers from the borders, then they will make government offices across the country into Galla Mandi,” Tikait also tweeted.Also read | ‘Now will sell crops in front of Parliament’: Tikait on removal of barricadesThe Union government enacted the three contentious farm laws in September last year and several farmer unions have been protesting against them at the borders of Delhi for almost a year now. The protests, spearheaded by the BKU and the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of several farmer unions, began in November 2020 with the participation of farmers mostly from neighbouring Haryana and Punjab.Tikait’s remarks came two days after the Delhi Police began removing the barricades at the Ghazipur and Tikri borders where the protests were going on. The barricades were removed with the intention of restoring the movement of traffic.Meanwhile, the SKM said that the removal of barricades vindicated their stand that it was the police who were blocking the movement of traffic and not the protests. “Police had fortified the protest sites by placing huge cement boulders, multiple layers of metal barricades, and sand trucks across the roads, apart from fixing spikes on the road. As part of the latest narrative that they are trying to spin, partial removal of these barricades has been taken up, ostensibly to impress the Supreme Court,” it said in a statement earlier on Friday.The Supreme Court on October 21 said that the farmers have the right to protest but couldn’t block the roads indefinitely. “Farmers have a right to agitate even if there is a legal challenge pending. We have no difficulty on that as we feel people have a right to go to the streets and protest. But roads cannot be blocked and ultimately some solution must be found,” the bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and MM Sundresh said on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-will-set-up-tents-in-police-stations-dm-offices-rakesh-tikait-on-attempts-to-remove-them-at-ghazipur-101635660480423.html
31-10-2021||India||Proposed Khasi inheritance bill evokes lukewarm response||The proposed Khasi Hills Autonomous District Khasi Inheritance of Property Bill, 2021 has evoked lukewarm response from the stakeholders with some welcoming it while others advising caution. A sizeable chunk of the indigenous population for whom the proposed bill is intended, believes that it has been announced without proper and adequate consultation and is a premature attempt to woo voters for the ensuing 2023 assembly elections.A prominent group advocating for a patrilineal system since 1990, Syngkhong Rympei Thymmai (SRT) which was founded on the principles of the 1960/61 movement of ‘Kaiktiar longbriew manbriew’ from Sohra, opines that one must also consider the flip side of the law proposed by the Khasi Hills Autonomous District Council (KHADC).Among matrilineal Khasis, lineage and inheritance is traced through the mother, and not the father. The community, which comprises nearly half of Meghalaya’s total population (2011 census), practices the custom of the youngest daughter in the family becoming custodian of the family’s land and assumes responsibilities of taking care of parents, unmarried or destitute siblings. As per custom, she’s not the owner of the property and can sell it only after getting permission from her maternal uncle. Over years, there has been a demand among some section in the community seeking a change in the custom so that sons and other daughters in the family also get equitable share of the family property. SRT advisor Keith Pariat tells HT, “It may have detrimental effects if this law is activated right away as we feel that the majority of Khasi males will be led to misuse the wealth given to them, as at this present moment, they have not been taught to be responsible by custom and may not be ready to handle wealth responsibly.”He claims it was therefore important to ensure that males are first made “responsible” and only then allowed to inherit any wealth or property. “Imagine an alcoholic or drug addict inheriting money or property, what do you think he would do?,” he asked.Echoing similar sentiments, Mait Shaphrang Movement (MSM), another civil rights group which came to fore in the 80s pointed out that the Meghalaya assembly had already passed the Meghalaya Succession to Self-Acquired Property (Khasi & Jaiñtia) Special Provision Act 1984. MSM convenor Michael Syiem said MSM only wants an amendment to this act to include “Ancestral Property” as well without having to bring in a new law.“The Khasi Pnar are one people, we want a common law [and] not two separate laws by two separate district councils. And before this amendment, we want wider consultations with all stakeholders and invite more inputs especially with this issue being serious and sensitive,” Syiem said, before adding, “If the Garos want to be included in this law, it justifies a state legislation. This law will economically empower all children in the family.”Another organisation that has surfaced lately, the Saiñdur Tipkur-Tipkha Ïeng Ehrngiew Hynñiewtrep (STIEH) which has been articulating views on various socio-economic issues concerning the indigenous population ,said such an inheritance law is not as urgent as a lineage bill.“Instead of making new bills why doesn’t the District Council enact the pending bill which is most needed at this hour, the Khasi Social Custom of Lineage Bill 2nd Amendment 2018 which will really safeguard the Jaitbynriew (Indigenous people)?, STIEH president Ms D Tongper said.KHADC chief executive member Titosstarwell Chyne said the proposed legislation has been misunderstood.“The objective of this bill has been misunderstood. It is not mandatory that all the children will get equal share of the parental property. It depends on the will of the parents to decide who will be the genuine heir of the property,” Chyne told HT over phone.He said nowadays, despite the age-old practice of the youngest daughter inheriting ancestral property and becoming its custodian, several parents are giving other siblings a portion of their property as well. “There won’t be any problem if the youngest daughter does not object,” he said. Chyne cited an interesting clause in the draft bill which says the youngest daughter cannot claim to be the legal heir of the property if she does not take care of her parents.Chyne emphasised that the legislation will protect the will of the parents who want to distribute parental property equally among all their offspring and empower the Khasi male to avail finance facilities from banks in lieu of their land/inheritance as collateral.“The bill seeks to codify and make provision for regulation and administration in the inheritance of property amongst the Khasi in consonance with the prevailing practice of the Khasis in the Khasi Hills,” he explained.Also Read: Tripura mandates negative Covid-19 report from visitors from states with 5%+ positivity rateThe CEM further said that another clause in the bill specifies that an offspring who marries a non-indigenous person and adopts the culture and tradition of the spouse will not be entitled to any share of the property.Responding to observations that such a clause seemed too harsh, Chyne said the members of the Council can deliberate on this issue once the bill is tabled in the House during the re-assembled autumn session on November 8. The KHADC chief had earlier pointed out that there was no law to regulate the inheritance of property in the indigenous society.“We have no law to address issues concerning tribal parents who have only sons, parents without children or ‘Iapduh’ who do not have anyone. This has led to many disputes among families of different clans,” he had said, providing a strong rationale for the new legislation. “We want to ensure equal distribution of property among the siblings, both sons and daughters, instead of saying that only the youngest daughter should inherit the parents’ wealth,” he had said, while categorically stating, “However, we have inserted a provision that it all depends on the will of the parents as to whom they want to bequeath their property.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/proposed-khasi-inheritance-bill-evokes-mixed-response-101635659122111.html
31-10-2021||India||Inspired by Sardar Patel, India fully capable to meet all challenges: PM Modi on National Unity Day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday paid tribute to India's first deputy prime minister and home minister Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel on his 146th birth anniversary and said that India today is fully capable to meet all kinds of challenges, external and internal, due to his inspiration. “Today the nation is paying tribute to Sardar Patel who sacrificed every moment of his life for 'Ek Bharat, Shreshth Bharat'. Sardar Patel ji does not just live in history but also in the hearts of all Indians,” PM Modi said in a video message.“Our goals can only be met if we stay united. Sardar Patel always wanted India to be strong, inclusive, sensitive, alert, polite and developed. He always gave importance to the nation's interest,” the Prime Minister, who is in Rome to attend the G20 Summit, added.October 31 is observed as or Rashtriya Ekta Diwas or National Unity Day since 2014 marking the birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, who is credited with uniting all the 562 princely states of the pre-Independent country to build the Republic of India.Also read | National Unity Day: As India pays tributes to Sardar Patel, know the history“India is not just a geographical unit but a nation full of the parameters of ideals, resolutions, civilisation and culture. The land, where we 135 crore Indians live, is an integral part of our soul, our dreams and our aspirations,” PM Modi said in the video message.Every Indian, he said, has the responsibility to nurture the foundation of democracy. “The strong foundation of democracy that developed in the society and traditions of India, prospered the sense of 'Ek Bharat'. But we must also remember that all the passengers sitting in a boat have to take care of the boat. We can go ahead only if we stay united,” he added.Also watch | India becoming fully capable of…’’: PM Modi’s message on National Unity Day 
31-10-2021||India||India records 12,830 Covid-19 cases, 446 deaths; recovery rate at 98.20%||India has reported 12,830 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 446 related deaths in the past 24 hours, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Sunday. Kerala alone registered 7,427 Covid-19 cases and 62 deaths during the same time span. With the latest numbers, the Covid-19 caseload in the country has soared to 34,273,300 and the death toll has risen to 458,186, according to the Union health ministry.The active cases of Covid-19 in the country now stand at 159,272, which are the lowest in 247 days. The active cases now account for less than 1% of total Covid-19 cases and are currently at 0.46%—the lowest since March 2020. The daily positivity rate stands at 1.13%, which has been less than 2% for the last 27 days.Meanwhile, as many as 14,667 people recovered from the viral disease in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of recoveries to 3,36,55,842 across the country. The recovery rate now stands at 98.20 per cent.#Unite2FightCorona#LargestVaccineDrive𝗖𝗢𝗩𝗜𝗗 𝗙𝗟𝗔𝗦𝗛https://t.co/OedDCFjEuS pic.twitter.com/ZPmBT87Mt9More than 11 lakh samples were tested for Covid-19 on Saturday taking the total samples tested to 60.83 crore, informed the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Sunday. A total of 11,35,142 samples were tested on Saturday while 60,83,19,915 samples have been tested for Covid-19 up to October 30.In the ongoing nationwide vaccination drive against Covid-19, 106.14 crore vaccine doses have been administered so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-12-830-covid-19-cases-446-deaths-recovery-rate-at-9820-101635653223285.html
31-10-2021||India||National Unity Day: As India pays tributes to Sardar Patel, know the history||India is celebrating October 31 as National Unity Day to pay tributes to veteran freedom fighter Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, who was also the country's first home minister whose contribution in convincing many of the princely states to join the Union of India after Independence remains especially notable. As the country remains grateful for Patel's crucial efforts leading to the integration of India, the day is celebrated as a homage to that “national unity”. The government in 2014 declared that Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel's birth anniversary on October 31 will be celebrated as National Unity Day or Rashtriya Ekta Diwas.HistoryDeclaring in 2014 that India will henceforth celebrate National Unity Day on October 31, the central government said in an official statement that this occasion “will provide an opportunity to reaffirm the inherent strength and resilience of our nation to withstand the actual and potential threats to the unity, integrity, and security of our country.”Vallabhbhai Patel was dubbed “Sardar” (chief) for his leadership skills in leading the country through the struggle for independence and beyond, and most notably during the integration of the princely states and the India-Pakistan War of 1947.Sardar Patel achieved the incredible feat of persuading almost every single one of the 565 self-governing princely states, that had been released from British suzerainty, to accede to the Union of India. For his commitment to the national integration of the newly independent country, Sardar Patel earned the sobriquet “Iron Man of India”.SignificanceOn National Unity Day, a pledge is read out in government offices:“I solemnly pledge that I dedicate myself to preserve the unity, integrity, and security of the nation and also strive hard to spread this message among my fellow countrymen. I take this pledge in the spirit of unification of my country which was made possible by the vision and actions of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. I also solemnly resolve to make my own contribution to ensure the internal security of my country.”By official order, all government offices, public sector undertakings (PSUs), and other public institutions are required to arrange the pledge-taking ceremony on October 31 to observe the Rashtriya Ekta Diwas.The ministry of human resource development has also issued instructions to allow students of schools and colleges to be administered the Rashtriya Ekta Diwas pledge to motivate them to strive to maintain the unity and integrity of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-unity-day-as-india-pays-tributes-to-sardar-patel-know-the-history-101635651558670.html
31-10-2021||India||Petrol crosses ₹115 per litre and diesel ₹106 per litre in Mumbai||Price of a litre of petrol crossed ₹115 in Mumbai on Sunday, reaching an all time high of ₹115.15 per litre in the metropolis, where a litre of diesel was retailing at ₹106.23, following an increase in prices by 34 and 37 paise respectively.The fuel prices have been raised for the fifth consecutive day to touch record levels across the country.Central government maintains that the pump prices of petrol and diesel are skyrocketing due to reluctance of producers’ cartel - the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and its allies (together known as OPEC+) – to increase supply to meet rising energy demand. As a result, retail prices of petrol and diesel are creating record almost every day.On Saturday, a litre of petrol was priced at ₹114.81 and a litre of diesel was available at ₹105.86 in Mumbai.In Thane, price of a litre of petrol crossed ₹115 to reach ₹115.29, while a litre of diesel was being sold at ₹106.37, following the Sunday hike in retail fuel prices. Similarly, in Parbhani, a litre of petrol was selling at ₹118.09 on Sunday and a litre of diesel was available for ₹107.78 in Amravati. With a hike of 35 paise a litre, the price of petrol in national capital Delhi too rose to its highest-ever level of ₹109.34 a litre. The price of diesel also saw a hike by 35 paise and took the fuel’s rate to ₹98.07 per litre in the national capital.Also Read: Check sale of ‘fake’ biodiesel, Punjab petroleum dealers urge govtIn Hyderabad, one litre of petrol is selling at ₹113.72 while a litre of diesel is available at ₹106.98. In Chennai, a litre of petrol is available at ₹106.04 and one litre of diesel is priced at ₹102.25.India is heavily dependent on energy imports--85% of crude oil that it processes and 55% of its gas consumption. Earlier this month, Union petroleum minister Hardeep Singh Puri said that India’s fuel consumption had surpassed the pre-Covid period-- petrol by 16% and diesel by over 10%, and that country’s energy consumption will increase further with the rapid economic recovery. Puri cited supply squeeze by global oil producers as one of the key reasons for high energy prices and said that the supply curve has been kept below the demand curve by the crude producing countries. He added that such high prices were undermining the global economic recovery and hurting the interests of both the developing and developing countries.He said that the Central government was in talks with other countries such as the US and Saudi Arabia to ease the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/petrol-crosses-rs-115-per-litre-and-diesel-rs-106-per-litre-in-mumbai-101635653061164.html
31-10-2021||India||India launches its first manned ocean mission. All you need to know||India has launched its first manned ocean mission, ‘Samudrayan’, joining six other nations engaged in exploring the ocean depths for studies and research. While launching the mission on Friday, Union minister Jitendra Singh said India has made huge progress in science and technology and when an Indian goes up into space as part of the Gaganyaan programme, another would dive deep into the ocean."Launched India’s First Manned Ocean Mission #Samudrayan at #Chennai. India joins elite club of select nations USA, Russia, Japan,France & China having such underwater vehicles.A new chapter opens to explore ocean resources for drinking water, clean energy & blue economy,” Singh tweeted.Here’s all about Samudrayan:1. Undertaken by the National Institute of Ocean Technology (NIOT), the Samudrayan project will be a part of the ₹6,000 crore Deep Ocean Mission.2. The Matsya 6000, the deep-sea vehicle under the Samudrayan initiative, is designed to carry three people in a titanium alloy personnel sphere of 2.1-metre diameter enclosed space.3. It will have an endurance of 12 hours and an additional 96 hours in case of an emergency situation.4. It could work at a depth between 1000 and 5500 meters.5. The niche technology facilitates carrying out deep ocean exploration of non-living resources such as polymetallic manganese nodules, gas hydrates, hydro-thermal sulphides and cobalt crusts.6. According to a NIOT official, Matsya 6000 will be ready for qualification trials by December 2024. The official also said that the shallow water (500 metres) phase is expected to happen by the end of 2022 or 2023 and will be followed by deeper initiatives.7. NIOT developed a 'personnel sphere' made of mild steel with local industry for an operational capability of 500 metres and tested for its usage as per the International Classification and Certification Agency for man-rated operation during this month sea trial using Ocean Research Vessel Sagar Nidhi in the Bay of Bengal.8. The deep-sea vehicle shall be manoeuvred at deep-seafloor with six-degree freedom using a battery-powered propulsion system for 4 hours at 6000-metre depth, according to the release. "Basically this vehicle is a platform to carry any devices, sensors etc to deep-sea for doing experiments/observations in the presence of a human being,” the official said.9. This programme will augment India's capability with infrastructure facilities such as a high thickness welding facility and deep ocean simulator.10. The government has approved the Deep Ocean Mission to be implemented by the Union ministry of earth sciences at a total budget of ₹4,077 crore for 5 years.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-launches-its-first-manned-ocean-mission-all-you-need-to-know-101635649948300.html
31-10-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Jaishankar & Blinken hold talks on sidelines of G20 Summit and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.External affairs minister (EAM) S Jaishankar held talks with US secretary of state Antony Blinken earlier in the day on the sidelines of the G20 Summit in Rome and discussed a range of issues, including efforts to strengthen Indo-Pacific cooperation through the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue (Quad). Read moreBabar Azam's mother was on a ventilator when the Pakistan captain led his side to a historic 10-wicket win against India in Dubai in their T20 World Cup opener on October 24, his father Azam Siddiqui revealed on Saturday. Read moreThe Samsung Galaxy S21 FE has been in the news for quite some time now for all the wrong reasons. Reports in the past have given a varied timeline as to when the smartphone would make a debut in the market with some going as far as saying that the phone has been killed owing to the ongoing global chip crisis. While Samsung never officially acknowledged that the phone had been 'killed', reports continued hinting that. Read moreShatrughan Sinha said that his children, daughter Sonakshi Sinha and sons Luv Sinha and Kush Sinha, do not have vices such as drugs. He also talked about the arrest of Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan in a drug case. Read moreFitness enthusiasts Milind Soman and Ankita Konwar escaped for a short getaway to Gujarat recently. During their vacation, the couple visited Gir National Park, where they saw Asiatic Lions and a few other animals. The two have been sharing several photos and videos from their vacation on Instagram and delighting followers too. Read moreAt the G20 summit, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that a collaborative approach is needed to fight Covid-19. PM Modi invited G20 states to make India partner in economic recovery & supply chain diversification. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-jaishankar-blinken-hold-talks-on-sidelines-of-g20-meet-and-all-the-latest-news-101635650075709.html
31-10-2021||India||Chhattisgarh:Congress leader suspended for indecent behaviour||Congress leader and chairman of Chhattisgarh Karmkar Board has been suspended following an altercation with another Congress leader over parking space inside party’s state office in Raipur on Saturday.“Sushil Sunny Agrawal, former secretary of Chhattisgarh Pradesh Congress Committee (CPCC) and chairman of Karmakar Board of Chhattisgarh, has been suspended from the primary membership of the party with immediate effect for his “indecent” behaviour with the CPCC’s General Secretary Amarjeet Chawla in the presence of Markam and mediapersons at party office Rajiv Bhavan,” the suspension order said, noting that state Congress chief Mohan Markam was among the many witnesses to the altercation on Saturday afternoon.A video of the incident in which Agrawal is seen charging at and addressing Chawla inappropriately went viral on social media platforms.Also Read: Villagers oppose opening up of Hasdeo Arand forest for coal mining in ChhattisgarhParty leaders said the argument started after Chawla asked for Agarwal’s vehicle to be shifted to vacate parking space for Markam, who was due to arrive at the party office. When contacted, Agarwal refused to comment on the issue.Last week, a clash took place between Congress leaders in Jashpur district over the issue of purported power sharing agreement between chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and state’s health minister TS Singh Deo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarhcongress-leader-suspended-for-indecent-behaviour-101635649700757.html
31-10-2021||India||Over 13,000 train accidents in 2020, 32 lives lost daily on average: NCRB report||More than 13,000 train accidents across the country have killed nearly 12,000 railway passengers last year, according to a recent report by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). The latest statistics mean that on average, 32 people lost their lives every day in these accidents in 2020. The report also shows that 8,400 or about 70 per cent of these railway accidents last year took place as passengers either fell off the train or came in the way while crossing the railway track.These are the statistics from a period when 45 per cent of the passenger trains in the country were not being operated due to the coronavirus pandemic.Maharashtra tops list in railway accidents, UP takes second spotThe NCRB report on railway accidents across the country showed that Maharashtra ranks first and Uttar Pradesh second, both in terms of the number of accidents as well as deaths.Uttar Pradesh topped the list ranking the number of train collisions at railway crossings, while Bihar and Madhya Pradesh came second and third in this list, respectively.However, the report, issued by the central government, also showed that railway accidents reduced significantly in 2020, compared to that of the previous year. According to the NCRB Annual Report 2020, there were 27,987 train accidents in 2019, which declined to 13,018 in 2020.The report further detailed that as many as 11,986 railway passengers were killed and 11,127 were injured in these accidents during the past year. The highest number of train accidents or 20 per cent of the total were found to be in Maharashtra, while Uttar Pradesh followed up at number two with 12 per cent of the total number of accidents.In terms of the number of deaths, Maharashtra again topped the list, reporting 1,922 deaths (16 per cent of the toll), while Uttar Pradesh recorded 1,558 deaths (13 per cent of the toll).Train collisionsOut of the 13,018 recorded train accidents in 2020, as many as 9,117 of them (70 per cent of the total) took place due to passengers falling off the train or coming on its way while crossing the track.A total of 8,400 people died in this manner, which is again 70 per cent of the total death toll of 11,987. Additionally, Uttar Pradesh topped the list in terms of train collisions at railway crossings, recording as many as 380 of the 1,014 total accidents reported in this manner. Bihar, with 191 train accidents and 144 crossing collisions, came second.In Madhya Pradesh, there were a total of 191 train accidents and 144 collision crossings; the state came third in the list of similar accidents.In all, a total of 1,185 people died in train collisions, with 561 deaths (47 per cent), in UP, 142 deaths (16 per cent) in Bihar, and 191 deaths in Madhya Pradesh.Errors on part of loco pilotOut of the 13,018 train accidents in 2020, as many as 12,440 of them took place due to the fault of the loco pilot, the person responsible for driving the train and ensuring its proper maintenance during transit. Other reasons include errors on part of the signalman, mechanical errors, poor track repair infrastructure, bridge/tunnel collapse, and the likes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-13-000-train-accidents-in-2020-32-lives-lost-daily-on-average-ncrb-report-101635646106710.html
31-10-2021||India||Jaishankar & Blinken discuss bilateral ties, Indo-Pacific cooperation on sidelines of G20 meet||External affairs minister (EAM) S Jaishankar held talks with US secretary of state Antony Blinken earlier in the day on the sidelines of the G20 Summit in Rome and discussed a range of issues, including efforts to strengthen Indo-Pacific cooperation through the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue (Quad).Later, Blinken took to Twitter and wrote, "I met with @DrSJaishankar to discuss efforts to strengthen Indo-Pacific cooperation bilaterally and through the Quad. I look forward to working together to deepen the U.S.-India Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership."I met with @DrSJaishankar to discuss efforts to strengthen Indo-Pacific cooperation bilaterally and through the Quad. I look forward to working together to deepen the U.S.-India Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership. pic.twitter.com/PhCcjD3I41Jaishankar said that he had a very good meeting with the US secretary of state and both discussed a wide gamut of issues relating to partnership between the two nations."A very good meeting with Secretary of State @SecBlinken in Rome on sidelines of @G20org. Discussed a wide gamut of issues relating to our partnership. Updated each other on important regional concerns," the external affairs minister wrote on the microblogging site.In a statement, US State Department spokesperson Ned Price said, "Blinken and Jaishankar discussed a range of issues, including efforts to strengthen Indo-Pacific cooperation through the Quad and expand cooperation on common regional priorities."Blinken and Jaishankar also reportedly discussed cooperation on expanding global access to COVID-19 vaccines, elevating climate ambition at COP26, and reinforcing their mutual commitments to and support for shared democratic values, read the statement.Meanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi participated in the first session of the G20 Summit in Rome where global economy and health were the topics of discussion. He reached Italy on Friday to participate in the two-day G20 Summit.The theme of this year’s G20 meet under the Italian Presidency is centred around 'People, Planet and Prosperity.'(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-and-blinken-discuss-bilateral-ties-indo-pacific-cooperation-in-rome-101635648013977.html
31-10-2021||India||Battle for UP: Priyanka Gandhi to hold rally at Gorakhpur today, dare CM Yogi in his bastion||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Congress general secretary in-charge of Uttar Pradesh, will on Sunday address a public rally at Gorakhpur ahead of the upcoming assembly elections in the state. The rally comes days after the Congress leader launched her party's election campaign early this month in Varanasi, where she targetted the reported “failures” of the Yogi Adityanath-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in meeting its promises to the people of the state.The Gorakhpur rally on Sunday is being seen as critical by political watchers since the seat of Gorakhnath Math is considered Adityanath's area of dominance, and as such, is expected to draw major attention. Priyanka Gandhi's rally on Sunday also marks the second major Congress event in the Purvanchal region, the earlier being the Varanasi rally on October 10.Also Read | UP people suffering due to 'loot' of electricity bills, will end once...: Priyanka GandhiConfirming that the rally was going to be held, a senior Congress leader told Hindustan Times earlier this week that veteran party functionaries – including Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) president Ajay Kumar Lallu – have been camping at Gorakhpur for a while to advocate in support of the rally.“Yes, Congress will challenge chief minister Yogi Adityanath in his bastion,” said UPCC president Ajay Kumar Lallu. “There is great enthusiasm among the people about the rally.”The Congress leader said that the party has worked for the sugarcane growers in the Purvanchal region by setting up sugar mills and has also set up canals to take the water of the Gandak for irrigation. He alleged the non-Congress governments of pushing the area on “the path of backwardness”.Also Read | Can Priyanka Gandhi Vadra revive the Congress in UP?Notably, the Congress also aims to launch its fourth “Pratigya Yatra” from Gorakhpur after Diwali, with an aim to take the promises made by Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to wide sections of people ahead of the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly poll. Among its electoral promises, the party has vowed to provide smartphones to 12th class pass girls, electric scooters to graduate girls, 50 per cent cut on power bills, a waiver on power dues during the Covid-19 period, financial assistance of ₹25,000 for the poor families hit by the pandemic, and up to ₹10 lakh in free treatment at government hospitals for patients suffering from any ailment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/battle-for-up-priyanka-gandhi-to-hold-rally-at-gorakhpur-today-dare-cm-yogi-in-his-bastion-101635640644191.html
31-10-2021||India||Amit Shah to address 'Rashtriya Ekta Divas' event near Statue of Unity in Gujarat||Union home minister Amit Shah will on Sunday attend the Rashtriya Ekta Divas or National Unity Day celebrations at Kevadiya in Gujarat, near the 182-metre-tall statue dedicated to Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, according to news agency PTI. Shah is also scheduled to address the event.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will not be able to attend the event as he is on a two-day visit to Rome for the G20 Summit at the invitation of his Italian counterpart Mario Draghi. PM Modi will, however, address the function through a recorded video message. The authorities earlier announced that the Prime Minister would attend the celebrations at the Statue of Unity near Kevadia.Shah will offer floral tributes at the statue, and then preside over a parade in which paramilitary and Gujarat police personnel will take part, PTI quoted an official of the Statue of Unity Authority as saying.Chief minister Bhupendra Patel will also attend the celebrations, alongside Shah, to mark the birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, the chief minister's office confirmed in a tweet.As many as 75 cyclists from the ITBP, SSB, CISF, CRPF and BSF, who have travelled approximately 9,000km from various parts of the country to Kevadiya, will be taking part in the event, reported news agency ANI.Apart from that, 101 motorcyclists from police of Tripura, Tamil Nadu, Jammu and Kashmir and Gujarat, who have travelled across the country to reach Kevadiya after covering approximately 9,200km, will also be part of the event, said the ANI report further.Further, the event will also see the participation of 23 medal winners in the Olympic Games, Asian Games and Commonwealth Games.India celebrates Rashtriya Ekta Divas on October 31 every year to mark the birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, who served as the first deputy prime minister of India from 1947 to 1950 and played a significant role in the country's struggle for Independence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-to-address-rashtriya-ekta-divas-event-near-statue-of-unity-in-gujarat-101635638422369.html
31-10-2021||India||PM Modi to talk climate at G20 meet today, destination Glasgow next for COP26||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is all set to attend the second session of the G20 Rome Summit, which will be held on the subject of climate change and the environment on Sunday. PM Modi, who is currently in Rome at the invitation of his Italian counterpart Mario Draghi, will conclude his two-day trip to the country and will next be travelling to Glasgow in the United Kingdom to attend the 26th Conference of Parties (COP26) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), which is also beginning on October 31, according to the official schedule.Also Read | India & Climate Change: Implications of setting a net zero targetPrime Minister Modi attended the first session of the G20 Rome Summit on Saturday, where he discussed the global economy and health along with a host of world leaders. Taking to his official handle on Twitter, PM Modi said that the proceedings at the G20 summit were “extensive and productive”.Among the topics highlighted by PM Modi at the G20 summit are India's contributions in the global fight against Covid-19, the vision of ‘One Earth, One Health’, furthering innovation in healthcare, the need for resilient global supply chains, and leveraging technology for human empowerment.The second session of the G20 summit on Sunday, focusing on climate and the environment, is being seen as an important stepping stone to the UN's COP26 climate summit attended by almost 200 countries, in Glasgow, Scotland, where most of the G20 leaders will fly directly from Rome.Also Read | Climate finance, carbon markets to top India’s agenda at COP26The G20 bloc, which includes Brazil, China, India, Germany, and the United States, accounts for an estimated 80 per cent of the global greenhouse gas emissions which scientists say must be steeply reduced to avoid climate catastrophe. Notably, India is the world’s third-biggest emitter of greenhouse gases after China and the United States, and PM Modi’s participation in the COP26 summit, which runs from October 31 to November 12, is seen as critical.The US has been urging the Modi government to raise its climate ambition and consider a net-zero commitment (balancing out greenhouse gas emissions with actions such as planting trees, restoring soil, and using technology to prevent emissions from reaching the atmosphere), as scores of other countries have done.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-talk-climate-at-g20-meet-today-destination-glasgow-next-for-cop26-101635637587390.html
31-10-2021||India||Bursting of green crackers allowed in Gurugram and UP for 2 hrs on Diwali||The Gurugram administration and the Uttar Pradesh government have allowed bursting of green crackers for two hours on Diwali, if the air quality that day stays in the moderate zone (AQI between 100-200) or better.The Delhi government on September 15 banned storage, sale and use of all kinds crackers on Diwali.Though an order by the Gurugram deputy commissioner mentioned that bursting of crackers will be allowed between 8pm and 10pm, the Uttar Pradesh government order did not specify the hours.Bursting of crackers on Diwali (to be celebrated this year on November 4) are known to have caused immense pollution, pushing the air quality on the festival into dangerous zones.On Friday, the Supreme Court order the state governments and Union territories to strictly comply with its order prohibiting the sale, manufacture or use of banned firecrackers. However, the court clarified that there was no blanket ban on firecrackers, and that green crackers can be used during Diwali.In his order Gurugram deputy commissioner Yash Garg said directions have been issued to allow only use of green crackers in cities/towns, where air quality is ‘moderate’ or below, for a duration of not more than two hours.Officials, quoting an order issued by the Uttar Pradesh additional chief secretary (home), Awanish Awasthi, on Friday night, said the use and sale of green crackers on Diwali will be allowed only for two hours in areas where the air quality is in the ‘moderate’ category or better.“The Supreme Court has clarified in an order dated July 23, 2021, that if the air quality in the region is under the ‘moderate’ category or better, respective officials may allow use and sale of green crackers there,” said the order issued by Awasthi.Officials of the Ghaziabad administration, however, said that they will take the present air quality of the city into account to implement the order.“We have taken a legal opinion in the matter, and will take into account the current AQI which is under the ‘poor’ category. If the AQI is ‘moderate’ or better, we may allow sale and use of crackers as directed. In case the AQI is in the ‘moderate’ or better on Diwali, we will allow sale of green crackers to seven traders -- who already have permission for the same,” said Vipin Kumar, additional district magistrate (city).The bursting of crackers is also banned under the Grap measures for the ‘very poor’ air category that are currently in force in Delhi-NCR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bursting-of-green-crackers-allowed-in-gurugram-and-up-for-2-hrs-on-diwali-101635625805861.html
31-10-2021||India||Country suffering as Congress can’t take a decision: Mamata Banerjee in Goa||West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo Mamata Banerjee on Saturday attacked the Congress, saying the party was incapable of taking on the Bharatiya Janata Party and that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will become more powerful as the grand old party is not serious about politics.She alleged that the country is suffering because the Congress does not take decisions. “Modiji is going to be so powerful because of Congress. If one cannot take a decision, why should the country suffer for that? They (Congress) got enough opportunities. Instead of fighting against the BJP, they contested against me in my state. How do they expect that they will contest me and we will only give flowers and sweets to them in return,” Banerjee said, while addressing a group of media persons here on the last day of her three-day visit to Goa, where assembly polls are due early next year.She was referring to the fact that the Congress contested against the TMC during the assembly elections in West Bengal earlier this year.Taking a veiled attack on the BJP-led Centre, she said, “I want to see that all regional parties are strong. We are a union of states and the federal structure should be strong. If the state is strong, the Centre is strong. Delhi ka dadagiri anik naka (We don’t want bullying from Delhi anymore). Enough is enough.”When asked if she would become part of an alliance that included Congress to take on the BJP in 2024 general election, she said, “I cannot say everything right now... they (Congress) don’t take politics seriously.”“We want committed people, committed local political parties that really want to fight against the BJP,” she added.She also backed the recent comments made by political strategist Prashant Kishor, who had said the BJP will remain at the centre of Indian politics for the next many years whether it wins or loses elections. Kishor also took a swipe at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for “thinking it is just of matter of time before people throw BJP away”.Goa Congress president Girish Chodankar said the TMC chief’s comments reflected their intentions to split the vote and benefit the BJP. “The Goa BJP doesn’t have the strength to defeat the Congress. That’s why the BJP tries each time to split the votes or buy the MLAs. Each election their focus on only splitting the votes. They bring A or B party, now they have brought a third party.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/country-suffering-as-congress-can-t-take-a-decision-mamata-banerjee-in-goa-101635617700944.html
31-10-2021||India||Uttarakhand woman killed for marrying against family’s will, say police||A 21-year-old woman was stabbed to death by her father and her brother, allegedly because she married against their wishes, in Uttarakhand’s Nainital district, police said on Saturday. The woman’s husband has also sustained injuries in the incident, while the accused are absconding, an official added.According to the superintendent of police (city) Haldwani, Jagdish Chandra, the incident took place in the Kathgodam area of the Nainital district late on Friday, when Saleem and his son Alam reached the couple’s rented accommodation and attacked them with sharp-edged weapons. “On Friday, a man and his son attacked his daughter and son-in-law. The woman died on the spot, while son-in-law has been injured in the incident.”The deceased has been identified as Kainaat. Police said Kainaat married Salman (24), a resident of Kathgodam,  against the wishes of their families. “Both had married one and a half months ago without informing the family members. On this, both the families were accusing each other. There was a fight in both the families, in which Salman’s mother was hurt. Police had registered an FIR in the matter. Later, a settlement was reached between the two sides. After this, Salman started living in a rented accommodation in the same locality,” said Chandra.“On Friday, Kainaat and Salman were standing outside their residence, when Saleem and Alam reached the spot with sharp-edged weapons and attacked them,” he added and said that both the accused are absconding.A case has been registered against the two under IPC sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder) and 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint), said Chandra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-woman-killed-for-marrying-against-family-s-will-say-police-101635617520898.html
31-10-2021||India||High turnout as bypolls held for 30 assembly, 3 Lok Sabha seats||There was high participation in the bypolls for 30 state assembly seats and three Lok Sabha constituencies, which were conducted mostly peacefully on Saturday amid tight security, social distancing and frequent sanitisation, as mandated by the Election Commission of India.Although the results of the bypolls will not affect stability in any state government, they might point to trends and could be significant for some political parties.Nearly 70% polling was recorded by 5 pm in the five assembly seats of Assam, Election Commission data show. Temporary malfunctions of voting machines were reported but polling was restored quickly, officials said. The voting was peaceful.Two of the five seats, Tamulpur and Gossaigaon, were vacant because Covid-19 had claimed the lives of lawmakers from opposition Bodoland Peoples’ Front and ruling United Peoples Party Liberal. The other three are going to polls as two Congress MLAs, from Mariani and Thawra, and an All India United Democratic Front MLA from Bhabanipur, resigned from their parties and joined the Bharatiya Janata Party.In Bihar, bypolls in two constituencies, Tarapur and Kushweshwar Asthan, saw voter turnout at 49.59% at 5pm, lower than the 54.76% in the 2020 assembly polls. The percentage might rise slightly. There was no untoward incident reported from any constituency, Bihar’s chief electoral officer H R Srinivasa said in a media briefing. There were some preventive arrests, according to Jitendra Singh Gangwar, additional director general of police.The bypolls saw the return of Rashtriya Janata Dal chief Lalu Prasad Yadav to active campaigning after several years of jail in Ranchi, and then health complications in Delhi.Over 73% voter turnout was recorded till 5 pm in the Ellenabad byelection in Haryana, election officials said. No incident of violence was reported and polling went smoothly, said Sirsa deputy commissioner Anish Yadav. The three main contestants are Indian National Lok Dal candidate Abhay Singh Chautala, his former aide and Congress nominee Pawan Beniwal, and the BJP’s Gobind Kanda, although 17 candidates are in the fray.Average voter turnout in West Bengal bye-elections to four assembly constituencies – Khardah, Santipur, Gosaba and Dinhata – was recorded, officials said. There were some reports of intimidation by political workers.“Some men came last night on motorcycles and threatened by son, who is a BJP polling agent. I didn’t allow him to go out,” said Madhabi Das, mother of Tapas Das and a resident of Santipur in Nadia.While two of the seats, Dinhata and Santipur, were won by the BJP in the March-April polls, the winners did not take oath in order to retain their Lok Sabha seats. In the other two, the Trinamool Congress’ candidates died. At Gosaba in South 24 Parganas, a BJP polling agent’s house was set on fire on Friday night. At Khardah, the car of Tanmay Bhattacharya, a former CPI (M) legislator, was attacked with bricks.“Multiple incidents of violence have been reported since last night,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesperson.“The BJP knows that they are going to lose and are raising such allegations as excuses,” said Sovandeb Chattopadhyay, TMC minister and party leader.At the fag-end of polling day on Saturday, there was tension at Khardah in North 24 Paraganas after security guards of BJP candidate Joy Saha allegedly assaulted Aryadeep Sinha, son of former TMC legislator Kajal Sinha. Kajal Sinha had died after testing positive for Covid-19, necessitating the bypolls.In Madhya Pradesh, 63.02% voters in three assembly constituencies – Raigaon, Jobat and Prithvipur – and 59.02% in a lok Sabha constituency – Khandwa – cast their ballots till 5 pm. A teacher, Dayaram Jatav, deployed in Badwaha, Khandwa, for poll duty, died of cardiac arrest. In Prithvipur, BJP election in-charge and urban development minister Bhupendra Singh accused Congress for rigging and threatening voters. However, state Congress president Kamal Nath said, “The BJP has accepted its defeat and that’s why they are making false accusations.”The turnout in the Deglur bypoll was about 63.33% but will rise, officials said. Congress’s Jitesh Antapurkar and BJP’s Subhash Sabne are key contestants from the constituency in central Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-turnout-as-bypolls-held-for-30-assembly-3-lok-sabha-seats-101635617414130.html
31-10-2021||India||Army officer, soldier killed in explosion along LoC in Rajouri||Two army personnel were killed in an explosion near a forward post along the Line of Control in Rajouri district of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday, officials familiar with the matter said. The deceased have been identified as Lieutenant Rishi Kumar and Sepoy Manjit Singh.The blast took place when an army column was on patrol duty in the Kalal area of Nowshera sector, as part of measures to check infiltration of terrorists from across the border, an official added. “An officer and a soldier were critically injured in a mysterious explosion along the LoC around 4.30 pm in Kalal area of Nowshera. They were evacuated to Command Hospital in Udhampur in a helicopter but they succumbed to their injuries,” officials familiar with the matter said.“GOC #WhiteKnight_IA and all ranks salute bravehearts Lt Rishi Kumar and Sep Manjit Singh, who made the supreme sacrifice in line of duty along the Line of Control in Naushera sector on 30 Oct 21 and offer deep condolences to their families,” the White Knight Corps posted on its Twitter handle.The nature of the explosion could not be immediately ascertained, but officials said it could either be a mine blast or an improvised explosive device (IED) planted by terrorists to target the patrol team.With the two killings, the number of army personnel killed in Rajouri and Poonch districts this month rose to 11.Meanwhile, a search operation to track down a group of terrorists hiding in the forest belt of Jammu and Kashmir’s twin border districts of Poonch and Rajouri entered 20th day on Saturday. So far, a total of nine soldiers, including two JCOs, have been killed in the operation.On October 24, a Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorist was killed when the security forces came under fire from the hiding terrorists.The operation in the forest areas in the twin border districts began on October 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-army-personnel-killed-along-loc-in-rajouri-blast-official-101635617344252.html
31-10-2021||India||Rise in NREGS demand shows return to cities delayed||The second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic and slow economic recovery has seen high participation in the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), the country’s flagship welfare programme, resulting in a temporary shortage of funds.Between April and October this year, more than 60.1 million households have worked in the manual jobs scheme, widely regarded as the last resort of the rural poor.More than 85.6 million individuals have participated so far over this period, government data shows. These are higher employment rates than in three financial years between 2017 and 2019.In the financial year ended March 2021, which saw a stringent nationwide lockdown and disruptions due to Covid-19, 75.5 million households and 111.9 million people demanded work under the scheme.With the onset of winter, more people are likely to want work under the programme as November to March is the preferred time for construction-related work. The central government is “committed to release funds for wage and material payments” for proper implementation of the demand-driven scheme that gives a guarantee for jobs or compensation in case jobs could not be given, the rural development ministry said in a statement on Saturday.The government admitted it has less than ₹9,000 crore left in its MGNREGS kitty, but indicated that the scheme would get more funds in supplementary demand for grants, or additional budget in the upcoming winter session of the Parliament.“Whenever additional fund is required, the Ministry of Finance is requested to provide the funds. In the previous financial year, the Ministry of Finance allocated ₹50,000 crore additional funds for the scheme over and above that of BE (budget estimate),” the statement said.The Centre underlined that the rush for work has so far generated more than 222 crore person-days as employment has been offered to 99.63% of those who sought jobs.After the massive funding of MGNREGS last financial year, the prediction for this year was that demand would decline as economic activities resume and people return to cities for employment, an official said on condition of anonymity.“But the second wave and infiltration of Covid-19 in rural belts prevented many people from leaving their villages,” the official said. “Also, the slow pace of economic recovery prompted many people to opt for MGNREGS job that provides low wage rate but a guaranteed income for up to 100 days,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mgnregs-participation-rose-amid-covid-second-wave-govt-data-101635617162392.html
31-10-2021||India||Upcoming polls a battle for state’s future: Rahul Gandhi in Goa||The upcoming assembly election in Goa is not just a political but also an ideological battle for the idea of India and the idea of Goa, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Saturday, urging party workers to help the state retain its identity in the face of the “hatred” that is being spread by the Bharatiya Janata Party.Addressing a convention of Congress workers at Taleigao on the outskirts of Panaji, Gandhi carried forward the tone he set earlier in the morning during an interaction with fishermen that the Congress was out to spread love and affection.“This is a political fight but this is also an ideological fight,” he said. “The culture of Goa, the way of life of Goa is also the culture of India and the way of life of India. We are not just fighting an election here. We are fighting a fight about defining what Goa is going to become. How Goa is going to treat itself and how it is going to treat the rest of the world. I want Goa to show the rest of the world that it can stand together to maintain and protect its wonderful culture, maintain and protect its wonderful environment and still move forward with vigour and dynamism.”“We are the political party that represents a united Goa, a prosperous Goa. We are a political party that represents the idea that Goa can love each other, can work with each other. They (BJP) are the political party that represents that Goa has to be divided. That Goans have to disrespect each other. That Goans cannot share a future together...”BJP MP from South Bengaluru Tejasvi Surya said Gandhi was holidaying in Goa. “Rahul Gandhi, like Mamata Banerjee, is a political tourist in Goa.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/upcoming-polls-a-battle-for-state-s-future-rahul-gandhi-in-goa-101635617100962.html
31-10-2021||India||‘India’s action on climate is already impressive’: British High Commissioner||The joint initiative of India and the UK, dubbed the Green Grids Initiative – One Sun One World One Grid, is one of the biggest announcements expected at the United Nations climate summit in Glasgow. The initiative will stimulate green investments and create green jobs, Alex Ellis, British High Commissioner to India, said in an interview to Jayashree Nandi. Edited excerpts:The UK is the host of the climate summit. It’s the most important climate conference, after Paris in 2015. What are your expectations?The international scientific consensus is that the world is running out of time to avert great harm to ourselves and our planet through climate change. The COP26 summit is our last best chance to avert this by putting the world on the path to limiting global warming to 1.5 degrees.The UK, as hosts of COP26, is asking all countries together to keep the path to 1.5 degrees alive, enhancing their emissions targets for this decade and setting out long-term strategies... We also want to ensure that countries are supported in adapting to climate change and that developed countries deliver climate finance, and technology flows to support green economic transformation in developing countries.Glasgow’s success is India’s success and the world’s success.How are the UK and India collaborating ahead of COP26?The UK and India work closely on climate change. It’s one of the five pillars of the India-UK 2030 Roadmap agreed by prime ministers Narendra Modi and Boris Johnson in May this year. India’s action on climate is already impressive, with wind and solar capacity quadrupling in the last decade and the PM’s recent announcement of the new National Hydrogen Mission.The UK is investing in India’s renewable and clean transport sectors, including through our joint Green Growth Equity Fund. We have joint research and innovation partnerships to develop the next generation of solar buildings and energy efficiency solutions.We are working not just bilaterally but also to support other countries adapt to and reduce climate change, through the International Solar Alliance and Coalition for Disaster Resilient infrastructure, both launched by India.One of the major initiatives at COP26 will be the UK and India’s green grids initiative. Could you share some details about it?The Green Grids Initiative is due to be launched by our two prime ministers during the World Leaders Summit at COP26. The objective is to help develop a more interconnected grid that enables the sun to become a secure and reliable source of energy for all. These efforts will stimulate green investments and create green jobs.There is a lack of trust among developing countries like India because the promised $100 billion a year climate finance has not come through. Yet, at the same time, developing nations are being expected to commit to net-zero emissions targets. What are your thoughts on this trust deficit?The UK agrees that the goal of securing $100 billion is a priority to help developing countries grow in a clean way, and to protect those affected by climate change. We have led by example, doubling our international climate spend to at least £11.6 billion between 2021-25. We now have pledges by major developed countries like the US, Germany, Canada, Japan, Denmark, Sweden, and New Zealand, as well as the European Union, among others. The UK COP26 presidency have recently published a delivery plan, which shows that developed countries will make significant progress towards the $100 billion goal in 2022 and provides confidence that it will be met in 2023. The data also provides confidence that developed countries can mobilise more than $100 billion per year thereafter through to 2025.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-action-on-climate-is-already-impressive-british-high-commissioner-to-india-alex-ellis-101635616923927.html
31-10-2021||India||Climate finance, carbon markets to top India’s agenda at COP26||The United Nations climate summit that begins in Glasgow on Sunday could be the last chance for humanity to tackle the catastrophic changes due to unrestrained global warming, scientists and activists have said.Under current national climate commitments, the world is on track for a temperature increase of 2.7 degrees Celsius by the end of the century, the United Nations Environment Programme warned on October 25, which is much above the goal of the landmark 2015 Paris Agreement to keep it below 2 degrees compared with the beginning of the industrial era.Unless countries agree to steeply cut carbon emissions, global temperatures will rise beyond 1.5 degrees Celsius in the next 10 to 20 years compared with pre-industrial times, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the world’s largest group of climate experts, had said in its scientific assessment in August.Scientists, activists and environmentalists believe that the Glasgow summit, also known as COP26, could be the last opportunity to keep global warming to agreed upon limits.Over 25,000 delegates are expected to gather in Glasgow for the climate talks. While one of the main agenda is keeping the 1.5 degrees goal alive, countries will have to negotiate and agree on several critical issues like carbon markets, loss and damage and long-term climate finance.In the previous conference held in Madrid in 2019, countries were unable to reach an agreement on new market mechanisms. Several other issues were left unresolved as well, including common time frames for implementation of voluntary national pledges, long-term climate finance and transparency on climate action, all of which will have to be resolved at COP26.COP26 begins with the World Leaders’ Summit on November 1 and 2, which will be attended by over 120 world leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, US President Joe Biden, UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson and Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison. Usually, the leaders’ summit is held in the second week of the annual talks. The world leaders are this time expected to set the tone for COP26 and declare their intent of containing global warming even before negotiations start.At the Rome summit of the G20 nations, the climate crisis featured high on the agenda. G20 leaders, including Modi, are expected to reach a consensus on how to deal with the crisis and transition to a low-carbon economy. “This time, world leaders will set the agenda for COP26, which is a positive development,” Sunita Narain, director general of advocacy group Centre for Science and Environment, said at a media briefing. “Over the past few decades, climate negotiations were going nowhere. COP26 must reclaim its leadership and the trust of people from across the world, both rich and poor. It must not be lost to the usual prevarication in negotiations and the tantrums and posturings of pusillanimous leaders.”For India, the two critical issues are climate finance and carbon markets. India seeks a level playing field for all countries by pushing for climate finance and technology transfer, environment minister Bhupender Yadav, who is the leader of India’s delegation, had told HT in an interview on October 29.Carbon markets are critical for India because trading can lead to both a reduction in carbon dioxide emissions and can generate climate finance, he said.Carbon markets are touted to be one of the most efficient tools to keep mean global temperature rise to under 2 degrees by capping global emissions globally after 2020. Simply put, when a country limits carbon emissions through a project, it creates carbon credits, which can be sold to another nation that fails to meet its target.Under the Paris Agreement, nations will have to come out with a new market mechanism, but there are logjams over various issues. For example, India wants unused carbon credits from the Kyoto Protocol era to be recognised and traded, while experts from the developed world have raised concerns that these credits could flood and ruin the new market even before it starts.Climate finance is the other contentious issue expected to feature prominently in the summit.According to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change’s standing committee on Finance, developing countries need almost $6 trillion up to 2030 to implement their national commitments. The highly anticipated climate finance delivery plan released last week said developed countries will likely be able to mobilise the promised $100 billion a year only in 2023, a delay of three years from the 2020 deadline originally promised.“A successful outcome at COP26 will be a balanced package of measures to cut emissions rapidly in this decade and urgently scale up finance to adapt to climate impacts. Developed countries need to reassure developing countries that they will make up the shortfall in climate finance and set an ambitious new goal. Finalising the rules for carbon trading will help create a common currency that enables Indian industry to link its efforts to international markets and reduce the cost of emission reduction,” said Ulka Kelkar, economist and director, climate at World Resources Institute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/climate-finance-carbon-markets-to-top-india-s-agenda-at-cop26-101635616272896.html
31-10-2021||India||World’s highest polling booth in Himachal at 15,256 feet records 100% voter turnout||Despite a subzero temperature of minus 16 degrees Celsius, world’s highest polling station in Himachal Pradesh’s Tashigang village recorded a 100 per cent voter turnout on Saturday for the bypoll to the Mandi Lok Sabha constituency seat, news agency PTI reported quoting an election official.Located at a height of 15,256 feet above sea-level, the polling booth witnessed all 47 registered voters in the village turning up for the bypoll. The voters included 29 men and 18 women, the official added.Apart from the registered voters, as many as five poll officials also cast their votes at the Tashigang polling booth after showing their election duty certificate (EDCs) issued by the assistant returning officers, the official told PTI.The Tashigang village is located in Lahaul-Spiti district of the northern hill state, which falls under the Mandi parliamentary seat. For the bypolls to this seat, the battle is primarily between former chief minister Vidarbha Singh’s wife Pratibha Singh of the Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Kargil war hero Khushal Thakur.Besides Mandi, polls for three assembly constituencies of Fatehpur, Jubbal-Kotkhai and Arki were held on Saturday.Also Read | Voting ends in bypolls across 13 states, 1 UT; high turnout recordedMeanwhile, according to a PTI report, villagers of three panchayats in Kinnaur district boycotted the bypoll to the Mandi LS seat to protest against the construction of a hydroelectric project, which they alleged will adversely impact their scenario. Villagers in four polling stations in Shimla district had also boycotted the bypolls owing to poor condition of roads in the region.Mandi recorded 47.17 per cent voter turnout till 4pm, while Jubbal- Kotkhai, Arki and Fatehpur saw an average turnout of 55.70 per cent till 5pm. The counting of the votes will be held on November 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/worlds-highest-polling-booth-in-himachal-records-100-voter-turnout-101635615714934.html
31-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Police give security to 60 witnesses||Following the Supreme Court directive to provide security to witnesses in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case, which claimed the lives of eight people on October 3, the Uttar Pradesh police have assigned one armed personnel each to 60 such witnesses, additional superintendent of police (ASP) Arun Kumar Singh said on Saturday. A few more witnesses will be provided security after their threat perception, Singh added.Sharing further details, another police officer, on condition of anonymity, said at least 17 more witnesses, whose statements have been recorded before the judicial magistrate under section 164 of the Criminal Procedure Code, are likely to get a gunner.Over 50 people, who were present at the site of the incident on October 3, turned up to record their statements at the crime branch office at Lakhimpur Kheri reserve police lines on Saturday, after the SIT released contact numbers of its members, urging eyewitnesses to come forward to record their statement and provide digital evidence.Judicial statements of 77 witnesses have been recorded till Saturday.Besides, the statements of over 30 more witnesses have been recorded by police under Section 161 of CrPC on Saturday, the officer said. These witnesses were not presented before the judicial magistrate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-police-give-security-to-60-witnesses-101635615721007.html
31-10-2021||India||Power ministry proposes mandatory green energy use for industrial units||Industrial units may soon have to use a share of renewable energy mandatorily as the Union power ministry has proposed amendments to the Energy Conservation (EC) Act, 2001 to increase India’s reliance on green power resources. The amendments will also include incentives in the form of carbon saving certificates for use of green hydrogen as an alternative to the fossil fuels that are currently being used by the industries.“Amidst the growing energy needs and changing global climate landscape, the Government of India has identified new areas to achieve higher levels of penetration of renewable energy by proposing certain Amendments to Energy Conservation Act, 2001. The objective will be to enhance demand for renewable energy at the end-use sectors such as industry, buildings, transport and so on. The ministry of power has prepared amendments, after consultations with stakeholders, and the proposal includes defining minimum share of renewable energy in the overall consumption by industrial units or any establishment,” the ministry said in a statement.The move, once notified, will be significant as 41.16% of India’s total electricity demand comes from the industrial sector. The proposal is also likely to be mentioned by the government in the Glasgow climate change conference (COP26), which starts from Sunday since the developed countries want India to frame the updated Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) or targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions.At present, India has an installed renewable energy capacity of 147 GW, including hydropower, and another 63 GW is under installation through various projects.“Union power minister RK Singh reviewed the proposed amendments recently and directed to seek comments and suggestions from the concerned ministries, departments and state governments. Accordingly, a meeting was held by Alok Kumar, secretary (Power) on October 28 with all the stakeholders to give a final shape to the proposed amendments in the EC Act,” a ministry spokesperson said.A senior ministry official, on condition of anonymity, explained that the prescribed minimum consumption of renewable energy by industries could either be through direct consumption or even indirect use by purchasing green energy from the grid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/power-ministry-proposesmandatory-green-energy-use-for-industrial-units-101635615240828.html
31-10-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh: 3, including 2 more IAF officers, test positive for Zika||Two Indian Air Force (IAF) personnel and a civilian were tested positive for zika virus disease in Kanpur on Saturday, taking the tally in the district to four, Uttar Pradesh health officials said, adding that the state now has the second highest number of cases after Kerala, where 90 cases have been confirmed so far.Of the three new cases, two are IAF personnel and one is a family member of one of the infected personnel. Their reports came in on Saturday evening from King George’s Medical University (KGMU), Lucknow.Confirming the new cases, Kanpur district magistrate Vishakh G Iyer said, “The health department had sent 500 samples of IAF personnel, their family members and people living in a radius of two km of IAF station to KGMU on Thursday. Three of these samples tested positive.”The new cases have come a week after the first case of zika virus in Uttar Pradesh was reported in Kanpur on October 23, when an IAF warrant officer’s sample tested positive.According to health experts, zika virus disease is caused by virus transmitted primarily by Aedes mosquitoes, which bite during the day time. Symptoms of the disease are generally mild and include fever, rash, conjunctivitis, muscle and joint pain and malaise or headache.While the source of the infection in Kanpur has not yet been traced, a senior health official said that the storage facility between hangars seven and eight at the IAF station has emerged as an area of interest. Specialists from the Centre and the state are camping in the city for about a week.“Three of the infected IAF personnel were working in hangars seven and eight and may have contracted the infection,” said a senior health official requesting anonymity. The health authorities believe this storage facility at the IAF station could be the possible breeding ground.In the first case, the IAF warrant officer was diagnosed with fever and admitted in 7 Air Force Hospital. When his condition did not improve, doctors at the hospital sent his samples for tests on October 20, on suspicion that he might have contracted a vector-borne disease.Twenty-two contacts of the IAF warrant officer had tested negative. The reports of subsequent samples, around 250, had also come negative.However, the fresh cases have added to the concerns of the health department, which has increased the area of screening. According to health officials, the department has decided that samples from as far as Adarsh Nagar and Shyam Nagar localities, where three infected people lived, would be screened. Earlier, the main focus was on Pardevanpurwa, the IAF station and localities within its one-km radius.Iyer said that pregnant women living at the IAF station and other localities were the main priority for the health department. “We have asked the IAF to share the details of such women, their samples will be taken and tested in Lucknow,” he said.The Zika virus is known to affect the baby’s head in the womb, said health experts.Kanpur’s chief medical officer Dr Nepal Singh said the health department has formed containment clusters—each consisting of 400 houses. The health department teams are doing rigorous screening, source reduction, anti-larva spray and identification of people who are sick, Singh added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-3-including-2-more-iaf-officers-test-positive-for-zika-101635614820740.html
