01-10-2020||Opinion||Golden voice: Remembering S.P. Balasubrahmanyam||Sir — The demise of the legendary singer, S.P. Balasubrahmanyam, has left a huge void in the field of music (“Gentle giant of music is no more”, Sept 26). There are countless songs from Balasubrahmanyam that would fit varied human emotions. From a soothing lullaby to an upbeat number, he could lend his vocals to all sorts of music with ease. In spite of scaling dizzying heights and becoming an icon with a career spanning over five decades with more than 40,000 songs across 16 languages, Balasubrahmanyam was the epitome of humility. In many ways, he was similar to the cricketing icon, Sachin Tendulkar, who shared an emotional message after the musician’s demise. Tendulkar even revealed that one of his favourite songs by the singer is “Sach mere yaar hai” from Saagar. The genial giant may have left this world, but he will always live in our hearts through his immortal songs. Ranganathan Sivakumar,Chennai Sir — The celebrated playback singer, S.P. Balasubrahmanyam, has left behind an unmatched body of work. He sang in 16 languages, won the National Awards six times and held the title of recording the maximum number of songs in cinema in the Guinness Book of World Records. After K.J. Yesudas, he was only the second male singer from Southern India who could make a name for himself in the notoriously insular Hindi film industry. Much like his idol, Mohammed Rafi, Balasubrahmanyam will be remembered for his soothing and melodious voice. It is a testimony to his massive popularity that so many people gathered to bid him goodbye on his final journey even in the midst of a pandemic. Bal Govind,Noida Sir — S.P. Balasubrahmanyam had a unique voice that suited the needs of many regional film industries including Hindi, Tamil and Telugu. Back in the late 1980s and early 1990s, when I was a school-going child, I would be mesmerized by his voice and watch the Tamil movies that he acted in with rapt attention. I fondly remember his songs being aired often on local television and radio channels in my native areas like Korkai, Tiruchendur and Tirunelveli in Tamil Nadu. Indian cinema has evolved wonderfully over the years and has helped bind people across the subcontinent. The unforgettable songs performed by Balasubrahmanyam have been an integral part of that journey. P. Senthil Saravana Durai,Mumbai Sir — The passing of S.P. Balasubrahmanyam has dealt a huge blow to the Indian film industry. SPB, as he was referred to by his fans, mesmerized millions with his golden voice. In his long and illustrious career, he had worked with almost all the renowned music composers of the country, including Ilaiyaraaja and A.R. Rahman. He will be greatly missed. Sourish Misra,Calcutta Sir — This year has been one of great losses in the Indian film industry. Several artists lost their lives to unforeseen circumstances, with S.P. Balasubrahmanyam being the latest. Their contributions to Indian cinema will always be remembered. Rohit Sharma,Gwalior Pedal away Sir — The pandemic has given bicycles a new lease of life. While some have been cycling to stay fit, others have taken it up in a bid to avoid public transport. Calcutta organized a cyclothon last month and has also set up a committee to look into possible cycling lanes. Hopefully this enthusiasm for bicycles will endure beyond the pandemic. Cycles are an accessible green alternative to fuel-run vehicles. If opted for in the long run, they can help reduce carbon emissions significantly, thus making way for a cleaner planet. Abhirup Saha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-139
01-10-2020||Opinion||Reason first: Scientific research in India||The scientific fraternity of India and Bengal has been the recipient of glad tidings in recent times. Index rankings by Nature revealed that Calcutta and Bangalore rank among the top 100 ‘science’ cities around the world. The city rankings take into account such important parameters as the concentration of research institutions, investments in cutting-edge research and development as well as the ability to attract global scientific talent. That Bengal’s acumen in the sciences is not to be trifled with was further demonstrated by the fact that as many as six scientists from the state left their mark at the prestigious Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Prize. There has been something for India’s women scientists too. In a belated, but necessary, step the department of science and technology has declared its intention of ranking the country’s scientific institutions on the basis of the proportion of women employees. Such a step, if implemented properly, could go a long way in addressing the skewed gender ratio in the field of science and research. But these facts, even though they are encouraging, should not deflect attention from the formidable challenges that confront both the pedagogy as well as institutions of science. Much has been said about the rise in the national gross expenditure on research and development in science and technology but the fact remains that India spends a miserly 0.7 per cent of its GDP on research and development. The corresponding figure for, say, China, India’s regional competitor, is 2.1 per cent. An even greater impediment, however, stems from the zeitgeist of New India. There have been sustained assaults on not just scientific institutions but also the spirit of science by this elected regime. Outrageous cures are being peddled — for the coronavirus and cancer — in the name of indigenous wisdom; the Indian Science Congress was made to listen to ideologues claiming that Ancient India had accomplished, among other feats, the airplane and stem cell research. They must have been inspired by the prime minister, who believes that plastic surgery and in-vitro fertilizations are the result of such primitive wizardry. This ideological contamination of the scientific temper can have dire consequences: a number of rationalists have paid with their lives to uphold the cause of reason. There is then a method in this political madness. Science, which is founded on the principle of objective scrutiny, remains the greatest rival of obscurantism, be it ideological or political.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-140
01-10-2020||Opinion||Cleared: Babri accused let off scot-free||Indian jurisprudence demands that there should be conclusive evidence before conviction. Perhaps that is why the special court of the Central Bureau of Investigation yesterday acquitted all those charged in the Babri Masjid demolition case since the prosecution had failed to establish the case beyond all reasonable doubt. Since the list of accused included senior Bharatiya Janata Party leaders, such as the former deputy prime minister, L.K. Advani, or Murli Manohar Joshi, and the event left a deep impression on Indians, the verdict was anticipated with especial interest. The CBI had investigated the matter for years and had produced 351 witnesses and 600 documents. One of the points reportedly made by the court was that the demolition of the disputed structure on December 6, 1992 was not pre-planned. There was apparently no evidence of conspiracy, which nullified the charge under Section 120B of the Indian Penal Code. The prosecution’s charge that a meeting was held in the house of Vinay Katiyar, a Bajrang Dal leader, on the previous day where a plan was made to raze the structure was not substantiated, the court reportedly said, as the video presented as evidence did not prove that a conspiracy was hatched. The court reportedly said that the video cassettes could not be relied upon as they were not sealed and not clear; the CBI did not produce negatives of the photographs given in evidence either. Not only was there no proof of provocation through slogans and speeches violating IPC Section 153 that penalizes provocation with intent to cause riot, there was also no desecration of a religious place — an offence under IPC Section 295 — because, in the wisdom of the court, the minority community had not offered prayers there for years. Additionally, without the imposition of Section 144 there could have been no unlawful assembly, besides the fact that the Supreme Court had permitted symbolic kar seva on that day. The chief minister of Uttar Pradesh at the time, Kalyan Singh, one of the accused, had promised security and peaceability, and had, the court thought, done his best to maintain order. The demolition had been carried out by anti-social elements; the court reportedly ruled that there was nothing to connect the accused, directly or indirectly, with it. In other words, in the court’s eye, no transgression had taken place on the fateful day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-140
01-10-2020||Opinion||NEP: Get to the heart of the matter||Even in the middle of the pandemic there was reason for school teachers to rejoice. The National Educational Policy 2020 was announced and we learnt that the curriculum content for school students would be reduced in each subject to its “core essentials”. This part is still a ‘work in progress’ as the National Council of Educational Research and Training is in the process of applying finishing touches to the curriculum. Teachers are heaving a big sigh of relief that the authorities finally realized that the way in which children are made to ingest syllabus-related information is not of great educational importance. Any reduction in the vast syllabus is thus welcome to them; a more compact syllabus would facilitate better assimilation of subject matter. Students would get more time for deeper study of each topic. But now comes the difficult part: on what basis will the “core essentials” be identified? As it is, there have been raging debates on public platforms over the selection of curriculum content. Often, the nature of these debates indicated that as a civilization, we seem to have regressed. The contention that we must go back to our ‘roots’ and ancient texts for all knowledge is narrow and limiting. It implies the neglect of important aspects of study that are illogically labelled ‘anti-national’. Ideology and political concerns have always influenced curriculum design but propaganda (blatant or subtle), bias and factual inaccuracies must be guarded against. In fact, students should be encouraged to examine a variety of books and resources and engage with different analyses and interpretations of facts and events. Teachers appreciate the fact that the NEP has recognized that education is not just about retaining a mass of information. Rote learning is being frowned upon for good reason. Learning is about being able to analyse, synthesise and apply new knowledge and simply cannot be equated with the ability to memorize and reproduce the content of text books.The welcome reduction of the syllabus should enable students to process every new unit of learning in detail instead of having to rush through a massive syllabus within a specified time-frame. But teachers know that without a parallel overhaul in the mode of assessment there would be no dividends from a shortened syllabus. The trouble is that we Indians are so organically attached to textbooks and ‘mass examinations’ that we find it hard to conceive that learning and assessment can take place in any other way. It is interesting to note that many scholars trace the birth of modern China way back to 1905. It was in this year that the Qing dynasty abolished the central examination system as the curriculum was felt to be irrelevant to the issues of the 20th century. Expectedly, as soon as the outdated examination system was discarded, the rigid bureaucracy too was wiped out and China was finally rid of antiquated ‘scholar-officials’. In India too, in spite of periodical reforms, young people have been tied to an examination system which is far too dependent on textbooks and rote learning. The announcement of the new National Curriculum Framework after 15 years is most refreshing, and the hope is that finally our dated examination system will be overhauled for the better. Sometimes it takes a cataclysm to force changes in society. The totally unexpected assault of the novel coronavirus led to the temporary shutdown of the world’s schools. This in turn necessitated an alternative teaching-learning process. Also, a way had to be found to do away with a system of assessment which required large numbers of candidates to assemble at different centres and sit in a hall for two to three hours to write their exams. In the six months that schools have remained closed, educators have discovered much about the pros and cons of virtual lessons. They have learnt to sift from the prescribed syllabuses and have discovered effective pedagogical strategies. It is pointless to discuss the comparative benefits of in-person and virtual teaching because it is time that we looked reality in the face and prepared for a blend of the two. The sooner we accept that we cannot return to our school campuses and just pick up from where we left off, the better we will be prepared for the future. It is during the lockdown that we teachers realized the need to examine our priorities and ‘reinvent’ ourselves. We found ourselves adapting to the world of Google, Microsoft and Zoom classes, trawling the internet for appropriate resources and searching for ways to make children ‘work from home’. In this period of trials and tribulations we also discovered how hidebound many of us were about the sanctity of the trinity of syllabus, textbook and examination. The reactions of parents to the changes were varied. Some appreciated the quickness with which teachers had transitioned to a new and completely unfamiliar environment in spite of the adverse circumstances. A few felt that they were “not getting their money’s worth” as certain chapters in their children’s textbooks had not been dealt with ‘thoroughly’ by the teacher. They are usually the nit-pickers who lose sight of the larger picture and fail to recognize the demands of the times. Thankfully, both parents and teachers have by now changed their mindsets and are making the most of the tools that are available to keep the learning process alive. Indeed, many are engaging children in fun activities, discovering the joys of flexibility and enjoying the rewards of connecting with school communities near and far. Meanwhile, teachers worry about the deepening digital divide. Many children are deprived of the fruits of distance learning because they neither have access to the internet nor possess the appropriate devices. Their learning has practically come to a halt. Moreover, sometimes we forget that some children’s home environments are not conducive to learning. Thus, “core essentials” have a wider meaning than important topics in a subject. Nevertheless, we teachers are waiting with bated breath for the makers of the new National Curriculum Framework to tell us what they are.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-140
01-10-2020||Opinion||Bold decisions||Experience from history shows that maintaining democracy in times of war is a formidable challenge. What India and, indeed, the whole world are confronted today with — the Covid-19 pandemic — may not be novel — the 20th century has witnessed an influenza epidemic and outbreaks of plague, cholera and smallpox in India — but it is still extraordinary. Earlier in the previous century, foreign rule and the absence of elected governments prior to 1947 meant that there were limited expectations from the government. However, the presence of elected governments both at the Centre and in the states has meant that the onus of doing something purposeful to resolve the crisis has devolved almost entirely on the State. While the expectation that only divine intervention will find a way out hasn’t disappeared entirely from the popular imagination, the insistence on State-based solutions is more widespread. For democracy, this is a daunting prospect. As a rule, democracy works in a din. It operates in an environment of ‘argumentative’ groups and ‘million mutinies’ — expressions popularized by Amartya Sen and V.S. Naipaul. By definition, decision-making is slow, and politics necessitates compromises. In theory, a prime minister may enjoy formidable backing and the trust of a majority. At the same time, the system has to factor in awkward voices from multiple sources and institutions. Even the sincerest attempts at forging consensus and taking everyone along leave behind a trail of dissatisfaction and disappointment. In particular, intellectuals, activists, experts and, occasionally, judges feel only they have a monopoly over wisdom and the truth. At a time when the popular expectation is for decisiveness and speed, democracy encourages both prevarication and delay. Yet, as someone rightly remarked, a more agreeable alternative to democracy hasn’t yet been thought of. This may be a reason why, say during war, almost all operational details involving the military and even the management of the home front are kept out of scrutiny. During both the Wars of 1914-18 and 1939-45, Britain, which valued its home freedoms (never mind the larger Empire), put in abeyance the principle of habeas corpus for selected ‘subversive’ individuals such as Sir Oswald Mosley. There was large-scale removal of ‘enemy aliens’ to inhospitable internment centres. Additionally, there were severe restrictions on ordinary individuals that included draconian rationing of food and clothing, restrictions on travel and compulsory requisitioning of property. The punishment for those who violated the rules was extremely severe and, in some cases, disproportionate. Many of these restrictions triggered a great deal of public resentment and contributed to a series of government defeats in the by-elections held during the course of the War but the larger principles of national security and greater public good prevailed over the disquiet over the erosion of democratic principles. The battle against Covid-19 may not be exactly comparable. However, the battle against this deadly virus has involved taking steps that would have never been countenanced in ‘peace time’. It is undeniable that the initial 21-day lockdown that hardly gave people time to make arrangements was draconian. It imposed restrictions on movement, affected livelihoods and was involuntary. The suddenness of the decision took even state governments by surprise and some chief ministers were understandably peeved at the lack of consultations. Although the power of the Centre to take decisive steps to manage pandemics is legally sanctioned, the lockdown can perhaps be faulted for offending the ‘spirit’ of democracy. Certainly those who described the panicky trek of some migrant workers back to their villages as a ‘humanitarian disaster’ saw it that way, and they attacked the prime minister, Narendra Modi, for it. However, the more relevant question is whether or not this precipitate measure corresponded to the larger public good. In his statement in Parliament, the Union health minister, Harsh Vardhan, argued that the 21-day lockdown “successfully blunted the aggressive progression” of Covid-19. He estimated that apart from giving India the time to bolster its health infrastructure, the lockdown “prevented approximately 14-29 lakh cases and 37-78 thousand deaths.” As with most counterfactual estimates, the minister’s assertion cannot be rigorously tested. However, two things are clear. First, the lockdown was in the nature of a pre-emptive strike since the spread of the virus was dependent on human contact. Secondly, the lockdown was based almost entirely on the then existing expert opinion of medical scientists. It is conceivable that in future days, lockdowns will be seen as exaggerated responses and not commensurate with the economic costs of disruption. However, at the time the decision was taken, scientific opinion indicated that a surgical strike was the most effective way to keep the virus from multiplying. Under these circumstances, the choice exercised by Modi was to unhesitatingly prioritize the public good over democratic niceties. It is for the people to judge if he was right or wrong. Likewise, criticism has been heaped on the government for rushing through 25 pieces of legislation during a truncated monsoon session of Parliament. Most of the bills had been promulgated as ordinances and Parliament merely ratified them without exhaustive discussions or reference to select committees. Consequently, this Parliament session, too, has been debunked in some quarters as a farce and a murder of democracy. In judging the undeniable haste with which Parliament conducted its business, the context and the choices before the government are important to consider. By the beginning of April this year, the global severity of the pandemic and the magnitude of disruption were slowly becoming apparent. With the total disruption of normal life, the first choice before the government was stark. Taking into account the suspension of normal life, should the government have suspended all ‘normal’ politics and assumed the role of a caretaker administration, doing the barest minimum? Alternatively, considering the emergence of fresh, difficult challenges, should it have assumed a greater proactive role, despite the fact that many of the forms of democracy were impossible to sustain in the time of pandemic? In the face of the widespread economic dislocation resulting from the pandemic, should it have let the crippled market find a new equilibrium or should it have intervened with rescue packages and overdue reforms? These challenges were not unique to India. Every government in the world has faced it and broadly responded with interventionist strategies that range from short-term protection of vulnerable jobs and bolstering public health infrastructure to undertaking structural reforms in different spheres. India, on its part, faced an additional challenge of China attempting to redraw the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh. There were two choices before the Modi government. The first option was to quietly acquiesce to this aggression on a specious plea that ‘not a blade of grass’ grows in some of the uninhabited zones of contention. Indeed, there have been strategists who, under earlier governments, favoured tacitly accepting China’s hegemonic role in Asia on the ground that India couldn’t afford opening a second front. Alternatively, it could respond with a show of military determination — despite the huge additional costs involved — and diplomatic nimbleness. It could also — as has been done — retaliate in a limited way by making access to the Indian markets inhospitable for Chinese companies. This too has been done under the cloak of data protection and national security. The larger point to note is that Parliament witnessed only a truncated debate on the economic initiatives taken after the pandemic and merely noted a statement by the defence minister, Rajnath Singh, on the Sino-Indian tensions. In effect, Parliament, meeting under extraordinary circumstances, acquiesced to the principle that circumstances warranted the country putting its faith in the executive. Meanwhile, on the streets, an agitation of big farmers demonstrated that the josh of democracy remains unaffected, never mind what the Modi-haters say.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-140
