02-10-2020||Opinion||Tread carefully: Durga Puja with caution||Sir — In view of festivals in general and Durga Puja in particular, one would like to appeal to the state governments, the puja organizers as well as all right-thinking citizens to understand some hard but realistic facts related to our fight against the ongoing pandemic. Unlike other countries, India — especially owing to its religious and cultural diversity — observes a large number of festivals spanning the entire year. But at this point, congregations — this is common to most festivals — are likely to pose a serious hurdle in countering the spread of the coronavirus. Even the strongest of measures will prove to be ineffective if large gatherings are allowed, especially during Durga Puja, which continues for several days. Social distancing will be impossible in effect, and norms prescribed for the containment of the pandemic will end up being violated, making the situation worse. The foremost priority right now should be survival. People would be expected to try every possible means to this end, even at the cost of sacrificing religious sentiments and merriment. Satyananda Bhattacherjee,Kharagpur Sir — Festivals have always been an important part of Indian life. But with Covid-19 hitting the country hard, alongside the lockdown, for the past six months, several problems have reared their heads, robbing people of the joy of celebrations. The country has incurred huge losses, be it in terms of education, the economy or human lives. New cases are being detected every day, especially since Unlock 4.0 was declared. Shopping complexes, cinema halls, markets and temples have now reopened and transportation has come into effect, following guidelines — social distancing and wearing of masks being the topmost priorities. But is not the joy of celebrations largely diminished if people cannot come together to enjoy themselves and honour the day? With social gatherings being limited to 100 people at once, Durga Puja celebrations this year will surely be less grand than usual. But it should be kept in mind that mass gatherings could affect the Indian population on a large scale. This must be avoided. Nilakshi M. Daimary,Bongaigaon, Assam Sir — The chief minister of West Bengal, Mamata Banerjee, has announced a slew of doles, including a grant of Rs 50,000 to each registered Durga Puja organizer in the state. This decision is welcome. There are reportedly around 37,000 registered organizers in Bengal. Organizing the puja this year has become a major challenge for them in the absence of advertisements and difficulties in collecting subscriptions from individual households. Banerjee’s announcements have brought some relief to artisans who are bound to have received fewer orders this year. With this financial support, the construction of puja pandals are now expected to gather pace. However, the government has also stressed upon the need for crowd control and physical distancing. Hence, all puja committees must take proactive measures to prevent overcrowding and ensure that social distancing protocols are maintained. Durga Puja revellers should also pay attention to these rules. Controlling the spread of the virus cannot solely be the responsibility of government agencies and the puja organizers. One would also like to request the police to issue necessary festival guidelines for a safe celebration this year. Khokan Das,Calcutta Sir — Durga Puja is one of the biggest festivals in India, especially in Bengal. Apart from paying homage to the goddess, the festivities include meeting friends and family and having a good time. But given the current situation, it seems that following the same traditions will be difficult this year. With just about a month to go for one of the biggest annual extravaganzas, preparations have begun, albeit on a lower scale, as organizers chalk out safety plans to avoid a further spread of Covid-19. We all must adapt to the changing circumstances for the sake of the safety of all citizens. Nili Ghosh,Calcutta Hour of need Sir — As expected, the pandemic has affected the economically weaker sections of society the worst. Even with restrictions being relaxed, most street vendors are struggling to sell their wares, in spite of great efforts. This is partly because big companies have now entered the market, pushing them further to the margins especially during the lockdown: many people now order even groceries online. Since government policies have hardly alleviated the plight of the poor, the common people should stand by them. People should buy more products from street vendors, and without haggling over the price. Shilpa Nandi,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-139
02-10-2020||Opinion||Life Line: Differences in Indian life spans||The key to living a long life can be found not in philosophy but in hard data. Life expectancy has been a vital part of the discourse on health in India, with markers such as health coverage and hospitalization costs being integral to the mapping process. Last year, however, researchers had widened the scope of the assessment by outlining a set of social indices — these included caste, education, religion and wealth — which appeared to have a notable bearing on the life span of Indians. The latest data put out by the census and registrar general’s office, too, finds startling correlations between citizens’ life expectancy and factors such as gender, areas of habitation and state performance. On the face of it, the data might seem encouraging — at 69.4 years, the average life expectancy of Indians reflected a jump of almost 20 years from 49.7 between 1970-75. A closer look, however, reveals that the improvement over the last decade has been a mere 0.4 years. This ought not to be surprising, given the fact that poverty and embedded social inequalities, which are known to adversely affect longevity, have intensified. What, then, are the implications of such a nominal increase as well as the vast difference between the life spans of Indians in different regions and between genders? The data reveal that traditionally poorer states such as Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand have a lower life expectancy than Kerala, Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. The infant mortality rate has to be taken into account as well. The first year of a child’s life, ridden with risks on account of illness, poor immunization and malnutrition, has a decisive impact on longevity. Kerala’s IMR is seven per 1,000 live births, while it is 48 and 43 in Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, respectively. The consequences for the girl child are starker. Even though India managed to reduce child mortality by 4.4 per cent annually from 1990 to 2018, the average life expectancy at birth for boys exceeds that of girls in Bihar and Jharkhand, revealing skewed attitudes — societal and administrational — towards nutrition and healthcare of girls. Given the variations in data, policy interventions cannot be unimaginative. They must mould strategies according to the prevailing ground realities so that targeted campaigns to improve longevity can confront the associated challenges pertaining to societal prejudices and health infrastructure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-139
02-10-2020||Opinion||Same old: Misogyny crossed with caste hatred||There is a surreal quality in the unceasing crimes against women as in their cruelty. Sharpening laws, people’s protests or routine pieties from politicians make little difference. The cruelty is exacerbated when misogyny is crossed with caste hatred or class dominance. Uttar Pradesh is reputed for sexual crimes of extraordinary violence, perpetrated often on Dalit women. Data from the National Crime Records Bureau show that, in 2019, the state led in the number of crimes against women, in crimes against girl children and in crimes against members of scheduled castes. The recent death of the 19-year-old girl, gang raped and fatally injured in Hathras allegedly by high-caste men that she named before her death, led to public protests. That matters little. One of the features of rapes in UP is the behaviour of the police and other powerful elements in the aftermath. A rape survivor’s father can be taken into custody and allegedly killed, the car carrying the survivor and the her lawyer can collide with a truck with blackened plates and two of the girl’s relatives die — the accused in that case was a former Bharatiya Janata Party member of the legislative assembly — or a survivor can be set ablaze when out walking. The police, according to reports such as that from the National Campaign on Dalit Human Rights, delay in registering rape complaints if the complainant is Dalit. In the Hathras case, the family said that the police cremated the girl at night without the family’s consent, while keeping its members locked up in their house. An uncle alleged that he was forced to attend so that the police could show the family’s presence at the cremation. In the first 10 months of Yogi Adityanath’s regime from April 2017 to January 2018, rapes jumped 26 per cent over the previous 10 months under Akhilesh Yadav’s rule. Rapes, especially of Dalit women, indicate not only misogyny and caste domination, but also the administration’s abuse of power. The chief minister’s directions to display the names of those ‘involved’ in crimes against women at prominent crossings and have women police punish such criminals show that he believes women are fools. Meanwhile, another gang rape and subsequent death of a Dalit woman has been reported from UP’s Balarampur. Another addition to the NCRB statistics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-139
02-10-2020||Opinion||Health, justice and a virus||Adam Smith is often referred to as the ‘father of capitalism’. He probably wouldn’t think of health being bought and sold daily under the supervision of the ‘invisible hand’. The primary reason being health and, correspondingly, healthcare are not private goods. It often takes someone or something — a virus like that of Covid-19 — to remind the champions of the free-market economy that health is contagious, and with externalities, the market fails. That my health is determined by my neighbour’s health status or, for that matter, my mailman’s health status. The man who served me food at my eat-out joint yesterday needs to be protected against the virus in order to protect myself. There is no benevolence involved; nor any act of altruism. The sheer negative externalities necessitate the establishment of smarter mechanisms to allocate healthcare beyond the market’s reach. Health, however, is not a typical public good like roads and army, as Paul Samuelson (1954) would put it. The limited resources ensure competition between citizens and the major criterion of non-rivalry is not met. The Rawlsian theory of social justice would suggest that health is a basic right, but in this era of corporate dominance the idea of basic rights varies from economy to economy, from country to country and, within country, from administration to administration. Richard Musgrave (1957) had coined the term, merit good, and like education, health falls rightly in that category. The need for such a good is more than the market is willing to pay for; hence the government needs to intervene. Why? Because health not only has externalities but also the real trouble lies in the underlying nature of the commodity. Healthcare is part experience and part credence. It is unlike you and me buying a television. Rather, the actual utility is known long after you make the payment or maybe never known at all. Such complexities make it hard to explain health in simple economic terms. Even if there was no market failure, there might be a problem with lower-income people being crowded off the market and when they are not buying health through healthcare, they are endangering themselves and also those who could and have afforded the same. Keeping that in our mind, let us throw a birds-eye look at the current situation. America was great or at least made great as touted until the onset of 2020 when suddenly a virus brought it down to the realities. If getting affected by the virus disproportionately does not tell much about your preexisting health status, then what more can it tell? The Covid-19 mortality in the United States of America is high. So what good an economy is if the economic agents are not healthy enough to withstand the virus onslaughts? Or is it that health is hardly a marker for economic well-being? That money and years of life are unrelated; that economic gains imply get rich and die young. Or is it that a great economy entails some to be rich and reap the gains while others languish in poverty and ill-health? Economists have long held that income and health are correlated. If it is valid at the individual level, then it should be valid at the societal level. However, something is missing from the otherwise perfect puzzle. A major conclusion can be drawn, and that is America was not great to start with, or at least by the existing health standards and, by corollary, the economic standards. It is rather paradoxical that the current political debate embraces a trade-off between health and economy. It only shows how myopic we are. Didn’t we grow up learning health is wealth? At the crux of the debate lies the value of the economic agent. A sick and dead economic agent is a deadweight loss to society. So, what is the benefit of opening the economy and placing your resources (workers) at risk? The answer is simple. Opening the economy is rather important as shut down fails to generate income. Simply said, the choice is between today’s income as compared to tomorrow’s income, or shall I say that the choice is between short-run gains as compared to long-run losses. For a matter, I understand the different incentives that are faced by the two sides. But it is more than that. The incentive is structured with the political reality in the background. And now public health has become a political question. The reason I used the word myopic is simply because the debate is wrongly posed as one between economy and health. As a society, we should know that the economic costs of lost lives easily outweigh 3-5 months of lost income. Let us tie it all back. The gamut of the problem lies in the valuing of health and the very opinion one holds on social justice. If the right to healthcare is being seen as social justice, then government intervention is justified and economic gains ought to be measured not only in current money terms but also in future money terms. The problem lies in the imperfection and incompleteness of our information set. We are rather myopic and think justice lies in the freedom of rights; rights to call to work during a pandemic, rights to not wear masks. How many lives will it cost to achieve justice for all? The author is a public health expert and economic consultant||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-139
02-10-2020||Opinion||Hidden melancholy||All tennis fans know by now that at the US Open, Novak Djokovic, usually so skilled at hitting the ball, sent one in an unforeseeable direction. It is just possible that he was not looking. But it certainly hit a line judge in the throat, who collapsed. Fortunately, the line judge was not injured. Later, Djokovic made sure that she was alright and perhaps — who knows? — even sent her some flowers. Although he argued his case for 10 minutes, the number one seed was disqualified. The Official Grand Slam Rule Book, which deals with these events, is quite clear on this point, and Djokovic was charged with “unsportsmanlike conduct”. The rules also set out that “The Referee in consultation with the Grand Slam Chief of Supervisors may declare a default for… a single violation of this Code.” The conclusion was inescapable. There was nothing controversial about the decision to send Djokovic home on this occasion, and he is not the first player to have endured such a fate at a Grand Slam. Precedents include John McEnroe at the Australian Open (1990), Carsten Arriens at the French Open (1995), Jeff Tarango at Wimbledon (1995), Stefan Koubek at the French Open (2000). Again, Richard Gasquet during the qualifiers of the US Open (2004) and Serena Williams, who lost the final of the US Open (2009) after earning a penalty point at match point against her. This was not the first time either that Djokovic had been confronted with disciplinary matters during the course of his career. He could have been defaulted at the French Open against Tomás Berdych (2016, the year he won) for throwing a racket, which miraculously missed a line judge, or at the Masters Tournament in London (2016) for throwing a ball in the stands but, fortunately, not hitting any spectator. Of course, 2020 has not been a very good year for Djokovic. He organized exhibition matches in the Balkans in June where a few players (including himself) ended up testing positive for Covid-19 after partying and not respecting physical distancing. Just before the US Open, he launched his own players’ union, the Professional Tennis Players Association, in direct opposition to the ATP. The point is not whether Djokovic ‘had it coming’ or whether he courts controversy. Neither is it to decide whether Djokovic has a temper worse than, say, Roger Federer (he probably has one) or Rafael Nadal (who regularly receives code violations for taking too much time between serves). It is not even to rule whether such conduct is unworthy of such a champion (Djokovic ended up apologizing and promising to reform), or how tennis has dealt with the antics of a long list of players — from Ilie Nastase to Nick Kyrgios (who said that if he had done the same, he would now be serving a ban). Nor is it about the decay in standards of behaviour since the good old days. What has changed, though, are the ways in which the actions of tennis players are instantaneously scrutinized by all forms of media, from personal Instagram accounts to journalists in the stands, from private videos going viral on social media to live television coverage. While this may be true of other sports, the facts that tennis is an individual sport, the important commercial interests that have developed around tennis, and the genuine popularity of the game have contributed to placing the actions of players under the limelight. What is sometimes described as the pressure of the star system is a complex set-up, embraced by sportspersons as much as it is imposed upon them. The star-champions construct their image, sometimes with the help of sponsors, from the smooth elegance projected by Federer to the rebel attitude struck by Kyrgios. Sometimes, they use this image to question received ideas of acceptability, or to bring out the political undercurrents of sports — such as Serena Williams having to confront the racism present in sports or Naomi Osaka commemorating the victims of police violence on her face masks — because they are part of society. Djokovic’s gesture finds its place in this context, both of the media sphere to which he obviously contributes and of the ‘image’ that the tennis champion wants to display. It is just possible that there is a degree of uncertainty, not apparent in the figures cut by Federer or Nadal, about Djokovic’s place in the world of tennis. He does not fit into the identifiable type (the ‘good guy’, think Pete Sampras, the ‘villain’, Jimmy Connors, the ‘rebel’, André Agassi and so on). His style of play is perhaps not as appealing as Federer’s attacking game; nor does it have the gritty power of Nadal’s clay-court dominance. He has carried the art of defence to the extremes of perfection, his return-of-serve is probably the best in the world now that Andy Murray has faded, but this style does not necessarily generate emulation and admiration. This is perhaps what makes his clumsy positionings, his (mistimed?) commitment to the organization of the game, or his fits of temper more difficult to appreciate. Although he is at the top of the game and has a devoted following, Djokovic finds himself in a more ambiguous position than his contemporaries, Federer and Nadal. On a lower key, Djokovic’s default at the US Open is reminiscent of Zinédine Zidane’s infamous head-butt in the final of the World Cup 2006. Admittedly, the stage on which Zidane was operating was larger than the fourth round of a US Open without spectators, and Djokovic was not playing his last professional match. But both had a record of acts of rebellion (it was not Zidane’s first red card), both players were nearing glory, with Djokovic, who has not lost a single match in 2020, edging closer to Nadal and Federer in Grand Slam titles. And both gestures put an end (temporarily, in the case of Djokovic) to these hopes, while keeping open the possibility, for Zidane, of what might have been, and for Djokovic, of what may still happen. What the Belgian novelist, Jean-Philippe Toussaint, has called the “melancholy” of Zidane, on that night in Berlin, perhaps took hold of Djokovic as well, that something inside us which turns against us, the dizzying combination of exhaustion and nervous tension of planetary sports. Zidane, that night, was carried by two contradictory undercurrents of melancholy. The first was caused by the sense of time passing, of the looming end, of the player who cannot bring himself to take his last bow. The second was linked to the desire to be done with it as quickly as possible, the wish to leave the pitch and to return to the dressing rooms because of weariness and exhaustion. No one saw his gesture, no one understood his act. Djokovic, on the other hand, was unlucky, clumsy, but his actions were the sign of a deeper condition. Ultimately, such gestures can be condemned by the rule book, sanctioned with a red card or a default. But they resist interpretation. They tell us a lot more about the world of sports and the place that sportspersons try to occupy within this world. But there is no apparent reason behind them. The author is professor of English Literature at Sorbonne University, Paris||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-139
