03-10-2020||Opinion||Sharif’s fight to the finish  ||Is it a last throw of the dice for Nawaz Sharif? Or has he marshalled together a political coalition that’s strong enough to end this pretence that a civilian calls the shots in Pakistan and truly send the army back to the barracks? Nawaz Sharif found his political innings as Pakistan prime minister in 1990 cut short when he crossed an invisible red line laid down by military-intelligence, just as he did during both his later stints as prime minister.  The manner in which both the military and the judiciary, crippled the functioning of successive civilian-led governments, be it the Sharif, Bhutto or Zardari dispensations, is an open secret. In fact, former premier Benazir Bhutto once revealed to this writer that she was never privy to the defence budget, and that she was told by then President Ghulam Ishaq Khan that it did not come under her purview even if she was prime minister. By calling out Pakistan Army chief Gen. Qamar Javed  Bajwa for playing political puppeteer, accusing him of propping up a government fronted by Prime Minister Imran Khan that wouldn’t last a minute if the army removed its protective umbrella, Sharif has thrown down the gauntlet and said the unsayable. But this time there is a key difference. Unlike the previous acts of defiance where he unsuccessfully played a lone David to the ‘deep state’s’ Goliath, this time he is part of the 11-party Pakistan Democratic Movement that includes not just his own faction of the Pakistan Muslim League and Bhutto’s Pakistan People’s Party, but also the right-wing, Jamiat-Ulema-e-Islam (Fazl)’s Maulana Fazlur Rehman. Dubbed ‘Maulana Diesel’ (for alleged involvement in a diesel scam and Imran Khan was particularly fond of repeating the nickname), the JUI-F leader is the prime minister’s arch-rival in his home state of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. Once the army’s favoured point man, Fazlur Rehman’s street protests brought Islamabad to a standstill a little more than a year ago. Angered by the army’s backing of arch-rival Imran Khan, the religious leader openly accused the military’s counter-intelligence wing, Inter Services Intelligence of closing off election booths early to rig the 2018 vote in favour of Khan. His rage has not dimmed. The army knows it must tread softly. Together these parties wield considerable clout. The Punjab-centric army has witnessed first-hand, Rehman’s ability to mobilise the masses, drawn from the madrassas and religious seminaries he controls across KP and Punjab. Besides that, the PML(N) enjoys grassroots support in Punjab and southern Sindh and the PPP's hold over Sindh and Sardar Akhtar Mengel’s Balochistan National Party in Balochistan, should not be underestimated Fazlur Rehman’s scheduled to launch the countrywide opposition demonstrations on October 11 from the Balochistan capital, Quetta. But his ability to go the distance – his Long March in 2019 fizzled out with little explanation – has always been under question. Similarly, the two mainstream parties know the army can hit them hard. Both are mired in a multitude of corruption cases that give the army a convenient stick to beat them into submission. The establishment has already hit back. PML (N) leader Shahbaz Sharif was arrested days after his brother’s speech from exile in London. Shahbaz’ daughter and wife have been charged and face jail. His son, Hamza despite testing positive for Covid-19 remains behind bars. Neither the elder Sharif nor his daughter and political heir Maryam can expect anything different. The battery of opposition leaders knows exactly what they are up against. Since the country’s inception, the establishment has influenced a pliant judiciary and a questionable electoral machinery, while fostering a legion of apologists among the political class and an army of jihadists. An increasingly intimidated press is on the receiving end of the midnight phone call, endless court cases, jail time and ‘disappearances’; The incarceration of media mogul Mir Shakilur Rehman of the Dawn Group being a classic example. If the protests must gain traction among the masses, Sharif must stay on message, on showing up Imran as ‘incompetent’ and the army’s ‘clean’ credentials as dubious. It’s a tricky manouevre. But in red-flagging the financial wrongdoing of retired general Lt. Gen Asim Bajwa, who heads the big ticket $87 billion China Pakistan Economic Corridor, and remains one of Imran’s advisers, (the PM refused to accept his resignation), Sharif may have struck unexpected gold. It gave his frontal attack on army chief Gen. Bajwa whom he publicly holds responsible for Pakistan’s economic collapse and confused foreign policy, alienating mentors Saudi Arabia and the UAE, far more credence. But with the army so deeply enmeshed in Pakistan’s political and strategic calculus, and Prime Minister Khan, army chief Gen. Bajwa, the ISI’s Lt. Gen. Hameed and Interior Minister Brig. (retd) Ejaz Shah, all virtual extensions of each other, it is impossible to separate civilians from khaki. Bajwa and Hameed have been inducted in the newly created National Development Council set up by Imran to revive the economy. A slew of retired generals hold other key positions in government. Hameed, whom the opposition holds responsible for bringing Imran to power in the 2018 polls and stoking street protests by the Tehreek-e-Labaik Pakistan that swept away Sharif’s legitimately elected government in 2017, has all but been anointed Bajwa’s successor. Imran’s first reaction to Sharif’s shredding of the army was to accuse him of appeasing India. The premier’s camp was quick to claim that it was the ‘no deal’, i.e. the army chief’s refusal to let Nawaz and his daughter off the hook, his insistence they face the court cases, that was responsible for the former premier’s vicious attack on the army. This was followed by leak after calculated leak that enlarged on the same theme. Army camp-follower Shaikh Rasheed spoke of a top secret summons to Shahbaz and PPP chief Bilawal Bhutto Zardari to Rawalpindi GHQ, purportedly to discuss matters of national interest over a convivial lunch with the brass, which turned into a conversation about the fate of Nawaz. It gave the feisty Maryam Nawaz the chance to reinforce her father’s charge that the army was influencing government policy. But her voice was drowned by Rasheed’s second and far more damaging leak, about a Sharif emissary, meeting with Gen. Bajwa to plead with the general to personally intercede and end the targeted persecution of Nawaz and daughter Maryam. On Wednesday, there was another attempt by the establishment to muddy the waters by revealing that Fazlur Rehman and other members of the JUI like Maulana Gafoor Hyderi were also holding secret meetings with the army. The two clerics hit back saying that it was the army chief who had summoned them and had held forth, at length, on what he was going to do to Nawaz Sharif and that the JUI must not interfere! Opposition unity is key. It must have taken extraordinary courage and foresight for a relative greenhorn like PPP chief Bilawal Bhutto Zardari, to initiate that telephone call to Sharif, that set the ball of opposition unity rolling. For Sharif, it was uncannily similar to the call that Bilawal’s mother, Benazir and he, shared 13 years ago, when the two forged a pact to return to Pakistan and confront President Gen. Pervez Musharraf. Benazir paid for that flash of guts and glory with her life in December 2007. The answer to why the Sharifs, the Zardari-Bhuttos and the Fazlur Rehmans might come together against the army, are not too far to seek.  For these opposition stalwarts, giving the ‘state within the state’ the more appropriate tag of ‘state above the state’, is a collective 'aha' moment. It's now or never. For Nawaz, it is also extremely personal. With one eye on his legacy and his place in history, he has thrown caution to the winds, knowing that any return home on the army’s terms, would spell a political sunset for himself and the rest of the Sharif clan: a quid pro quo to an end to his persecution. Admitting privately that this is not the legacy he wants to leave, unwilling for his own place in history to be marred by the tag that he took dictation from Rawalpindi GHQ, his visceral attack on the Army may have precipitated a coalescing of the opposition, a confrontation unlike any other that Pakistan’s deep state has hitherto, had to deal with. When the opposition rolls out its heavies on October 11, the military will be presented with a dilemma. Will the Pakistan army come out on the streets to take on this combined force of opposition leaders? Or will it take the subtler approach and play one off against the other and destroy the alliance from within. Or will it back down, engineer a compromise - Imran Khan's government stepping down, making way for a caretaker government until fresh elections are called? Chaos or confrontation, few expect the Sharif-led oppositions' act of defiance to end without some result. The writer, an expert on South Asia, is the author of The Assassination of Rajiv Gandhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-138
03-10-2020||Opinion||Ill omen: Donald and Melania Trump test Covid positive||Sir — It is sad and, to some extent, surprising to hear that the incumbent president of the United States of America, Donald Trump — he is running for re-election to the top post of the country — and the First Lady, Melania Trump, have tested positive for Covid-19 just 31 days before the presidential polls. One wishes them a speedy recovery. Trump has often made headlines for his ambivalent and cavalier attitude towards wearing masks and maintaining social distance. While pulling a mask out of his pocket during the first presidential debate in Ohio and saying, “I wear masks when needed”, Trump also mocked the Democratic candidate, Joe Biden, for wearing the “biggest mask” he had “ever seen”. Few believe his promise of a vaccine before election day, which is November 3. In the US, the number of Covid-19 cases has exceeded 7.16 million and the death toll has climbed past 2,05,500. This is not a moment to gloat over the suffering of another, but it must be emphasized that a pandemic is better responded to in a scientific manner. Trump cannot be blamed for catching the infection, for anyone can contract the virus. Life, after all, is full of uncertainties. Even so, it is important to take precautionary measures suggested by medical experts to protect oneself and others during a global contagion. Trump attended crowded rallies with little to no distancing and many onlookers without masks. A contagious disease is indifferent to one’s station in life and does not distinguish between the powerful and the weak. Trump’s illness has belied his claim that the ‘virus is behind us’. Diagnosed with coronavirus infection, the US president will now be in quarantine for at least a fortnight as the incubation period of the novel coronavirus can go up to 14 days; he will be unable to be on the campaign trail as a sick man or as a convalescent; his suffering may get him a bit of sympathy from some American voters, but it may fall well short in terms of him being able to catch up with his rival, Biden. The dismal state of the economy and the plummeting of markets will only add to his woes and detract from his chances of winning. It has been said that Trump is a healthy individual, even if not fit as a fiddle; the Russian president, Vladimir Putin, is convinced  that Trump’s ‘vitality’ will help him fight the virus; one hopes that Trump recovers.G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu
Sir — It is not surprising that Donald Trump and his wife, Melania, have contracted the coronavirus; the US president has never lost a chance to make his disregard for the seriousness of the pandemic clear. He has publicly been derisive about the use of masks and physical distancing norms. One hopes that this setback will not only teach him to respect the word of scientists and acknowledge the gravity of the global situation, but will also drive home the fact that his presidential campaign for re-election must involve responsible rhetoric with regard to the disease. Anita Mookerjee,New Delhi Sir — Donald Trump must be regretting the fact that he showed disrespect at the Ohio presidential debate towards Joe Biden’s decision to wear a mask. Now that the former has tested positive for Covid-19, will his stance towards the pandemic become more reasonable? There is a vast segment of the American population that does not believe in wearing masks; this is deeply worrying and it is Trump’s job as their leader to show them the right path. Rushaad Faiz,Calcutta Pray together Sir — It was deeply heartening to read that on the occasion of the 151st birth anniversary of M.K. Gandhi, the Sabarmati Ashram in Ahmedabad organized a multi-faith prayer meet with limited attendance. This event is of special significance not just because of Gandhi’s ideals, but also because the state of Gujarat has a troubled and chequered history of communal violence. Minority communities have also borne the brunt of being blamed for the spread of the coronavirus. Meets such as this will hopefully help dispel false narratives and promote unity. Radhika Ahuja,Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-139
03-10-2020||Opinion||Telling tales: Modi and his storytelling||There was a time, in the not-too-distant past, when Indian children would refuse to doze off to the land of sleep unless adults — mothers, grandmothers or even the domestic help — told them a story or two. Their demand was anything but juvenile. It was consistent with a culture that had endorsed, and nursed with care, a grand tradition of storytelling. Indeed, the story of India cannot be told without referring to the greatest stories that have been passed down, from one generation to another, orally, scrawled on palm leaves or, with the evolution of technology, scribbled on paper. Some of the most venerated texts — the epics are an example — are seemingly a ceaseless and wondrous source of timeless stories. The prime minister must, therefore, be complimented for referring to India’s unmatched ability to tell stories. But Narendra Modi is a worried man: he believes that the country is losing its grip on this precious art. Is it possible that Mr Modi is deluded? This is not being stated in jest. For the prime minister, even his rivals would concede, is one of the most gifted storytellers that the political firmament has produced. Some of the stories chronicled by Mr Modi — be it in Parliament, in the course of his rousing, fiery public speeches, or in his radio address that, apparently, comes straight from his heart — have assumed mythical dimensions. These days, Mr Modi tells a rather tall tale of three pieces of agricultural legislations delivering liberation to farmers. This was preceded by another yarn — this time on the floor of an august House — about not an inch of a mountainous land being lost to an aggressor. Mr Modi is skilled not only in narration but also in writing. In a letter to the nation that coincided with the first anniversary of his return to power, the prime minister promised that India, crippled by a pandemic, would set an example of economic revival to the world. This tale, Mr Modi’s legion of admirers would nod in agreement, should rank with the other, equally memorable, parable that had claimed that demonetization would purge the nation of black money. A good story, a celebrated modern writer believes, has the ability to blur the lines between truth and all that lies beyond it. But this merging of borders cannot take place without a verdant imagination. Mr Modi is certainly blessed with imagination. In fact, it can be said that he is a bit too imaginative. Excess, the wise ones had prophesied, may not turn out to be a blessing. That could be the reason why Mr Modi’s stories, in recent times, are having an unintended effect. Instead of gently guiding his listeners to repose, they seem to be jolting them into a state of bitter wakefulness. Now that cannot augur well for the prime minister and his party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-139
03-10-2020||Opinion||Fierce power: 'Tantra' at the British Museum||How the “Tantric goddess Kali” was deployed by freedom fighters in Bengal was highlighted by Imma Ramos, curator of a “landmark” exhibition at the British Museum, Tantra: enlightenment to revolution. Bringing focus to the exhibition’s representative image, she told us: “This figure of the Tantric Goddess Kali dates from the late 19th century and was made in Bengal, an early centre of Tantra as well as the nucleus of British rule. Indian revolutionaries in Bengal harnessed Kali’s radical potential, playing on British anxiety and paranoia. They reimagined her and other Tantric goddesses as figureheads of resistance, and symbols of an independent India rising up against the British. Kali was completely misunderstood by Christian missionaries and colonial officials. In 1917, Bipin Chandra Pal, a prominent activist, is quoted as describing Kali as a symbol that could ‘arouse the dormant energies of the nation and lead it on to realise its highest destiny’.” Ramos also displayed a three-metre-tall mixed media painting, Housewives with Steak Knives, by the British conceptual artist, Sutapa Biswas, which “challenges the stereotype of the submissive wife confined to the kitchen”. Tantra, continued Ramos, “is in no way a marginal movement. It’s really very much a part of popular Hinduism and Buddhism today. Kali Puja, for example, is coming soon as is Durga Puja. These are big popular celebrations, particularly in Bengal.” She added that in the swinging sixties in Britain, “Tantra becomes associated with the free love movement. Mick Jagger had a logo designed for the Rolling Stones inspired by Kali, chosen to convey the band’s rebellious anti-establishment spirit.” The lead sponsor for the exhibition is the Bagri Foundation, the trustees of which are Apurv and Alka Bagri and their daughters, Aditi and Amisha. The foundation was set up in 1990 by Apurv’s father, the late Lord Raj Kumar Bagri, who was born in Calcutta in 1930, began life at 15 as a filing clerk, came to London in 1959 and made history as the first Indian chairman of the London Metal Exchange. Bring about change The Baftas are the British equivalent of the Oscars and the organization that awards them — the British Academy of Film and Television Arts — has a new chairman: Krishnendu Majumdar. In order to achieve ‘greater diversity and a level playing field’, he has announced 120 far-reaching changes, including extending the membership to include more black and Asian people. The Welsh-born Majumdar, who is 45 years old and himself an Emmy-winning producer and director, is the first non-white chairman of the Bafta and one of the youngest since it was set up in 1947 by David Lean and Laurence Olivier. Majumdar feels he has “Bengali roots entwined with a Welsh upbringing” and “supports India in cricket, Wales in rugby”. His mother, Jharna, still lives in Wales. His father, Rupendra Kumar Majumdar, who arrived from Calcutta in 1962 and practised as a doctor with the National Health Service in South Wales for 40 years, passed away aged 86 in 2017. In autumn 2018, Majumdar visited Calcutta to meet his relatives after having taken his father’s ashes to Varanasi. He tells me that the puja committee set up by his parents in Wales in 1973 “is still going strong”. Glance back All at once, many of the editors I have worked for are in the news. Paul Dacre, the former editor of the Daily Mail, is being tipped as the next chairman of Ofcom, the broadcasting and media watchdog. He was apparently feared by his staff who addressed him as “The Editor”, never as Paul. He is viewed as a nightmare by the Left. But the Paul I knew as deputy news editor, news editor, foreign editor and features editor was considerate and intelligent. But then the editor was Sir David English, whom I would bracket with Sir Harold Evans as “the greatest editor of all time”, an accolade given to the latter because of his campaigning stewardship of the Sunday Times from 1967 to 1981. By the time I joined the Sunday Times, Andrew Neil had taken over. He has just announced he is leaving the BBC to become chairman of a new TV enterprise, GB News. The Left are also trying to stop Boris Johnson from appointing the recently ennobled Charles Moore, the former editor of the Sunday Telegraph and the Daily Telegraph, as the next chairman of the BBC. I found Charles to be a very civilized and liberal man. The one time he insisted I do something was to instruct me to cover Ramola Bachchan’s parties at her Hampstead home and report on the burgeoning Indian social scene in London. People do change, of course, but I have generally found right-wing editors and newspapers are often the most “liberal” behind the scenes.Footnote The Indian prime minister, Narendra Modi, ought to be flattered that he will not be overlooked in the new series of the satirical puppet show, Spitting Image, which returns to British TV today after an absence of 24 years. Donald Trump, Vladimir Putin, Boris Johnson, his adviser, Dominic Cummings, as well Kim Kardashian, Greta Thunberg and Meghan Markle will all be “mercilessly lampooned”. In the heyday of Spitting Image, the former British prime minister, Margaret Thatcher, in a man’s suit, was shown bashing her cabinet ministers with her handbag. This time, with the new series, the programme makers are threatening “an iconic British satirical take on global events”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-139
03-10-2020||Opinion||No stranger to irony||Whether or not he realized it, death must have been a merciful release for Jaswant Singh. The last bhadralok in politics was spared Judge Surendra Kumar Yadav’s unmasking of colleagues who actually tried to stop the Babri Masjid being vandalized on December 6, 1992. Only Narendra Modi’s elaborate bhoomi pujan saved the proposed Ram mandir from mlechha fifth columnists like Lal Krishna Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi who had been masquerading as Hindutva stalwarts. Jaswant Singh was no stranger to such ironies. Adapting E.M. Forster’s comment on the Alexandrian poet, Constantine Cavafy, he stood “at a slight angle to the universe.” That explains his not becoming Lok Sabha Speaker, why he was defeated in the election for vice-president, the Bharatiya Janata Party he helped to found twice expelling him, and why at the end he was an unsuccessful independent candidate. His vision defied all straitjackets while his integrity spurned crude populist tactics. Apart from revealing a passion for antiquity, the ancient drawings that decorated his office also proclaimed rejection of the Akhand Bharat concept. India had always been a nation, he told me, never a state. “You can’t find a single map of India before British times”. Yet, he had no compunction as external affairs minister about telling Bill Clinton that there was “no possibility of mediation, inter-mediation or facilitation when it comes to the Indian state of Jammu and Kashmir”. He was more supportive of the United States of America than most Indian politicians but refused support once the Gulf War had begun. The “aberration” — his word — of wartime help for a belligerent offended his Rajput code of chivalry. That mix of ideals and pragmatism might have bestowed respectability on conservative politics at a time when the right seems to be running amok in so many countries. Apart from the flash in the pan of Chakravarti Rajagopalachari’s Swatantra Party, the liberal secular right has never had a chance in India. It was too tame for the passions that ignite India’s political activity, whether of Marxist-Leninist revolutionaries or fanatical adherents of fossilized rites and rituals. The Congress umbrella traditionally provided shelter to a range of opinions so that Indira Gandhi could say with prima facie justification that it was both government and Opposition at the same time. But Donald Trump’s refusal to condemn white supremacists during Tuesday’s debate with Joe Biden needed no interpreting here. Indians cannot forget Modi’s sharply contrasting responses to the Godhra outrage and Gujarat killings, his rejection of the courtesy of a Muslim cap, and snide references to Sonia Gandhi’s political secretary, Ahmed Patel, as “Ahmed Mian”. With almost every prestigious institution suborned, the future could not be more bleak. Instead of planning post-pandemic reconstruction, a bankrupt India invites annual remittances abroad of $2,50,000 while it stumbles from one rape-and-murder horror to another in a state whose chief minister drapes himself in the saffron of Hindu piety. Amnesty International’s complaint of ‘incessant witch-hunting’ and the revelation that a student commits suicide every hour during which the country’s richest tycoon rakes in Rs 90 crore expose the extent of degeneration. Dogma and authoritarianism at the top encourage barbarism at the bottom. Despite his contempt for Jawaharlal Nehru’s poor Hindi and cultural alienation (“I believe nothing Indian infused his spirit”), Jaswant Singh’s progressive liberalism was closest to Nehru’s. He was amused when Westerners called him the most modern man in Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s circle. Modern for him was a state of mind, not a matter of style. Similarly, traditional was a question of values, not donning outsize turbans. He thought Rajiv Gandhi’s Class of Eighty-four, hailed as modernizers, “cynical” and “self-absorbed”. Their materialism sickened him. “They think everything is a managerial problem whereas governing India takes an almost Tolstoyan compassion.” He responded to Bofors with the epigram, “Jahan raja bepari, praja bikhari!” Yet, the liberality with which he served Scotch (before India’s newly rich mastered the vulgarity of demanding “single-malt”) indicated he was neither ascetic nor Hindutva fanatic. I don’t know whether he subscribed to the politicized belief that Ram was born on the site of the Babri Masjid but he certainly disdainfully dismissed the idols that had been smuggled into the mosque to strengthen the legend of continuity. They were crude earthen images bought at some village mela, he said. He was proud too, of not belonging to any of the senas that seem to fulfil the storm-troopers function of the American neo-fascist group, Proud Boys, which is basking now in the apparent endorsement of Trump’s “stand back and stand by” call. If all this sounds rather solemn, Jaswant’s ability to lighten statecraft by laughing at himself was evident at the Association of Southeast Asian Nations’ meets in Singapore. “Now that Madeleine [Albright, US secretary of state] has left, we can all dialogue...” he sang before plunging into a witty take-off of Lewis Carroll’s “You are Old, Father William”. Amidst jolly references to buses to Lahore, recaptured peaks (Kargil) and the Asia-Europe conference without India as “Hamlet sans the prince”, the dialogue touched on his seemingly endless talks with Strobe Talbott, Albright’s deputy. Question: “You are sharp, Mr Singh, and one must suppose/ That your eye is steady as ever/ For you balance Strobe on the end of your nose/ What makes you so awfully clever? Minister: “That’s because my nose is very long/ In my youth, I used to butt and rebutt/ But my book will tell of the lance,/ Which I used on the good Mr Talbott./ Could I sell you a copy in advance?” Unlike even unlikely politicians like Jyoti Basu, he never sent me a Christmas card. But some years he would send a picture postcard of a horse. Perhaps they were all of the same splendid looking animal, “Hazaa — Grey Arab stallion. From Meqbila Saudi — (dam), by Rawash Saudi — (sire). Gift from H.M. The King of Saudi Arabia”. If it meant he trusted horses (of breeding, naturally) more than men, perhaps he had reason to do so. I never got round to asking him. I shall always regret having to turn down his invitation for an elaborate tour of Rajasthan. Our last encounter was on January 4, 2014 when he released the revised edition of Smash and Grab: Annexation of Sikkim at Calcutta’s Crossword bookstore. Jaswant explained to the audience that he had to accept my invitation because I had written that I would understand if he didn’t. That pricked his pride. The background was that I had originally asked a dashing young Congress politician I had known since his childhood. He ignored repeated letters and messages although his secretary assured me he read them all. Clearly, an ambitious young politician on the make did not want to risk being associated with my unfashionable take on Sikkim. It would be too simplistic to say Jaswant could afford to take risks because to be born rich is to be born free. Indians become billionaires because — not in spite — of the government. Reporters at the Crossword event gathered thickly round Jaswant Singh with one question: would he stand again from Darjeeling? He was coaxed and wheedled, begged and hectored; the question was reiterated in many forms. Old hand at the game, he gave nothing away without giving offence. The result was that the evening’s raison d’être, the book launch, received no coverage. The reporters present must have gone home disappointed. Aware of Jaswant’s troubled relations with the BJP leadership, they had hoped for exciting tidbits of political gossip. With him gone, India awaits a forward-looking leader who carries no tribal baggage and is free of primitive phobias. Such a man might yet succeed in mobilizing majority sentiment without confusing conservatism with bigotry. It might still be possible to position the BJP as a rational mainstream party of the constructive right.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-139
