04-10-2020||Opinion||The fault dear Brutus is in our cars||There is that thing that BJP leader Kailash Vijayvargiya said last week about Yogi Adityanath’s Uttar Pradesh. He was asked to comment about the Hathras rape case and fitting punishment when, after a banality or two, he quipped in an even tone, “The cars, they are in the habit of over-turning in this part of the world.” In July this year, gangster Vikas Dubey was arrested by UP police and was being ferried someplace when one of the police cars in a convoy of three hit a divider and overturned. In the chaos and confusion that ensued, Dubey snatched a pistol --- according to police --- and tried to flee. The cops, of course, fired back. Dubey died and all is silence. Passing the buck Days before Dubey was killed, his aide Kartikeya was also killed in “retaliatory” police firing. Kartikeya was being brought to Kanpur on transit remand when the police vehicle got a flat tyre, Kartikeya snatched the pistol of a policeman and tried to flee. Rogue car. Treacherous tyre. Bad road? Who can say? Only last week, UP police had arrested another wanted gangster, Feroz Ali, in Mumbai. And on the way back to Lucknow with him when there was an accident and this car too overturned, killing Feroze on the spot. It was also reported that the police blamed a cow “appearing out of nowhere” for the mishap, while others blamed the driver who was napping at the wheel. Errant driver. Entitled cow. Road Rage Exactly a year ago, the Unnao girl who had accused BJP MLA Kuldeep Sengar and his driver of raping her multiple times met with a car accident. A truck with blackened number plates rammed into the vehicle headed from Lucknow to Rae Bareli. Two of her family members died in the accident and she was seriously injured. Nothing happened to the police assigned to protect her as they were not in the car at all. “No space in the car,” was the explanation proffered. Bad car. Bad. Bad. Bad. In August this year, the UP government released figures to show that crime in the state was on a tight leash — 2,032 murders in January-July from 2,204 last year; rapes down to 1,216. In the last three years there have been 6,000-plus “encounters”. Of course, at last check, road accidents in UP resulted in 23,000 deaths in a year. Bad vehicles. In the Hathras tragedy there is no car to pass the buck onto, only an overturned law and order system and reports about a severed tongue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-138
04-10-2020||Opinion||What you see, what you can’t||There is so much talk about darkness all around. But there is also talk about light. Contrary talk, it can leave you confused, like a ram that might wonder if it’s being fed out of love or being fed out of the love of... well. There is always this thing, and then there is that thing. Think about the dark side of the moon. Then think about the absurdity of it. The dark side of a darkness. Scientists, Astronomers, Spacemen, lend me your ears, I come to bury lies, not to perpetuate them. Darkness is where you do not take the lights. Light is where darkness flees in fright. Where it flees to we do not know; where it comes from, this darkness, we may have some notion. Darkness comes from dark things. What are dark things? We should have some notion, we’ve had a few years of trying, six or thereabouts. If we still do not know where darkness comes from, it is probably darkness we deserve. We kid ourselves, or delve in delusions. The dark side of the moon is the twilight of a lie of your invention — the moon has no light, darkness cannot have a side, the dark side is defined by where the sun casts its light, or does not at a given time. So, please, end the lie. And the pretence of your erudition. Unmask the moon, let darkness be whole, do not tell us darkness has a side. Do not defame the moon. It has made us love, which is not a mean thing it has done. It has made us pine in its waning, and dine over its waxing, and those are no mean things either. Illusion has served survival far more than reality, no matter that illusion is appropriately a synonym for a lie. If truth afforded us living, not so many of us would be living, and not for the lengths we do. If truth afforded us living, we would be swearing by the moon. For it has no dark side or a side that is not lit. It passes not a waning or a waxing. It has no light. It has turned even its scars into a thing of beauty remarked upon, or some such thing. Wastrel poets and their even more wastrel leagues of investors would know. The moon is a darkness. What we see of it is almost never the reality of it; it is an illusion. But illusions are partly what we live by too, or more than partly. Who did ever cross a desert without the temptations of a shimmering, liquid thing called a mirage? You chase a mirage and in the process you’ve crossed the desert. Illusion has its uses. You must know it from mirrors. Or, from when you look into them. Are they not pleasing? Mirrors? And on the occasion they are not pleasing, are they not brought to reflecting what’s pleasing? Imagine some day, coming across a mirror that is opaque. You come to it and it shows you nothing, as if it had nothing to say of you, as if it had reduced you to nothing. Because it shows nothing, an opaque mirror. It is telling you, you are nothing, not worth the effort of forming an image of yourself and having it reflected to yourself. Or a mirror that is see-through. You come to it and it puts you past itself, beyond, far beyond the limited thing that you or your face are. Yonder, where many more things are than just you. A mirror on the world. A mirror that shows you more than merely the vanity of you and invites you, through its see-through virtues, to fall through, fall beyond and become part of something altogether greater than yourself. Like the moon is, most likely, with little realisation of what it is — a part of an infinitesimally greater arrangement, and only an infinitesimally tiny part of it.Look at yourself Oh look at that, what flourish But, if you may, favour yourself And do not forget the blemish.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-138
04-10-2020||Opinion||Emboldened Congress leaves Tejaswhi sulking, two RSS men find themselves left out||Seat-sharing is never simple business. But an added layer of complexity in the Bihar Opposition’s alliance this time is the strained relation between the Rashtriya Janata Dal leader, Tejashwi Yadav, and Congress leader in charge of Bihar, Shaktisinh Gohil. Sources revealed that Gohil’s blunt talk — he stated that both parties will suffer if an alliance is not stitched up — annoyed Tejashwi, who felt the Congress leader wasn’t giving him due respect. Tejashwi not only stopped taking Gohil’s calls, but also flaunted this fact before RJD leaders. Gohil added fuel to the fire by calling him a greenhorn who needs to show maturity. While RJD leaders justify Tejashwi’s stance, arguing that he was virtually the party chief and hence deserved the same respect they give to Rahul Gandhi, Bihar Congress leaders were ecstatic at Gohil’s tough posturing. Congress leaders pointed out that Gohil wasn’t a young newcomer; the 60-year-old became an MLA around 30 years ago when Tejashwi was born. Gohil grew in politics fighting Narendra Modi and Amit Shah and is seen as a tough guy rising fast in the Congress hierarchy. One Bihar Congress leader quipped, “The RJD leader wouldn’t have snubbed the Congress representative if someone like Ghulam Nabi Azad or Ahmed Patel negotiated with Tejashwi. But they should understand the next generation has taken over in the Congress and this lot too has over three decades experience in politics.” The new crop of Congress leaders may gain more stature after a stint in power — the likes of Digvijaya Singh, Anand Sharma, Salman Khurshid and so on — and till then the friction with allies will have to be digested. But the positive fallout of this tussle is that Gohil earned the respect of Congressmen in Bihar who are opposed to any understanding with the RJD and want to go it alone. Over 90 per cent of Congress workers appeared happy when the alliance looked like it may collapse. “Dictators thrive on yokes like brute state power, a pliant media and incessant propaganda. Gandhi respected his critics. But dictators can’t stand dissent.” At first glance, one could conclude that these sentences came from a critic of Narendra Modi, possibly an Opposition leader. These words, however, were penned by the Bharatiya Janata Party leader, Ram Madhav, in a newspaper article marking the birth anniversary of M.K. Gandhi. The content has raised eyebrows in BJP corridors as Madhav, a high-profile BJP leader, was dropped as the national general-secretary of the party recently. Now Madhav occupies no post in the party. The reason why Madhav, a talented and well networked leader, was shunted out is that his relations with the powers that be in the party are believed to have soured. In Lutyens’ corridors of power, the article is being seen as Madhav using Gandhi’s shoulder to shoot at his party leadership. In the use of Gandhi, the irony was also not lost, since the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, with which Madhav has close connections, is hardly fond of the Mahatma. Madhav extolled Gandhian agenda for “more openness, freedom and a life of dignity” and sought to lament that 72 years after his death, Gandhism remains but it is mostly about “externals” like “cleanliness, khadi, cow protection and swadeshi...”. Isn’t the prime minister, Modi, particularly fond of indulging in such “externals” such as the Swachh Bharat mission, the promotion of khadi and the emphasis on cow protection? The organizational reshuffle in the BJP appears to have left more than one leader aggrieved. But given the total dominance of the current leadership, most can’t muster courage to voice dissent. However, some are seen to be using oblique means to air their unhappiness. Apart from telling sentences on dictatorial regimes in his write-up on Mahatma Gandhi, Madhav has removed any reference to the BJP from his Twitter bio. He is now just: “Member, Board of Governors, India Foundation”. India Foundation is a strategic/policy think tank. Another leader, P Muralidhar Rao, who, too, was dropped as general-secretary of the party, has used a curious idea in his Twitter bio. Muralidhar, also an RSS man like Madhav, has just two words, “Empowering India”. Many in the BJP are wondering what’s hidden between those two words. The zero tolerance to corruption slogan of the ruling BJP in Assam is facing its first real litmus test in the case against those responsible for the question paper leak that led to the cancellation of the September 20 recruitment test for 597 posts of sub-inspectors. The probe so far has revealed the presence of a well-oiled coaching network to find candidates willing to pay for government jobs. This network held a mock test a day before the test. Apart from the accused, the names of a few members of legislative assemblies are also doing the rounds for running dubious coaching classes and centres with ulterior motives. The Congress has not only stepped up its attack on the government for the lapses but it also sees in the whole situation a strategy to saffronize the government by packing it with people from the RSS background. The paper leak has clearly opened a can of worms that the BJP has to close before it becomes a festering wound in time for the assembly polls slated for next year. A late entrant to the protests against the Hathras gang rape, murder and alleged State cover up is the Aam Aadmi Party chief, Arvind Kejriwal. Even now he leaves much to be desired. While his colleagues have been more forthright in blaming the Uttar Pradesh CM, Yogi Adityanath, and the BJP for intimidating the victim’s family after her death, and cremating her body without consent, Kejriwal’s speech left people wondering what got the tongue of the firebrand leader who once called the PM a “psychopath”. Without even a mention of Adityanath or his party, Kejriwal’s reaction paled in comparison to even what the slower, and less organized Congress has done in the capital where it does not hold any assembly or parliamentary seat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-138
04-10-2020||Opinion||Unhappy birthday||Birth anniversaries of icons need not be joyous occasions. They are invariably marked by pageantry, the hollowness of which is deeply unsettling. M.K. Gandhi — he turned 151 last Friday — may have been amused, even mildly irked, by the rituals of reverence that are heaped upon him year after year. Politicians bow before him in a show of respect; the prime minister, ever conscious of the need to send out a message, did not break with the tradition. Ordinary mortals spend the day not in solemn reflection — Gandhi, after all, paid with his life for his beliefs — but in the pursuit of leisurely activities: Gandhi Jayanti is in the list of national holidays, at least for now. There is, however, reason to believe that in recent years, this perfunctory show of ceremoniousness has been accompanied by deliberate acts of provocation, challenging not so much the man but his ideals. Consider the fact that Twitter was flooded with a show of support for Nathuram Godse, Gandhi’s assassin, on the day of the Mahatma’s birth. This is not merely an example of the tastelessness of the tribe of Gandhi-haters. It signals a deeper shift: that of the frightening distance that separates the nation from the man who is said to be its progenitor in a manner of speaking. This growing chasm has many manifestations. Of these, the systematic vilification and repression of, and the violence perpetrated on, minorities — Muslims and Dalits — are the most sinister. That New India defiantly cocks a snook at the cardinal Gandhian principles of ahimsa, satya, fraternity is borne out by the daily indignities inflicted on the vulnerable: a Dalit girl raped and mutilated in Uttar Pradesh; the autonomy of farmers put on sale by — note the irony — invoking the Gandhian ideal of atmanirbharta; the throttling of the voices of dissent and the persecution of the defenders of truth, be they institutions — NGOs? — or individuals — the citizens who have kept the Gandhian flame flickering through their courageous protest against the divisive Citizenship (Amendment) Act. It is this yawning gap between word and deed in the commemoration of Gandhi’s vision that the nation needs to think about as it stands at a crossroads. This chicanery — honouring the Mahatma while, simultaneously, dishonouring every conceivable idea that he stood for — is what the interim Congress president, Sonia Gandhi, implored fellow Indians to recognize when she warned India of the ‘lip-service’ being paid to that long-departed beacon of light. But contemplation would not be enough. The bugle of reclaiming the India that Gandhi had fought and died for would have to be sounded — now. The process must then unfold by honouring non-violence, democracy and collective action. That could be the most meaningful way of preserving Gandhi’s legacy for the foreseeable future. Even the Mahatma, an iconoclast, would perhaps approve.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-138
04-10-2020||Opinion||American bugbear||It’s a measure of the cynicism that has infected American politics — and, yes, me — that among my initial reactions to the news that President Donald Trump had tested positive for the coronavirus was: are we sure? Can we trust that? A man who so frequently and flamboyantly plays the victim, and who has been prophylactically compiling ways to explain away or dispute a projected loss to Joe Biden, is now being forced off the campaign trail, which will be a monster of an excuse. I couldn’t help thinking that, and I soon realized that I was in robust company. On Twitter, on television and everywhere else I turned to, doubters noted that Trump had once already suggested that the election be postponed: was this a fresh tactic along those lines? He had just turned in a repellent performance in the first presidential debate: was he wriggling out of the second and third debates? At another time, under a different president, these questions would be callous. At this time, under this president, they were sadly and perfectly understandable. I couldn’t help thinking, too, about karma, and I immediately felt petty for that. I don’t wish illness upon Trump. I hope he has a prompt and full recovery. But it’s important to note that he has spent much of the past eight months, during which more than 2,00,000 Americans died of causes related to the coronavirus, downplaying the pandemic, flinging out false reassurances and refusing to abide by the very public health guidelines that officials in his own government were fervently promoting. He didn’t wear a mask. He encouraged large gatherings — including his big convention speech and, earlier, the Tulsa, Oklahoma, rally that Herman Cain attended before falling sick with the coronavirus and dying — at which hundreds and even thousands of people, many without any facial covering, were packed in tight. At the first presidential debate on Tuesday night, he mocked Biden for so often wearing a mask, suggesting that it was a sign of ... what? Timidity? Weakness? Voguishness? Moral vanity? With Trump it can be hard to know, and it’s also hard to know whether his own defiance was a kind of wishful thinking about the coronavirus’s true prevalence, a reflection of his belief in his own physical invincibility, some combination of the two or none of the above. But it’s easy to identify the morals of this story. The most obvious is that the coronavirus has not gone away and there is no guarantee, contrary to the president’s sunny prophecies, that it’s going away anytime soon, certainly not if we’re cavalier about it. Which brings up another moral, also obvious but apparently necessary to articulate: there is real risk in such cavalierness. The president is now the embodiment of that. The First Lady, too. Also Hope Hicks, one of his closest advisers, and who knows how many others who have been around him. From the start, there has been a culture of aloofness, indifference and blasé behaviour at the White House when it comes to the coronavirus. That culture was on flabbergasting display during those evening briefings the president used to do, the ones devoted primarily to congratulating himself and his administration on their fantabulous job battling the pandemic. They battled it all the way to America’s exceptional status as the world leader in recorded cases of, and deaths associated with, the coronavirus. That culture was evident in the rallies that the president arranged and insisted on doing over recent weeks. That culture persisted on Thursday when, according to an article by Peter Baker and Maggie Haberman in The Times, Kayleigh McEnany, maskless, held a briefing with reporters after Hicks’s infection with the virus was confirmed and after McEnany was on a plane with her and exposed to her. I read that and I winced and I gasped — and then wondered why in the world I was wincing and gasping when it was par for the course. It was business as usual. It was an explanation for why we are where we are as a country and why Trump is where he is as a president and a patient. Trump had been around Hicks in the days leading up to her diagnosis and, like McEnany, mingled with other people after it. He flew to his golf course in Bedminster, New Jersey, on Thursday afternoon for a fundraising event, where, according to The Times, he ‘addressed hundreds of supporters both outdoors and indoors’. He did not wear a mask. Even some White House officials were reportedly baffled and bothered by that, both retrospectively and in real time. They privately marvelled at the denialism of it all. But then the reality-show president has long been determined to live outside reality and was seemingly convinced that he could. I was half convinced myself. He jettisoned truth without consequences. He sailed above the laws of cause and effect when it came to paying taxes, paying off Stormy Daniels, strong-arming the president of Ukraine, playing footsie with the president of Russia and so much more. But reality is reality. Truth is truth. Science is science, and it alerted all of us — including the president — to the danger of the coronavirus, how it spreads and what we can and should do to protect ourselves and others. There’s no getting around those facts. There’s also no getting around the centrality of the coronavirus to this presidency and this election. Trump had tried assiduously to push it to the margins, but it was never going to stay there. Now it’s inside him. It is time, at long last, to learn. To be more conscious and conscientious. To be more considerate. Apparently no one in Trump’s circle reached out, before the news became public, to tell the Biden camp about the president’s positive coronavirus test, even though Biden had shared a debate stage with the president for more than 90 minutes. No one directly informed Nancy Pelosi, the speaker of the House. This is also the state of America. And it’s not right. We can’t erase the mistakes made since the coronavirus dawned, but we can correct them going forward. The way to treat Trump’s diagnosis is as a turning point and a new start. This is when we woke up. The presidency and the president are always national mirrors, in many different ways at once, and that’s another moral. Trump has shown America its resentments. He has modelled its rage. Now he personifies its recklessness. Late Friday, administration officials were still deliberating how and when he might address Americans about his condition, a decision no doubt contingent on his condition. He was taken to Walter Reed National Military Medical Center for tests. People close to him told reporters that he had a low-grade fever, nasal congestion and a cough. When he does talk about what he’s going through, I hope he reflects on what the entire country has been through, and on what lies ahead. I hope he does it in a civic-minded way, recognizing that his own struggle is part of a much larger picture. Because I don’t want us to be cynical, no matter how much cause we’ve been given. I want us to be better. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-138
04-10-2020||Opinion||Lost wisdom||Sir — The three wise monkeys of Mahatma Gandhi have been given new meaning in India. Speak no evil, hear no evil and see no evil are now wrongly interpreted as not speaking up against wrongs, ignoring the pleas of those who are being wronged and turning a blind eye to injustices. The incidents that shook the nation around the birth anniversary of Gandhi — be it the clean chit to the accused in the Babri demolition case or the rape of a girl in Hathras and the shocking behaviour of the police afterwards — are proof that New India has forgotten both the Mahatma and his teachings. Reshma Ferozie Calcutta Sir — The problems of online education have been discussed to death. But less is being said about the plight of students with learning disabilities. A restriction on screen time — the amount of time spent on gadgets — is one of the primary stipulations of children with ailments like autism, Asperger’s syndrome or even ADHD. How will these children cope with the new reality when they have to spend increasing amounts of time with gadgets? While students with ADHD can find themselves distracted with a passive and distant mode of education, children with autism can retreat further into themselves and become more socially aloof if they spend greater amounts of time online away from direct human contact. Now that schools are finally thinking of reopening, how will these children fit back into the schedule after just getting used to the new normal following the massive disruptions earlier this year? Routine is one of the ways in which such children can hope to lead a life where they can keep up with their peers. These facts must be kept in mind when schools reopen. Children should not be burdened with the backlog created during the pandemic.  This will only add to their stress. A lot of extra care must be taken to ensure that each and every student is treated as per their needs. This requires a workforce of teachers who are not overworked. Kakoli Das Calcutta Sir — A recent report by the Comptroller and Auditor General reveals how the former dispensation in Maharashtra botched up what was an opportunity to efficiently switch cropping patterns in the drought-prone Marathawada region. Back in 2016, two consecutive droughts had led a segment of the farmers to shift from cultivating sugarcane to growing tur. They had a bumper crop and had the government compensated them adequately perhaps some of them would have stuck to farming crops other than the water-guzzling sugarcane. The CAG report records tur production in Maharashtra at 20,89,000 metric tonnes in 2016 — a 370 per cent increase from 4,44,000 metric tonnes in 2015. But because of delays in setting up procurement centres and payments to farmers, only 37 per cent of tur was procured, and 64 per cent of farmers had to wait between one to four months for their stock to be procured. A crucial opportunity to start a conversation around water conservation and alter wasteful cropping patterns has been missed. The State washing its hands off a minimum support price in the latest farm bills is unlikely to encourage farmers anywhere to experiment with age-old patterns. This can be disastrous in more ways than one. Not only do outdated farming patterns waste more water, they also return less yields and are more vulnerable to insects and pests who have grown used to the farmer’s almanac. This is also killing off the diversity of the Indian palate. Crops like wheat and rice are taking over the menu while cereals and millets are getting lost. It is not a little ironical that millets that were once the poor man’s staple can now only be afforded by an elite few who consume these ‘superfoods’. Climate change is tied closely to land-use and cropping practices. Steps should be taken towards changing them for a more sustainable future where there is food equality and land has not been exploited to a point of no return. Land and water are not the infinite resources they were once thought to be. Pratyush Sinha Patna||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-138
