05-10-2020||Opinion||Justice is served: Digitization of the judiciary ||Sir — As the whole country changed in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Indian judiciary cannot be an exception. The pandemic-induced lockdown has led to the closure of courts of law for ordinary matters. But the administration of justice is an essential public service that cannot be ‘locked down’. Rather, during a crisis, access to the courts becomes even more critical to prevent executive overreach. The pandemic has also adversely affected the appointment of high court judges with about 100 recommendations pending either with the government or Supreme Court collegiums. This has hit the rate of case disposal and judges’ appointment. Alarmingly the case pendency in high courts has gone up to 52 lakh from 46 lakh since the lockdown was imposed. Given this context, the Supreme Court rightly issued guidelines to conduct virtual hearings with the aim of ensuring access to justice for everyone during the lockdown. But the refusal of many Bar associations and the lack of adequate technology infrastructure in court premises have aggravated the situation and made it difficult for the judiciary to migrate to virtual courts. Hearteningly, high courts and subordinate courts have started virtual courts as pilot projects. An assessment by the Union law ministry shows that during the period between March 24 and July 15, district and subordinate courts alone held 12 lakh hearings online. High courts and the Supreme Court, too, have conducted successful virtual hearings. Even though these steps are meant to temporarily tide over the Covid-19 crisis, they are, in all probability, here to stay, as the Chief Justice of India observed. Going ahead, perhaps the Indian judiciary needs a systematic change to try and introduce technological changes, including the digitization of old cases and keeping digital track of new cases so that future crises do not put a halt to the process of justice. Khokan Das,Calcutta Sir — One wonders if the digitization of the judiciary will lead to similar consequences as those caused by the push towards online education. Thousands of people who do not have access to the internet or do not understand how to navigate it will be deprived of justice. In a country where judicial dates come around once in a lifetime, this can mean the complete denial of justice for large segments of the population. One hopes that the judiciary takes this into account. Souparna Ghosh,Calcutta Sir — The Hubble Space Telescope recently caught the fading of a supernova that was located 70 million light-years away. That the telescope — which is soon to be replaced with a more modern and advanced version — is still capturing and sending back such useful information and stunning images is a testament to its power. For years, Hubble has provided us with a better understanding of how the universe as we know it came into existence. Rima Roy, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-137
05-10-2020||Opinion||What Indians do with their time||What do Indians do with their time? The ministry of statistics and programme implementation sought to answer this intriguing question with the Time Use in India- 2019 survey. Worryingly — but unsurprisingly — the findings suggest a wide gender disparity in the sphere of work. Only 18.4 per cent women participate in paid employment activities compared to 57.3 per cent men. The glass ceiling evidently is intact. Perhaps this is only to be expected given that 81.2 per cent of women have to shoulder the burden of unpaid domestic labour like cooking, cleaning, care-giving and sundry other household chores as opposed to only 26.1 per cent of men. Unpaid domestic labour is crippling in two ways: it undermines women’s rights and agency as well as their ability to make choices. This crushing burden of domestic duty has other collateral damage: it prevents women from pursuing higher education, employment opportunities, raising their skill-level and tending to their own well-being. Last year, the National Sample Survey Office attempted to put a value on such work in terms of the gross domestic product. In a deeply patriarchal society like India, public acknowledgment — official statistics — of the economic importance of women’s unpaid labour would make little difference unless the skewed division of labour remains uncorrected. Ironically, the situation is no better for women who have shattered the glass ceiling. Women having to juggle professional demands with housework, an independent study found, either fall seriously ill or underperform. The survey also revealed interesting aspects about leisure. More than 91 per cent of Indians, irrespective of gender, are engaged in recreation, socializing and religious practice but less than 3 per cent are willing to take on unpaid volunteer work — community service, for instance  — in their free time. This perhaps explains the reason behind the weakening of the culture of empathy in a country that venerated the idea of seva. Moreover, economic progress is predicated upon creativity. Finite employment opportunities, drudgery, the challenge of balancing professional and domestic obligations — Indian women bear this load uncomplainingly — are enough to sap the creative energies of India’s human resources. Policy interventions should, therefore, look not only into making labour roles equitable but also into making work enjoyable.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-137
05-10-2020||Opinion||Side by side: Mathura's temple & Idgah row||The project was being drummed up on the lines of a historic model. A group calling itself “friends of Sri Krishna Virajman” had petitioned a Mathura civil court for possession of the 13.37 acres of land on which the Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi temple of Mathura and the Shahi Idgah mosque have been standing side by side for years. Apparently the mosque stands on the exact spot where the Hindu deity was born. In other words, the mosque must go. The court dismissed the petition, because the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act, 1991 would not allow this change. While the lawful conclusion to another divisive attempt is to be lauded in these torn times, one aspect of the episode that emerged even before the court’s dismissal must also be welcomed. The trust that runs the Mathura temple objected forcefully to the petition to have the mosque removed. It was clear to the trust that certain ‘unscrupulous’ people were trying to create a controversy ‘out of nothing’. Calling it a ‘ploy’ of the Bharatiya Janata Party, the trust felt that the party at the Centre and in Uttar Pradesh expected to gain leverage through this new temple-mosque affair in the 2022 elections. The keepers of the temporary Ram temple in Ayodhya, however, had been active in the Ram Janmabhoomi movement. Similar movements had reportedly been planned for Mathura and Varanasi. But the statements from the temple trust and the management committee of the mosque reflected amity and a spirit of sharing. Small issues, such as the direction of drains, have been worked out between them; taxes are shared by paying for the area each occupies, and the emphasis is on having coexisted side by side ‘with no problem’ for centuries. Neither has there been any difficulty about followers of different faiths coming to pray in their respective holy places in the same area. Emerging from Mathura in UP, where the state government thrives on divisiveness, the statements represent firm resistance to the poison in the atmosphere. This model can be emulated by all places of worship: if politics drags in religion, religion should reject the touch of politics. The Mathura temple trust’s clarity of perception could also be, speaking hopefully, most people’s view. That alone can stop mischievous and motivated attempts at divisiveness.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-138
05-10-2020||Opinion||Farm bills: India’s fields are on fire||At a time when I see euphoria among mainstream economists over the new set of agricultural reforms, media reports say that the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices has observed that only 12 per cent of India’s paddy cultivators were able to sell their produce at the guaranteed minimum support price during the 2018-19 kharif marketing season. If the remaining 88 per cent farmers were also able to sell paddy at the MSP, the rural economy would have witnessed an upswing. The uneven picture of paddy procurement is not very different from that of wheat procurement in the rabi marketing season where the bulk of procurement operations is confined to Punjab, Haryana and now Madhya Pradesh. This is primarily because the network of regulated markets has remained confined to the traditional Green Revolution belt of the northwestern region. Against the requirement of 42,000 regulated mandis within a five-kilometre radius, there exists close to 7,000 mandis only under the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act. Nor has MSP price delivery been expanded to cover more regions and more crops. This reflects a historic asymmetry in procurement operations, with the procurement share of paddy in Punjab and Haryana being 95 per cent and 70 per cent, respectively, whereas the share of procurement in Uttar Pradesh (3.6 per cent), West Bengal (7.3 per cent), Bihar (1.7 per cent) and the northeastern states have remained minuscule. With most farmers getting a distress price, farm incomes have remained very low in these states. This prompted the CACP to suggest: “Therefore, concerted efforts should be made to extend the benefits of procurement to small and marginal farmers in general and eastern and NE States in particular.” The importance of this recommendation can be gauged from the fact that deprived of the right price, truckloads of paddy from UP (and earlier from Bihar) are being transported to be sold in Haryana where farmers at least get an assured MSP. This is not the first time that paddy and wheat from UP and bajra from Rajasthan are being brought to be sold in Haryana, which has a robust marketing infrastructure network. With procurement operations restricted in most states, the majority of farmers have remained dependent on markets. If markets were as efficient as is being made out, and provided farmers with a higher price, the question that needs to be asked is why does agriculture continue to be in the grip of a severe crisis? The tearing hurry with which agriculture market reforms have been pushed through, without even consulting farmers for whom these laws are designed, has resulted in huge farm protests in Punjab and Haryana. The government, the industry and some economists are claiming that by providing for ‘one country, one market’ by removing the inter-state and intra-state barriers in agriculture trade and making trading outside the APMC market boundaries to be free of any taxes so as to bring in competition, these laws will help attract private investments while the markets would provide farmers with higher prices. Although APMC markets and the provisions of MSP have remained untouched in the new laws, agitating farmers say that the real intention is to gradually dismantle the APMC mandi network and, in the process, do away with the delivery of MSP to farmers. With several committees pointing to MSP becoming a barrier in price discovery, their fear is certainly not unfounded. APMC mandis have been blamed for monopolizing trade and licensed middlemen in the mandis accused of exploiting farmers. There is no denying that over the years APMC mandis have seen certain distortions emerging but farmers say the need is to reform the mandi structures and not to render these markets redundant. Leaving farmers to face the vagaries of markets has not been useful anywhere in the world. Knowing that unregulated markets will further exacerbate the farm crisis, protesting farmers are demanding a right-based security net. The demand is for another law that makes MSP a legal right for farmers. Since MSP is announced for 23 crops every year, but is effectively implemented for two crops only — wheat and paddy (also to some extent for cotton, mustard and some quantities of pulses) — farmers want no trading to be allowed below the MSP. The real freedom for farmers will be if all paddy and wheat farmers as well as farmers growing other crops are assured of receiving the MSP. Even for contract farming, the price should not be below the MSP announced. Given that private companies are promising to provide higher prices to farmers, this should not be a problem.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-138
05-10-2020||Opinion||Ancient wisdom||Can ancient mythology help us gain a clearer insight into human relationships? I would like to use the frame of Indian mythology — specifically, its unique treatment of vice — to understand the contentious relationship between Gandhiji and his eldest son, Harilal. The strained, hostile relationship between Gandhiji and Harilal was the cause of much pain and suffering for both the parents and the son. While some people justified the father’s actions, others sympathized with the son. These two versions run almost parallel with no sign of convergence. Given the inevitable dead end, we need to explore other avenues that can shed new light on this relationship. It is possible to understand Harilal’s hostility towards his father even if one does not condone his behaviour or life choices. As a young man, Harilal had tried to follow his father’s ideals with sincere dedication, winning the appreciation of many. So his father’s subsequent declaration that he was born in sin as a result of carnal desires is not correct. The causal explanation by inference by the first person, namely M.K. Gandhi, does not seem justified in light of Harilal’s supportive behaviour in the earlier years. I would, therefore, like to take Harilal’s action out of this theological explanation. This brings us to the well-known scholarship issue that seems to have created an irreversible misunderstanding between father and son. The disagreement, however, is not the result of a simple confrontation between the two. The discord has an underlying complexity that is not so natural. Let me explain. Traditionally, a father is expected to work for the family, especially to build a secure future for the children, helping them in their education and career and seeking out opportunities to improve their lot in life. At least this is how Harilal seems to have understood the paternal role. However, his father, while very much remaining a member of the family, was increasingly preoccupied with his commitments outside of the home. Gandhiji’s deep involvement in social reform and the freedom movement demanded all of his time and energy and intensive levels of personal sacrifice not only from himself but also his family members. This led to the complete unravelling of conventional family ties. As the father, Gandhiji could perhaps have explained to his son the conflict or mismatch between a conventional family structure and the commitment required of him in his chosen path as a political and spiritual leader. Such clarity could have provided his son with some comfort. This would have brought a lot of clarity to his son. Or, perhaps, like the Buddha, Gandhiji too could have distanced himself from his family. However, he decided to enjoy the benefits of remaining within the family fold while, at the same time, not sufficiently explaining the unusual situation or trying to ease matters for his son. Harilal, too, did not understand the complexity at work in those unprecedented times. The ensuing confusion sowed the seed of estrangement between father and son, a rift that caused immense suffering and anguish on both sides. In order to understand this father-son relationship better, we need to approach it not at the level of reality but as an abstract concept, phenomenologically bracketing it with the pain and suffering of their actual situation. This will allow us to neutralize the emotional aspects and explore the structural elements. Elevating the relationship to a higher level will also save it from being sullied further. Next, we will need to build a scaffolding, which will require a significant relocation of positions in the relationship. For instance, if we replace son and father with teacher and student, respectively, teaching and learning can substitute the pain and suffering associated with the actual relationship. We can now use the frame of Indian mythology for a new perspective on human frailties. Vice, in ancient Indian mythology, is regarded as transitory, not absolute, and is subsumed under leela (or divine play), usually through the use of a curse. A good person inadvertently commits an offence, incurring the wrath of a sage who curses him. This kick-starts a long chain of events culminating in the release of the curse. Jaya and Vijaya, the dwarapalakas or gatekeepers of Lord Vishnu, were cursed by sages to be born as mortals on earth. When faced with the option to be in exile for seven births as devotees of Vishnu, or three births as the Lord’s enemy, they decided on the latter. In order to shorten the duration of separation from their beloved Lord, they chose to be born as enemies of Lord Vishnu in three yugas — as Hiranyaksha and Hiranya Kashyap in Krita Yuga; Ravana and Kumbhakarna in Treta Yuga; and Shishupala and Dantavakra in Dwapara Yuga. All three yugas are governed by this cosmic leela in which Jaya and Vijaya fulfil their roles by being aggressive adversaries of their beloved Lord. Drawing a parallel with this mythological tale, we can see father and son in a new light, performing different roles. In this transformed relationship, Harilal is the accursed devotee, challenging his father. In this context, it will be interesting to pose a counterfactual: what if Harilal had not been what he was — the deeply troubled, estranged son — in the life of Gandhi? My aim here is not to eulogize but to gain a better understanding of this difficult relationship by elevating it to a different level. There are many such instances of fractured relationships in modern India. For instance, the relationship between C.V. Raman and his son has many resemblances to the relationship between Gandhi and Harilal. But they need not be accepted exactly as they are in real life. They can be philosophically transformed, enabling us to look beyond and understand them better. The unique tales from our ancient mythology can thus help us explore alternative ways to deal with enmity and evil. More importantly, they can also provide clear insights into approaches that can be emulated and tell us what needs to be avoided. The author teaches philosophy at the Indian Institute of Technology,Tirupati||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-138
