06-10-2020||Opinion||No end in sight: Hathras violence||Sir — The death of a Dalit woman who was attacked and gang raped in Hathras, Uttar Pradesh, has once again brought to light the perils faced by women in India, especially those who belong to vulnerable communities (“Paralysed rape victim dies,” Sept 30). The woman was so brutally assaulted that she was paralyzed waist down owing to injuries to her spinal cord. The perpetrators of the crime were four upper-caste Thakur men. One of the perpetrators already had a history of violence with the woman’s family. To make matters worse, not only did certain sections of the administration dismiss it as “fake news” but also allegedly directed the police to cremate the body in the dead of the night while the family was intimidated and locked up. The incident in Hathras is undoubtedly one of caste violence. The question that has been raised since then is whether the accused will be punished appropriately or walk free owing to their caste privileges. The role of caste in violence against women has now become even more prominent. The poem, “Rape Nation”, by the acclaimed writer, Meena Kandasamy, written in response to the brutality in Hathras, including the actions of the police, shed further light on the plight of Dalit women in an increasingly hostile country. According to data by the National Crime Records Bureau, Uttar Pradesh accounts for 14.7 per cent of all crimes against women. Under the Yogi Adityanath government, the state has witnessed a 27.9 per cent rise in crimes against the Dalit community. In Hathras, as in many other cases of horrific crimes that have been regularly reported from UP, there is little hope that the establishment will work to ensure justice. Civil society must play its role now and ensure that there is a proper investigation. It will be a long struggle before justice can be achieved. Shovanlal Chakraborty,Calcutta Sir — The gruesome incident at Hathras that led to the death of the Dalit girl has sparked outrage across the country. The gathering at Jantar Mantar, demanding justice for the girl, was one of the largest protests against violence on women since the 2012 gang rape and murder of a young woman. The presence of the chief minister of Delhi, Arvind Kejriwal, the Bhim Army chief, Chandrashekhar Azad, and the Left leaders, Sitaram Yechury and Prakash Karat, proved that political parties, in spite of their ideological differences, can join hands in moments of crisis. The protesters were rightly appalled at the way in which the UP government had cremated the victim’s body in the dead of night, denying her family the chance to perform the final rites. They have also demanded the resignation of the UP chief minister, Yogi Adityanath, reportedly alleging that the Bharatiya Janata Party administration is shielding the accused. However, four of the individuals involved in the crime have been arrested. Considering that, perhaps it is premature to accuse the state government of abetting criminals. Birkha Khadka Duvarseli,Siliguri Sir — As an ordinary citizen of India, I am outraged at the utter cruelty faced by women in this country. Politicians from across party lines have come out in support of the young girl who was raped and murdered in Hathras and her grieving family. It is the need of the hour that all political parties come together to find effective ways of battling this menace. While many people over the last few years have called for violent measures to be taken against perpetrators, including capital punishment and castration, the fact remains that no matter the intensity of the punishment, nothing will change unless we strike patriarchy and casteism at their root. In fact, contrary to popular belief, stricter punishment, rather than reducing crimes, can have the opposite effect. Punishment must be meted out to the guilty, but it is essential that we think of ways that will bring about long-term change. It is time that our policymakers devised a solid plan of action. Soumendra Datta,Calcutta Sir — The gang rape and murder of a 19-year-old Dalit woman has maligned the image of the Yogi Adityanath government beyond repair. The administration failed to take immediate action against the perpetrators and reportedly prevented the family from performing the last rites. This speaks volumes about the intentions of the incumbent government. Crimes against women, minorities and Dalits have increased alarmingly over the last few years. It is a clear sign that the government is failing in its basic duty of providing safety to all citizens. Hopefully the probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation will succeed in bringing justice to the woman’s family. Iftekhar Ahmed,Calcutta Safety first Sir — The carnival in Rio de Janeiro has been cancelled for the first time in a century as global Covid-19 deaths cross one million. Brazil, which has the second-worst death toll worldwide with 1,39,000, and the third-most cases, with 4.6 million, has taken the right decision to cancel the parade. Reports indicate that Kerala, after celebrating Onam,  witnessed a surge in cases. With Durga Puja around the corner, it can be safely assumed that Bengal, too, will see an increase in infections. At least for this year, state governments must prioritize public health and cancel all such events that would lead to large gatherings. Anamika Saha,
Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-137
06-10-2020||Opinion||Rights wronged: No country for workers||In a recent judgment, a Supreme Court bench struck down an order by the Gujarat government, which had allowed employers to deny overtime wages as prescribed by law to workers during the period of the lockdown induced by Covid-19. The Supreme Court has pointed out that the right to life guaranteed to every person under Article 21 of the Constitution includes workers, and that social and economic freedom cannot be guaranteed without just and humane working conditions. The apex court also opined that the right to life is not contingent upon the mercy of the employer or the State. This would be an affront to workers’ right to life and the right against forced labour secured in Article 21 and Article 23 of the Constitution. Covid-19 cannot be considered as a public emergency. The entire burden of the economic slowdown should not be borne by workers alone. The notification issued by the Gujarat government had increased daily working hours from 9 to 12 and permitted employers to pay overtime wages at a rate proportionate to their usual wages instead of what was mandated under Section 59 of the Factories Act, 1948. The mandate of the law is to pay workers twice the ordinary wage rate if they worked for more than 9 hours per day. The court has asked the Gujarat government to ensure that legitimate overtime arrears be paid to the affected workers. The notification in Gujarat is an indication of governments being beholden to industrialists. The power of employers to exploit workers is often buttressed by government notifications and ordinances. Apart from Gujarat, a number of states — Uttar Pradesh is an example — where the Bharatiya Janata Party is in power had quickly taken advantage of Covid-19 and firmly laid the burden of the financial costs arising out of the pandemic on workers. The result, allegedly, has been the weakening of some of their legal rights and privileges. The rationale cited for such action is that quick economic recovery requires investors to be given leeways in reducing labour costs. Such a myopic vision would enhance the likelihood of what is being referred to as a K-shaped recovery where a majority of the populace become worse-off in terms of their economic well-being while a small proportion of rich individuals become wealthier. Given the frightening levels of inequality, this kind of political ‘wisdom’ is unwarranted and callous.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-137
06-10-2020||Opinion||Marked out: Growing crimes against Dalits||The National Crime Records Bureau data present a picture of trends in criminality. It has to be assumed, though, that many crimes are not reported, especially those against women and against those less privileged. Even then, if the scale of crimes against women suggests that much of Indian society is misogynistic, what do growing crimes against Dalits suggest? According to the latest NCRB report, there were nearly 46,000 crimes against scheduled caste members in 2019, up by 7 per cent from 2018. Nine states accounted for 84 per cent of these crimes, although they have 54 per cent of the Dalit population. Of these, Rajasthan has the highest rate of crime per scheduled caste population although Uttar Pradesh is highest in absolute numbers — 11,829. Rajasthan also leads in the number of rapes against Dalit women, while UP and Madhya Pradesh follow. But Madhya Pradesh leads in the rape of tribal women, as well as generally in crimes against members of the scheduled tribes, followed in the second instance by Rajasthan. Crimes against tribal people have risen by 26.5 per cent in 2019 over the previous year. This superficial, if grim, analysis is enough to uncover shameful realities not just of governance but also of continued — and enacted — social oppression. The statewise breakup of data indicates the regions in which such oppression is built into everyday life; a year-by-year analysis and a close study of the crimes could offer ways of correction. But is anyone in power interested in that? The complicity of the dominant sections of society with the political regime is reflected in the fact that cases under the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act have a pendency rate of 94 per cent. But that is hardly surprising: the government’s casualness manifests itself most clearly in the lack of chairpersons in the three national commissions — of scheduled castes, of scheduled tribes and of safai karamcharis — for months now. The attitude is shared. The Uttar Pradesh Commission for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes has had no chairperson since November 2019. That may seem strange in a country strident about reservations. Whatever the Constitution might have intended, politicians have turned reservations into just a vote-winning tool that has nothing to do with educating society and changing attitudes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-137
06-10-2020||Opinion||Grim reality: India's informal labour force||The global economic order is dependent on the migration of skilled and unskilled labour. For example, the Gulf countries thrive on the influx of skilled labour from Western countries and unskilled workers from poorer Asian nations. This dynamic interaction between physical and human capital catalyses the world’s economies in varying proportions. India’s huge inexpensive labour force, characterized by the largest working-age population in the world, is one of the reasons why foreign investors find the country attractive. In India, an estimated 22 million workers have relocated to other states in search of livelihood. The current distress of migrant labour is appalling. India has numerous policies for social security when it comes to education, healthcare, skilling, food security and pensions, but most of these schemes are restricted to the organized sector. A large part of India’s informal labour force relies on various social welfare schemes from the government, which has been quite ineffective amidst the crisis. Pandemic-induced unemployment has started to shoot up across sectors, increasing poverty and income inequality. There exist huge regional disparities in the context of labour requirements, available opportunities and labour supply across India. Industrial regions like Maharashtra are a magnet for migrants from labour-abundant states such as West Bengal. Millions of migrant labourers have returned home, disrupting India’s labour markets tremendously. The Indian economy functions with relatively high labour mobility, low wage rates and minimal-to-no barricades on inter-sectoral and inter-state movement of labour. The migrant labour force forms the backbone of India’s productive capacity. Thus, strong disturbances in India’s labour market are bound to impede the effective operation of all value chains associated with foreign investments in the country. For India the problem is twofold. Migrant workers returning to their places of origin would bring down wages on account of an oversupply of labour in these regions. This will not only affect the quality of labour, but also aggravate the problems of poverty, hunger and health. Contrastingly, labour-scarce regions will see an increase in wages in the short term, which many business operations might not be able to afford. Hence in both the cases, domestic and foreign firms with smaller subsidiary operation units involving informal migrant labour are bound to suffer. Second, small businesses associated with foreign companies might not be able to sustain themselves in the short or medium term. This is mainly because production processes might turn inefficient due to the lack of a combination between physical assets and complementary human skill sets from migrant labourers that will no longer be available in the specific regions. From east to west, the migrant distress has been a recurring political issue in India during the pandemic. However, what needs to be understood is that their ordeal also indicates the complete destabilization of India’s human capital base. The potential lack of investor confidence as a result of this is also a worrying sign. It is imperative that the excess labour supply, which has been displaced, is subsumed by creating alternate avenues of labour demand through government welfare schemes, such as the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee scheme. India has been grappling with low consumption demand for quite some time and the loss of livelihoods for the migrant workers would undoubtedly aggravate the problem. The government can play a critical role by improving food security and executing fiscal measures in the spectrum of social security and welfare benefits. Small and medium enterprises, in particular, should be given adequate support along with an attempt to stabilize the labour market, which will, in turn, augment India’s investment climate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-137
06-10-2020||Opinion||It’s complicated||In the backdrop of heightened polarization, the 59th quadrennial presidential election of the United States of America is scheduled in less than a month. Unlike in 2016 when a majority of pollsters were proven wrong, this time around there is caution in the air. Irrespective of the result of the 2020 elections, multiple fluid vectors are set to influence the long-term political trajectory of the US. They will provide an understanding of the churn taking place in a multi-ethnic and multi-racial country. In this context, one of the key variables is the growing diversification of the US electorate that may leave its imprint on the battleground states even in the 2020 elections. Early estimates of the 2020 US census reveal that the diversification of the US is taking place earlier than expected. In broad strokes, African-Americans, Hispanics, bi-racial and Asian communities now constitute 40 per cent of the US population. William H. Frey, senior fellow — Metropolitan Policy Program — at the Washington DC-based think tank, Brookings, states, “The new data shows that, by 2019, the white population share declined nearly nine more percentage points, to 60.1%.” These facts are leaving their imprint on the ground as the 2018 mid-term US Senate and Congress elections illustrated. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, with a Hispanic background, got elected for New York’s 14th congressional district. There was Jahana Hayes, the first African-American to represent the state of Connecticut in the Congress; the Somali-American, Ilhan Omar, defeated the Republican, Jennifer Zielinski, in Minnesota to get elected to the US Congress. Then there are Michigan’s Rashida Tlaib, a Palestinian-American, and Ayanna Pressley, the first African-American woman to be elected to the Congress from Massachusetts. Joe Biden catapulting to the Democratic presidential candidate can be attributed to the African-American vote in his favour in the South Carolina Democratic Party’s primaries. In the presidential elections, African-Americans have been at the heart of Democratic Party’s electoral strategy since 1964. In his article, “How the Black Vote Became a Monolith”, in The New York Times Magazine, Theodore R. Johnson cites a report by the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies that shows that from 1964 to 2008, an average of 88 per cent of black votes went to the Democratic Party’s presidential nominees, a number that increased to 93 per cent in the last three presidential elections. 1964 is a watershed year in the US’s modern political history. Lyndon Johnson’s Civil Rights Act of July 2, 1964 froze the Democratic Party’s electoral prospects in the five southern states of Louisiana, Georgia, Alabama, South Carolina and Mississippi for decades to come although he won the presidential race in November 1964. In the otherwise highly-regulated and controlled US immigration system, it is geography that has driven the recent demographic change due to population movement from other countries in the Americas. Hispanic or Latino, a loose identity threaded around people who speak Spanish and come from various Central American and Latin American countries, made up 18 per cent of the US population in 2019, up from 16 per cent in 2010 and 5 per cent in 1970. Emphasizing the Anglo-Protestant roots and their overall impact in shaping the core identity of the US, the political scientist, Samuel Huntington, in his book, Who Are We?, had pointed to the challenges of Hispanic migration to the US’s core identity and values. He points out that mass migration to the southwest of the country would erode the national identity due to bilingualism, multiculturalism, the devaluation of citizenship and the denationalization of the American elite. However, the reality of Hispanic migration has proven to be a lot more complex than what was envisaged by the academic. The Pew Research Center informs that in 2020 “Hispanics will be the largest racial or ethnic minority group in the electorate, accounting for just over 13% of eligible voters — slightly more than blacks.” “A record 32 million Latinos are projected to be eligible to vote in 2020, up from 27.3 million in 2016. [13% of eligible voters will be Hispanics.] California (7.9 million) alone holds about a quarter of the U.S. Latino electorate. It is followed by Texas (5.6 million), Florida (3.1 million), New York (2.0 million) and Arizona (1.2 million).” Within Hispanics, Mexicans constitute more than 60 per cent. However, like the rest of Central American and Latin American countries, which have their own racial, class and political differentiations, the Hispanic vote is far from a homogenous entity. The racial history of Hispanic Americans is diverse as there are people with European, African and indigenous roots or they are multi-racial. Apart from this, there are obvious class differences. For instance, the Hispanic vote in Florida, a battleground state which literally decided the 2000 presidential elections, comprises a large number of relatively richer Americans of Cuban descent. Many who came to the US in the 1960s from Cuba were highly skilled and were quick to seize the opportunities available for professionals. As their parents or grandparents were asylum-seekers after Fidel Castro took over the country, present-day Cuban Americans viscerally oppose the US’s détente with the current communist regime in Cuba. They endorse a stronger stance against Cuba as outlined by the Republican Party. In the 2016 elections, although he trailed in the popular vote, Donald Trump won on account of his narrow victories in the three states of Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin. He polled a mere 79,646 votes more than Senator Hillary Clinton and those three wins gave him 46 electoral votes. That is why in 2020 smaller ethnic or religious groups have also acquired importance in some of these states. For instance, in Michigan, an ethnically diverse Muslim population, a large number among which are Arab-Americans, forms around 2.75 per cent of the population. Till 2000, many Muslim-Americans were favourably disposed towards the Republican Party. This is not surprising as Republican supporters and the American-Muslim community shared a common perspective on a number of public policy issues. The bond between the Republicans and Muslims started to break after 9/11. Asian-Americans make up 4.7 per cent of all eligible voters even though they are quite diverse as a group. The unprecedented proactive reaching out by both parties to the Indian-American community, a relatively richer ethnic group, this time illustrates the importance of smaller ethnic groups in fiercely competitive battleground states. Apart from possibly galvanizing the African-American vote, the nomination of Senator Kamala Harris as the Democratic vice-presidential nominee is a factor that will resonate particularly among younger and second-generation Indian-Americans. The US political landscape in 2020 is a lot more complex. Diversification alone cannot capture these complexities. However, it can explain some aspects of the politics of today, including the virulent aspects of conservative backlash after the presidential election of 2012 that propelled the rise of Trump. The political elite of the US often rhetorically calls the nation the land of diversity and immigrants. How this diversity impacts the present and the future electoral landscape in the US will be of keen interest to other multi-ethnic democracies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-137
