07-10-2020||Opinion||Historic scar: Babri demolition accused exonerated||Sir — The judicial exoneration of all the 32 surviving accused in the Babri Masjid demolition case does not seem to correspond with the actual events of December 6, 1992 in Ayodhya (“Cleared”, Oct 1). The mosque was demolished in broad daylight. The absence of conviction has wounded India’s soul and marked its retreat from secularism. The court reportedly even recorded its appreciation of some of the accused for allegedly trying to prevent the frenzied mob from pulling the mosque down. One cannot help but wonder that if the place of worship of any other faith were razed in a similar fashion, would the instigators and perpetrators have got off scot-free owing to ‘lack of evidence’? Hindutva, or the politicization of Hinduism, aims to assert the predominance of one religion over others on the basis of numerical strength. By dividing countrymen on the basis of faith, it has made the idea of religious tolerance — for which India has been universally famed — a casualty. This has changed the political climate of the country beyond recognition. Yet, for all its overarching appeal, Hindutva cannot be relied on to bring about any improvement in the material circumstances of the impoverished multitudes. The only hope for the nation lies in the fact that many Indians are still secular in their mindset and put humanity above religion: their collective moral strength could see us through this difficult phase of history and ensure that we all live together in harmony. It is now the duty of every citizen to promote the cause of religious unity. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — Nearly three decades after the Babri Masjid was brought down, India seems to be no closer to knowing who were actually responsible for the disgraceful act. It has only been said that it was some “anti-social elements” who climbed upon the dome of the mosque that day. Yet, the rath yatra led by L.K. Advani that culminated at Ayodhya on December 6, 1992 with thousands of kar sevaks assembled there is common knowledge, making it difficult to believe that the demolition was not pre-planned. In the months that followed, the incident sparked communal violence in Uttar Pradesh and other parts of the country, leading to around 2,000 people getting killed. It changed the course of India’s politics, paving the way for the rise of the right wing. The verdict of September 30 is therefore potentially provocative. It must be ensured that it does not stoke the already-simmering feeling of discontent among the minority communities. Ranganathan Sivakumar,Chennai Sir — The lukewarm reaction of the political class to the verdict in the Babri Masjid demolition case is along expected lines. Given that the demolition of the mosque involves the religious sentiments of the majority community, most of the main political parties have been cautious about their response. But prominent Muslim and Left leaders, especially from South India, came down heavily on the judgment. The president of All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen, Asaduddin Owaisi, reportedly said the verdict was meant to satisfy Hindutvavadis. The verdict was pronounced after a series of delays — it has been 28 years since the incident. Given that most cases get entangled in court procedures, such delays have become commonplace. But this case was not an ordinary one. Yet, successive governments were uninterested in resolving it. This reveals their placation of the followers of Hindutva; all political parties are concerned more with electoral gains than moral principles. As the construction of the Ram Mandir is underway, the demolition of the Babri Masjid continues to fester. Truth and justice remain buried deep under the debris of the edifice as communalism rages on . Venu G.S.,Kollam, Kerala Play by the rules Sir — The former Argentine footballer, Diego Maradona, often amuses his fans with his antics. However, last week, things took a serious turn when some spectators and journalists reportedly made fun of his choice of personal protective equipment at a match — they compared him to the animated character, Buzz Lightyear, as he sported a domed visor. Later, Maradona highlighted the importance of using proper PPE during the pandemic. Indeed, when millions are dying of Covid-19, tabloids and magazines would do well to encourage the use of PPE instead of ridiculing those who follow the rules. Anjana Bardhan,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-136
07-10-2020||Opinion||Let go: The law against sedition||Indian politicians love to hang on to laws from the colonial era — the law against sedition is an example. Inscribed as Section 124A of the Indian Penal Code, sedition is the incitement through speech or act to rebel against the authority of the government or the monarch. It made sense when there was a colonial government. The law becomes irrelevant in a democracy where the relationship between the people and their government is supposed to be different; even the United Kingdom repealed it in 2010. In a multi-party democracy that sees freedom of expression as a fundamental right, criticism and dissent are to be expected. Evidently Indian politicians feel too insecure to let go of old, repressive laws. They cannot let the law against sedition go in spite of having formulated such laws as the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, for example, against alleged ‘offences against the State’. Data under this head in the latest National Crime Records Bureau report show that although the number of cases under sedition has risen through the last few years, the conviction rate has fallen sharply, especially in comparison with the cases under the UAPA. Among cases heard, two people were convicted of sedition in 2019 and two in 2018, while 29 and 21 people were acquitted respectively each year. Yet 93 cases of sedition were filed in 2019, although 70 in 2018, and 56 in 2017. The story behind the data is a comment on the attitude of the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government at the Centre that is reflected also in the culture of BJP-ruled states. The law against sedition is simply one weapon in an arsenal to silence dissent: the Jharkhand chief minister, for instance, ordered 3,000 charges of sedition against anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protestors to be dropped. Recommendations to repeal the law have been ignored; the present government says it is needed to combat “anti-national, secessionist and terrorist” elements. But it is one thing to file a sedition case, quite another to prove it. It is not a question of bundling out foreign rulers or a king. This is a democracy where freedom of expression is the people’s fundamental right. The NCRB data on poor conviction rate in sedition cases would be comic had not the reason behind the cases been so grim.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-136
07-10-2020||Opinion||Spot the cracks: LJP parts ways with JD(U)||Political alliances, a wag summed it up nicely, are often a marriage of convenience between strange bedfellows. In poll-bound Bihar, the Lok Janshakti Party has seemingly decided to reveal the undercurrent of competition — animosity? — in the bond that the Bharatiya Janata Party professedly shares with its partner, the Janata Dal (United). The LJP, complaining of ideological differences, has decided to part ways with Nitish Kumar’s JD(U), while remaining hitched to the BJP at the national level. The reason for this split is to be found not in ideological spots but political pragmatism. Mr Kumar is seeking to return to power for another term. Chirag Paswan, who is now helming the LJP, may have sensed a degree of public disillusionment with Mr Kumar. This may have encouraged Mr Paswan to fight the polls on his own, hoping that an improved showing — his party had won 2 and 3 seats, respectively, in 2015 and 2010 — would elevate the LJP to the role of the kingmaker. The BJP would not be unhappy with the turn of events: it believes that it is time to stake claim for Bihar as a senior partner of the alliance or, still better, with a bit of help from outside. The BJP’s optimism is based on two factors. The Opposition — in the absence of Lalu Prasad’s formidable presence and experience — is a Grand Alliance only in name. Moreover, Mr Kumar, the BJP argues, has benefited from the charisma of Narendra Modi and won polls earlier. A rag-tag Opposition, coupled with Mr Kumar’s own vulnerability, may have emboldened the BJP. A good showing by the LJP — it has the ability to sink its teeth into the JD(U)’s vote share — may help the BJP bag the throne by rendering Mr Kumar and the JD(U) dispensable. There may even be a moral underpinning to this tale of shifting allegiances. Mr Kumar has himself to blame for his enhanced dependence on the BJP. His propensity for jockeying for power — he had joined forces with the Rashtriya Janata Dal to rout the BJP in 2015, only to dump Mr Prasad’s party and return to power in the BJP’s embrace — may have dented his image considerably. The raging pandemic and a crippled economy — Bihar has a significant migrant population that is facing difficulties — may have dimmed Mr Kumar’s halo further.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-137
07-10-2020||Opinion||New lines being drawn in Kashmir||On August 22, six major parties in Jammu and Kashmir got together to issue a joint statement that called for the rollback of the constitutional changes of August 5, 2019. The parties were unable to meet to discuss the statement. So they worked their phones to arrive at a common stand. But few in Kashmir expected the statement to be so unequivocal and evocative. The use of such phrases to describe the August 5 decision by the Centre as “spitefully short sighted”, “measure to disempower”, “times of pain” and so on reflected the deep sense of hurt and humiliation being felt in Kashmir over the loss of autonomy. Lending the statement — also called Gupkar Declaration 2.0 — its significance is that the parties signing it make up almost the whole of the political mainstream of J&K. It included the National Conference and the Peoples Democratic Party, the two leading establishment parties, the Congress along with smaller outfits like Sajad Lone’s Jammu and Kashmir People’s Conference, the Communist Party of India and the Awami National Conference. This makes the Gupkar Declaration an articulation of the predominant public sentiment in J&K, especially in the Valley. Does this increase the odds of its resonance with New Delhi? Not at all. More so when the Union government is run by the Bharatiya Janata Party that has withdrawn Article 370, which granted J&K its semi-autonomous status under the Constitution. While there’s little possibility of the Centre changing its mind, the nature of the post-Article 370 dispensation in the region has made it impossible for political opposition to the August 5 intervention to have a decisive impact, let alone succeed. The only way mainstream parties could have undone some of the administrative and legislative changes over the last year would be for these parties to form a majority government if J&K were a state. But in a Union territory, even if they were to secure a landslide majority in a future election, the parties will remain subservient to the lieutenant-governor. Making things further difficult for them, the Centre in a new order has put even the police and the IPS beyond the remit of a future chief minister. Moreover, the Centre, as looks likely, may prolong this state of affairs by indefinitely delaying the restoration of statehood. The restoration may not take place before there is certainty that Kashmir’s political parties are not in a position to undo any law or order passed during lieutenant-governors’ rule. There are concerns that New Delhi seems to have a plan in place. The Hindu-majority Jammu division is to be given parity and, subsequently, a majority in a future state assembly. This is to be accomplished through an electoral and demographic re-engineering of the Union territory. To this end, the Centre has set in motion the delimitation of J&K whereby Jammu, it appears, would be given greater legislative representation in the assembly. In the erstwhile J&K state assembly, Kashmir Valley, with a population of around 70 lakh, had 46 seats; Jammu with a population of over 53 lakh, had 37 seats; Ladakh, with 2.74 lakh people, had 4 seats. More seats for Jammu can change the composition of a future assembly and create political parity between Kashmir and Jammu. This will make it difficult for a Kashmiri party to undo any legislative or administrative changes made over the last year. Considering that the new domicile rules have thrown J&K open to settlement by people from other states, the anticipated demographic change is expected to further move political power away from the Valley and be vested in Jammu. One option for mainstream political groups would be to mount a sustained public resistance against the erasure of special status. But there are valid doubts about the scope for such resistance at a time when the Centre has squeezed the space for any democratic dissent. The signatories to the Gupkar Declaration are mindful of this fact: they issued a joint statement but refrained from calling for a peaceful protest, a public rally, a press conference, or a hartal. Even if the parties were to mobilize public opinion against the withdrawal of Article 370, their ability to force a shift in the Centre’s policy will be minimal. They are up against a new national consensus on Kashmir that sees the ‘integration’ of the former state as fait accompli. The demand for the restoration of Article 370, much like that of autonomy, could well be transformed into a long-standing political plank for the NC and the PDP. This could be a gain for New Delhi, for autonomy and self-rule demands concessions that went beyond the special status enjoyed by J&K under Article 370.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-137
07-10-2020||Opinion||Fading legacies||This month, we observe the anniversaries of three eminences in ways that have turned farcical, even fraudulent. It would have been a mercy had we stopped at lip service as the annual rites of remembrance; we’ve brutally wolfed those legacies. The first among the three is, of course, the man who has become familiar to us, courtesy his round-rimmed glasses embossed on ‘Swachh Bharat’ tumblers and streamers. October 2 became an occasion to trigger a rampant online celebration of his assassin, such is also our manner now of greeting the man we call Father of the Nation. The other two are entities we routinely invoke and consign where they belong for safekeeping — in the shuttered almirahs of necessary hypocrisies. One belonged to Akbarpur in east Uttar Pradesh and died on October 12 nearly half a century ago. The other came from Sitabdiara, a riverine island between the Ganga and the Ghaghra on the shifting margins between eastern Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. He was born on October 11. Both travelled West to study as young men during the first half of the twentieth century. Both turned to public life during the freedom movement under the Congress canopy. Both were protégés of Jawaharlal Nehru and occupied the socialist precincts in the party. Both rebelled in later years, turned critics of Nehru, and became rallying posts of anti-Congress politics. The man from Akbarpur chose pre-war Germany for further studies, if only to thumb his nose at imperial Britain and its educational institutions. He returned as anti-capitalist as he was anti-Marxist. Capitalism he called the “rich man’s exploitation machine”; Marxism he called a fad and Europe’s ideological tool against Asia, a system that imposed the dictatorship of a party over people. He espoused a home-minted socialism moored to social and economic equality, medium enterprise, and a notion of government as servant rather than ruler of the people. He wanted governance drastically decentralized and people given the right to recall governments. He was against the mildest police action against democratic protest. He was militantly anti-English, which he called the language of imperialists and the ruling elite. Nehru and the Congress he closely associated with that elite. The first non-Congress, multi-party governments to assume power in the northern states in 1967 were chiefly a consequence of his efforts. He was a feisty battler at home and abroad. Nehru had noticed the internationalist in him and picked him to head the foreign affairs cell of the Congress in the 1930s. He joined anti-racism barricades in the United States of America, anti-imperialist marches across Europe, and jati-todo (banish-caste) crusades in India; sau mein saath was his maxim on castes, that backward castes should get a 60 per cent share in politics and governance, commensurate with their share of the population. He travelled incessantly, wrote copiously, lived an erratic on-the-road life, and became somewhat of a legend in his lifetime, a rough-hewn radical who spawned a distinct school of socialism; its many alumni, though divided and scattered across political parties of North India, continue to inform the political discourse of their dummy hero’s memory, though not his ideals. After breaking from the Congress and launching the Samyukta Socialist Party, he unveiled a seven-fold manifesto, what came to be known as the sapt-kranti, the seven revolutions: gender equality, end of discrimination based on caste and colour, liquidation of colonialism and the establishment of a world parliament, end of inequality generated by big capital, growth through decentralized planning, mass civil disobedience, and end to armaments. He was a maverick. After the Chinese left India militarily and psychologically bruised in 1962, he called for developing a nuclear bomb. He died early and unexpectedly after a minor prostate-related surgery in 1967, probably of accumulated excesses and neglect of a lifetime; he chain-smoked and drank coffee and tea incessantly, he barely bothered with eating. The man from Sitabdiara went to Berkeley to study sociology in the early 1920s after finishing as a merit scholar at Patna’s Bihar Vidyapeeth, a Congress-driven school. There, to pay his fees, he laboured on vineyards, packed fruits at a canning factory, washed dishes, worked at a car garage and in a slaughter house, sold lotions and accepted casual teaching jobs. But Berkeley was still unaffordable and he moved to Wisconsin, where he turned animated over the Bolshevik consolidation in Russia, read Marx and Engels, and became a communist. On returning home, he found his young wife, Prabhavati, deeply immersed in Gandhian practice. She had left their Patna home and moved to the ashram on the Sabarmati. She might have had some influence in her husband joining the Congress rather than India’s fledgling Communist Party. All his life, he swivelled uncertainly between a Fabian brand of socialism and Gandhian beliefs; he wore khadi and, often, even joined his wife on the charkha, Gandhi’s emblematic spinning wheel. He remained in the Congress much longer than the man from Akbarpur, although he grew disenchanted with power politics and refused to contest elections. He became a near-recluse in his Patna home, which Prabhavati’s mission had turned into a spartan Gandhi ashram. He turned, for a time, to the Gandhian sage, Vinoba Bhave, and his benevolent Bhoodaan, or voluntary land donation, movement, but not with any great conviction or commitment, it appeared. He took a tolerant view of Nehru’s promotion of daughter Indira and, later, of her accession to power. He often advised her, and ran freelance missions for her, such as a roving ambassador to convince world capitals why India was intervening militarily in East Pakistan. But soon thereafter, he turned vociferously anti-Indira and came to be adopted as the patriarch of many oppositional currents to the Indira Congress: the socialists, the Jan Sangh, a wing of communists, ultra left-wingers, angered student activists protesting price rise and political authoritarianism. When Indira Gandhi swung against the motley, burgeoning collective, imposing the Emergency and putting many leaders, including the Sitabdiara elder, into jail, the tide against her thickened. He was freed on grounds of failing health, but he took to the streets and called for Total Revolution, an ambiguous charter, but, at that time, catchy and effective. He came to lead what many prefer to call India’s second Independence movement — the overthrow of the Emergency and the return to democratic elections in 1977, which put the first non-Congress government in power in Independent India. He mentored the government, never joined it, and died a bitter man looking out of the window of his Jaslok Hospital bed in Bombay, watching his pupils tear at each other and bring the non-Congress experiment down. This man was known as Jaya Prakash Narayan, or JP. One might wonder how he’d have viewed the state of civil rights and fundamental constitutional freedoms in India at the moment. The man from Akbarpur was called Ram Manohar Lohia. One might wonder what he’d have said of what’s transpiring around Hathras, and how he might have thought to
respond. One might also wonder, and wonder deeply, why none of the three — neither Gandhi nor JP nor Lohia — ever held office in this nation of ours. sankarshan.thakur@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-137
