08-10-2020||Opinion||Common ground: Talking China at Quad meet||At the second meeting among members of Quad nations — India, the United States of America, Japan and Australia — it was evident that the proverbial elephant in the room was the dragon, in a manner of speaking. China’s belligerence and aggressive posturing not only on the border with India but also in the Indo-Pacific stretch had lent a degree of urgency to the deliberations in Tokyo. Expectedly, the US, given its trade wars with Beijing under the Donald Trump administration, chose not to mince words, calling for the protection of people and partnerships from an expansionist template being pursued by its adversary. The Indian foreign minister, S. Jaishankar, called for respecting territorial sovereignty as well as peaceful resolution of disputes. The simmering tensions in Ladakh undoubtedly set the tenor of Mr Jaishankar’s reasoning. The Japanese foreign minister appreciated global efforts to realize the goal of a “Free and Open Indo-Pacific” while his Australian counterpart — this is significant — mentioned the threat from malicious cyberspace activity. New Delhi would undoubtedly like to project the meeting as a signal of the closure of ranks among Quad members. This may be so but it cannot be denied that at the moment the glue that is making the partners stick is the lengthening shadow of Beijing. Given that strategic imperatives are bound to shift, it makes sense on the part of Quad nations to find other, equally substantial, avenues to cement this fledgling association. Among all the members, India perhaps has to do most of the soul-searching. This is because Quad symbolizes an opportunity as well as a challenge. While New Delhi has reasons to view Quad as a platform to consolidate its presence on other international fora, it must also be careful so as not to step into the trap of restrictive cooperation. India must retain the foresight to choose its partnerships in accordance with its own strategic needs and refrain from bartering its autonomy for the assurance of security. It will be a fine balancing act that will test New Delhi’s will and wisdom.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-136
08-10-2020||Opinion||Solo show: Chirag Paswan severs ties with JD(U)||Sir — The political scenario in Bihar has taken an interesting turn with the Lok Janshakti Party under the leadership of Chirag Paswan announcing that it will contest the upcoming assembly polls in Bihar alone, breaking away from its alliance with the Nitish Kumar-led Janata Dal (United) by citing ideological differences (“LJP cities ideological differences with Nitish”, Oct 5). However, the LJP has claimed that it will continue to support the Bharatiya Janata Party at the Centre and pledged to support the latter both before and after the elections. It is clear that this move was directed at the incumbent chief minister and his party. This has now led to a sense of uncertainty about the way the upcoming polls might turn out. In recent months, the LJP has rightly criticized the state government for its inadequate handling of the Covid-19-induced crisis faced by Bihari migrant workers who were stuck in far-off places after the lockdown was imposed and had no means of returning home. As the migrant workers return to the state, there is now an urgent need to formulate policy measures that will create greater opportunities for employment within Bihar. The BJP, which is in power in the state along with the JD(U), should devise a poll manifesto that will prioritize the economic needs of the people. Subhash Chandra Agrawal,Delhi Sir — It seems that the BJP is indulging in yet another kind of underhand politics. This time they have uprooted an ally of the Nitish Kumar-government in Bihar even though they share power with the JD(U) in the state. The upcoming assembly elections might see a massive change in Bihar politics. The National Democratic Alliance has come to a near-equal seat-sharing formula between the BJP and the JD(U). The JD(U) chief has perhaps realized that he has no other choice but to acquiesce to the wishes of the BJP. Bihar has long been a critical state in the Hindi heartland and has a fairly large number of seats in the Lok Sabha. The BJP, has been trying to capture sole power in the state and ousting JD(U) would pave the way towards that goal. There is no doubt that BJP will milk these cracks to the fullest. Abhijit Chakraborty,Howrah Sir — The decision of the LJP to contest the polls separately from the JD(U) does not come as a surprise. The LJP has been sniping at the Nitish Kumar-government for a while on a variety of issues. Had the LJP exited from the NDA altogether, like the Shiromani Akali Dal, then it would have been a matter of concern. The Paswans have played a critical card and Kumar, seeking a fourth consecutive term, will be facing anti-incumbency sentiments to a great extent. This new political equation would surely perplex voters. Without a doubt, it is going to be an intense election. Hopefully the parties will keep the interests of the people in mind and not seek votes along divisive lines. Bal Govind,Noida Sir — Unlike other terms, this year, the assembly elections in Bihar will be fought without the presence of its bahubalis. The Rashtriya Janata Dal founder, Lalu Prasad, the erstwhile LJP chief, Ram Vilas Paswan, as well as the veteran politician, Sharad Yadav, have been absent from the centre stage. However, the real battle is not between the NDA and the Mahagathbandhan, but between the BJP and the JD(U). The BJP had an ace up its sleeve — Chirag Paswan — which it played quite craftily. The final aim of the saffron party is to capture the post of the chief minister in Bihar which cannot be achieved as long as it is forced to play second fiddle to the JD(U). Now, with an almost equal seat-share and the LJP declaring that it would field candidates only against the JD(U), the atmosphere in Bihar is heating up. In the 2015 elections, the LJP contested in 42 seats but won only two. However, most tend to forget that the LJP candidates were runner-ups in 36 seats. The party undoubtedly has a significant presence and might just end up determining the fate of Bihar in the near future. Rahul Chouhan,Ujjain Sir — All eyes are on Bihar as the state gears up for the assembly polls amidst dramatic happenings within the NDA. Whether the LJP will benefit from its decision to sever ties with the JD(U) or not remains to be seen. But the restructuring of power in Bihar will certainly have long-term implications for all parties involved. Krishna Chatterjee,Calcutta Live free Sir — It was great that a gated community has been set up in France for people with Alzheimer’s disease. It has a grocery shop, a hair salon and so on and is attempting to provide a sense of autonomy to its inhabitants. While the program is partly subsidized now, it is still expensive at nearly 24,000 euros a year. As the world population grows older — one in six will be over 65 years of age by 2050 — governments must take steps to make life comfortable for the elderly — Alzheimer’s is not the only affliction to affect them. Otherwise many would be forced to spend their last days in pain or without dignity. Sanav Chakraborty,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-136
08-10-2020||Opinion||Pure farce: The GST compensation debacle||The slanging match between the Centre and  some Opposition-ruled states over the contentious payment of compensation for the shortfall in goods and services tax collections has now descended into a theatre of the absurd. A day after Bengal, Kerala and a couple of other states were able to mount stiff resistance to the Centre’s overweening stand that states must borrow to bridge the shortfall, the Narendra Modi government has come up with the bizarre argument that there is no need for a vote at the next meeting of the GST Council on October 12. The argument is based on the premise that borrowing by states does not come within the Council’s bailiwick. The Centre had offered the states two stark choices: borrow a sum of Rs 970 billion from a special window created by the Reserve Bank of India, or a larger amount of Rs 2.35 trillion at market rates to offset the anticipated shortfall in GST collections in a Covid-wracked year. Mr Modi’s government has armed itself with the attorney general’s opinion that it was not obliged to pay an arbitrarily determined sum of Rs 1.38 trillion attributed to the pandemic’s impact on the economy that, it claimed, was not covered by the compensation mechanism. In the last meeting, the Centre buckled under pressure and agreed to extend the compensation cess beyond its original five-year tenure until states were able to recover their entire dues, including the Covid-related shortfall. It also offered to raise the cap on states’ borrowing to Rs 1.10 trillion under the first option in a bid to win over the fence-sitters. The truculent states are, however, insisting that the Centre should borrow the money instead and pass it on to them. The argument that no voting is required on the issue makes no sense. If it was not a GST Council issue, why was it brought up for discussion at all? The special borrowing mechanism is linked to a specific purpose: to compensate for the shortfall in the GST collections. It is ridiculous to ignore that causal link. The GST legislation is pretty clear: all disputes must be resolved through a vote — and a resolution must pass with a majority of three-quarters. The Centre has a significant one-third voting share in the Council. The attempt to side-step a vote suggests that it is finding it hard to cobble the requisite numbers. The finance minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, is upset that she has not been able to have her way. She said that the government had decided to give the states more time to reconsider their stand and the hope was that she would make an overture to win them over. Ms Sitharaman does not have the persuasive powers of her predecessor. The latest attempt to scuttle a vote indicates that she is making no real effort to hammer out a consensus. Mr Modi’s government believes in browbeating the Opposition. The spirit of cooperative federalism, which imbued the GST regime in its conceptual form, has been enervated by the Centre’s arrogance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-136
08-10-2020||Opinion||Caste and Sri Lankan politics||The August 5 parliamentary election result signals the dawn of a new political era in Sri Lanka. The two main political parties, the United National Party and the Sri Lanka Freedom Party, that governed the country since Independence were almost decimated in this election. In addition to the reconsolidation of the politics of the Rajapaksas, this election provided a glimpse of the nature of Sri Lanka’s emerging electoral culture. There is clear popular appeal for an authoritarian style of democracy that promises efficient and strong government to deliver on development and security. In order to support the political vision of President Gotabaya Rajapaksa, Sinhalese voters elected many new faces with professional, educational and military expertise to Parliament. However, this article is not about ‘what is changing’; it is about ‘what seems to be continuing’. The caste identities of the Sinhalese MPs tell us something interesting. In spite of the focus on modern virtues — efficiency, meritocracy, professionalism and so on — during the electoral campaign, it is intriguing to note that the caste composition of the Sinhalese members of parliament has not changed when compared to previous Parliaments. A study conducted by the Social Scientists’ Association, a pioneering social science research institute in Sri Lanka, reveals that there is no recognizable difference in the caste composition of pre-Independence legislatures and that of the current Parliament. The Sinhalese caste system is best described as an upside down triangle where ‘the higher in the hierarchy, the greater the numbers’ and ‘the lower in the hierarchy, the lesser the numbers’. Therefore, the introduction of democracy — a system in which numbers matter — did not directly contribute to the emancipatory aspirations of lower caste groups in Sri Lanka. Despite the increase of parliamentary seats by more than two-folds and the transformation of the electoral system from a simple majority system to one based on proportional representation with preferential voting that favours numerically smaller groups, the Goigama caste that is considered to be ‘superior’ and dominates in numerical terms has continued to receive greater representation in the national legislature. The 2020 election result bears witness to the persistent salience of caste in Sri Lankan electoral politics as well as its ability to survive under different political ideologies — conservative, liberal, nationalist or even technocratic. No Sri Lankan political party appeals to a single caste group exclusively. Instead it forms its second and third tier leadership in line with the caste dynamics at the local level. As catch-all parties, they mobilize their electorates and form electoral alliances with minor parties to maximize their votes. These parties come forward to represent the numerous identities and material needs of their potential voters. At the national level, these main parties promise patronage while their local mobilizers are entrusted with the responsibility of channelling the benefits of such patronage to various groups organized around caste. Although caste identity alone will not secure an electoral victory in a highly competitive election, no candidate can secure a victory without being sensitive to caste dynamics. The continuing salience of caste has pushed political parties to strike a balance in which they appear caste-neutral at the national level while leaving their local politicians to look after caste-based representation. Patronage and network politics, which have been in practice since the expansion of the franchise in 1931, connect national politicians with caste groups. It should be noted that this kind of politicization of caste has not resulted in the interests of the relevant caste group being represented per se, but has served as a bargaining tool in securing the relevant group’s access to goods and services. The results of the 2020 elections confirm that Sri Lankan democracy is neither casteless nor caste-blind, but is demonstrably casteist. More than seven decades after Independence, the numerically and hierarchically superior Goigama continues to constitute a majority in the legislature. Even the new ‘technocratic’ political ethos, then, seems to be partially underpinned by an old logic it supposedly has little to do with.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-136
08-10-2020||Opinion||Bitter, angry division||The Covid-19 pandemic and the massive global economic disruption have left people wondering about the timing and the speed of economic recovery. One type of recovery frequently talked about is described by the letter, ‘K’. This description is new and relates to the possibility that once the dust settles on the pandemic, and economic activity begins to recover, the small set of ultra-rich people will get richer, while the remaining population will continue to slide in terms of income and well-being. This divergence is captured by the two angular arms of the letter, ‘K’. This simply implies that inequalities in income and wealth will increase, with many people plummeting down to poverty and joblessness. Inequality, per se, has been an accepted feature of a market-driven economy. Indeed, some amount of inequality is deemed desirable as it provides incentive for people to work harder to grow richer. It is also desirable to the extent that richer people are supposed to have more capacity to invest, thereby creating new jobs and incomes. In the contemporary world, however, inequalities in wealth and income have grown to a scale where there are the haves, the have-nots, and the much-more-haves, sometimes referred to as the super-rich. A handful of super-rich people control enormous amounts of wealth, investments and political decisions made by governments. This power is germane to capitalism. However, it creates an economic problem. When a large part of the population has limited purchasing power and a few have more than enough, then investment scales become limited even when the large companies access global markets. An example will suffice. Google’s earnings depend on the fact that people have access to the internet and possess at least one internet-enabling device. Many people already have that, but certainly not everyone. Suppose Google, along with two or three other giant firms, provides internet-enabled services to three billion people. The remaining are on the other side of the tech-divide. The scale is usually enough for these few firms to earn enormous profits. It is irrelevant for them to know much about how the other half of the world lives. Their main source of continuing profits are astonishingly rapid innovations that change the services they offer through new devices and new applications. Before the pandemic hit, the world was already an unequal place. For instance, in the United States of America, the top 10 per cent of the population held 77 per cent of total national wealth, while the bottom 50 per cent held 1.6 per cent. The workers’ share in national income declined from 64.5 per cent in 1974 to 56.8 per cent recently. According to Oxfam, in India, the top 1 per cent held 42.5 per cent of the national wealth in 2020, while the bottom 50 per cent of Indians owned only 2.8 per cent. In 2017, 73 per cent of the new wealth generated in the country that year went to the top 1 per cent. In 2000, India had only nine billionaires. By 2018, India had 119 billionaires. A female domestic worker in India will take 22,277 years to earn what the chief executive officer of a top technology firm earns in one year. For a minimum-wage Indian worker, it will take 941 years to earn the annual salary of a CEO of a top garment manufacturing company. The pandemic has made things much worse everywhere. Millions of people have lost their jobs and sources of income. Millions of others have taken hefty pay cuts. And a million others are waiting on tenterhooks for a lay-off or business closure. On the other hand, giant firms like Apple, Microsoft, Walmart, YouTube, Netflix, Zoom, Johnson & Johnson, Merck, Pfizer, Amazon and Shopify have made billions during the pandemic because of a spurt in demand for their products or services. In the US, during the first six months of the pandemic, billionaires have added $845 billion to their wealth. On the other side, according to Forbes magazine, in the first three months, $6.5 trillion worth of household wealth was wiped out. During the pandemic, 45.5 million individuals filed for unemployment benefits in the US. In India the data are not so easily available. However, it is quite clear that big-tech has benefited hugely from the large market in India. It is also quite clear that Indian corporate giants have grown substantially during the pandemic. The larger and longer implications of these trends, dramatically sharpened during the pandemic, are uncomfortable to say the least. India has a long and ugly history of gender, caste and communal inequalities, along with economic inequalities. There is enough research around the world to suggest that with the growth of economic inequalities in any society, the quality-of-life indicators decline: life expectancy, mathematical and literacy skills, infant mortality, crime and incarcerations, suicides and depression, crime against women, and substance abuse such as drugs and alcohol. The social fabric gets stretched and strained till something snaps. A number of things happen as these trends of concentrating profits in the hands of fewer and fewer people get stronger. Governments, irrespective of their ideology or the extent of their popular support, become captives of large corporations, both national and multinational. In India, over the past nine months, the National Democratic Alliance government has moved away from its populist stand. Recent legislative enactments affecting farmers and workers reflect a clear swing in favour of large companies in the name of promoting rapid growth. To distract attention from this crisis of governance, governments turn to nationalism and tribalism. The world falls into an ‘us-versus-them’ divide, the enemy clearly defined and visibly present. The ‘us’, who are privy to the bonanza of growth and innovations, include not only the very rich; there is a place for the very intelligent too. Until the last four or five decades, capitalism had grown in a way where repetitive work was the norm. One learned a skill and practised it for life, honing it along the way. One became a banker, stuck to the job, and ended a more efficient and experienced banker. Stability and ordered discipline were the needs of the economic system. Now, suddenly, everything has to change in the world as fast as possible, and change must be continuous. The core skill has shifted from run-the-world to change-the-world in a 180-degree turnaround. The new inequality of skills and the consequent inequalities of income and wealth render anyone who is not clever enough to continuously change useless, unproductive and unemployable. They are also told that their children cannot become clever enough. The decks are stacked against them from birth. They are the new outcasts, the new wasted lives. They include the poor and deprived, they also include many new entrants in the army of redundancy. This becomes a bitter, emotional, angry divide. The challenge of governance is to keep this useless class under control by technology-enabled round-the-clock surveillance, arbitrary violence, and endless misinformation about the world. One would have expected that the Covid-19 challenge would be a common enemy of humankind and we would forge a joint effort to fight it. In the process we would have learnt to cooperate globally on a number of other pressing problems. On the contrary, we have all become little, isolated bubbles. Welcome to the brave new world of distrust, deprivation and disease. Whether all is well or not obviously depends on where exactly one is positioned on the angular sides of the letter, ‘K’. The author is former professor of Economics, IIM Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-136
