09-10-2020||Opinion||Space issues: Legitimacy of protests||Dissent shares an umbilical cord with democracy. But there is also the need to allocate designated sites for protest in a democracy. This seems to be the gist of the observations made by the Supreme Court in its response to a bunch of petitions that had sought the discontinuation of the Shaheen Bagh protest because the participants and the police had ended up blocking an important thoroughfare inconveniencing commuters for months. Several opinions expressed by the apex court must be acknowledged in this instance. India’s highest court, once again, upheld the sanctity of public demonstration. This cannot be undermined at a time when New India has witnessed repeated instances of an elected regime attempting to stifle dissent either by force or — Shaheen Bagh and now Hathras are examples — through a sustained vilification campaign. The court’s emphasis on the right balance between public protest and public responsibilities is of considerable importance too. Protests that do not inconvenience public utilities — India has a culture of not-too-peaceful demonstrations even though Shaheen Bagh was a notable exception — may have the potential to mobilize greater support for the cause. Hearteningly, technology has not been held up as an alternative to public participation; the court said that while the digital medium functions as a force multiplier, it often ends up polarizing movements. It must also be admitted that the Supreme Court’s suggestion of the allocation of specific sites of protest is not without international precedent. ‘Free speech zones’ — a number of nations around the world have them — are designated sites of gathering and protest. The questions, however, concern such issues as practical implementation as well as the designs of the State. Would the Indian equivalent of a free speech zone be able to accommodate the sheer numbers that are often mobilized in support or in condemnation? What would prevent such designated areas to be transformed into sites of surveillance, the kind of monitoring that could lead to the persecution of dissenters, as has been the case with those who stood up to the Citizenship (Amendment) Act? Even though the court said that the mode of protest in colonial India cannot be compared with that of an independent democracy, could the confinement of protest to notified spaces be perceived as an infringement upon the Constitutional right to assemble peacefully? The relationship between rights and duties is far from simple. The resolution of such delicate dilemmas requires continuous engagement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-135
09-10-2020||Opinion||Twisted plot: Conspiracy and the Hathras case||There it is — the ‘foreign hand’. The Uttar Pradesh chief minister has ordered an investigation into what he says is an international plot by groups and individuals overseas to create caste-based conflict in his state. This is the most imaginative defence to have been thought up to discredit the countrywide protests against administrative and police actions to suppress the realities of the alleged gang rape of a Dalit girl in Hathras by upper-caste men and her subsequent death. International conspiracy is an idea for a possible chorus that can be taken up by the Bharatiya Janata Party cadre and repeated ad nauseam in the hope that it can replace facts. Simultaneously, first information reports against protesters and an online site carrying information about protests are being lodged, on charges ranging from sedition and inciting conflict between groups to forgery and cheating as well as unlawful assembly, with arrests in some instances. Evidently, ‘anti-national’ elements, funded by foreigners, and the Opposition are going all out to hurt the image of the Yogi Adityanath government supposedly reputed for its excellent law and order. That is, the protests are contrived and motivated. Apart from alleged efforts of the authorities to undermine the accusation of rape and the veracity of the family’s accounts, blocking Opposition leaders and members of the media from reaching the girl’s village, too, continued for days. But this showed up the rather low-key responses of the chiefs of the Bahujan Samaj Party and the Samajwadi Party to the violence and the attempts to suppress what is being seen as a lethal upper-caste atrocity on a Dalit girl. Although Mayawati heads a Dalit-based party, all she could say was that the UP government should concentrate on ensuring justice for the Dalit family and could rectify its mistake, while rebuking the government for its silence after the family complained of threats by the district magistrate. The former firebrand leader of the party for social justice, Mulayam Singh Yadav, was silent; his son and present leader, Akhilesh Yadav, condemned the erasure of evidence by the cremation of the girl by the police and criticized the government for stopping his party workers from reaching the village. Since both leaders are on their own turf in the state, this is both disheartening and politically enigmatic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-136
09-10-2020||Opinion||New Discourse: Theory and praxis||In an interview before his death, Eduardo Galeano, one of Latin America’s foremost voices, had said, “Based on what I have experienced in my life, I have the impression that we make the history that makes us.” On one end is the humanist vision that considers history to be the result of the struggles for liberty and justice. And on the other is the anti-humanist school that regards individuals as a product of history and freedom to be a mere illusion. Liberal intellectuals belonging to the humanist school have, over time, encouraged the academic world to engage critically and articulate their opposition to any conformist control especially when authoritarianism and intellectual vacuity rage across the globe. The conflict has always been between a university becoming a seat of diversity and a seat of indoctrination. Freedom and restraint are the opposite poles of deciding the limits that a university could go to in expressing contentious views. Hannah Arendt’s views on the hegemony of the State with stiff control over thought and action can be applied to universities that retreat into silent acquiescence, discouraging diversity. Familiarity with the lectures and writings of public intellectuals like Noam Chomsky, Edward Said or Terry Eagleton is a rigorous training in the multiplicity of opinions from a left libertarian point of view. This has inspired teachers and students to stand up against forces that undermine the progressive functions of a university. As advocates of emancipatory reason, of a rationalist analysis of the world, these public intellectuals validate a commitment to human freedom, inspiring young academics to regard
the classroom as an arena of political interest and bold intervention. Probing deep into history and culture, they have bequeathed on the university culture the intellectual requisite of free and frank dialogue with the spotlight on public responsibilities. This has consolidated a culture of distrust for any imposition of restraining powers on the university.For justice Generations of teachers and students have approved of the intensity and the social commitment inherent in the intellectual legacies of philosopher-teachers like Jean-Paul Sartre, Simone de Beauvoir, Theodor Adorno and Walter Benjamin. Their endorsement of the exchange of ideas and their willingness to reflect on the opposing point of view had a profound impact on the meaning of human emancipation. They realized that the conscience was the most reliable instrument of inquiry. For these philosopher-teachers, the borders between political beliefs and existence, pedagogy and civic obligation, were blurry. An unwavering concern for social justice and the lending of a voice to the deprived became the raison d’être of their political philosophy. Boisterous and freewheeling teaching and research, exploration of the unconventional and the unexpected, and always holding orthodox assumptions to critical scrutiny became the guiding principles of a free mind. The acceptance of alternative discourse and engaging in debates on the basis of rationality imbued generations with an attitude that balanced tolerance with scepticism. With left politics having taken a beating and the far right in ascendance, the only hope now lies in redirecting cultural and political theory as well as the study of liberal arts towards active politics. Pedagogy, therefore, has to turn into a radical struggle, provoking the academic world. Arendt was correct to note, as she did in her reflections of the 1956 Hungarian Revolution, that ‘the tide of history can shift radically and rapidly, once established hierarchies are disrupted by the broad-based delegitimization of prevailing power relations.’||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-136
09-10-2020||Opinion||Democracy’s future||Whatever be the final outcome of the presidential elections in the United States of America, thinkers all over the world are seriously worried about the future of democracy, at least the kind of democracy that the world had dreamt of during the twentieth century. Similarly, there is anxiety whether human control over large social and political systems can be continued at all in view of the great advancement in artificial intelligence. Central to both these large questions is the question of how we grasp the mutual engagement of democracy and machine memory. Natural Memory, in order to be memory, first needs to predicate a notion of the past. One does not know if the limitless expanse and emptiness through which the process of the creation of the cosmos and the subsequent process of evolution of life have taken place can be invested with a time dimension. But having conceptualized Time and its segments, such as present and non-present time, Memory likes to make an engagement with the past its prerogative. Having come into existence, Memory asserts its identity by striving to infinitely extend the past backward to an ever-receding point of origin. This it does, as Memory is a generative process, much more than it is a process of merely collecting or recording of what is or was. The idea of an infinite past turns the ever-receding pastness into ‘Something’, a ‘That’ or an ‘It’ — an object of curiosity — although such a pastness is only a hypothesis. The indescribable ‘It’, without attributes and without any further past, is, then, imagined as power. In turn, it also begins to be seen as the source of all forms of power, spiritual or material, either in the order of god or in the order of government. For primitive human society, power emanated through the word of shamans, for it was the shaman alone who was believed to possess a superlative ability to remember all, something that the others did not have. In societies that accepted kingship as a valid form of power, the king was believed to have a kind of divine sanction to rule and to be the holder of the memory of the precise moment of the birth of this arrangement. The king’s subject people were not considered worthy of such a divinely sanctioned ability. The idea of democracy took birth in the desire to rebel against the idea of ‘That’, ‘It’, ‘the pastness beyond past’ — anything that was out of the reach of man’s rational abilities. Even though the specific historical particulars differ from nation to nation, the desire for accepting democracy as the form of government has a shared, universal narrative. It is a new social and political arrangement, which is bound to have an uneasy relationship with a mystified and deified past. Besides, the historical moment of arrival of democracy as an arrangement of power, which coincided with the birth of rationality as the foundation of science and modernity as an ecosystem of sensibility, places further stress on the uneasy relationship between Memory and Democracy. For many centuries in the past, Utopia was seen as the mythical future. In the era of democracy, the future ceases to be a mere myth and starts becoming the source of power, a function that Memory had performed in pre-democratic ages. It is difficult to say if the historical coincidence of the rise of rationality as the essence of knowledge and the rise of democracy as the essence of power-arrangement is reason enough to argue that the emergence of the technology-driven, non-natural memory is in any tangible way linked with democracy. Sigmund Freud’s analysis of dreams points to the working of suppressed Natural Memory as the mother of dreams. It is difficult to say if, in an analogous way, Artificial Memory, the AM or the memory chip, has an ability to spawn dreams of the future in the era of democracy. Artificial Memory is organized and systematic. Unlike Natural Memory, it does not predicate a past, and certainly not an interminable past. It does not mystify and deify that infinite past, which is essentially an idea. The AM is self-sure and does not require for its self-justification the idea of a creator — god — a long forgotten moment of its creation and a point of origin, albeit never to be fully known. The AM is itself its origin. It itself is god. Democracy, with its attendant mental ecology of modernity and its uneasy relation with the idea of the past, does not easily grasp how it can deal with Artificial Memory. While it requires the future as a myth, it does not know how it can generate that myth in the times of AM. That is going to be a long struggle and an entrenched debate that human societies will have to negotiate in the decades to come. Meanwhile, the AM, which by its very condition of being what it is, neither being able to generate myth nor being able to give birth to dreams, can only produce rumours, illusions, hypnotizing chimera or mesmerizing terror. Short of dreams — as distinct from rumours and illusions — for the future, the democratic order will continue to limp forward unless humans think seriously of the implications of the disjuncture between dreams and AM. At present, most governments in the world, including the government of India, are busy using AM to discipline, order and control citizens. In that process, they are facilitating the supremacy of the AM over democracy. It is, however, too late in history to think of knowledge and society without the presence — an overwhelming presence — of the AM. In the twenty-first century, democracy can redeem itself not by seeking to extern the grip of technology over psychology, not by calling to aid the ‘inner strength’ of democracy. That faded out a few decades ago not just in India but in most other countries. Democracy can, one hopes, redeem itself not by an obsolete mystification of History and Memory. It can be redeemed by grasping the absolute contradiction between Natural Memory and Artificial Memory. The party that is obsessively interested in making ‘past alone’ as the main plank of its politics is quite hopelessly out of tune with the historical shifts in the trajectory of Memory and its impact on the forms of government. Similarly, politics that is entirely technology-driven has a view of the future that can only hasten the decline of democracy. In the twenty-first century, pro-democratic politics will have to bring gods and robots face to face and confront one with the other in order to rebuild the future as a myth and invent an AM that is capable of having a sense of its past. They need to meet and transform themselves for the long life of democracy. The author is a literary scholar and cultural activist ganesh_devy@yahoo.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-136
