10-10-2020||Opinion||Magical skill: Goodbye Eddie Van Halen||Sir — It was deeply saddening to read that Eddie Van Halen, the renowned lead guitarist of the iconic rock band, Van Halen, passed away a few days ago after battling throat cancer for years. He was only 65 years old. The news was shared with the world by his son, Wolf Van Halen, through social media. With Eddie’s death, those of us who grew up in the 1970s and early 1980s have lost yet one more musical icon from our childhood and teenage years. Indeed, Van Halen was a popular band even with people who grew up in the 1990s and the 2000s, which only bears further testimony to their enduring legacy. Eddie and his brother, Alex, began to play together when they were just teenagers, but went on to form the heart of the group after meeting David Lee Roth. The band released more than 12 albums together over the course of 40 years. Through their turbulent career — the lead singer of the band kept changing, with Roth being followed by Sammy Hagar and Gary Cherone, before Hagar and then Roth eventually returned — it was Eddie’s other-worldly skills with the guitar that provided the musical act with the anchor that it needed. Not only did he impress fans and critics alike with his guitar solos on songs such as “Runnin’ with the Devil”, “Panama”, “Why Can’t This Be Love?” and “Jump” — the last was Van Halen’s only number one hit — but he also collaborated with Michael Jackson for the superhit 1983 song, “Beat It”. Eddie’s contribution to that track transformed Jackson’s sound. The former’s music played a pivotal role in shaping our understanding of rock as a genre; one hopes that the younger generations, too, are able to discover and appreciate Van Halen’s magic. Apurva Majumdar,Calcutta Sir — The news of Eddie Van Halen’s death, coupled with reports of the demise of the well-known reggae and pop singer, Johnny Nash, at the age of 80, made an already-gloomy time even bleaker. It is bad enough that the Covid-19 pandemic has made such a huge difference — in an adverse way — to our lives, in terms of mobility and job prospects. Making matters worse is the regular news of the deaths of many public figures, especially musicians, whose work we grew up loving. Even though Eddie Van Halen rose to popularity when my parents’ generation was growing up, my friends and I were introduced to his band’s music while we were young. As a result, we grew up loving Van Halen and being in awe of Eddie’s guitar skills. In a telling testimony to Eddie’s genius, the singer of Def Leppard, Joe Elliott, spoke about the time he saw a Van Halen performance in 1977. He said that Eddie “reinvented guitar playing just like Jimi Hendrix had done a generation earlier”. There, perhaps, could not be a more apt way to describe Eddie’s contribution to rock music. He will be deeply missed. Pranita Roy,Calcutta Parting Shot Sir — I live in an affluent building complex in southern Calcutta. One would expect that my neighbours within the complex, given their wealth and access to education, would be far more mindful about the dangers of not wearing masks in these times. And yet, every evening, I see the men and women roaming around and fraternizing downstairs sans masks. Even if they do not care about their own health, they should consider the well-being of others. Avira Mukherjee,Calcutta Helping hand Sir — In an interesting turn of events, a hospital in Bhubaneswar has been using a robot to provide medicines, food and remote assistance to patients in the Covid-19 ward, in a bid to protect health workers from contracting the coronavirus. If this model could be replicated in other healthcare centres across the country, even if it is just in urban areas to begin with, it would make a huge difference to the health and workload of front-line health workers. Moreover, could this be seen as an example of human and mechanical labour being able to co-exist without the fear of people losing their jobs? Shalini Bose,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-135
10-10-2020||Opinion||Mind the muscle: Global politics of brawn||It should not have been a chicken-and-egg story. The best of knowledge traditions — science, philosophy, theology — generally converge on one point: that mind is the master and muscle its vassal. This is not to deny muscles their autonomy. Evolution — even though New India is dismissive of it — is proof that mankind could not have walked tall without muscle power, or, for that matter, muscled its way to the top of the food chain. But the wisdom behind these accomplishments, as always, came from the very top of the human anatomy: the mind. In the age of Post-Truth, however, cardinal principles are meant to be mocked at and inverted. Thus, modernity has regressed to deliberating the chicken-and-egg problem: should muscle precede — lord over — the mind? A cursory glance at the global political map would reveal that this, indeed, is the age of muscle. Muscular regimes dot the planet, from India to corners of Europe to the United States of America. Beefy men, metaphorically speaking, have demonstrated, time and again, the supremacy of muscle over mind in their respective constitutions. A testament to this constitutional imbalance, it can be said safely, would be their peculiar attitude to the threat posed by the Covid-19 pandemic to their personal health and the health of their nations. These Men of Steel have come out remarkably rusty in their battle against the contagion. Donald Trump, Jair Bolsonaro, Boris Johnson as well as some lieutenants of India’s Bharatiya Janata Party had pooh-poohed the warnings of wise men — advisers, scientists, political opponents — about the power of the pandemic. The result of their cavalier attitude is now there for all to see. Each of these leaders contracted the virus. That perhaps is the least of civilizational problems, the more worrying point being that the US, Brazil, the United Kingdom and India shoulder the heaviest virus loads in the world. Countless lives have been lost in these countries and their economies crippled. All because muscle was allowed to triumph over the mind by leaders and those who elected them to office. There is, however, a method in this madness of muscle men. Bravado, even the kind that leads to the incapacitation of prudence, has been turned into a political virtue. Armed with this new form of political capital, elected regimes continue to trample over the forces of reason, empathy, kindness and fraternity the world over. India, thus, is a mute spectator to the vilification of minorities who have been accused, among other things, of being eager carriers of Covid. The US watches as a Covid-positive president breaks every conceivable medical protocol so as to bolster his claims of immunity and — none can say Mr Trump lacks humour — of being a perfect physical specimen. Meanwhile, the UK, under Mr Johnson’s able leadership, is bracing for a second, frightening wave of infection. Deliverance does not lie in a vaccine alone. Redemption is predicated upon setting right wrongs — political and moral — so that mind can rein in rogue muscles and, some would add, men.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-135
10-10-2020||Opinion||Green peace: Forest bathing therapy||In the current climate of mental stress, people have taken to spending more time outdoors, both for exercise and relaxation. Now, you can participate in a guided, relaxing ‘Forest Walk’ in Illinois’s Morton Arboretum. The concept, which was brought to the United States of America by the Association of Nature and Forest Therapy Guides and Programs, is based on the Japanese practice of shinrin-yoku, which roughly translates to ‘forest bathing’ or ‘taking in the atmosphere of the forest’. The idea was initially developed by the Japanese ministry of agriculture, forestry and fisheries in the early 1980s as a way to encourage people to get out into nature and improve their health through stress reduction. Guests are guided by certified forest therapists who ‘invite’ participants to commune with nature and notice new details in their surroundings as they walk through the forest. The goal is to wander slowly, with purpose in each step, and be mindful of one’s surroundings. At the end of the walk, participants engage in a 10- to 20-minute seated reflection before foraging plants — like wild bee balm, which makes for a strong-tasting brew — for a calming tea ceremony. The California-based ANFT, founded in 2012, has trained over 1,100 guides in their forest bathing-based therapy. In addition, forest bathing and forest therapy outings have been held in settings that include New Jersey’s Pinelands and Philadelphia’s Schuylkill Center for Environmental Education and the Wissahickon Valley Park. Spooks galore This Halloween, you have a chance to go to Hell. Not 2020; I mean Hell, Michigan. The mayor, John Colone, is putting up his manor on Airbnb on October 14 in this small town outside of Pinckney, Michigan. Guests will be greeted by a pumpkin-lined path to the mayor’s manor, which is dressed up in red velvet curtains, skulls and gold accents. Airbnb, on the other hand, is not so quick to allow guests to book a room for Halloween night in the light of Covid-19. It announced a ban on one-night reservations over the Halloween weekend for home listings in the US and Canada. Previously booked reservations that meet that criteria will be cancelled, and the guests reimbursed. If you are still in the mood to enjoy something spooky for Halloween without risking exposure to the coronavirus, you can take part in a virtual horror tour. Ghost Flix, a live video ghost tour through the haunting streets of more than 20 cities across the US, features real-life guides walking through eerie streets as they narrate the horrors of the neighbourhood. The company, Southernmost Ghost, has partnered with Google Home and Amazon Alexa to give people the opportunity to listen to over 100 scary stories read out by voice actors. You can also buy the Halloween equivalent of the Christmastime ‘Elf on a Shelf’ — a sinister-looking doll modelled on the countess, Elizabeth Báthory, commonly referred to as the female Dracula. You can prop her up on a shelf to add a creepy element to your Halloween.Spicy affair Fall kicked off on September 23 with the changing leaves and chilly temperatures offering a much-needed respite from the past eight months. People have started decorating their front porches with hand-picked pumpkins and squash. Pumpkin spice lattes are selling out as well. Pumpkin spice is a blend of ginger, nutmeg, cinnamon and allspice, created in 1934 by the spice brand, McCormick & Company, who introduced the blend as an alternative for consumers who were buying all four spices to make pumpkin pie. According to Forbes, Starbucks sold an estimated 200 million PSLs in the first 10 years since it was invented. However, around this time each year we get bombarded by all things pumpkin spice, not just lattes. The Honey Baked Ham Company is testing Pumpkin Spice Glazed Turkey Breast in select cities across the US. Kraft is also testing out a pumpkin spice mac-and-cheese. People in the US can use #PumpkinSpiceKMC #Sweepstakes as well as tag @KraftMacNCheese on Twitter for a chance to win one of 1,000 limited-edition Pumpkin Spice Kraft Mac & Cheese products. Pumpkin spice does not involve actual pumpkins. But fall does involve a spike in the purchase of pumpkins themselves. Illinois is the top pumpkin producer in the US and produces twice as many pumpkins as the other four top-producing states.City lessons A scavenger hunt is taking place this month in New York City. At a time when the future is so unpredictable and people are stuck indoors, this is exactly the kind of respite they are looking for. NYC’s month-long prominent architecture-and-design festival, Archtober, is marked by the 36-hour, five-borough outdoor scavenger hunt put on by Open House New York and Archtober. Now in its 10th year, the festival invites participants to test how well they truly know NYC. Think brain puzzle meets marathon. People can play by themselves or in teams of up to six. More than 60 clues will be emailed to the team captain on the first day. Teams will capture proof of arrival at each mystery site with a mascot or ‘object’ pictured in all the photos to be submitted for points. The competition ends in prizes. The hunt will take place during this year’s Open House New York weekend. To get from one spot to the next, teams can walk, run, take public transport or use bikes and cars. Teams who do not use cars get a “green energy bonus”. This year, Archtober will host several events online, thereby allowing people from around the globe to take part and learn about New York’s architecture. Footnote Movie theatres may still be shut, but there is an alternative. Not a drive-in, but a pop-up floating cinema in Key Biscayne, Florida. The float-in will travel the coast from Haulover south to Key Biscayne (near the Miami Marine Stadium) and then into the Bill Baggs State Park. On-land viewing tickets will be available for the park screenings, allowing people to drive up rather than boat in. First will be a showing of Jaws followed by Moana, Finding Nemo and other water-centric films.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-135
10-10-2020||Opinion||Constant company||When I moved permanently to Bangalore in 1995, I hoped to renew my acquaintance with five institutions in particular. Two were bookstores. Premier was owned by a shy Hindu from the Konkan coast, and sold new books. Select was owned by a loquacious Kannadiga engineer, and sold used or second-hand books. Both owners were extremely knowledgeable about their stock, and about the obsessions of their regular customers as well. Two other Bangalore institutions I knew well also dealt with the printed word. One was Variety News; it stocked a wide range of periodicals from across India (and the world); it was owned by a family of Muslims who spoke Dakhani to each other and English or Kannada or Tamil to their customers. Like the owners of Premier and Select, those who ran Variety had wonderfully warm relations with their regular customers, knowing their interests and catering to them with professional ease. Then there was the British Library; one of the more benign legacies of imperial rule, it housed books published in the United Kingdom, here issued to desi members by devoted and competent desi librarians. I liked all of these places; but the place that I liked most was Koshy’s Parade Café. ‘Koshy’s’ is how the newer residents of the city know it; for me it has always been ‘Parade’s’. The restaurant is located on St Mark’s Road, on the ground floor of a two-storey building owned by the Church of South India. Parade’s was founded in 1952 by a Syrian Christian from Kerala named P.O. Koshy. I first got to know it in 1970, exactly 50 years ago. I was spending the summer with my uncle in Bangalore, going with him every afternoon to practise with the Friends Union Cricket Club at a ground opposite the Kanteerava Stadium, a cricket ball’s thrown away from Koshy’s. After nets we cricketers would repair to the café, where the men drank coffee and I, 12 years old at the time, drank lime juice. I got to know Parade’s much better in the 1980s, when I was working in Bangalore. Our house was off M.G. Road (near the Trinity Circle side), and on my way to the café were both Select and Premier. Across the road from Koshy’s was Variety News, and above Koshy’s itself was the British Library. My way to Parade’s thus happily took in visits to four varied — I should say gloriously varied — repositories of print culture. Once I entered the café I would order a coffee, and perhaps a snack, while taking out from my jhola the books and magazines I had just bought, opening and riffling their pages with love and with anticipation. After half-an-hour at Koshy’s I would walk back home. In 1989 my wife, Sujata, and I moved to Delhi, returning to Bangalore six years later. Back in 1995 all the places I knew and loved were still flourishing. The situation in 2020 is somewhat different. Premier, Variety News and the British Library have all shut down, while Select is a shadow of its former self. In the 25 years since I settled in Bangalore, only one institution has kept me continuous company — Koshy’s Parade Café. Parade’s is now run by the founder’s grandsons, Santhosh and Prem. Santhosh is quiet and self-effacing; very much a behind-the-scenes man, keeping the institutional operations afloat. Prem, on the other hand, is affable and outgoing — hopping from table to table chatting with customers and getting feedback on new items on the menu (and many other things besides). Prem Koshy is the same age as my wife, Sujata, and they grew up on adjoining streets. In the days when he was a young hippie, he would say, on being introduced to someone his age who was not of his sex: ‘The name is Prem. It means luvvhh’. His passion at the time was rifle shooting. Then he went to Louisiana to study baking technology, and became an alcoholic. He returned home, and gave up both the gun and the bottle. With his brother, Santhosh, he now devoted himself to making his father’s and grandfather’s café an always welcoming place in a chaotic and ever-changing city. The attractions of Koshy’s are various: the light, the ambience, the food, the location and, not least, the more visible of the two owners. Prem is stocky in build, clad often in jeans, and always with a large ring of keys around his waist. He is infinitely kind with customers; first-timers can stay hours with a single cup of coffee, while old-timers can go on a riotous binge if they so choose. I have never seen him raise his voice, or wear a grumpy face, not even when an ill-considered Supreme Court ruling got him to stop serving liquor, on the grounds that the place was too close to M.G. Road, allegedly a ‘national highway’. (It was months before this ruling was overturned — the financial losses suffered by Koshy’s in this period must have been immense.) Everyone who has visited Parade’s more than once grows to like Prem. Those who have been going there for some years know that, for all its identity with him, the café does not consume his life: there is his wife, Ruby, and his son, Josh, his love of theatre and his own ability to rescue and rehabilitate snakes from building sites. And his ability to rescue and rehabilitate some humans too. Although his restaurant serves liquor, he has himself not had a drop since he returned from the United States of America. He is deeply involved with the Bangalore branch of Alcoholics Anonymous, and has personally helped many men, of varying ages and class backgrounds, conquer their addiction and rebuild themselves and their families. I have two Prem stories of my own which show the special character of the man. The first relates to a gifted young photographer named G. Raghav, who did a series of portraits of people at the café (including one of the great playwright, Girish Karnad). When Raghav died in his thirties, of cancer, Prem hosted a meeting paying tribute to his work, for which he closed down the establishment for an entire afternoon, serving tea and snacks on the house while the rest of us made speeches about our friend and his legacy. Certainly no restaurant owner in Delhi or Bombay would forsake hours of business to honour the memory of a relatively unknown artist. We were all very moved, no one more so than Raghav’s mother. The second story may be even better. One night, Sujata and I returned home to find a large owl in the garage. He would not move, and we did not want to hurt him. We stood next to the owl, hissed at him, shone the headlights at him, but he stayed put. What to do? Call Prem, said Sujata. Are you sure, I asked: it is 10.30 already. Call him, she insisted, he knows about birds and animals, and will go anywhere to help them. So I called Prem. Fortunately he was awake, and of course he lived on the next street. He came over, saw the big, beaky, beady-eyed fellow still staring at us, walked up, stared back at him for a minute before picking him up in one arm. Prem then came out onto the main road and flung the owl into the sky. The owl shook his wings, shook his head, and flew away to safety. When we asked for a diagnosis, Prem said that the poor fellow was drunk, having sucked deep into the roots of a palm tree, the sort of stuff that happened to birds of this species on moonlit nights at this time of the year. Because he was drunk Prem could pick him up easily; because Prem flung him so hard and so high he was shaken out of his stupor and could save himself from humans while allowing us to go home and go to bed too. Like most business establishments in Bangalore, Koshy’s Parade Café was grievously affected by the pandemic. It has been mostly shut since April, but it opened again last week, operating with a strict safety regimen in place. That it has reopened is a relief, and a blessing. As one grows older one has fewer wishes and hopes for oneself. One of mine is this; that I may die before my favourite café does. I can probably (just about) live without music, cricket and even books, but life without Parade’s is impossible to contemplate. ramguha@gmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-135
