11-10-2020||Opinion||Let there be light||Only days ago, Chirag Paswan announced that the Lok Janshakti Party would contest the Bihar Assembly polls all by itself. Notwithstanding the strings attached to the BJP in Delhi, many an eyebrow turned tangential. The BJP’s doing to punish Nitish for his past dalliances, agreed most. After all, why else would a humble chirag, splutter at a full-blown political persona as chief minister and JDU boss Nitish Kumar and want to contest 143 seats given its current Vidhan Sabha tally of 2 out of 243? And that is how things would have remained had tragedy not struck the LJP. With the death of Ram Vilas Paswan there is talk of a sympathy vote for the LJP. And sympathy in politics can be a potent thing. Sometimes it can preclude processes and elections. That happened in 1984, after the assassination of Indira Gandhi. In 1991, it was the sympathy vote following the assassination of Rajiv Gandhi that averted the hung Parliament predicted by pundits, helped Congress fare better in the post-assassination poll phases, and win 244 seats and form government. And yet two decades later, when the Congress fell out with the late YSR’s son, Jagan Reddy, it seemed to have discounted the sympathy cards stashed in the favour of the good son. For a good while, Jagan Reddy rode all kinds of sympathies big and misplaced. First, there was his father’s tragic death, then his arrest following the disproportionate assets case and 16-month jail time. He lost the 2014 elections and was knifed while boarding a flight in 2018 before going on to achieve a clean sweep in 2019 and assume chief ministership of Andhra Pradesh. In the South, the DMK won the Madras Legislative Assembly elections of 1967 after MGR was shot in the ear by a co-actor and nearly lost his voice and hearing. The DMK alone won 137 seats; the Congress came second with 51 seats. But sympathy can be partisan. When MGR died in 1987, his wife succeeded him as the AIADMK chief minister, but remained in power only for a few days. Instead, people and political heavyweights transferred their affections and sympathy to his political heir, Jayalalithaa. In 1991, the AIADMK under Jayalalithaa fought the Assembly elections in alliance with the Congress and when Rajiv Gandhi died, the sympathy propelled the alliance into victory and Jayalalithaa into the hot seat. Last week, close on the heels of the news of Paswan Sr’s death, a letter from his son to BJP national president J.P. Nadda was leaked. The missive, from reports, appears to be a listicle of Nitish’s misdemeanors against the just departed. All very well, except you might ask --- where is the voter in all of this? Where are the policies and plans and development issues waiting to be addressed? You could always ask you know, and you would have the sympathies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-134
11-10-2020||Opinion||Facing headwinds in the East||It was back in the early 1990s that India introduced its “Look East Policy” which was transformed in 2015 into an “Act East Policy” that was meant to serve the twin purposes of stronger commercial links with the region and to create development opportunities for the Indian North East. But now it may be necessary to finetune that Act East Policy to ensure that it brings about the desired results. India has made steady progress in its ties with the ASEAN and its related frameworks as also with countries further East, including Japan, South Korea, Australia and the Pacific islands. This has even been extended to the Russian Far East for which the slogan “Act Far East” was coined. Progress, however, has faced headwinds over the last few years, and Covid-19 has brought about a need for reprioritisation and reorientation. From the Western Pacific, Australia and Japan to the South China Sea, and the Line of Actual Control on the Indo-Chinese border, the Indo-Pacific is facing the brunt of China’s aggressive policies, unjustified territorial claims and policies aimed at cornering resources. China has continued with occupation and artificial creation of islands, and their militarisation in disputed waters of the South China Sea; and incidents of denial of fishing, passage and drilling in territorial waters claimed by countries like Vietnam, Indonesia, Malaysia, and Philippines have intensified. Territorial claims advanced by China on specious grounds have been emboldened thanks to Covid-19. China has used intensive outreach to neutralise growing unease by assisting selected Asean countries in the ongoing Covid 19 pandemic. It has also advanced subsidised 5G telecommunications networks and established a dependency wherever possible. In infrastructure, China has a formidable presence in many countries of the region through its BRI (Belt and Road Initiative) policies. Countries in the region have responded with a mixture of protests, trepidation, appeasement, balancing, and helplessness. China has ensured a lack of consensus within Asean on Chinese actions. Given the lack of adequate resources and funding available in the world today, most countries in the Asean and the Pacific Islands still view China as an economic opportunity. As US influence and interest in the region wanes, Chinese power will rise. The Asean India FTA in goods has been in force for some years, but due to its growing trade deficit with Asean, India has sought a full review before the end of the year to ensure the strengthening of the Rules of Origin provisions, removal of non–tariff barriers and provision of better market access.  Although Asean finally completed ratification of the services and investment FTA with India in 2019, no country has issued notifications and no sectoral mutual recognition agreements have been initiated between India and Asean. The promise of a boom in bilateral trade and investments between India and Asean is fading, especially since India pulled out of the RCEP negotiations in 2019, mainly due to Chinese intransigence on strengthening the Rules of Origin provisions, and a time-bound dispute settlement mechanism to stop it dumping in the Indian market. The trilateral highway which will connect India, Myanmar and Thailand, is also languishing. A $1-billion credit line announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2015 to enhance digital and infrastructure connectivity with Asean is lying unused. Clear guidelines for deploying these funds and utilising the fund for feasibility studies on selected projects need to be developed and discussed with Asean countries in a time-bound manner. Some $77 million was committed towards developing manufacturing hubs in the CMLV countries (Cambodia, Myanmar, Laos and Vietnam) but progress has been dilatory. Costs for completing the Kaladan multi-modal transport project, linking Calcutta to Sittwe port in Myanmar, extending into Mizoram by the river and land routes are escalating due to delays. It is for this reason that Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla sought to move towards functionality for this project during his visit to Myanmar on October 5 India’s desire for developing port infrastructure in Sabang (in Indonesia’s Aceh province) is significant but requires financing. Sea links are vital between the eastern seaboard of India including the ports of Ennore and Chennai to CMLV countries and there is need for improving trans-shipment links with partners like Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia and Thailand. For these proposals to succeed, India and Asean have to create shipping joint ventures, and agree on related concessions through an agreement on maritime transport. An Asean India air-services agreement which would benefit trade, investments and tourism is on the back-burner due to the pandemic. India still needs, though, to ensure that the North East states are ready with export capability and the wherewithal to attract investments when the connectivity projects with Asean fructify. The silver lining is that India has been active in setting up coastal surveillance networks and has been steadily enhancing the capacity for shared Maritime Domain Awareness and has strengthened defence arrangements at a bilateral level with countries like Singapore, Vietnam, Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Myanmar and Thailand. India has also stepped up maritime exercises with Asean countries and the Indian navy conducts the Milan exercise with the navies of the Indian ocean region around the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. In September 2020, India and Asean reviewed progress in implementation of the Asean India Plan of Action 2016-20 and adopted a new plan of action for the next five years. The review focused on maritime cooperation, connectivity, education and capacity building, cooperation in fighting the pandemic and people-to-people contacts. At their joint committee meeting in June 2020. Asean and India looked at ways to improve the utilisation of the Asean India Fund and Asean India Green Fund, to finance joint projects. Health emergency and medicine, environment, education and skills development, energy, smart cities, and digital connectivity projects focusing on financial structure and e-governance as well as cyber security have emerged as the new priority focus areas. India must fix its credibility erosion with Asean by focusing on its strengths in generic medicine, pharmaceuticals and vaccine development, as well as strengthening the digital infrastructure between India and Asean through concrete, quick impact and timebound projects. New Delhi’s focus needs to narrow down, instead of being spread across an unmanageable “desired” list. An indication of the likely shifts in the post-Covid global economic order in the region is visible from the Resilient Supply Chain Initiative (RSCI) proposal mooted jointly by Australia, India and Japan. However, this initiative would require putting into place financial incentives for these shifts. It would also require the participants to agree on preferential investment rules, key tariffs specific to these supply chains, quality standards, rules of origin for determining value addition, cross-border data-flow rules, and dispute-settlement mechanisms. India must quickly restart FTA negotiations with Australia, release the CII Australia Economic Strategy Report at the Ministerial level, and undertake a major, time-bound effort with all countries involved. It is imperative to flesh out concrete steps under the seven pillars of the Indo Pacific Oceans Initiative, announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last November at the Thailand Summit with Asean. The idea is that one or two countries could take the lead in driving work on a particular pillar, thus creating a cooperative network. India should also work with Quad countries on infrastructure projects as an alternative to the Chinese BRI by pooling resources. This could include Japanese FDI in Asean, ADBs Leading Asia’s private Sector Infrastructure Fund (LEAP) created with JICA; the US $60-billion funding - through the (BUILD) Act and the $1.5-billion appropriation per year up to five years via the US (ARIA) Act; and an Infrastructure Initiative by Australia worth AUS $2 billion aimed at the Pacific. India provides $200,000 each year on a rollover basis to each of the 14 island states which are members of FIPIC (Forum for India-Pacific Islands Cooperation) for developmental projects. This is in addition to the Asean India fund, the Asean India Green fund as well as the $1 billion credit facility announced for digital and infrastructure connectivity in 2015. All these resources can be pooled for a few model projects that can serve as capability demonstrators. India should also join the Blue Dot Initiative (the US-led counter to China’s BRI) which aims at quality Infrastructure, provided it is not confined to certification and actually works out a concrete corpus for funding projects. India’s Act East policy now requires a strong strategic focus. India will have to be nimble and quick in completing its connectivity projects with Asean. New Delhi will also have to focus on creating lasting defence and economic interdependencies with countries of the region, thus ensuring a stable and peaceful external environment for its own economic development. The writer is a former Secretary (East) in the Ministry of External Affairs, and has served as Ambassador to Italy, Thailand, Oman and Poland.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-134
11-10-2020||Opinion||Ek ladki ko dekhaa toh aisaa lagaa||As if a... hmmmmm. As if a monster need. As if a vandal greed. As if a trickster tryst, accidental, at unplanned crossroads. As if a meeting that should never have been. As if a crossroads nobody should have been despatched to. As if a place that is no meeting place. As if a place that needs abrogation. As if a place we are fortunate not to know the address of. As if a crossroads we are fortunate to have no roadmap to. As if another name we cannot print. As if another tale we should not tell. As if another dare we must defy. As if another law that’s no more than a flaw. As if another bell ringing. As if a need to respond. As if a jab and prod — wake up, if not now, when? As if a last call. As if a no, no, no, no, nooooo of disbelief resounding. As if a yes, cold as reality, cutting as the truth. As if a victim. As if a villain. As if a lone victim. As if a number of villains. As if a victim wrecked. As if a villain revelling. As if a cry. As if a cry of relief. As if a cry that is rending. As if a cry of protest. As if a cry of surrender. As if a cry after which there will no crying. As if a cry after which there will be more crying. As if a cry that will not be heard. As if a cry in vain. As if a tear welling. As if a tear that dried before its dropping. As if again. As if another one. As if a thing that will not stop to happen. As if a thing just waiting to happen. As if a thing that was always going to happen. As if a thing that has no end and leaps from one satanic end to another. As if another name that will not be taken. As if a name already banished. As if a name already silenced. As if a name that haunts from that pyre of proscriptions and banishments. As if a name that will now not be gone. As if a name that will insist. As if a name that will tug. As if a name that will ask. As if a name that will implore. As if a name that will look you in the eye. As if a name you cannot excise from your eye. As if a name that will not be rubbed away. As if a dream. As if a darkening dream. As if a tumult under the eyelids. As if a piercing. As if a pain. As if a devil in it. As if a devilish devouring of a dream. As if a thing done to death but not quite yet. As if a thing still of use. As if a thing still to abuse. As if a little more. As if a life not yet entirely throttled. As if a life not yet gone. As if a life requiring snuffing. As if a hunger not yet fully fed. As if a thirst not yet slaked. As if a lust not stopping to ooze. As if a breath of spring she never breathed. As if a winter she did not shiver. As if a raindrop she never drank. As if a summer never burst her cheeks to redness. As if a spring never relieved her. As if a tune she did not hum. As if a dance she did not dance. As if a thing to drool over. As if a thing to paw. As if a thing to slap. As if a thing to smother. As if a thing to cut. As if a thing to bruise. As if a thing to knead. As if a thing to scratch. As if a thing to sandwich. As if a thing of appetites. As if a thing to squeeze. As if a thing to bite. As if a thing to bleed. As if a thing to drug. As if a thing to dig. As if a thing to pinch. As if a thing to twist. As if a thing to tear. As if a thing to impale. As if a thing to rupture. As if a thing to break. As if a thing to plunder. As if a thing to silence. As if a thing to throw. As if a thing of no life. As if a sign. As if a signature. As if a body of proof, a body quite done, a body quite dead. As if a reminder to who we are. As if a claim to fame. As if a bleeding medallion of infamy. As if a rage rightly exhausted. As if a vengeance robustly wreaked. As if a collective conscience fed. As if a diktat of burial. As if a censor on the senses. As if a scale turned off-balance. As if a pronouncement blind by a bench blinded. As if a truth we do not wish to countenance. As if a name we cannot print. As if a forlorn grave. As if a gravestone with no name on it. As if a burning. As if a smoke. As if a sight that will live. As if a smell that will travel. As if a stench that will hang. As if again.   As if a demon’s feat As if a human defeat As if an ugliness, nothing neat As if a sordid repeat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-135
11-10-2020||Opinion||Ethical dispossession||In the history of politico-ethical thought in India, the concept of compassion/daya was not always pegged to the idea of identification — the spectator of suffering ‘becoming one’ with the sufferer. In fact, Mohandas Gandhi’s notion of dayadharma (religion of compassion), as the historian, Ajay Skaria, calls it, has been one of the best instances of the grounding of the idea of compassion on a crucial concept of non-identification. In his formidable book, Radical Equality: Ambedkar, Gandhi, and the Risk of Democracy, the historian, Aishwary Kumar, has argued that for Gandhi, touching/approaching the harijan/untouchable within the Indian caste axis required a certain idea of ‘economy’, ‘distance’ or the ‘phenomenology of measure’. To formulate it in different terms, it was based on the analytic of a necessary non-identification of the brahmin with the shudra. To approach this ‘different’, ‘unequal’ Other — the harijan, who was the ‘most violated’ — demanded a fortitude that, Kumar tells us, was often, counter-intuitively enough, founded upon converting the act of ‘discrimination’ itself into a political ideal. Despite Kumar’s critique of Gandhi for contending that unlike the brahmin who could ‘become harijan’, the harijan could never emulate/‘become’ the brahmin, what is crucial to note is that even on an issue like untouchability where Gandhi is arguably at his paternalistic best, the idea of compassion towards this violated harijan was based precisely on an ethic of ‘distance’ between the brahmin and the harijan, as Kumar calls it, and not on identification/sameness. It involved an admission that the ‘upper’ caste can never be completely ‘one’ with the harijan, thereby involving a necessary unknowability/unintelligibility or, what Gandhi called, maryada, an ‘ethics of limit’ (Kumar), and what Skaria, in his crucial book on Gandhi, identifies as an ethic of ‘finitude’ that dwells at the very heart of — and thereby haunts — liberal postulations on freedom. The implication here is that ‘becoming harijan’ (just like ‘becoming woman’) for Gandhi was about two things: first, acknowledging that the ‘truth’ (satya) of the divinity of the harijan’s suffering cannot be accessed unless the one who is aiming at gaining access to this suffering (the non-harijan) sacrifices; second, this act of sacrifice is fundamentally predicated upon acknowledging that gaining access to/‘knowing’ the ‘truth-force’ of the harijan’s divine suffering cannot be based on complete identification of the non-harijan with the harijan. It must involve, what Skaria calls and Kumar explains to be, a ‘radically conservative’ process of both the brahmin and the harijan being ‘dispossessed’ from their own selves. This radically non-sovereign gesture of ‘becoming harijan’ for Gandhi was the fulcrum of the anti-colonial political struggle. It will be a mistake to think that the act of grounding this ‘force of compassion’ (as Kumar calls it) on non-identification was the sole prerogative of Indic traditions. In Plato’s text, Alcibiades — on political governance in early Greek society — the notion of ‘Self-Care’/‘Care of the Self’ shared a remarkably similar apparatus of ideas with the aforementioned legacy of grounding compassion on non-identification. ‘Self-Care’, as Michel Foucault has demonstrated, was predominantly about an unselfconscious acknowledgement that self-knowledge or wisdom (sôphrosunê) was necessary for governing the individuals in the city-state in pre-Christian Athens. This was, in turn, only possible by not ‘learning’ about the ‘truth’ of the other’s suffering but, rather, through looking at the ‘divine’ soul of the other. As Socrates explained, this was structurally similar to how in order to see/visualize oneself, one would generally look at the ‘best part’ of the eye (the pupil) of the other person. In the process (Foucault under-emphasizes this), Plato acknowledged the necessary incompleteness of the self of the one who wishes to govern. However, in the mainstream liberal tradition that eventually helped fortify the edifice of colonial conquest and empire, compassion had a completely heterogeneous meaning. This heterogeneity is best exemplified in one of the founding moments of Western modernity — via Adam Smith’s iconic text, The Theory of Moral Sentiments, through the notion of an apparently homologous term, ‘sympathy’. Sympathy, unlike compassion, is predominantly based on the ‘personal identification’ of the spectator of suffering with the sufferer, victim or the object of governance. The historian, Dipesh Chakrabarty, had pointed out (albeit without emphasizing the aforementioned Gandhian ethic of necessary non-identification/unknowability) that for Smith, the only way through which we can know what other sufferers might be feeling is by ‘imagining’ what we ‘ourselves’ might have felt in a similar situation. Here, the spectator imagines that he himself is enduring ‘similar torments’ and becomes, to a certain extent, the ‘same person’ as the sufferer. For Smith, as Chakrabarty further suggested, there are almost always certain principles in the very nature of an individual that ‘interest him’ in the happiness of others and render their ‘good fortune’ necessary to him. On the contrary, compassion, unlike sympathy, is not merely made to depend on the intelligibility of suffering based on self-identification. Placing this brief conceptual history in the context of the contemporary disparagement of the evocation of religious symbols by Muslims during the anti-CAA protests that India recently witnessed and drawing from an interrogation that Partha Chatterjee, in tracing a genealogy of the present cosmopolitan order, has engaged in, the question one needs to ask is this: is the Indian State apparatus rejecting the anti-colonial, Gandhian legacy of compassion and, instead, appealing to the liberal-ideological and imperialist (Smithian) impulse of sympathy in its exercise of political power? The political scientist, Rahul Rao, has recently pointed out how the evocation of the poem, “Hum Dekhenge”, by Faiz Ahmed Faiz, bearing the lines, “Sab taj uchhale jayenge/Sab takht girae jayenge/ Bas naam rahega Allah ka,” was met with visceral disdain from the liberal-secularizing intelligentsia at IIT Kanpur for supposedly being incommensurable with the identity of a ‘tolerant’ nation. Similarly, when the Muslim woman, Hadiya, in one of her testimonies, defined ‘liberty’ as the habitual recitation of a potentially non-anthropomorphic practice like namaz, that too was met with severe scorn from the judiciary. In a speech delivered in 2012, Narendra Modi had, in fact, suggested, “Drown all your gods in water. The Swami [referring to Vivekananda] left his gods too for a higher aim. Let your god be Mahabharti [the Hindu term for the Indian nation state] now.” These instances of, what Étienne Balibar calls, the ‘careful replacement’ of religious identities with national ones have only multiplied in recent times. What modes of political subjectivity do the State apparatus need to cultivate if it is to, once again, steer the idea of compassion towards the object of governance on non-identification and, thereby, appeal to the Gandhian (Platonic) idiom of compassion? The political future of Indian democracy hinges on whether it pegs itself to the anti-colonial, nationalist legacy of compassion or the liberal-imperialist legacy of sympathy. sbaner03@mail.bbk.ac.uk||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-135
11-10-2020||Opinion||Women, interrupted||Could 2020 be the Year for Women? Women doing well in public life is not new. Yet it cannot be denied that the number of women who excel in science, economics and politics is negligible in comparison to men. But is the old, chauvinistic order crumbling? The Nobel Prize in chemistry has gone to two women scientists — they developed a revolutionary genome-editing tool that can alter the DNA of micro-organisms; the literature Nobel has gone to a woman too, while the new chief of the World Trade Organization is, for the first time, set to be a woman. Honour and recognition seem to be raining down on deserving women. Is this the time to hope that the proverbial glass ceiling will, at long last, be shattered? While celebrating this moment of equality, it would make sense to acknowledge that victories for women, especially in the realm of science, have always been hard-won. Since 1901, only seven women have got the chemistry Nobel, including the new awardees. This is far more likely to be on account of the daunting barriers — cultural and institutional — than a question of merit. In fact, there is a long and shameful history of denying women their due. A British woman scientist, whose work pioneered a significant breakthrough in the study of the gene, remains a stranger to historical or scientific records. Closer home, in 1933, the Nobel-winning physicist, C.V. Raman, it is alleged, had initially denied Kamala Sohonie entry into the Indian Institute of Science on account of her gender. She later went on to earn a PhD at Cambridge University. Such cultural and systemic prejudices continue because of the persistence of discriminatory ideas that intellect is shaped by gender and that women, the faulty corollary goes, do not have a natural affinity for specific subjects. The consequences of these myths are far from benign. In 2018, women made up a paltry 14 per cent of 2.8 lakh scientists, engineers and technologists employed in India’s research and development institutes. Such skewed representation has had an adverse effect on scientific output. Studies have shown that failures in artificial intelligence uniquely affect women; there is evidence to suggest that recruitment systems discriminate against job applicants with female names. The small pool of women who make it past these roadblocks face other challenges, not least of which are overarching domestic expectations. Ironically, the nation bears the cost of such prejudice. The stubborn refusal to view women as equal participants in national growth, scientific and otherwise, results in the under-utilization of significant human capital. There is thus an urgent need to root out embedded prejudice with targeted interventions. The new proposal by India’s department of science and technology to rank science institutes on the basis of the number of women employees may be encouraging but the real challenge lies in making society acknowledge women as agents of change. The women Nobel laureates could be held up as role models for many other women, but meaningful empowerment is premised on the ability of women to make their own choices in life.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-135
11-10-2020||Opinion||When BJP fights for press freedom it’s for TRPs||The Bharatiya Janata Party has been known for unabashedly pushing to the forefront its contentious ideological agendas. The move has paid off, and the party now lords over the country. But this approach, to bare everything, could be dangerous in politics. In the scandal involving fake television rating points that was unearthed by the Mumbai police, the BJP has made it very obvious that it stands with Republic TV. The channel has been accused of securing fake TRPs. Ratings fetch revenues and also reflect the success of a channel. The ruling party does not seem to care about the gravity of the charge against the news channel. While Republic TV has been known for pushing the saffron party’s agenda, the BJP’s blatant defence of the channel has bared their association. “[The Congress’s] assaults on @republic and trampling over media freedom will never be tolerated by the people of India”: this was tweeted by none other than the president of the BJP, JP Nadda. The latter attacked the Congress since the party is part of the ruling alliance in Maharashtra. Many other BJP leaders jumped to defend Republic TV, invoking the freedom of the press. This move by the saffron party, however, has angered most news channels, who have suffered on account of Republic TV’s alleged TRP manipulation. The step taken by the BJP, many in the party fear, could prove to be damaging. Jitendra Singh, the All India Congress Committee general secretary given charge of poll-bound Assam on September 11, is yet to visit the state, but he has either met or heard almost all senior leaders — picking their brains before his much-awaited visit to the state sometime this month. While the state top brass met him in Delhi, he reportedly connected with the other leaders through video conference. Last Saturday’s four-hour marathon video meet with the Assam Pradesh Congress Committee leaders saw Singh seek their views on organizational as well as political issues which can be flagged to connect with the voters. Singh will be needing all the guile and luck if he has to deliver Assam to the Congress. Party insiders say they are in with a strong chance if Singh can get the top echelons to rein in their ‘misplaced’ ambitions and set the campaign pace by identifying the right issues with time-bound solutions, for the ruling BJP is still on a strong wicket despite the anti-BJP wave ‘created’ in TV studios. That the Congress and other anti-BJP parties are calling for a united fight reflects how strong the BJP is, said party insiders. “We hope Singh will activate his old links in the state from his Youth Congress days to know who will be the party’s assets and liabilities in the polls, [and] if required meeting seasoned party hands who may offer selfless advice for the right people to lead the fight and the right parties to ally [with] and why. It will be a challenge,” said a PCC general secretary. Candidate selection has always been a troublesome exercise for political parties, and dissenting voices are normal. Allegations of tickets being distributed on extraneous considerations and not winnability have surfaced in Bihar this time as well, and the Congress appears to be the worst affected of all the parties. While some aspiring candidates have reportedly resigned in protest and many have vowed to work for the defeat of the official nominees, what surprised the Congress high command this time is the gross violation of laid-down procedures. Many candidates were secretly given party symbols to file nomination papers much before the list was formally announced. This was done to ensure that rebellion by other aspirants and information of wrong-doing and selling of tickets reaching the central leadership fail to change the candidates. While many leaders of Bihar were extremely upset, the former state president, Anil Sharma, tweeted about the manner in which some leaders conspired to harm the party’s interests to give precedence to favourites. That no candidate from the Muslim community was picked up in the first list also caused resentment. One young leader said, “Rahul Gandhi said he wanted to fight dynastic culture in the party. Sadanand Singh contested 12 elections from Bhagalpur and now his son who worked in Jharkhand’s Jamshedpur will contest. What are other party workers supposed to do, rally behind his son? Is that the correct way to build the organization? The party has become a conglomerate of small fiefdoms and the ordinary workers are fooled by lip service. No good man should ever enter politics now because only two factors matter — moneybag and family control.” One of the oldest regional parties in the Northeast, the Mizoram People’s Conference, quietly passed into history on Tuesday, merging with the People’s Representation for Identity and Status of Mizoram to give birth to a new political party — the People’s Conference Party. Lalhmangaiha Sailo and Vanlalruata, the presidents of the now disbanded MPC and PRISM respectively, will lead the PCP. Starting as an anti-corruption watchdog, PRISM registered as a political party in 2018. One does not know how the newly-floated PCP will fare but the MPC had an eventful run — a chequered history by all accounts. Formed by the former chief minister, T Sailo, in 1975, the party ruled Mizoram twice when it was a Union territory, first for six months in 1978 and then again from 1979 for a full five year term. It lost power in 1984 to the Congress but remained the main Opposition. Its stocks slipped from the late 1990s, winning 12, three, two and one seat in the 1998, 2003, 2008 and 2013 state polls respectively. Sailo was the lone winner in 2013. The MPC was part of the seven-party Zoram People’s Movement alliance in the 2018 polls won by the ruling Mizo National Front. The MPC withdrew from the ZPM in 2019. The Karnataka chief minister, BS Yediyurappa, is busy making friends in the Janata Dal (Secular) in what could become the card up his sleeve if the BJP firms up on a leadership change in the near future. The septuagenarian leader is not someone who will go without kicking up a storm. And if he can convince the JD(S) top man, HD Deve Gowda, to lend support with his 34 MLAs, BJP bosses will certainly be wary of the designs of the numero uno Lingayat leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-135
11-10-2020||Opinion||Better safe than sorry||Sir — Doctors have warned the chief minister of West Bengal, Mamata Banerjee, that Durga Puja celebrations could cause a massive surge in Covid-19 cases. In a year when the world has been turned topsy-turvy by the pandemic, one must ask if public celebrations are really unavoidable. What is worse, like each year, there are awards for best Pujas and so on. This will make organizers compete to make creative pandals, which people will then flock to. Surely, the only award this year should be for the pandal that ensures that people can enjoy the Pujas safely? Tiyasha Mukherjee Calcutta Sir — While the Supreme Court accepted the right to peacefully protest against a legislation, it also made it absolutely clear that protests in public places for an indefinite period of time are unacceptable. A three-judge bench held that democracy and dissent go hand in hand, but the demonstrations expressing dissent have to be in designated places alone. The court also said that protests must not block a public way and cause inconvenience to commuters. The order came in response to a petition regarding the Shaheen Bagh protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. A significant aspect of democracy is that citizens have the right to freely express their views, mobilize and protest. On the other hand, it is true that they are not entitled to infringe on the rights of fellow citizens. While the Supreme Court order will safeguard the rights of commuters, it will do so at the cost of those protesting against a divisive, unlawful Act. Restrictions on protesting, especially for groups that have no other way of expressing themselves publicly, will jeopardize the right to freedom of expression. While it is true that the protests may have caused some inconvenience to people, the rights to freedom of peaceful assembly and of expression are inviolable in a democracy. It is unjust to specify where public assemblies must occur in a democracy. Given that political and social participation through public demonstration is critical to the consolidation of democracy, the judiciary and the governments are expected to accord due weightage to this practice. Venu G.S. Kollam, Kerala Sir — When a Supreme Court bench said, “Public places cannot be occupied indefinitely. Dissent and democracy go hand in hand but protests must be carried out in designated area... Such kind of occupation of public place for protests is not acceptable,” it made a truly sensible observation. Although those sitting in protest at Shaheen Bagh have returned home in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, the verdict shows the path for future protests. In India, protests like the one in Shaheen Bagh have been taking place for long — remember Anna Hazare’s protest? But Shaheen Bagh was different — nothing could scare the protesters away from the place, not shots fired, not petrol bombs hurled at the site. Shaheen Bagh has shown the world the meaning of a peaceful protest. If this is done at designated places, then the rights of others will not be infringed upon either. Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee Faridabad Sir — The Supreme Court has said that protests can and should take place only at designated spots in the city. But one is forced to ask if this will ever achieve the desired results. People protest in their own way but unless others are made to stop in their tracks do they take notice? Is a minor public inconvenience of greater concern than a divisive bill that seeks to turn thousands of rightful Indians aliens in their own country? Moreover, is not restricting the rights of some citizens to express themselves in a location of their choice an infringement on their rights? While the Supreme Court is hearing a bunch of petitions, the primary issue — that of the constitutionality of an Act that singles out one community and excludes it from the benevolence and amnesty of the State — remains unaddressed. The pandemic did a good job of sweeping that issue under the carpet. In such a situation, a protest that is visible and makes people pause and think is more important than ever. Rohan Sengupta Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-135
