12-10-2020||Opinion||Injustice league: Rhea Chakraborty's bail||The principle of equality is the bedrock of justice. It is pertinent that the Bombay High Court, in its welcome decision to grant bail to Rhea Chakraborty, had to reiterate this very point by saying that every citizen, whether a celebrity or an ordinary person, is equal before the eyes of the law. It is a pity that the court’s humane vision is increasingly becoming a rare phenomenon in a country that seems to seek perverse pleasure from the culture of instant justice meted out by institutions eager to play judge and jury. The shrill rhetoric of ‘Justice for Sushant’ disseminated by a cartel of television channels with alleged blessings from the powers that be is a case in point. Nearly every allegation against Ms Chakraborty — a pawn in the Great Game — that was concocted by this vengeful nexus has now collapsed. The court found Ms Chakraborty innocent of the serious charge of drug-peddling and harbouring offenders. The Narcotics Control Bureau, which reports to its master — the Union home ministry — has now been left with egg on its face. Earlier, the forensic medical board of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences had ruled out the possibility of foul play in Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. The Central Bureau of Investigation, which is looking into the tragedy, has agreed with the AIIMS’s assessment and also ruled out the angle of financial impropriety on Ms Chakraborty’s part. The charges against Ms Chakraborty seem to be falling like ninepins. Unsubstantiated — motivated — allegations often do. But that should not deflect public attention from the larger problem. The toxic cocktail of political imperatives and sensationalism perpetrated by an acquiescent media has no qualms about stripping citizens’ dignity — that of Ms Chakraborty in this instance — when they are at their most vulnerable. There are whispers that the entire witch-hunt against Ms Chakraborty was orchestrated to score political points. Bihar — the late actor’s home state — is bound for polls; additionally the ruling dispensation in Maharashtra needed to be cornered as well. A large segment of the media that takes its role of cheerleading for this government willingly played accomplice. Truth and justice are the inevitable victims of this kind of complicity between the pillars that claim to hold the edifice of democracy aloft. The ‘Injustice for Rhea’ campaign is only one instance of this wicked subversion in recent times.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-134
12-10-2020||Opinion||Food for thought: Nobel Peace Prize for UN programme||Sir — It is heartening that this year’s Nobel Peace Prize was awarded to the United Nations World Food Programme. This will prioritize the importance of alleviating global hunger amidst the Covid-19 pandemic (“Hunger rising, Nobel nod to food soldiers”, Oct 10). The scourge of hunger has been exacerbated by the pandemic and the concomitant loss of income, along with climate change and never-ending conflict around the world. Millions of people the world over are desperate for food and face the prospect of dying of hunger. In this context, the work done by WFP is literally life-saving. Pangs of hunger have to be experienced to understand what hunger is. It would be a betrayal of all sense of humanity to avert our eyes from the hungry. This is the moment to be altruistic and help those in need. Money is not the only way in which we can help others — there is need for empathy and the will to help the WFP in delivering food and other basic essentials, and creating communities capable of sustainable food production. A quarter of the world’s population does not have access to safe and nutritious food. Eradicating global hunger is one of the UN’s sustainable development goals. The hard-working and dedicated staff of the WFP are front-line fighters; they are braving Covid-19 and the fear of getting caught in the crossfires in conflict zones. They tackle huge logistical problems and go above and beyond the call of duty to avert starvation deaths. In places where hunger is used as a weapon of warfare, their work becomes harder. The WFP needs more financial support to feed the rising tide of hungry people. Affluent nations must give generously to the WFP for the success of its mission. Countries, both rich and poor, should come together and make efforts to fight the Covid-19 pandemic and the hunger pandemic with renewed determination. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — The most important statement made by the Nobel Committee while awarding the peace prize was this: “We are sending a signal to every nation who raises objections to international cooperation.” This sends an unequivocal message to the likes of Donald Trump — ironically enough some people nominated him for this prize — who withdrew crucial monetary help from aid organizations during an ongoing humanitarian crisis. One hopes the prize money makes up for lost funds. Debarati Sinha,Calcutta Modern art Sir — Classical art — both Western and Indian — has found a new life in memes. Paintings by Caravaggio and Raja Ravi Varma alike have lit the creative fires in the minds of those who make memes. Some of these are actually witty and hilarious. While art aficionados are up in arms about such ‘corruption’, this should be seen as a comment on the versatility of good art, which can find relevance in newer contexts to newer audiences. Rima Roy,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-134
12-10-2020||Opinion||Wise appeal: India, South Africa to WTO||India and South Africa recently appealed to the World Trade Organization to exempt medical products pertaining to Covid-19 vaccines that are being developed from intellectual property rights requirements. The first vaccine is expected to be available in the market within the next few months. According to the Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights agreement, the owner of a patent for a pharmaceutical product will be granted an exclusive marketing right to sell it for 20 years. No other producer can produce and sell the product without permission from the owner of the IPR during this period. In the event of a patented medicinal drug being considered an essential item to prevent largescale incidence of a medical condition for which the drug has therapeutic value or is an accepted prophylactic, such as a vaccine, exceptions could be made to the IPR restrictions. In such an eventuality, only a government may use it for non-commercial purposes. Even in such a case, the government must make efforts to negotiate with the patent owner to obtain a licence for use at a consideration that represents a fair economic value. There is a race among nations to obtain an effective and adequately tested vaccine for Covid-19. It appears to be a free-for-all in a $597 billion industry. On top of it, there are political pressures, such as Donald Trump prodding pharmaceutical companies to get a vaccine ready by the day of the presidential elections in the United States of America. Even the Food and Drug Administration is under pressure to relax the review process before declaring a drug ready for commercial use. The demand for a vaccine is going to be massive, and developed countries with economic clout may have the edge over emerging economies to gain access to adequate quantities for their own populations. In the midst of a likely scramble for the vaccine when it arrives, India has two disadvantages: the nation requires a very large quantity, and it must be available at an affordable price. Hence, in this context, it makes strategic sense for India to begin to put pressure on the WTO to exempt the vaccine from the IPR clause. If successful, this will give India the opportunity to manufacture the vaccine as a generic product at an affordable price. If not, at least it might gain a bargaining advantage over the producer, especially if India can get together other developing nations to join the pressure group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-134
12-10-2020||Opinion||Dialogue with dissent: Maoist movement||Speculation over Muppala Lakshmana Rao alias Ganapathy, the former general-secretary of the outlawed Communist Party of India (Maoist), surrendering is rife. The possibility of Ganapathy’s surrender not only signals the fall of the ‘revolutionary ideology’ but also highlights factionalism among the Maoist leadership. Having lost substantial ground to the security forces, the Maoists are now limited to pockets in Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Odisha and Maharashtra. With Nambala Keshav Rao alias Basavaraj taking over the mantle of general-secretary and Madvi Hidma, a tribal from Sukma, the chief of the Central Military Commission, the ideological imperatives of the Maoists may be taking a back seat. Basavaraj’s prime strategy, it seems, is to scotch the growing perception that the Maoist movement is on its last legs. While their movement is losing support base and is not being able to spread to new areas, it wouldn’t be right to write the Maoists off. The killing of 17 security personnel in Sukma in March this year and, again, 15 of them in Gadchiroli, Maharashtra, in May 2019 demonstrate the ability of Maoists to launch strikes. The State may have an upper hand but it has not been able to end the conflict. While dealing with the Maoist conflict, the Indian State has adopted the twin approach of security and development along with surrender and rehabilitation and ensuring the rights of local communities. The development initiatives, the State claims, have been ‘effective’ but the challenge has remained. Similarly, in their decades-long movement, the Maoists are yet to achieve any of their stated objectives. In a conflict in which both parties are engaged in violence and counter-violence, the only option that could reduce risks is dialogue. The State does not have a rich experience in this respect. Peace talks between the Maoists and the government of undivided Andhra Pradesh ended abruptly adding to mutual bitterness; the West Bengal government’s intention to hold peace talks did not materialize either. A number of well-meaning civil society organizations have, however, underlined the need for dialogue between the State and the Maoists. The role of the State is critical in facilitating a dialogue. It is the State that must create the conditions that would convince the Maoists to sit across the table for negotiation. As a first step, the withdrawal of the Central Armed Police Forces deployed in and around areas with Maoist presence would send out a positive message. Since Maoist violence is on the decline, a temporary withdrawal of the CAPF merits scrutiny. The Maoists should reciprocate by shunning violence completely. A second step should be the identification of civil society groups, especially those working at the local level, which can articulate the demands of the Maoists and reason with the State’s perspective. These organizations must be able to identify local issues integral to the dialogue. This is because contrary to the popular idea that the Maoist insurgency concerns overarching national issues, the grievances at the local level differ substantially. The Maoists must come up with clear demands concerning the people they claim to represent. Coating such demands with ideological rhetoric creates ambiguities in the entire process. The absence of a formal dialogue between the State and the Maoists notwithstanding, there are reports of informal negotiations between the Maoists and the local people, political parties and social organizations across multiple spaces and fora. Formal negotiations might consider drawing ideas from these exchanges. But attempts by one party to win over the other could potentially derail the process. This, in turn, would have disastrous implications for the people that both warring parties claim to represent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-134
12-10-2020||Opinion||History repeats itself in Kerala||Kerala is witnessing a repetition of what it saw way back in the 1950s against the first elected communist government in India led by E.M.S Namboodiripad. Known as the ‘Vimochana Samaram’ (Liberation Struggle), this has been recognized as an organized political coup that compelled the communist government to step down in 1959 and was followed up by the imposition of president’s rule. The anti-communist protests were carried out by a wide range of political, community and caste groups in the wake of two bills introduced in the assembly. Dealing with education, agriculture and land, these bills were perceived to have harmed the privileges of what can be described as the church-caste-community nexus. The protagonists of this rainbow coup presented the bills as a communist conspiracy against Christians, Muslims and the upper castes and were strongly supported by the Congress, the Muslim League, the Bharatiya Jana Sangh as well as caste organizations such as the Nair Service Society. The protests were also supported by major media houses and Kerala’s mercantile giants. Mannathu Padmanabha Pillai, one of the leading catalysts of the coup, had warned, “It would be better for the communist ministers to quit voluntarily without giving room for unrest and bloodshed. If they try to stick on to the ministerial chairs, the consequences will be terrible. If people wrest power from these ministers and subject them to trial, their ears and noses will have to be chopped off or they will have to be whipped in public.” In another speech, he demanded that “all communists should be hated like lepers and not a single communist can be admitted to any house. There is no way other than dragging them by their legs and hurling them on the ground.” Similarly, religious discourses across the state projected communism to be an antithesis to religion. Priests across communities envisaged the coup as a theologically desirable project. Since they presented ‘communism’ as a pervasive enemy that required eternal prohibition, a large number of ordinary Muslims and Christian migrant settlers allied with the coup leadership. Close observation of recent political developments in Kerala reveals uncanny similarities with what happened in the late 1950s. There is a strong chance of the Left coming back to power in the forthcoming assembly elections despite a long history that goes against such continuity. This possibility has unsettled an undeclared, but tangible, rainbow alliance. The intention of this perceived collective has been expressed by P.K. Kunhalikutty, the leader of the Indian Union Muslim League. “Power should be wrested from the Left by any means,” said Kunhalikutty, “to ensure the survival of the UDF [United Democratic Front] alliance system.” This reaction may be the result of the perception that the Left Democratic Front government has been appreciated for its management of the recurring floods and Covid-19 even though there is considerable disgruntlement with the police administration. The Opposition has got an opportunity to stir up trouble, courtesy the ‘gold smuggling case’, which, it has been alleged, was conducted by contract staffers in the government via the diplomatic channels of the Dubai consulate. The case is now being investigated by the National Investigation Agency. Much like the first rainbow coup, a sensational narrative, designed by the Bharatiya Janata Party in this instance, is being carried forward by the Congress, the Muslim League and some sections in the church. The collective has picked on K.T. Jaleel, one of the visible Muslim faces of the current government, to manufacture an Islamophobic narrative. The narrative thread spun by the rainbow alliance has concentrated on ‘charity food’ that was apparently sent to various religious institutes by the Dubai consulate during Ramazan. Even though the majority in Kerala think that such transactions are integral to soft diplomacy between India and Dubai, the sangh parivar has expended its energies on creating Islamophobic spectacles on the streets, deviating from the seriousness of gold smuggling and its global networks that could destabilize the financial apparatus of the country. Facilitating creative political engagements based on substantial issues is a tried-and-tested method for Opposition parties. But the rainbow collective is leaving no stone unturned to polarize Kerala along religious lines. Correction The earlier version of the piece erroneously mentioned that K.C. Mammen Mappillai, the second Chief Editor of Malayala Manorama, "got Atal Bihari Vajpayee to inaugurate a major coup meeting in southern Kerala in 1959." Mr Mappillai had passed away in 1953. We apologize for the mistake.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-134
12-10-2020||Opinion||The other hero||From the time of publication of Man-Eaters of Kumaon in August 1944, the name of Jim Corbett has been synonymous with India’s wildlife. He was no trigger-happy hunter. He labelled the tiger “a gentleman of the forest” who turned to killing cattle or humans out of dire necessity. Yet wildlife aficionados have a hero of their own. In his own writings, Corbett had hailed this forester as a pioneer of wildlife photography in India. This was a man who had served in the First World War on the Northwest Frontier and put away his guns (except for game meat in the open season). Instead, he had sought out the tiger not with gun but with camera. Frederick Walter Champion (picture) served in UP for over a quarter century. Like Corbett, he left for East Africa soon after Indian Independence. He found it easiest to photograph tigers by trip-wire photography. The tiger tripped the wire on its own path and took its own picture. The book, With a Camera in Tiger-Land, published in 1927 had no precedent. Not only did he photograph tigers but he depicted them in their natural state, not fleeing beaters or about to be shot dead by sport hunters. Tigers remained elusive. Of the 200 camera traps placed by Champion, tigers came by on only 18 occasions. In all, he had 11 shots of nine individuals, but this was enough to prove how each animal had distinct stripe patterns. This was a path-breaker in every sense. Over the last three decades, scientists the world over working with far more advanced cameras and aided by software can tell a tiger by his or her stripes. It is now a widely used technique worldwide, and its pioneer was a deputy conservator of forests nearly a hundred years ago. Away in East Africa, Champion missed India and its tigers. Writing to the British tea planter and naturalist, Edward Pritchard Gee, he confided that “Animal photography here is too easy.” Tired of taking photos of lions, “which completely ignore motor cars” (in the national parks), he longed “for my friends, the tigers of India, which can at no time be photographed easily.” The dense foliage and the quality of light made taking quality photographs difficult. By this time, wild animal photography was being taken over by bigger players like the American company, Walt Disney. Colour photographs were to replace the black-and-white images that Champion had excelled at. Wildlife protection had had an early start in colonial Africa as opposed to British-ruled India. The Kruger National Park in South Africa and Parc National Albert in the Belgian Congo were established in the mid-1920s. By then, the French already had a national park in their North African possessions. India’s first national park, Hailey, was established in 1935. The Shivaliks where Champion had served with distinction contained the shooting blocks of the governor-general. The viceroys, down to Mountbatten, had taken shikar very seriously. Both Linlithgow and Wavell had their tiger shoots organized by none less than Corbett. But Rajaji, the first Indian governor- general, was disapproving of hunts. In 1948, a sanctuary was carved out of the shooting blocks in the Shivaliks. Champion was concerned about the depletion of tigers by sport-hunting. His response was to allot shooting blocks where there were likely to be no tigers for hunters to shoot. The law now stepped in. Rajaji, as the sanctuary was then named, is now a vastly expanded tiger reserve, a safe haven for fauna as much as for flora. F.W. Champion died in 1970 aged 76. By then, the tide had turned. In January that year, acting on a letter received from Loucia Stephens-Holmberg, a Canadian citizen living in Montreal, Prime Minister Indira Gandhi expressed shared concerns and promised “determined actions to prevent encroachment and also find ways to encourage wildlife to grow”. In September 1970, the Indian government banned the export of tiger skin. It marked the end of an era. An obituary of Champion appeared the same month. The Commonwealth Forestry Review noted how, “Most young forest officers in those days were keen on shooting big game,” but Champion spent spare time trying to film the elusive tiger. He was commended for being “the first person to get really good photos of tigers in their natural wild state.” The last qualification is important. There were pictures galore of animals killed in shoots. Of course the forester-naturalist was not alone in stalking animals with a camera. There were others treading a similar path. The Swedish ornithologist (and Nazi fellow traveller), Bengt Berg, filmed tigers in Kanha and rhinos in Jalpaiguri but his book, Tiger und Menschen, was published in 1935. The Calcutta-based businessman and photo-shop owner, Arthur Musselwhite, brought out Behind the Lens in Tiger Land two years earlier. Yet the black-and-white images of a tiger padding down a forest path by Champion stand out for quality. These are wild animals at peace going about their daily life, portraits that stand out almost a century on. His second work, The Jungle in Sunlight and Shadow (1934), is a book in its own class. It explored the world of the forest beyond the tiger. Champion was an acute observer of creatures great and small. His images of the nocturnal ratel or ‘honey badger’ and of the now endangered scaly ant-eater or pangolin were equally notable. His record of the huge herds of swamp deer in the Raja of Singahi’s hunting ground is all that remains as the grassland and the deer have long vanished. He likened its cry of “Ring-hon” to a sound “exactly resembling the drone of a Highlander’s bagpipes”. This was a private reserve where both Champion and Corbett pursued the already rare deer with cameras. Right to the 1970s, many animals were classed as vermin and shot, snared or poisoned with rewards being given to those who dispatched them. Champion was unusual in his sympathetic accounts of the jackal, wild dog and leopard. “Every creature”, he wrote, “has its place in nature’s balanced scheme of wildlife.” In this, he was way ahead of changes in the United States of America or South Africa where park rangers were still hunting down predators at the time. He argued that predators were not cruel and bloodthirsty and killed mostly for need. Best to leave them be. Champion believed his department to be the best equipped agency to protect nature. But among foresters he spoke out in favour of stricter protection, especially of the fauna. Interestingly, his brother, Harry, also a forester, was accomplished at botany and co-authored the standard book on forest types of India. Champion’s legacy has undergone a revival. Project Tiger’s first director, Kailash Sankhala, quipped had tigers been given a vote, the Corbett Park would be renamed after the real hero! In his book, Champion as early conservationist was without peer. Of course, such renaming may do less than justice to either man. The challenge is of keeping these living landscapes intact. The web of life enriches humans, making civilizations possible. Those black-and-white images were a celebration of that awareness. The author teaches History and Environmental Studies at Ashoka University||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-134
