13-10-2020||Opinion||Freedom at last: Bombay HC grants Rhea bail||Sir — The decision of the Bombay High Court to grant bail to Rhea Chakraborty in a drug-related case lodged against her is a slap on the face of the Narcotics Control Bureau which put the actress through the wringer (“Drug charges on actress collapse in high court”, Oct 8). The actress was accused of buying drugs for and ‘concealing’ the drug habit of the deceased actor, Sushant Singh Rajput, allegations which amount to financing drug trafficking and harbouring offenders. If that was not enough, the vilification campaign run by certain channels against Chakraborty has tarnished her reputation beyond repair and has, undoubtedly, caused immense psychological trauma. Several TV anchors pronounced their judgment on the actress before there was any concrete evidence against her. Chakraborty has been painted as the villain in the drama surrounding the death of Rajput all along. It is to her credit that in spite of the stream of vitriol unleashed against her, the actress remained calm in the face of trouble and refrained from pointing fingers at anybody. She also fully cooperated with the NCB in matters concerning the supply of drugs. It goes without saying that the Mumbai police was deliberately sidelined in the case. The 28 days that she spent in Byculla jail in Mumbai must have been extremely nerve-racking. It now seems that the witch-hunt against her was politically motivated in view of the impending elections in Bihar. Going by the unabated feeding frenzy of TV channels these days, it is not difficult to imagine that if it is Chakraborty today, tomorrow there might be someone else who would have to go through the same trauma to prove their innocence. Aditya Mukherjee,New Delhi Sir — The observation by the Bombay High Court while granting conditional bail to the 28-year-old actress, Rhea Chakraborty, that she “is not part of the chain of drug dealers” nor were drugs allegedly procured by her for profit or other benefits, raises questions about the functioning of the NCB. The court also rejected the agency’s allegation that she was financing Sushant Singh Rajput’s drug habit and also harbouring him, an alleged drug offender. It also took note of the fact that the NCB failed to seize any drugs from the possession of either Chakraborty or Rajput. Further, even if the actress had spent money to procure drugs for Rajput, it still did not mean that “she had financed illicit traffic”. It seems that the NCB, in its rush to prove Chakraborty guilty, went a little too far in invoking various sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, including Section 27A, which puts the onus of proving innocence onto the accused. This is absolutely preposterous and points to a lack of professionalism. The investigation against Chakraborty was biased to begin with. Certain sections of the media, too, milked the opportunity to villainize the actress much before court procedures had begun. The case should have been dealt with fair and square from the very beginning. S.K. Choudhury,Bangalore Sir — It was high time that Rhea Chakraborty was granted bail in the case of drug peddling that has been lodged against her. This comes as a respite to the actress whose life has turned into a Shakespearean drama since the passing of her partner, Sushant Singh Rajput. Several TV channels had appropriated this personal tragedy to boost their television rating points, dragging Chakraborty through a rabid media trial. It is shameful how the media have handled the reporting of the incident. R. Narayanan,Navi Mumbai  Colourful tale Sir — It seems that the Uttar Pradesh government is stooping to new lows to justify its gross mishandling of the Hathras case — a 19-year-old Dalit woman was attacked and gang-raped by four upper-caste men, ultimately leading to her death — by raising the spectre of a ‘foreign hand’ (“Twisted plot”, Oct 9). While the administration has harassed people extending their support to the bereaved family, it looked the other way when a gathering of upper-caste individuals in support of the accused had taken place. The state authorities are leaving no stone unturned to exert pressure on the woman’s family to withdraw the case. Its actions — sealing Hathras, putting the district under Section 144 to quell protests and preventing politicians from meeting the woman’s family and journalists from covering the incident — show that the Yogi Adityanath government is scrambling to hide its failures. It seems that the government is doing all it can to suppress the truth. S.S. Paul,Nadia Need for action Sir — It was deeply disturbing to learn that a global study has found that online abuse is increasingly driving girls to quit social media, with nearly 60 per cent of them having reportedly faced harassment. Finding reporting tools to be ineffective, the researchers have called on social media companies as well as governments to take urgent action to address the issue. Women, it seems, are unsafe even in the virtual space. As the pandemic moves our lives online, social media has become our primary mode of interaction. Unless the situation is remedied, the online space, much like physical spaces, will come to be dominated by men. Bani Saha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-133
13-10-2020||Opinion||Use of fear: Witness protection in India||The intimidation of witnesses or survivors of a crime is not new in India; it did not begin with the alleged gang rape and death of the Dalit girl in Hathras. In that case, however, the family complained of pressure from the district magistrate, while a senior police officer claimed that there was no rape. The role of the State is blatant here, but the State’s passivity is evident in the fact that no system of witness protection is operative although a scheme for it was evolved in 2018 — astonishingly late, especially compared to many other countries. The Citizens for Justice and Peace, a non-governmental organization fighting for witness protection, has filed an intervention application in the Supreme Court asking, among other things, that witnesses in the Hathras case be given protection by Central paramilitary forces and the trial be moved to Delhi. A law against criminal intimidation of witnesses was introduced in 2006: it has not stopped murders, abductions and threats to witnesses, as in the Asaram case — they led to the formulation of the witness protection scheme in 2018 — or in the 2017 Unnao rape case, or the murder of the rape survivor of 2019, when she was going for a hearing. Threats to life and property, and imprisonment of witnesses on some charge or other, are easiest when the criminals come from dominant castes or sections of society and the victims are marginalized or underprivileged. A Human Rights Watch report of 2017 confirms this in the case of sexual crimes. Had the State wished to correct this imbalance of power and ensure justice, a witness protection programme would not have been lacking. Witnesses are supposed to be the eyes and ears of the justice system; with nothing to protect them from fear of death, loss or injury, numerous criminal cases in Indian courts end in acquittals because witnesses turn hostile. The process of justice should include the assessment of threat perception to witnesses and methods of protection, such as change of name and address if necessary, and a determination of the period of protection. India’s unequal society and the links of many politicians with criminals demand investment in, and trained manpower for, witness protection. The State’s lethargy in this matter cannot be regarded as innocent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-133
13-10-2020||Opinion||Telly trouble: Republic TV's TRP scam||The nation does want to know what the fuss is all about. Mumbai police are currently investigating a case in which television rating points have been allegedly manipulated by three channels — Republic TV is among the accused — by soliciting viewers to watch these channels in exchange of payment. Hopefully, a fair and transparent investigation, free from meddling by the powers that be, would unearth the murky truth. That outcome is a matter of conjecture. But what is evident is that the television industry — a FICCI-EY report estimated it to be worth Rs 78,700 crore last year — has its share of skeletons that can have serious consequences. Manipulation of TRPs could lead to anomalies in the assessment of television content, popularizing programmes that do not, in effect, have a mass following. This is not merely a blot on the spirit of fair competition. It is also an infringement of the autonomy of choice exercised by consumers. The result is a distortion of people’s — effectively the nation’s — right to know. This breach of faith has another, equally important, dimension. TRPs have a decisive influence on advertisers’ spending. The possibility of manipulation implies that advertisers are also being taken on a less-than-joyous ride, shelling out money on channels that do not quite have the viewership that they claim. What is shocking is that regulatory oversight seems to have a long history in the television industry. Television Audience Measurement, the entity that preceded the Broadcast Audience Research Council, had been accused of corruption. BARC, conceived as an institution to encourage regulation, has not fared better. The information and broadcasting ministry had once accused it of under-reporting the viewership of Doordarshan. It has not been effective in minimizing the contamination of sample size: a smaller sample is apparently more vulnerable to manipulation. The absence of a specific legal framework has further undermined BARC’s ability to negate the tampering of panels and viewership. These anomalies also raise serious questions about the efficacy of the existing template of appraisal of the television audience. The way forward must involve unbiased reflection on some notable limitations. A way must be found to obtain, without encroaching upon the privacy of viewers, foolproof data on television audience. The collation and interpretation of this data must also be done transparently. Opacity is an impediment to the nation’s right to knowledge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-133
13-10-2020||Opinion||Quite uncertain: US Elections 2020||The United States of America is set to witness its 59th quadrennial presidential election on November 3, with a campaign enmeshed in an unprecedented quagmire, compounded by a pandemic and its spinoffs. A key format of the electioneering comprises debates between the contestants. Sponsored by the Commission on Presidential Debates, the first of the three debates took place on September 29, while the second one, slated for October 15, has been cancelled. The Republican president, Donald Trump, and his Democratic challenger, Joe Biden, squared off in the first debate (if it could be called that) at Cleveland, Ohio, with social media agog on whether the remaining two debates should be called off since political oratory (of the Obama era) was replaced by chaos, interjections and taunts. A Covid-positive president rushed home from hospital determined to head for Miami for the second debate and is baulking at the prospect of a virtual one. The third debate, however, will be held on schedule. The vice-presidential debate last week was more mature, but still fell short of expectations. For the voters, these debates are a major campaign plank. Several universities even organize gatherings at the union room to watch the debate, where a professor moderates a follow-up discussion. Unlike in India, where voters are decidedly secretive about their choice of parties and candidates, American citizens believe in blatant exhibition of their choice. Balconies or driveways don banners and placards announcing their choice of candidate. This year, the pandemic has restricted large gatherings, although Trump’s supporters have been out in large numbers. Covid-19 also ensured that Trump and Biden abandon the traditional courtesy of shaking hands before the first debate, although neither seemed to mind having dispensed with this formality. Asked what was so significant about this election, a veteran American said, “First, efforts by other governments to influence public opinion are called a hoax by our president but firmly verified by our security agencies. It definitely occurred in the 2016 election. Second is the pandemic, which leaves many reluctant to join crowds in a voting place, preferring to mail their ballot. Third, the president sows doubt about the trustworthiness of the voting system, claiming widespread fraud in mail-in voting, and conspicuously takes covert actions to swing the vote in his favour. Finally, the incumbent has declared his reservations about accepting the conclusions of the vote count, hinting at lengthy legal action if he loses.” Will the stand of the significant population of Americans of Indian origin be different? Sanjukta Ray, who lives in Maryland, said the election posed some serious questions for her. “The systemic racism has impacted not just the black community but brown people as well. There were horrific instances of Indian Americans being targeted violently all over [the] US,” she said. “Besides, how much will US foreign policy impact India, given China’s expansionist movements? The Trump administration is quite vocal in its support for India’s right to defend its sovereignty. Biden made some serious uninformed remarks about Kashmir, which has alienated the vast majority of Indian Americans. Is his choosing of Kamala Harris as his running mate or his overtures to the Sikh community a campaign stunt?” She added that Biden’s stand on China can considerably affect the balance of power in Asia. “In the domestic arena, Trump’s handling of the pandemic is criminal, as is his unfortunate tendency to ignore climate change and stoke internal dissent with the protesters. Are we seeing Biden as the magic pill if elected? I am not optimistic about either of them. Will it be like jumping from the frying pan into the fire?” With voters like her undecided barely three weeks before the die is cast, and given the pathetic debates so far, the US election 2020 is quite precariously poised.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-134
13-10-2020||Opinion||Distant echoes||(Plot spoiler alert for the film, Trumbo) At around the halfway point in Jay Roach’s film, Trumbo, the main character finds himself standing naked in a penitentiary cell in Kentucky, being checked over by a contemptuous prison guard. He opens his mouth and turns his head to the left and to the right. He obeys instructions to display different aspects of his nether regions. He bends, he lifts, he straightens, entirely at the mercy of the State and its prison system. As you watch, Bryan Cranston’s brilliantly played Dalton Trumbo is shrunk down to the bare essentials of his body, shorn of all dignity and humanity. From being one of Hollywood’s leading scriptwriters and one of the most highly-paid scribes in the world, Trumbo is now reduced to serving time in jail, branded as a traitor to his country, or what in today’s India might be termed ‘anti-national’. Like several others working in Hollywood, people with a certain belief in equality and justice, Trumbo had joined the Communist Party of the United States of America in 1943. At that point, neither the Party nor joining it was illegal; Soviet Russia was a key ally of the US in the war against Germany and Japan. Shortly after the war though, unbridled suspicion and surreptitious conflict grew between the two powers, leading to the beginning of the Cold War that would last for forty years. The start of this Cold War was braided together with the rise of a heinous right-wing movement in American politics that was both powered and piggy-backed upon by all kinds of vicious scamsters and ruthlessly amoral power-seekers that included Joseph McCarthy, Richard Nixon, Ronald Reagan and John Wayne. If the dubious slogan today is ‘Make America Great Again’, at that time it was ‘Make America Safe from Communism’. While there was a very real and brutal struggle between Stalin’s Russia and Truman’s US, by the end of the 1940s these small-eyed vigilantes of the American Right had launched their witch-hunts in academia, art, theatre, literature and, not least, the film industry in Hollywood, which was obviously recognized as hugely popular and influential. Trumbo is a gripping film that lays out the story of these witch-hunts and blacklists that damaged (and sometimes even took) the lives of so many of Hollywood’s most talented people. At first, when we see the much-sought-after Dalton Trumbo at the peak of his fame, he and his friends find all the talk of the forthcoming enquiries into ‘Un-American Activities’ risible. Soon, however, all the humour seeps out of the situation. In a progression that we in India will recognize today, the rumours solidify into targeted action by powerful politicians working in tandem with ambitious and unscrupulous members of the media; soon, official black cars are driving up to people’s houses, government agents interrupting family meals as they deliver subpoenas, summoning Trumbo and his colleagues across the country to Washington to undergo questioning at Congressional hearings. Neighbours become self-appointed monitors set upon ‘cleansing’ the country of ‘Commies’. The only crime these scriptwriters, actors and other cinema people are guilty of is espousing political views that run counter to those of the reactionary populists. At no point have they ever ventured near any violence, espionage or treachery. Yet, in a short time, these targeted men are ensconced in meetings with lawyers, discussing what they can legally do to protect themselves. What is at stake is freedom of speech and freedom of political affiliation, two central tenets of the American Constitution. In one telling scene, Trumbo convinces his cohorts that they should take printed pamphlets about the First Amendment, which guarantees freedom of speech, and wait outside a meeting of the Motion Picture Alliance for the Preservation of American Ideals, the right-wing group formed by people like John Wayne and Hedda Hopper, a powerful Hollywood newspaper columnist. When people coming out of the meeting are handed the pamphlets, they fling them away or tear them up. There is a confrontation when Trumbo points out to Wayne that all the pamphlet is saying is that Congress has no right to investigate how people vote, how they pray or how they make movies. Wayne replies that the new era dawning has no time for Trumbo and his ‘kind’ — people who have no idea why America just fought and won the Second World War. Trumbo points out that he and many of his comrades had actually seen action at the front while Wayne “spent the war on a film set, shooting blanks”. Again, the scene could remind an Indian sharply of the current rash of ‘patriots’, most of whom belong to an organization that actively subverted our freedom struggle and didn’t recognize the Tricolour till recent spikes of hypocrisy and expediency sent them scurrying to construct outsized flags. As Trumbo and others serve out the jail sentences imposed by a corrupt cabal of Congressmen, as they negotiate years in the workless wilderness brought about by the unofficial but fearsomely imposed blacklist, we see the slow decline and downfall of the confidence tricksters peddling their poisonous patriotism. When people begin to suspect that not one but two scriptwriting Oscars have been won by Trumbo writing under pseudonyms, the press starts to ask questions. In a television interview, Trumbo suggests that perhaps it’s time for the House Un-American Activities Committee itself to be put under the scanner. “They were convened to uncover enemy agents, expose Communist conspiracies... well, here we are, thousands of hours and millions of dollars later. Agents uncovered? Zero. Conspiracies exposed? Zero.” Trumbo then continues about the blacklist. “I’ve seen the horror, cruelty, and the hideous waste of lives it has produced.” We live in a very different context, separated from that time by geography, culture and sixty-plus years. Nevertheless, the echoes come up, not just when looking at the recent assault on sections of the Bombay film world but also when seeing the patently false cases and malicious framing of social activists, students and academics around the country. It’s hard to be optimistic about India right now and seeing the US drop deeper and deeper into a trough of racism and illiberality doesn’t help either. Yet, there must be hope that the same discrediting and disgrace that consigned the Un-American Activities Circus to the hazardous waste dustbin will also happen to the nefarious Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. There must be hope that one day these investigating agencies will themselves be investigated by fair and stern examiners, that one day these chest-thumping jingoists will themselves be interrogated and punished for their betrayal of our Constitution, that one day these hectoring, braying anchors on our TV screens will have to answer for their greed-driven misdeeds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-134
