14-10-2020||Opinion||Stomach this: Conflict and food security||The Nobel Peace Prize being awarded to the United Nations’ World Food Programme underlines the urgency of the challenge posed by hunger in a planet ravaged by conflict, the vagaries of climate change and, now, a pandemic. The honour is also a recognition of the indisputable link between conflict and food security. Latest estimates show that nearly 690 million people worldwide are hungry; this number has risen by 10 million people in one year. India retains the dubious distinction of being the country with the largest population of food-insecure people — the pandemic has exacerbated unequal access to food. Although these numbers are staggering, hunger cannot be fought merely by increasing the quantity of food production. If anything, the mindless clearing of natural habitats to increase agricultural acreage will aggravate the climate crisis, which, in turn, could adversely affect food production, affiliated costs, consumption as well as wastage. What needs to change, then, is food distribution to enhance public access to food. This is where an international organization like the WFP can act as a collaborator, working with national governments to bridge the gaps among production, consumption and wastage. Governments need to recognize the value of partnership with non-governmental organizations that, at times, can reach the frontiers of the State. The pursuit of prohibitive legislation — the amendment to the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act is an example — can stymie the work of organizations like the WFP. Food security must also be perceived as a public responsibility. It is shocking that households in the United Kingdom waste an estimated 4.5 million tonnes of food annually at a time when 8.9 per cent of the global population are starving. There is also a case for countries to recognize the challenges to their respective national food security programmes. India’s public distribution system, for instance, suffers not just from corruption-related leakages but has also been excluding hundreds of valid beneficiaries since the linkage with Aadhaar was made mandatory for food procurement. Is it not the State’s role to ensure that technology is harnessed for the welfare of the needy?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-133
14-10-2020||Opinion||Lead the way: Women win Nobel in Chemistry||Sir — The editorial, “Women, interrupted” (Oct 11), must be appreciated for pointing out how women face many obstacles in a patriarchal world. Society has always been dominated by men, but with time, women are increasingly getting acknowledged for their merit. As such, it is not surprising that two women scientists have received the Nobel Prize in chemistry this year. Nonetheless, it must be considered a victory for women across the world. The Nobel Prize for literature, too, has gone to a woman; a woman is set to be the new chief of the World Trade Organization for the first time. Such achievements would encourage other women to break the shackles of prejudice that often hold them back. There is no doubt that recognition and honour will come their way if they are willing to put up a fight to reach their goals. Sumit Kumar Das,Hooghly Sir — This year, the role of women in scientific research has been especially highlighted as the Nobel Prizes in chemistry as well as physics have gone to women. The Nobel committee has for long been criticized for not recognizing the contribution of women, particularly in the sciences. In the entire history of the Nobel Prize, the awards in science subjects have gone to only a little over 20 women. Considering this poor record, the fact that the chemistry award was given to two women and the physics award to one, as joint winner, is commendable. Scientific achievements cannot be judged on the basis of gender; yet gender bias seems to have influenced decision-making for years. It is because of this that the choice of awardees this year is particularly welcome. This trend should be sustained in the future. Another important aspect of the award for chemistry is that it has been given to a discovery which is only around eight years old. The Nobel Prize is often given for discoveries made decades ago. The timely recognition given to the gene-editing technology underlines its value and relevance. The committee should make this the norm. Shovanlal Chakraborty,Calcutta Sir — Not many people understand the hurdles that most women have to overcome in order to pursue their own dreams instead of following conventional paths carved out for them in society. Many teachers would be able to vouch for the fact that, very often, promising girl students, who have a penchant for the sciences, are forced by their families to study the humanities just on account of the misinformed notion that science is not for women. This must have ruined a number of careers. People often appreciate the struggles of women to make a name for themselves. While the courage of these women is indeed laudable, what we often miss is the fact that they should not have had to go through this struggle at all. It is the collective failure of society that women have to put up such a fierce fight for a choice that should have been available to them in the first place. Pragya Palit,North 24 Parganas Sir — More number of women are being recognized for their talent and hard work — the recent spate of acknowledgements is an example of this. This will indeed go a long way in encouraging young girls to nurture an ambition and pursue it. One also hopes that parents across the world, especially in India, who discontinue the education of their girl children because they do not see their true potential will change their minds now. Anuradha Mitra,Howrah Sir — That the Nobel Prize in chemistry has been won by two women does not come as a surprise. Women have for long shown that they are worthy of achieving such honour. The efforts of women should always be recognized. They can serve as agents of change in this patriarchal society and, in turn, inspire many other women. Md. Yusuf,Illambazar, Birbhum Spice it up Sir — Last year, an American academic had drawn flak for saying that ‘Indian food’ is terrible. Now, a British professor — who, ironically, seems to specialize in politics and history of India and Britain — has stirred up a raging debate on Twitter by calling idlis “boring”. Eminent food critics have joined the argument. Although Indian food is becoming increasingly popular in the West, many people still appear to be at a loss with regard to the Indian palate. The discussion that this tweet has begun might help enlighten more people about how to enjoy the variety of cuisines that India has to offer. Sangeeta Roy,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-133
14-10-2020||Opinion||High hopes for spiraling economy||The new policymakers on Mint Street have finally bitten the bullet and come out with a forecast of a 9.5 per cent contraction in the Indian economy this year. The Reserve Bank of India has been warning about a contraction for sometime but refused to put out a numerical forecast until it had seen enough data points to be able to hazard an estimate. The monetary policy committee chose to hold interest rates but indicated that it was prepared to cut rates once again as it shifted its focus from taming inflation to a more immediate compulsion to jump start an economic revival. Inflation has leapt to 7.34 per cent in September but the policymakers are no longer inclined to view that number with alarm. The central bank believes that the Covid-induced supply disruptions will settle very quickly and inflation will abate in the months ahead, dipping to a level well within the 2 to 6 per cent tolerance range by the end of the fourth quarter. The committee has decided to stick with an accommodative policy which means that it will pump up liquidity within the financial system. It has already decided to come out with an on-tap targeted long-term repo operation for another Rs 1 trillion that will run till March next year. The hope is that the banks will borrow these funds and invest in marketable securities including corporate bonds, thereby greasing the wheels of the economy. The big belief is that GDP growth will break out of the contraction mode and turn positive in the fourth quarter, reflecting a sense of optimism about a scale of recovery that many pundits do not share. The RBI governor, Shaktikanta Das, contends that there is clear evidence of a three-speed recovery: labour-intensive sectors like agriculture and allied sectors and industrial segments like passenger vehicles, drugs and pharmaceuticals, and fast moving consumer goods are already over the Covid hump. The RBI is looking to improve the flow of credit to specific sectors within the rigid boundaries of credit discipline even though it admits that it will be a while before private investment starts to pick up. The decision to lower the loan-to-value ratio for all new housing loans sanctioned till March 31 next year will prompt banks to lend freely without shouldering a greater provisioning burden. This should provide some relief to the stressed real estate sector. Studies are already beginning to show a recovery in some of the housing markets and the hope is that home seekers will start sniffing at deals soon. The monetary policy has turned distinctly dovish and the markets are anticipating a rate cut of up to 50 basis points early next year. But in the absence of a credible stimulus package from the Narendra Modi government, which remains extremely averse to the idea of increasing its borrowings or monetizing its fiscal deficit, one can never be convinced that the rate cuts alone will be enough to engineer an economic revival.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-133
14-10-2020||Opinion||A vector called privilege||On January 15, 1897, The New York Times wrote of Bombay’s plague epidemic as an urban crisis: “More than half of its population has run away!” Let us break this ‘population’ into its components. A number of wealthy residents of Bombay moved to their country houses. In contrast, many workers escaped to the countryside that was already suffering from famine. Some others would stay back in plague camps or pay high rent to live in temporary huts and cowsheds. Choosing safety is a collective human trait. We seek to mitigate risks to defer death and debility. But our ability to avert risk is a sign of our social belonging pertaining to race, caste, class and gender. For the urban, privileged castes and classes, a successful aversion of risk is a marker of social coherence that has withstood the tide of time. The observation of the controversial German soldier-turned-writer, Ernst Junger, on the bourgeois echoes this social hierarchy: “the bourgeois person is perhaps best characterized as one who places security among the highest of values... His arrangements and systems are dedicated to securing his space against danger...”. Junger was glorifying war, but when taken out of context, his stinging observations reflect the reality of the world of privileged caste and class. We take health insurance, life insurance, seat belts and security alarms for granted. We have surnames that take care of everything else that money can’t buy — in India as well as in our influential cliques abroad. We try to do what the Canadian historian-philosopher, Ian Hacking, has famously called the “taming of chance”. But we are also born with much of chance tamed for us. To satiate our risk-appetite and flirt with danger, we have mastered the public display of risk-taking, such as sky-diving and bungee-jumping, but bat an eyelid when workers demand higher wages for the daily risks of building skyscrapers or when they point to the blatant caste-based atrocity that forces them to dive into our sewers. The pandemic forced us out of this secure world. But it will not herald empathy. It made us confront uncalculated risks, but our privileges — allowing us to safely stay at home or move to safer spaces — will probably save us from too much damage. History provides some evidence. The anti-colonial leader, M.R Jayakar, wrote that at the time of the plague, everyone was “thrown into panic and confusion”. Many in his family moved outside the city amidst “healthy and rustic surroundings” till it was safe to come back. A government report published in 1899 eventually noted that the large number of “Upper Caste Hindus” who had moved out of the city “remained content and healthy”. We erase the privileges we are born with, and then we claim that we are self-made. This false assurance makes us think that our private insurance is much better than spending precious taxes on a public health system. Public health is for the poor who cannot look after themselves. In times of crisis, this causes cognitive dissonance. We want the government to look after us too, but then does that mean we cannot take care of ourselves? We release our confusion by banging utensils on the balcony, miraculously seeking leadership that would tame reality back to our secure self-perception. The contrast with the migration of the working class is a good way of suggesting what the privileged urban upper classes and castes do not have to confront. It is the risk of precarious housing that enforces workers’ migration. This risk is built into the very structure of urbanization that the rest of us find haven in. Let us go back to history. It was, incidentally, an epidemic that made cities riskier for its workers. As the urban historian, Sheetal Chhabria, notes, plague measures in the early 1900s were used to justify a globally widespread “... displacement... of the urban poor in every major city of the world”. While workers make the cities from scratch, they know that they are not designed to provide them with secure residence. Colonial sources often assumed migration to be, in the words of the late historian, Raj Chandavarkar, the “defining characteristic of working-class life”. Caste prejudices marked criminality on them. This is perhaps particularly true of industrial cities and towns since the 19th century when a bulk of its workers came from adjacent regions; or land sharks and wealthier settlers displaced original inhabitants and brought back their children into urban demography through descriptions such as ‘squatters’. Contrastingly, workers’ politics has been around, asserting the right to stay and make home the cities that were designed to exclude them. Coming back to the present, when a few people decided to use #MeTooMigrant to note that their pain of shifting cities was as bad as the labour crisis that was exacerbating in India, they forgot that official statistics and urban structures do not force the risks of migration as the defining characteristic of our privileged working and caste lives. That many could not make this distinction tells us that much work needs to be done on writing the history of privilege. Maybe our closeness to risk during a global pandemic will be a revolutionary moment to examine our privilege even though if we are to look at history, there’s very little evidence of such revolutions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-133
14-10-2020||Opinion||Dangerous hunger||The three agriculture bills rushed through Parliament by the Narendra Modi government seek to bring peasant producers into direct contact with corporate buyers without any intervention by the State. The government suggests that intervention in the form of the minimum support price-regime will continue. But this is disingenuous: if the MSP-regime was to continue, why was it not incorporated into the legislation? Besides, the MSP-regime requires supervision by government agents like those installed in mandis; if the mandis lose primacy, as the legislation visualizes, then the MSP-regime becomes infructuous. One consequence of this change has been much discussed, namely that it leaves the peasantry at the mercy of powerful private monopsonists, and that too in commodities subject to wild price fluctuations. In years of excess demand, the high prices will not be passed on to the producers; but in years of excess supply, the price falls will be passed on, driving peasants into debt and destitution. The protection against the latter provided by the MSP-regime is now being withdrawn. There is, however, a second consequence that is less discussed, namely the loss of food security by the country. Since land is scarce, and ‘land-augmenting’ measures such as irrigation (that makes multiple cropping possible) and improvement in agricultural practices (that raise the yield per acre) are subject to limits within our existing agrarian arrangements, opening up the use of this scarce land to the pull of the purchasing power of Northern consumers will necessarily mean a diversion of acreage from foodgrains to crops not producible in the Global North. To be sure, as long as the public distribution system continues, the government will have to procure an adequate amount of foodgrains; but unlike at present when it is obliged to procure whatever is offered, it will now be under no compulsion to procure anything in excess of what is needed for the PDS. This will only encourage the shift of acreage from foodgrains to other crops, especially with large firms catering to Northern markets encouraging such a shift. In fact under the Doha round of WTO negotiations, great pressure was put on India to scale down its foodgrain procurement operations; but successive Indian governments, mindful of the immense social implications of doing so, both for peasant producers and for urban consumers, have resisted this pressure until now, which is why the Doha round remains deadlocked. Advanced countries have for long been pressing India to import foodgrains, of which they have a surplus, and export other crops where they are deficient. India had been a foodgrain importer in the late 1950s and early 1960s, buying wheat from the United States of America under Public Law 480. In the mid-1960s, however, there were two successive harvest failures, which caused a famine in Bihar. The country’s import-dependence became so great that it was literally a case of ‘ships-to-mouth’; and arm-twisting by the US, a clear example of what some have come to call ‘food imperialism’, became so odious that Indira Gandhi asked Jagjivan Ram, the then food and agriculture minister, to expedite the ‘Green Revolution’. The entire arrangement of MSP, procurement operations, PDS, and food subsidies to cover the gap between procurement prices and issue prices came into being from that time. Although under the neo-liberal regime, this arrangement has been getting whittled down, it still remains intact to a large extent because no government till now has been mindless enough to jettison it. And whatever one may think of the Green Revolution, whose ecological effects have often been criticized, it has allowed India to shake off the shadow of ‘food imperialism’ to become ‘self-sufficient’, even though at abysmal levels of income and food intake for the majority. All that, some would say, belongs to the past; one should not keep harping on ‘food imperialism’. What is wrong with India importing food from the world market as it imports so many other commodities? There are several answers to this question. First, since the substitute crops, which would be grown in lieu of foodgrains and exported, have large price fluctuations, the foreign exchange earnings too would display similar fluctuations. It is perfectly possible, therefore, that in some years the country may not have enough foreign exchange to buy food in the world market. Second, exactly the same would happen if there is a sudden outflow of finance. It is true that at the moment we have enough foreign exchange reserves; but that cannot be guaranteed to last forever. Making the continued availability of adequate foodgrains dependent on the absence of an outflow of finance is tantamount to making the lives of millions of people dependent on the caprices of a bunch of financial speculators. Third, when a country of India’s size suddenly increases its purchase of foodgrains in the world market, the world foodgrain prices shoot up immediately. In years when the domestic foodgrain output drops, as would inevitably happen from time to time, India would have to pay an even higher price for importing what it requires. Fourth, even if the country has enough foreign exchange to buy foodgrains in the world market in a year of collapse of the price of its export crop, the people producing that export crop would experience a decline in income and hence would lack the purchasing power to buy the foodgrains that have been imported. People would still starve despite the country having enough imported foodgrain stocks. Fifth, leaving aside the question of foodgrain availability in contingencies, there is a further problem. Many of the export crops that would be grown in lieu of foodgrains involve lower employment per acre than foodgrains. Shifting acreage from food to non-food crops, therefore, would directly reduce employment. And the larger profits made from growing export crops with lower wage-bill per unit area would not create much employment elsewhere in the economy since these profits, which would be accruing to agri-business, would get spent abroad, creating employment elsewhere. The shift from growing food to growing export crops like fruits or flowers entails a net loss of employment, making people not only poorer but also — lacking purchasing power to buy food — hungrier. The moral of the story is that for a country like India food security necessarily means growing one’s own food to the maximum possible extent. The market in this case cannot be the determinant of land-use. Since land is scarce, and domestic food production essential, land-use must be socially controlled. Kerala is the only region in the entire third world that has a law, enacted in 2008, preventing diversion of paddy land to any other use. While Kerala is too land-scarce to become self-sufficient in foodgrains, this law has prevented paddy-land being diverted extensively for construction. Other regions in the country and other countries in the third world would do well to emulate Kerala’s example. The damage that diversion of acreage from foodgrains to export crops does is best illustrated by the case of sub-Saharan Africa, which has been ravaged by a string of famines after it became import-dependent for food. In India, while there is no control over land-use, the old arrangement of MSP, procurement, and PDS implicitly ensured adequate domestic foodgrain production. The Modi government, alas, is dismantling that arrangement; it must be stopped. The author is Professor Emeritus, Centre for Economic Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-133
