15-10-2020||Opinion||Momentous win: Rafael Nadal bags French Open title||Sir — In a year of grim tidings, Rafael Nadal has scripted a remarkable piece of tennis history by winning his 13th French Open title and 20th Grand Slam overall, equalling Roger Federer for the men’s all-time record (“Child’s play for King Rafa”, Oct 12). Nadal’s win against Novak Djokovic in straight sets at Roland Garros, yet again, underscored his dominance on the clay court. Although both Federer and Nadal hold an equal number of Grand Slam trophies, it must be admitted that the Swiss player has a varied selection of titles spread across the four tournaments in comparison to the Spaniard. Most of Nadal’s wins are on the clay court. Nevertheless, it is astonishing to watch all three tennis legends scale such dizzying heights and still exhibit the utmost respect for all players, showing the world how a model of sportsmanship among rival stars can work. There is no doubt that the triumvirate of Federer, Nadal and Djokovic will go down in the history of tennis as not only the best male players of their generation, but possibly of all time. Ranganathan Sivakumar,Chennai Sir — The French Open men’s singles final match last Sunday predictably resulted in the Spanish champion, Rafael Nadal, winning his 13th title at Roland Garros. It was however quite surprising that Novak Djokovic, the current top seeded male tennis player, would lose the match in straight sets. Nadal played remarkably well and did not drop a set, proving beyond a doubt why he is the undisputed ‘King of Clay’. With this win, Nadal matches Roger Federer’s record of 20 Grand Slam titles. Djokovic, with 17 trophies, is close on his heels. It would be interesting to see who ends up at the top of the heap by the end of their illustrious careers. The consistent presence of one of the three in almost all Grand Slam finals indicates that no other male player from the current generation would be able to match their challenge. While it is a delight to watch the three players enrich the sport with each thrilling match against each other, a range of players  vying for the title in the finals would have made the game even more exciting. Abhiroop Sarkar,Siuri, Birbhum Sir — Rafael Nadal is referred to as the ‘King of Clay’ with good reason. With 13 French Open titles and 100 match wins at the Roland Garros, Nadal has made a place for himself in history. Defeating Novak Djokovic, who is in supreme form, in straight sets speaks volumes about the extent of his talent. Furthermore, Roger Federer’s congratulatory message for Nadal after this 20th Grand Slam win is a testament to the spirit of sportsmanship the game is known for. This remarkable feat has, once again, brought up the discussion of who is the all-time-great in the history of tennis. However, dedicated fans will acknowledge that all three players have uniquely added to the game over the last decade and a half. With a few years still left before any of the three retires, tennis fans can look forward to more such historic feats. Bal Govind,
Noida Welcome decision Sir — The decision of the Supreme Court to reject a plea by the organization, Akhand Bharat Morcha, seeking a ban on the halal method of animal slaughter comes as a relief. The apex court rightfully remarked that it cannot interfere in the food habits of people. The bench further pointed out that the petition challenging Section 28 of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act did not stand as the said section allows for the slaughter of animals in a manner required by the religion of any community, which is, thus, not an offence. The petition, as the bench observed, is indeed “mischievous” in nature. This outright rejection of the plea has assured the people of the country that as long as the independence of the judiciary exists, the constitutional rights of ordinary citizens will always be ensured. Noor Ahmad,Hyderabad Sir — With every bigoted petition being brought to the court against the Muslim community, the role of the Supreme Court is becoming increasing crucial in upholding the secular ideals of the nation. The rejection of pluralism by certain sections of the people of India can only be countered with the support of the judiciary. Raisa Saha,New Delhi Added trouble Sir — The Covid-19 pandemic is adding to our health woes in different ways. As people spend more time glued to screens, be it in the form of working from home, online classes or binge-watching shows, many are putting immense pressure on their eyes. Excessive screen time, especially prolonged exposure to blue light from gadgets, can ruin eyesight and cause other vision-related diseases. While it is not possible to cut down on work hours or opt out of attending classes, we can stop scrolling through the internet unnecessarily. If we are not mindful, we could end up with a number of other serious illnesses. Sounita Dey,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-132
15-10-2020||Opinion||One more: Father Stan Swamy's arrest||The statements condemning the arrest of the 83-year-old priest, Stan Swamy, from Ranchi by the All India Catholic Union and the North East Catholic Research Forum are being backed by people’s protests. The Catholic bodies demand that the already ailing priest be freed, and accuse the authorities of silencing dissent and protests against the alienation of the natural resources of tribal people. This last must be placed in the context of the continuing arrests for the caste-based violence at the Bhima Koregaon site on January 1, 2018, which was supposedly ‘aggravated’ by speeches in the Elgaar Parishad meet the previous evening. The activists, writers, academics and lawyers arrested so far for this — the elderly priest said he was not even at Bhima Koregaon — work with and for Dalits, poor and indigenous people. The Catholic priest is known for his ceaseless fight for the rights of and justice for tribal people. Is the logic of these arrests built on the fact that Bhima Koregaon is commemorated by Dalits? The Elgaar Parishad meeting was an Ambedkarite event, which the police later accused of having been funded by banned organizations, particularly the Communist Party of India (Maoist). One charge against Stan Swamy is that he received Rs 8 lakh to further the extremist outfit’s agenda. This is included in the 10,000-page supplementary charge-sheet filed by the National Investigation Agency against eight of the accused, following earlier charge-sheets by the Pune police. Reams, obviously. The common thread between them is the link the accused supposedly have with banned Naxalite outfits shown by communications apparently on their electronic devices and literature on extremist outfits they allegedly possess — is reading an offence? — and, presumably, a plan to overturn the lawful government. There is nothing boring about the charges. The rights activist vocal against injustices in Kashmir, Gautam Navlakha, for instance, is charged with being a bridge between the CPI (Maoist) and Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence. People who were not at the site of violence have been charged under laws against terrorism, incitement of caste hatred and plans to overthrow — presumably unlawfully — an elected government. Is it being suggested that the rights of the oppressed cannot be championed? Or is it just dissent that is unacceptable? Would the arrests being made in the name of the Delhi riots fit in too?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-132
15-10-2020||Opinion||Mind the word: Maha Governor's missive||New India is topsy-turvy territory. That perhaps explains why holders of constitutional positions can profess views that go against the letter and the spirit of the Constitution. The missive sent by the governor of Maharashtra, Bhagat Singh Koshyari, to Uddhav Thackeray, needling the chief minister for professing secularism, is a case in point. Mr Koshyari has taken umbrage at Mr Thackeray for his government’s refusal to throw open places of worship. Here too the governor seems to have endorsed the sentiments of the Bharatiya Janata Party that has been holding protests outside temples in Maharashtra demanding that they be reopened. The BJP’s delusions and double standards about the pandemic are well-documented. Maharashtra shoulders a significant share of India’s Covid-19 burden and the Centre, ruled by the same party, has repeatedly pointed to the need to discourage crowding and social gatherings. The state unit of the BJP and the governor seem to have other ideas. The transformation of the governor’s office into a mouthpiece of the dominant political regime — this is the point that Sharad Pawar has made in his letter to the prime minister — is, of course, not new. States ruled by Opposition parties, including Bengal, have been inconvenienced by these intrusions. Public health is unlikely to be served by the convergence of lines between holders of constitutional office and those in government. The nation’s health is suffering too on account of this conflation. Secularism, which forbids discrimination against any religion, is an integral part of the Preamble. The secular ethic also happens to be the proverbial red rag in front of a bullish, elected government. That is because the ideological tenets of the BJP, its critics allege, are not consistent with the constitutional vision that envisages peaceful, equitable coexistence among all faiths. In a nation with a pronounced history of communal conflagrations, secularism, the founders of the Constitution argued with reason, was the only glue that could keep the republic together. But reason is not known to be the BJP’s core strength. Its political ascendancy has tellingly coincided with strategic assaults on the culture of interfaith harmony. These transgressions — a governor mocking secularism is among them — take a myriad forms. Mr Thackeray, the recipient of the letter, responded with grace and dignity. Mr Koshyari, hopefully, would be mindful of honouring the dignity of his office as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-132
15-10-2020||Opinion||The music of the people: Protest songs||It’s rare for protests not to have an anthem. Anthems are an effective way of communicating the demands and the philosophy that drive protests. They create a leitmotif that can be recalled for a new generation of protesters in the future. The 19th-century folk protest song, “Bella Ciao”, sung by the Mondina women, became an anthem for the anti-fascist partisans during World War II. This song has not only traversed time, causes, and medium but has also transcended geographies and languages: there is even a Kannada version of “Bella Ciao”. “Un Violador en Tu Camino (A rapist on your way)”, a song-and-dance performance composed by Las Tesis, a Chilean feminist collective, is now an international anthem for feminist protests. Hong Kongers have used old and new songs as protest anthems against the Chinese. From “Sing Hallelujah to the Lord”, a Christian hymn composed in 1974 by Linda Stassen-Benjamin, to the recent “Glory to Hong Kong” exemplify the spirit of the protesters there. Anthems ring true because societies continue to experience repression, injustice and inequity. These shared experiences shrink time and space, enabling the lyrics to resonate with protesters the world over. Anthems strengthen the resolve of protesters because they provide them with a sense of belonging to something that is larger than them and their moment. Thus, songs like “Do You Hear the People Sing?”, from the screen and stage adaptation of Les Misérables and now sung by protesters in Hong Kong, evoke the sentiments of the French Revolution that was led by commoners against a powerful establishment. Conversely, China’s imposition of the draconian national anthem law on Hong Kongers shows that anthems can also be used to suppress dissent. Not all protests draw inspiration from internationalism. Protests also seek motivation from home. In the United States of America, protest songs have stuck to their American roots. The Occupy Wall Street Movement tapped into the protest songs of the 1960s — Bob Dylan’s “Blowin’ in the Wind” and Woody Guthrie’s “This Land is Your Land”. The Black Lives Matter movement may not have a protest anthem yet, but participants have sung Ben E. King’s “Stand By Me” along with songs by local Rap artists. One reason for this choice could be the insularity of Americans. The other is the US’s rich history of protest. In India, there are protest songs that reflect the anger and the hope of the youth standing up to the Bharatiya Janata Party’s imposition of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and its plan to conduct the National Register of Citizens. “Hum Kagaz Nahi Dikhayenge (We Will Not Show Our Papers)” was a direct response to NRC. But there is one song that mobilizes every Indian: the national anthem. India’s national anthem evokes pride for many reasons. It creates the imagery of India’s military might and sacrifice, acknowledges the diversity of the nation, echoes the freedom movement, and is also a benediction by citizens for the well-being of the land and its residents. The prevailing majoritarian ethic ignores this element of diversity that the national anthem glorifies. Instead, it demands uncritical acceptance of a unilateral understanding of who is a citizen. Matters, unfortunately, were made worse by the honourable Supreme Court. To instil “committed patriotism and nationalism”, the court ordered movie theatres to play the national anthem before the screening of films. The order was reversed in 2018 by the court but the practice remains prevalent. The singing of the national anthem has also been used by the regime to identify ‘anti-nationals’. In the early days of the anti-CAA protests in Bangalore, a police officer asked a group of peaceful protesters to sing the anthem to weed out ‘anti-national’ elements who could instigate violence. Again, during the alleged targeted violence against Muslims in the Delhi riots, the police, after brutally assaulting some Muslim men, asked them to sing the national anthem. The anti-CAA protesters singing the national anthem may have also pre-empted the government and its supporters from portraying dissenters as being ‘anti-India’. Anthems are inspiring cultural commentaries and are, therefore, timeless. They embody the soul of a movement. In India, protesters singing the national anthem reaffirm their commitment to the secular ideals of the nation and remind those in office of their oath to protect the Constitution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-133
15-10-2020||Opinion||Testing times||Last Thursday, October 8, large parts of Calcutta were brought to a halt in the wake of a planned march on Nabanna, the headquarters of the West Bengal government, by the state Bharatiya Janata Party. Both the bridges across the river were closed to traffic and many of the arterial roads into the city were blocked by the police to prevent the protesters from reaching their meeting points. The police arrangements were stringent enough to prevent the protesters from reaching Nabanna, but there were lathi-charges and use of water cannons at different points. The politics behind the demonstration and the charges of disproportionate use of force, not to mention the insensitivity shown towards a Sikh security guard of a local leader, is not my principal concern. A larger issue that emerged from the protest marches and their aftermath centred on public and political behaviour during a pandemic. The issue is relevant because the state government fell back on the Central government’s directive stipulating a ceiling of 100 people for any gathering to refuse permission to the protests. The state administration claimed that some 25,000 people had gathered in various parts of Calcutta and Howrah, and that this was unacceptable at a time when the Covid-19 threat hasn’t receded. In its view, last Thursday’s gathering was a health hazard. Strictly speaking, the state administration is right. Although most of the people that participated in the rally wore masks, no social distancing was really possible in the melee. A rule, however, exists for all. The local BJP was right when it claimed that the state government is woefully selective in enforcing the rules governing public life during the pandemic. For example, the chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, led a medium-sized march protesting against the horrible rape in Hathras, Uttar Pradesh, through Chowringhee on October 3. Subsequently, she has been drawing crowds as she goes about inaugurating different Durga Pujas — all blessed with state government subsidies — in Calcutta and outside. At the same time, various local demonstrations by BJP workers on October 5 against the mismanagement and misuse of relief for the victims of the Amphan storm were forcibly broken up by the police with more force than was strictly necessary. Yet, the same police used discretion when dealing with angry BJP supporters accompanying the body of the murdered Manish Shukla through the streets of central Calcutta. The use of discretion and good sense are imperative in the application of extraordinary rules that in many ways curtail civil liberties. In the past fortnight, as the festive season gathers momentum, the markets of Calcutta are bustling with large numbers of people — many unconcerned with either masks or social distancing — who are completely unmindful of the rules governing gatherings. In theory, the police have a duty to intervene, if only to spread out people. However, any intervention by the authorities in such situations would be unacceptable to the general population and make the position of any elected government — regardless of political complexion — untenable. The authorities, for example, have found it impossible to enforce any limits on the number of passengers in local buses. The sheer scale of demand makes social distancing an impossible goal. On top of that, there is the penchant in Bengal of frequenting the bazaars in the mornings and evenings, if not for purchasing daily necessities then for social interactions. For many people, especially those living a cramped existence in urban areas, a daily trip to the bazaar offers a respite from the drudgery of existence. It is as much a part of social life as the adda. For any administration — and not least one that faces a difficult election about six months later — the task of managing a slow return to a semblance of normalcy amid a pandemic that refuses to abate is daunting. The 21-day national lockdown was envisaged as a sharp, short-term strategy of containment. Although this is still being tried out in different parts of Europe as a response to the ‘second wave’, there is a recognition that such extreme steps are economically damaging and even unsustainable. Increasingly, there is also evidence of public exasperation with lockdowns in general — as was witnessed during the random experiments of the Mamata Banerjee government. Moreover, there is a sharp contradiction between the ‘unlock’ approach of the Centre and the grim reality of the unrelenting spread of Covid-19 in many states. Either the country gets on with business as usual, albeit with the necessary precautions, or it retreats into a funk hole awaiting the miracle vaccine sometime in 2021 or later. Fortunately, after a short experiment with total national closure — triggered, it may be added, by insufficient knowledge of the virus threat — India has tried to balance sensible precautions with the more pressing job of getting on with life. A viable balance has also been possible thanks to the rising confidence in medical cures for most Covid-19 cases. A person infected with the virus today has a far greater chance of getting cured in a fortnight than was the case last March when the pandemic first struck India. Even as scientists and policymakers argue among themselves on the strategies of prevention, the widespread panic that was in evidence six months ago has receded considerably. Alas, with greater faith in medicine, there is also a rising impatience with restrictions. This may explain why the past fortnight has witnessed a clamour for the speedy resumption of local train services that were suspended in March. The turnout in the Bihar assembly election will be an indication of the extent to which people have overcome their anxieties about Covid-19. The mood of the nation is also certain to be tested during the festive season that culminates with Diwali. The Union health minister, Harsh Vardhan, has appealed to people to be exceptionally restrained in the coming months and, preferably, desist from public festivities. His wariness stems from the post-Onam spike in Covid-19 infections in Kerala, a pattern that could be emulated in northern and eastern India during the festive season in October and November. At the same time, Mamata Banerjee has proclaimed that the virus will be put under lockdown for the Durga Puja and that administrative arrangements have been made to ensure that people can go pandal-hopping after dusk. In short, she has calculated that having a good time must take precedence over calls to stay at home. The chief minister’s political compulsions are understandable. Faced with imminent elections, political leaders are inclined to favour short-term solutions to complex problems. What has further complicated matters in West Bengal is Mamata Banerjee’s penchant for idiosyncratic measures that began with the needless suppression of Covid-19 deaths in March-April, was compounded by the bizarre pattern of lockdowns during the summer, and has culminated in her disavowal of restraint during Durga Puja. In the coming weeks, eastern India in particular is going to be severely tested. The carnival atmosphere during the five days of Durga Puja could well become an occasion for the mass spread of the virus, a problem that is certain to be aggravated by the imperfections in the public health infrastructure. If the worst fears turn out to be real, it will be a huge setback for national efforts to come to grips with the pandemic. The festive season is also an occasion for prayer and this year, more than ever before, the goddess needs to hear the concerns of the devotees.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-133
