16-10-2020||Opinion||Uneven keel: India's healthcare spending||Being unprepared to tackle a health crisis could be akin to losing half the battle. This certainly seems to be true in the case of India. An Oxfam report has found that India spent just 4 per cent of its budget on health going into the pandemic, with its expenditure being the fourth lowest in the world. Making matters worse are findings that even with caps imposed by states on hospital expenditures on Covid-19 treatment, around 80 per cent of Indian families would face financial ruin if just one person had to get treated. It becomes clear that there are serious design flaws in policies related to health expenditure in the populous country. The consequences are alarming. Only half of India’s population can avail of even the most rudimentary health services, and over 70 per cent of health expenses are borne by citizens themselves. Welfare schemes of successive governments have fallen short. The Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana, for instance, claims to provide free health coverage to 40 per cent of the Indian population. Yet, even before the pandemic, reports indicated that it had failed to reach the poor, with many states, including those that had the Bharatiya Janata Party in power, showing poor figures for the programme. Insurance companies and hospitals have also cut a sorry figure. Allegations of insurers refusing to bear the full cost of treatment for health conditions, including Covid-19, are not uncommon. At the other end of the spectrum is the patients’ inability — also refusal — to pay, forcing hospitals to adopt radical measures to recover costs. These realities dent the claims of healthcare being a universal right. Given that Covid-19 is unlikely to be the last of the pandemics, India must set right its health-GDP ratio. The Danish healthcare system, which is independent of health insurance, has reaped the benefits of substantial investments in public sector hospitals and clinics. Is there a case for India to reassess the policy enthusiasm for the unregulated privatization of healthcare and, in effect, use the reach of the public sector to revolutionize its healthcare infrastructure? The pandemic, after all, demands paradigmatic shifts in policy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-132
16-10-2020||Opinion||Bold step: Bollywood sues TV channels||Sir — The headline, “Bollywood, you’re Jolly Good now” (Oct 13), appears light-hearted, but the report highlights an important issue. Members of the Hindi film industry — as many as four film organizations and 34 producers — have taken up the task of teaching a lesson to some errant television channels that have violated all norms of healthy reporting. Eminent personalities of the industry — Shah Rukh Khan, Akshay Kumar, Aamir Khan, among others — have taken an unparalleled initiative by filing a petition in Delhi High Court, seeking a restraining order on two channels and their spearheads who have been leading a vicious smear campaign against the Hindi film industry. News channels that engage in such activities should be reined in, especially when the anchors seem to be acting in order to mollify the ruling party at the Centre. After the demise of the actor, Sushant Singh Rajput, some channels began to televise opinions about the unfortunate incident even before the probe was complete. This is unacceptable since it gave out a wrong message to the viewers. These channels should refrain from making irresponsible, derogatory remarks about people. Perhaps sub judice cases should be left alone by the media. The petition marks a milestone moment in show business that usually fights shy of stepping up and initiating a collective stand on such raging issues. Benu Kumar Bose,Calcutta Sir — The lawsuit filed by four Bollywood associations and 34 producers in Delhi High Court, seeking a restraining order against Republic TV and Times Now, was a corollary of months of a relentless smear campaign run by them against the Hindi film industry. The list of plaintiffs reads like a ‘who’s who’ of India’s show business. Film-makers and actors seem hurt by terms such as “dirt”, “filth”, “scum” and “druggies” hurled at their fraternity indiscriminately in the guise of seeking justice for the actor, Sushant Singh Rajput. Television anchors named in the petition have been wont to make derogatory and defamatory remarks in their systematic attempt to slander and sully the Hindi film industry in spite of the fact that some of the maladies that they accused the celebrities of are not unique to the film industry. In fact, this industry merely represents the microcosm of the things happening across the country. The question that inevitably arises is whether these TV anchors would be so conspicuously hostile to the film industry without the tacit support of the powers that be. After all, most of these anchors share a common narrative in support of the ruling dispensation and elites. Bollywood celebrities — with a few honourable exceptions like Anurag Kashyap, Deepika Padukone and Swara Bhasker — have mostly played ball and kept a studied silence over the attacks on citizens, the passage of discriminatory laws and other such events. They have not raised their voices against injustices out of selfishness and cowardice. It took them to be at the receiving end of an onslaught by a few news channels to take a stand and defend the industry. However, for what it is worth, their decision to not take the tirades of abuse against them lying down must be welcomed. Bollywood is right in saying that the vilification drive by TV channels has direct consequences for the livelihood of the thousands of people employed in the film industry. It certainly has a strong case in appealing to the high court to direct the TV channels in question to abide by the provisions of the Programme Code under the Cable Television Networks Rules, 1994. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Troubled waters Sir — Heavy rains in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana have thrown normal life out of gear, leading to water-logging in several parts in both states. A number of people have already lost their lives to rain-related incidents. The India Meteorological Department had also warned of thunderstorms along coastal regions in Andhra Pradesh. People should be careful and act responsibly so that loss can be minimized. Najib Ahmed,Hyderabad Sir — It is disturbing that heavy rains have disrupted regular life in many of the southern states of India, such as Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala. The people of Bengal, who had to experience the Amphan cyclone earlier this year, understand full well how difficult it must be for ordinary citizens as well as rescue forces to operate during the ongoing pandemic. The Centre should keep a close eye on the situation on the ground and extend generous help. Chandana Sen,Calcutta Joy for all Sir — The report, “Puja organisers to feel lotus pocket pinch” (Oct 14), was interesting. It shed light on how the drop in lotus production and supply could affect people at various levels of society. The privileged would only be upset about the dearth of these flowers that are integral to the puja, but for the farmers and traders, this is a heavy blow to their livelihoods. Durga Puja is usually an occasion that brings joy to everyone. Puja organizers should ensure that these farmers and traders are not left out; they should be paid their due. Surely there are enough generous people who would not mind contributing a little extra to this end? Shahana Roy,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-132
16-10-2020||Opinion||Just so: Crimes against dalits||Institutional complicity in efforts to protect upper-caste criminals when the crimes are against Dalits was laid bare in the Hathras case in Uttar Pradesh. But that is just a blatant example among numberless incidents which validate the findings of a study showing that cases of atrocities against Dalits are sought to be diluted throughout — from registration of the complaint through charge-sheet filing to the trial. This allows 75 per cent of cases to end in acquittal while suggesting that upper-caste perpetrators can get away with anti-Dalit crimes. National Crime Records Bureau data show a 7 per cent increase in these crimes from 2018 to 2019, part of an upward curve from 2014. Yet the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act demands immediate arrest of the accused, charge-sheets within 60 days, trials within another 60, in special courts. These rules are intended to prevent the kind of threats and violence that resulted in the murder of the alleged gang rape survivor in UP’s Unnao district, made possible by delayed arrest, consequent bail and late hearing dates. In the Hathras case, the police kept quiet about the gang rape for eight days, cremated the victim without her family’s consent, and claimed there was no rape. The girl’s deathbed statement about gang rape was ignored, while the ministry of home affairs, with notable ineffectuality, reminded states of the relevance of the deathbed declaration in the justice process. Sexual violence constitutes one section of crimes against Dalits. The study reveals an unwritten system of interlinked steps that aim to diminish or even erase the cruelty and targeted injustice of all caste-based atrocities. Besides taking their time to record the complaint, arrest the accused and file the charge-sheet, the police may register an incident fit for the Atrocities Act under some other law to blur its profile and evade specific requirements. The inadequacy of special courts for caste-related cases further exposes the authorities’ reluctance to deliver justice to those without caste privilege. Matching this is the biased conduct of designated public prosecutors, who may not let their Dalit clients enter their rooms, let alone brief them properly. It is not merely that many Indians do not consider Dalits to be human, as Rahul Gandhi said: they do not want to. Genuine social justice would threaten the traditional interweaving of social, political and economic power. Reservations can be turned into a tool for vote collection, but justice is different. It must be resisted at all costs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-132
16-10-2020||Opinion||Magical sense: How memories smell||Last week for a few days I lost my sense of smell. It happened after a fever, so at first I panicked. Then I realized that the reason behind my loss was not the coronavirus, but severely blocked nasal passages. It felt my nose had run away. After going through five days of not having smelt anything, I began to get used to my state. (One can get used to anything. I am a proud Indian. And I am not even talking about the pandemic.) I felt that being without a sense of smell is somewhat like watching a video on mute; only, instead of sound what you lack is flavours. Your hilsa feels like your basa. Life does start looking like a flat screen. You can see it but cannot feel it. Then one morning I could smell the methi frying. That afternoon, I could actually tell that the solid mass floating on gravy was a piece of chicken. I felt like Columbus spotting what he thought was the Orient, only I was more correct. My nose was coming back to me. In the next day or two, my olfactory system was completely rehabilitated and I was beginning to feel whole again. Then a thought struck me. What if this had happened to me, at this time of the year, four decades ago, when I was a child, and Puja season was the only real time when children got new things, clothes, shoes and yes, books, the Puja issues? From the time the Puja goodies began to trickle in — make no mistake, they would be very limited in number; four cotton dresses at the most, which would have to last the entire year, and a pair of Bata shoes — I would be plunged into a paradise of the senses, especially the sense of smell. The printed Rajasthani wraparound skirt would smell strongly of dye. I would show it again and again to visiting aunts and cousins, if only for the smell. Then the shoes, and the new shoe polish. And not to forget, a new pencil set, one fancy sharpener with a plastic giraffe head and a set of perfumed erasers, white rectangles with tiny designs, topped with a layer of green. My garden of earthly delights! But these were all accessories. The centrepiece would arrive a few weeks before the Puja. And it was for this I would wait the whole year with bated breath. Yes, so that when I finally breathed in in its presence, I would be operating at my fullest capacity. It was the annual Puja number of Anandamela, the Bengali magazine for children that my generation grew up with. I cannot now describe how I would feel every evening waiting for my father to return home from work. The torture. Will he get it today? Will he remember? Will he forget again? And I would list all that I would do when I would lay my hands on the thick paperback volume, with its cover illustrated by Bimal Das. It was all planned out. First Tintin and all the comics. Then the puzzles. Then the short stories, only one a day. Because I would have to make the stories last. Then the longer stories or novellas. Last of all the latest on the brilliant and mad scientist, Professor Shonku, by Satyajit Ray. And then one day the book would actually materialize from my father’s briefcase, and I would hold it in my hands, and I would plunge my face deep inside it and take in the smell of the fresh new pages and my head would explode with joy. No perfume can match that smell. I do not suffer too much from nostalgia or mourn the death of the sensorium that was my childhood. Not all of it was gold. But I do not think things smell new any more, literally. I buy too much anyway and all year round. And from a flat screen. So does my daughter, because of me. I have never seen my daughter sniffing a new dress or book. And she reads English. Bengali, for her, is a forgotten language. I have lost my sense of smell. It has been replaced by too much. And too little.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-132
16-10-2020||Opinion||Old anxieties||The division of the British Indian province of Bengal was formally promulgated on October 16, 1905 despite the political opposition to it in the country. However, the division was short-lived and the partition was reversed in 1911. Nevertheless the forces unleashed by the division lived on and culminated in another — more permanent — Partition in 1947. Although the continuities between this first and second partitions are obvious and strong, the differences also stand out. The first partition spurred the growth of a nationalist consciousness and in its wake Muslim separatism. The second partition was the consequence of a larger division of India and, to a great extent, showcased the weaknesses of the spirit of nationalism that emerged post 1905. The man who did the most to push through the first partition — the viceroy, George Curzon — had already left India by the time the Bengal division was promulgated. He had resigned some weeks earlier when his views on the position and role of the commander-in-chief of the Indian army were overruled in London. The dispute was a relatively obscure issue, driven in large part by the egos and massive conceits of both Curzon and the commander in chief. Yet the controversy also reveals just how securitized a mindset the British Empire in India was based on. In India, inevitably, perceptions of Curzon’s viceroyalty were deeply influenced by the 1905 division of Bengal. This overshadowed his numerous other attributes — apart from vanity — his energy, wide knowledge of the region and his drive to reform the Indian administration. For most Indians, his greatest achievement was thus a negative one and, moreover, in the words of the historian, S. Gopal, entirely unintended — “[T]he transformation of a mild, nationalist sentiment into a resentful, revolutionary movement”. In brief, the desire to weaken a fledgling, largely intellectual, critique of the Empire in Bengal by dividing the province ended up having the opposite result. Phobias sometimes work to the dictum of the self-fulfilling prophecy. Curzon’s British biographers have sometimes tended to disagree and pointed to a major but unrelated geopolitical event of the time as constituting the real spur to Indian nationalism. This was the defeat of Russia by Japan in late 1905. Japan’s victory was the humbling of a European power by an Asian power. Moreover, Russia was a rival and contending imperial power to that of the British. Indian nationalism apart, the Russian defeat had major significance for imperial strategists in Calcutta, Simla or London, Curzon included, about the Russian threat to India, or at least it reaching the Persian Gulf and eroding British supremacy over its waters and littorals. These imperial rivalries were obviously real but the debates of the time are also revealing about how geopolitical phobias are constructed and then perpetuate themselves. The Russian defeat in 1905 reduced the perceived intensity of the threat but in subsequent generations the red fear, the Cold War missile gap, the domino theory in Southeast Asia — all derived from the same genre of thinking. The US intervention in Vietnam or the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan thus had longer continuities with older mindsets than their respective protagonists generally admitted. In the second half of the 19th century, Russian moves were seen by the colonial State in India as the advance of a glacier — slow but inexorable. Evidence used to buttress this analysis in Persia — Russian bank loans and railways — still resonate today as we encounter similar Chinese tactics in the region. Between the 1880s and the early 1900s, military expenditure as a percentage of India’s budget went up from about 40 to over 50 per cent. The securitization narrative of the Empire was always much stronger than its ‘modernizing’ narrative, although the latter was sold more successfully. For the security of British India, keeping Afghanistan and Persia free of Russian influence was both a strategy and an objective. Some of the places on which geopolitical interest focused a great deal were the Makran coast, Baluchistan and Sistan; these are of equal interest today. How to strengthen Persia and Afghanistan as buffers against Russian encroachment was thus key to British preoccupations both in India and in London. Strengthening them meant also demarcating their boundaries so that stability was assured all round. Two agreements reached at the time are illustrative. The first of these was the Goldsmid Line (1871), demarcating the boundary between Persia and the princely state of Kalat in what is now Baluchistan in Pakistan. This divided the Makran coast in two, in effect confirming the port of Chabahar as a Persian possession and the port of Gwadar as Omani in that part of the Makran which went to Kalat. The famous Durand Line agreement (1893) thereafter demarcated Afghanistan and British India but in doing so effectively split Pashtun tribes into two separate domains. These were attempts to stabilize Persia’s and Afghanistan’s external boundaries but were crafted with both eyes very much on the perceived Russian threat. Curzon was also responsible for an earlier division and creation of a new province — the carving out of the North West Frontier Province from Punjab in 1901. Administrative efficiency, as in the case of Bengal Partition, was only one part of the explanation. The political, or in this case the geopolitical, was equally important since the frontier was the region where a great deal of the foreign policy of India confronted and interfaced with real and imagined threats. This creation has endured much longer although the NWFP was renamed as Khyber Pakhtunkhwa in 2010. The province also included the tribal tracts that lay between its fully administered districts and the Durand Line, and these were divided into a number of agencies and administered as a kind of no man’s land. This loose administrative control was continued by Pakistan post 1947, and it is only now, in the past two to three years, that a serious attempt at the ‘mainstreaming’ of the tribal areas has begun, although the outcome remains uncertain. What explains the long persistence of this tribal zone in Pakistan? In India, decolonization did mean a certain desecuritization in terms of popular and political thinking and, in fact, a legitimate criticism of the early two decades post 1947 is that the desecuritization perhaps went too far. In Pakistan, on the other hand, and especially in hindsight, it is striking to see how much of the raj’s 19th-century geopolitical phobias along with its heavily-securitized narratives were inherited and continued almost in totality. Post 1979, with the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan and the revolution in Iran, a new kind of geopolitical phobia or myopia seized Pakistan and, in turn, amplified further insecurities with regard to India. This mindset consolidated itself from 1989 with the withdrawal of the USSR from Afghanistan and its subsequent disintegration. In this mindscape, the tribal agencies became a kind of marches area for Pakistan to acquire strategic importance and depth. The impending US withdrawal from Afghanistan and the possible return of the Taliban have reinvigorated that old mindset, but it remains to be seen whether resistance to it in Pakistan is going to be stronger than in the past. The author is a former high commissioner to Pakistan||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-132
