17-10-2020||Opinion||Truly inspiring: The life and times of Bhanu Athaiya||Sir — With the demise of Bhanu Athaiya, the nation and the world of cinema have lost one of the most prolific, talented and versatile costume designers of all time (“Bhanu Athaiya, first Oscar winner, dies”, Oct 16). Athaiya had a Midas touch that could be seen in a vast number of Hindi movies right from the 1950s to the first years of the 21st century. She showcased rich, colourful and splendid Indian costumes on the global stage. The designer, who won the Academy Award for India through her work for the movie, Gandhi, was truly an example from whom the present generation of costume designers can learn everything. No other costume designer would have had such a long list of film-makers eager to make her a part of their movies. The list of film-makers she worked with included the legendary Guru Dutt, Raj Kapoor, Yash Chopra, B.R. Chopra, Subhash Ghai, Vidhu Vinod Chopra and also the newer directors such as Ashutosh Gowariker and Raj Khosla. Athaiya also worked with international names such as Richard Attenborough and Conrad Rooks. Be it the rustic charm seen in the costumes in Satyam Shivam Sundaram, Ram Teri Ganga Maili and Lagaan or the romantic aura presented in Chandni, Athaiya’s designs spoke volumes about her calibre. The styles in which she dressed actors and actresses varied vastly. If Bollywood stars were able to shine in their roles on screen and mesmerize viewers, a large part of that credit went to Athaiya. Movies such as C.I.D., Brahmachari, Mera Naam Joker, Ek Duje Ke Liye and 1942: A Love Story bore testimony to her excellent work. Athaiya was a master craftswoman whose memory will live on for years through the splendid work that she did. M. Pradyu,Kannur Sir — It was saddening to read that the costume designer, Bhanu Athaiya, India’s first Oscar winner, passed away after a prolonged illness. She was 91 years old. The pioneering Athaiya won the Oscar, along with John Mollo, for her work in Richard Attenborough’s Gandhi. Born in Kolhapur, she began her career as a costume designer in Hindi cinema with Guru Dutt’s 1956 superhit, C.I.D. In 2012, Athaiya returned her Oscar to the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences for safe-keeping. In a career spanning five decades and over 100 films, she won two National Awards, for Gulzar’s mystery-drama, Lekin, and the period film, Lagaan, directed by Ashutosh Gowariker. With her death, the country has lost one of its best creators across all artistic fields. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — The news of the death of India’s first Oscar winner, Bhanu Athaiya, a colossus of costume design, was upsetting. She was a nonagenarian. Her work for Gandhi was outstanding; no wonder it won her an Oscar. The Kolhapur-born costume-designer worked for more than a hundred Bollywood blockbusters like Shri 420, Sahib Biwi aur Ghulam and Guide. Her career spanned 56 long years, during which she created many new fashion trends, all of which were greatly appreciated. Surprisingly, however, Athaiya did not even receive the Padma Shri. This is very unfortunate. Sourish Misra,Calcutta Sir — Bhanu Athaiya was an inspiration for women, who are often told they can never be pioneers in any male-dominated field. One hopes her legacy continues to inspire girls and women. Nina Roy,Calcutta Right step Sir — It was both surprising and heartening to read that Dinesh Karthik, who was the skipper of the Indian Premier League team, the Kolkata Knight Riders, has decided to hand over the captaincy to his teammate, Eoin Morgan. The Irish-born Morgan has done a great job captaining the English men’s cricket team, and KKR could benefit from his leadership skills along with his batting. Moreover, Karthik really needs to put more focus on his own game; he has scored only 108 runs from seven matches with just one half-century. The additional burden of captaincy was getting to be too much for him; it was best that he handed over the responsibility to someone better equipped. Nayana Mookerjee,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-131
17-10-2020||Opinion||Dodgy tactics: New 'stimulus' package||Indians have re-discovered the virtues of thrift in a Covid-battered economy. Household savings have started to rise as consumers have cut back on discretionary spending over the past six months. The Narendra Modi government, however, does not like this tendency among Indians to squirrel away savings. The latest ‘stimulus’ package, which prods federal government employees to spend their leave travel entitlements on a range of consumer goods that attract a goods and services tax rate of 12 per cent and more, signals a desperate attempt to ignite demand at a time when consumers are showing a marked preference to conserve cash. Government employees are being urged to spend three times their travel entitlements during the period till March 31 next year in order to claim the underlying tax break. The move is ostensibly designed to create new demand for goods and services worth Rs 360 billion. Consumers are unlikely to fall for this bait. A State Bank of India research report reckons that less than 10 to 15 per cent of government employees will opt for the voucher scheme to unlock lapsable travel entitlements because of the onerous spending commitments. This suggests that the latest efforts of the finance minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, to crank up demand will fail badly. The offer to give these employees a Rs 10,000 pre-loaded RuPay card — resurrecting the idea of a special festival season advance that formed part of the Sixth Pay Commission report — which can only be used at point of sale machines looks equally dodgy. The Centre also believes that it can stoke additional demand by goading states to increase their capital spending on roads and urban infrastructure by offering them special, interest-free, 50-year loans worth Rs 120 billion. The cash-strapped Centre is extremely reluctant to increase spending on its books. Instead, it wants the states and government employees to shoulder the burden. This is a perverse strategy, especially when it argues that capital expenditure has a high multiplier effect on the economy. The Centre’s fiscal deficit has already gone through the roof. Its accounts for the month of August pegs the fiscal deficit at Rs 8.7 trillion — 9.3 per cent in excess of the budgeted fiscal deficit of Rs 7.96 trillion for the full year. The Centre needs to borrow more but it will not. India’s debt-to-GDP ratio, which includes the debt of the Centre and states, is a modest 70 per cent, but is projected to jump to 90 per cent this year. The stimulus measures announced since the outbreak of Covid-19 have been modest: a sum of Rs 1.7 trillion under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana announced in March and another Rs 20.97 lakh crore under the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan package unveiled in May that focused on supply-side measures and some long-term reforms. Ms Sitharaman needs to come up with a big-bang stimulus package; the Centre's parsimony will not revive the economy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-131
17-10-2020||Opinion||Vivid picture: Declan Walsh's book on Pakistan||On the line to Cairo, I talk to Declan Walsh about his very engaging new book, The Nine Lives of Pakistan: Dispatches from a Divided Nation, which gives readers “a sense of being there”. He was based in Islamabad for nine years for The Guardian and The New York Times but was expelled in 2013 for “undesirable activities” — a reference to his reports on insurgency movements in Balochistan. He has told the story of Pakistan through the lives of nine people, among them Asma Jahangir, “doyenne of Pakistan’s human rights movement”; Salmaan Taseer, the Punjab governor who was shot by his own bodyguard; Chaudhry Aslam Khan, “Karachi’s most famous cop”; and Abdul Rashid Ghazi, who died in the siege of the Red Mosque in Islamabad. The picture he paints is of a violent and lawless land. “But I had grown to love Pakistan, too — a country of hidden delights, endearing absurdities and some of the closest friendships I had ever experienced,” writes Declan, who was described in The New Yorker as a “tall, rakish, handsome Irishman”. Declan, who is moving from Cairo to Nairobi as chief Africa correspondent of the NYT, tackles two of my questions: why on earth did Pakistan send 10 young men to Mumbai in November 2008 to carry out such senseless slaughter? And surely someone in Pakistan knew Osama bin Laden was hiding in Abbottabad? He says Pakistani intelligence, including the Inter-Services Intelligence, is not always very intelligent: “Are the puppet masters in full control of the puppets? Do they know everything that’s going on? Are they turning a blind eye to certain things? Or do they subcontract policy to a group or an officer and let them use their own initiative; whether these tools that they have created are entirely in their control? Internally, the intelligence services are probably not as coherent as you might think.” Show the way This year’s Nobel Prize for Physics was shared by three people, including Roger Penrose of Oxford University, “for the discovery that black hole formation is a robust prediction of the general theory of relativity”. But the first to come up with the idea of black holes was Subrahmanyan Chandrasekhar in 1930 while making the sea voyage from Bombay to England as a 19-year-old to take up a place as a postgraduate at Trinity College, Cambridge. This I was told in 2005 by Arthur I Miller, Professor of the History and Philosophy of Science at University College London, when I interviewed him about his book, Empire of the Stars: Friendship, Obsession and Betrayal in the Quest for Black Holes. The brilliant Cambridge astrophysicist, Sir Arthur Stanley Eddington, and others were convinced that all stars either blew themselves into smithereens or shrank until they became dense, “white dwarfs”, small but solid. Chandrasekhar’s radical notion was that a massive dying star “kept on collapsing and collapsing and collapsing” into a black hole which sucked in light and time and everything around it so that nothing could escape. It was rather like bath water disappearing down a plug hole. Miller told me that Chandrasekhar, who won the Physics Nobel Prize in 1983, was eventually proved right. Funny story Another charming and eloquent editor of my acquaintance, Sir Peregrine Worsthorne, who was briefly editor of The Sunday Telegraph, has been in the news. “Perry”, whose column was once essential reading for Conservative Party members, passed away last week, aged 96. Perry considered himself a maverick intellectual, and arrived in Argentina after the Falklands War but was denied the interview he sought with the country’s new democratic president, Raul Alfonsin. The Sheraton in Buenos Aires was then brimming with 500 foreign journalists. I was then on the Daily Mail, whose editor, David English, sent me back to Argentina with instructions — as always — to get the first exclusive interview with Alfonsin. Thanks solely to the magic wrought by the Indian ambassador, Lakhan Lal Mehrotra, Alfonsin was warm and open when we talked for 90 minutes at the Casa Rosada. Perry wrote a long article explaining that the reason Alfonsin had granted an interview to an Indian reporter of no great consequence (very true) was because the president had wanted to be kind to a third world country. I passed on Alfonsin’s pro-Indian sentiments to Mehrotra, who said quietly, “Let me see what I can do”. Shortly afterwards, Alfonsin was invited to be chief guest at the Republic Day Parade in Delhi. Stunning work Marc Wadsworth’s biography of Shapurji Saklatvala, the Communist who held Battersea North in London as a Labour parliamentarian from 1922-1923 and from 1924-1929, is a stunning work of scholarship. It took Marc 10 years to bring out the first edition of Comrade Sak in 1998. The revised second edition, just out, has new material on how MI5 spied on Saklatvala and his correspondence with Gandhi. Marc, born in Birmingham of a Jamaican father and a Finnish mother with Indian ancestors from Bihar, he believes, has been a radical member of the Labour Party. He calls the book “a labour of love” but assures me it is not a hagiography. “He was wrong in his dispute with Gandhi” over how to achieve Indian independence. That said, Saklatvala, a member of the Tata family, was, in Marc’s opinion, “the most important Indian fighter for independence outside of India in the 20th century, with Dadabhai Naoroji coming at the end of the 19th century”.Footnote The Khushwant Literary Festival, which has been coming to London since 2018, was held digitally last week, opening with Sudha Murty telling Chetan Bhagat about her son-in-law. When Rishi Sunak — he is married to Murty’s daughter Akshata — was made Chancellor of the Exchequer, he rang to give her the big news. “Explain that to me in Indian English,” she responded, and appreciated the significance when Rishi said he was now “finance minister”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-132
17-10-2020||Opinion||Shared trajectory||The popularity of the prime minister, Narendra Modi, continues to baffle his critics. They ask — ‘what did Modi create in these six years?’ But that is the wrong question to ask. His appeal stems from not what he has created but what he has destroyed, and continues to destroy — a discredited status quo. In this respect, his enduring mass appeal, in the absence of tangible achievements, is similar to that of Lalu Prasad in his heyday. Lalu’s mass appeal, which made him Bihar’s undisputed leader for over 15 years, had similarly confounded analysts. A study of the parallels between the two leaders might illuminate what it would take to successfully challenge Modi. If you look at the biggest political moves of Modi over the last six years — demonetization, Article 370, the goods and services tax, farm and labour bills — they follow a simple political logic. Modi rose to power in a society teeming with aspirations. These aspirations, embodied particularly by a neo-middle class, were released by liberalization but not quite fulfilled. The ingeniousness of Modi was to conflate these thwarted aspirations with a system of power, which was deeply corrupt and captured by vested interests. This was the old status quo, which was thoroughly discredited in 2014. But Modi keeps reminding voters that the old systems of power are still alive, having entrenched themselves over ‘70 years of misrule’, and that dismantling them would be a long process. He thus demands, and largely receives, the patience of the electorate. Only after ‘Old India’ has been destroyed will ‘New India’ be built. All his marquee political moves are centred on this narrative of the destruction of the old status quo. Demonetization was supposed to destroy the black economy. GST was needed to clean the corrupt informal economy. Article 370 was revoked to dismantle the corrupt hold of the Abdullahs and the Muftis (as well as the vested interests of the separatists) on the state, which had kept Kashmir backward and prevented its integration. The recently passed farm bills would uproot the entrenched middlemen that had frustrated the modernization of agriculture, much like the labour bills that would destroy an ensconced labour aristocracy that has hampered rapid industrialization. In contrast, Modi has been poor at building new systems to replace the old ones. India’s Kashmir policy is in tatters, GST implementation was a mess, demonetization was an unmitigated disaster, and there is no clarity on the new farm and labour regime. Unlike Jawaharlal Nehru, Modi lacks both the will and the capacity to be an institution-builder. And yet, the dramatically simple and reductive logic undergirding these narratives, far from being a weakness, is actually their main strength. A good political narrative is essentially a simple one, as the example of Lalu shows. Much like Modi, Lalu’s rise to power represented the casting away of the old order. From the late 1960s, there was an emerging political consciousness among the backward castes in Bihar — moulded by leaders such as Ram Manohar Lohia, Jayaprakash Narayan and Karpoori Thakur. The political aspirations of these peasant castes had been whetted by the gains of the Green Revolution. The old upper-caste dominated order, embodied by the upper-caste dominated Congress, had become discredited by the time Lalu became chief minister in 1990. Again, like Modi, Lalu’s subsequent politics centred less on building a reformed Bihar, which would materially benefit his political base, and more on symbolic fights against the old upper caste order. The political slogan of his then Janata Party was ‘Vikas Nahin, Samman Chahiye (We need dignity, not development)’. As the political scientist, Jeffrey Witsoe, wrote, Lalu mobilized the backward castes not through policy initiatives but by appealing symbolically to themes of dignity. The main focus of his rule was to undo the upper caste control of the State, which involved regular confrontations with the upper-caste controlled police, bureaucracy and the judiciary. Unsurprisingly, this political style of conflict deepened, what the political scientist, Atul Kohli, had termed the “crisis of governability” in Bihar. The state continued to lag in education, health and jobs. The problems of law and order and corruption, which were already severe in previous Congress regimes, continued to fester, if not worsen. Yet, Lalu remained the tallest leader of Bihar and returned with an even bigger victory in 1995. Populist showmen, like Lalu and Modi, are, for a period, immune to attacks on governance because they can easily turn criticism into validation. The critics are framed as the vestiges of the old order, perennially whining at their loss of power and status. Lalu termed all his corruption scandals as the conspiracy of upper-caste investigative agencies and the judiciary. And the marginalized identified with Lalu as one of their own, like many poor and neo-middle class Indians identify with Modi (‘son of a tea seller’) and gave him a long rope. Lalu’s rule had socially and politically empowered the backward castes and they didn’t want a return to the old upper-caste dominated political order. In his symbolic fights, they saw one of their own challenging the despised system that had kept them down. Yet, as Lalu discovered, in 2000, when he lost his majority, and in 2005, when he was shunted from power, popularity can’t last forever if you don’t ultimately fulfil material aspirations. Modi might be coasting now through a prolonged economic downturn and a slump in job creation, but the situation can drastically change by 2024. A long rope, too, has its limits. But the lesson from Bihar is it can’t happen without an alternative political vision. Simply attacking the government doesn’t work. Nitish Kumar promised a “Nutan Bihar” (New Bihar), not a return to the old order. Jeffrey Witsoe and Francine Frankel noted that Nitish Kumar displaced Lalu because he “was the ideal political figure to combine the themes of development and social justice, something Lalu had never managed to deliver in combination.” But he didn’t stop at rhetoric; he skilfully politicized and cultivated a coalition of extremely backward castes, which felt themselves marginalized under the increasingly ‘Muslim-Yadav’ rule of Lalu. Along with his ‘natural’ base of Kurmis and Koeris, with a smattering of Pasmanda Muslims, this was a winning coalition when allied with the upper caste base of the Bharatiya Janata Party. But, unlike Lalu, he didn’t simply project himself to be a backward-caste leader. He also appealed to an aspirational voting bloc that wanted clean politics and material benefits. If we are baffled with the popularity of Modi, we must also ask what is the alternative vision the Opposition is offering. The Congress still suffers from the taint of corruption and encrusted privilege. Most of its prominent young leaders come from political dynasties and it is de-facto led by fourth-generation dynasts of the Nehru-Gandhi family. Of late, it has been trying to emerge as the party of the backward castes, Dalits and Muslims, but its attempts at mobilization on the ground have been feeble and episodic. Its leadership crisis has meant that there is a lack of clarity on what the party stands for. Similarly, many regional parties passively hope that the Congress’s depleting social base will return to them on their own without attempting to reconfigure their politics from the 1980s to meet the realities of 2020. Yes, Modi comfortably survived the migrant crisis but the question is which party seriously attempted to use this crisis to politicize the urban working classes and make them part of their political coalition. The old political system lies discredited, and Modi’s eclipse, when it happens, will likely be to a new form of politics. The trouble is that it is hard to see this new politics anywhere on the horizon. The author is a political columnist and research associate with the Centre for Policy Research, Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-132
