18-10-2020||Opinion||Let us do some tann ki baat||The thing is that it is not a thing to last. But while it lasts it is the thing you might hold most dear. Because it is the thing you are, this tann. You know that, of course. If you didn’t you wouldn’t be reading this. It is because you know that, because you have a tann, that this is a thing that can be conveyed. It is because you know that you can receive. Without the tann, that would not be possible. Not for me to tell, not for you to hear. Lots of things would not be possible without the tann, it is the vessel of our beings, the house where we house ourselves while the tenancy of life lasts. Tann is the factory floor on which we become who we are, it is where we might do the things we might do, or mightn’t, it is the womb of our souls. And then the soul escapes the womb one day, of course, and leaves the tann behind. That is what we call death. The expiry of functions of a most complex concoction of things, innumerable things, let’s not even begin to count or draw an inventory of the tann, there would be no time for that. The tenant departs, those quarters would no longer admit another occupant. End of tann. But let us not go down that alley. Let us, in fact, just pause here. Let us not go beyond hearing to stuff like understanding and comprehending because those are not things one should necessarily expect. If people could understand, if people could comprehend, we would be a different sort of people. Suffices that you can hear. And you can hear because there is a tann. And hearing is part of many things a tann, or most tanns, are capable of, or so Nature ordained it. Many things were ordained but we learnt to not use them as they were ordained, and we learnt to abuse them too. You are listening. It is part of what you can do with a tann. You can hear tann ki baat. There are good tanns and there are bad tanns and there are tanns we may not bother about. There are young tanns and old tanns and tanns that hang about in between, not knowing what is to be done with the way the tann has become, neither supple nor wasted, neither sought nor forsaken, neither what it used to be nor what it will become. A house waiting upon the tenant to leave. That sort of tann. Are you listening? And then there are tanns that we do not leave alone to do their journeying. There are tanns we do things to. You must have heard. Or read. Or been told. We do not let them be. Because those tanns belong to this one or that one. Because we like those tanns so much we begin to hunger and lust for them. Because we hate those tanns so much we want to not let them be. Because we think nothing of those tanns, we do our willing with them — we scratch, we bite, we rip,  we squeeze and pinch and pull and probe, we bore, we break, we gag, we bleed, we wreak, we wreck, we feed. Until there is nothing to feed on anymore, and all that remains is the disposal of the tann. We do other things to other tanns, tanns that we don’t wish to lavish our hungers on. We whack and slash. We thrash and knife. We cut and slit. We drag and decapitate. We do such things to tanns. Tanns that we do not like and think should not be around or have no right to be inhabited tanns. Tanns that wear their otherness. Tanns that speak an otherness. Tanns that pray to an otherness. Tanns with rogue tenants that deserve to be banished because we don’t like their otherness. It is not an otherness. It is a rogueness. Those tanns we do such things to that they are not lived in any more. It has become a thing, doing things to tanns.Let me come to blood
Let me come to bone
Let me render all flesh
And do it all alone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-131
18-10-2020||Opinion||Hate is normal||While goodwill fumbles like a simpleton, hate spreads like a raging Amazon forest fire. Of course, to its added advantage the haters can commandeer social media, while the do-gooders and mean-wells most likely bank on toothless, platformless empathy. There has been an “alarming” increase in hate crime against Asian-Americans in the United States since the outbreak of Covid-19, according to an August report by United Nations officials. The report says: “We are further concerned by the documented increase in hate and misogynist speech, including incitement to hatred and racial discrimination in public places and online, and the contribution of the President of the United States in seemingly legitimizing these violations.” The United Kingdom has claimed an overall drop in religious hate crimes in the last one year, but an increase in race hate crimes. Scotland is mulling a controversial piece of hate crime legislation. France adopted the hate speech bill or Loi Avia in May, which required that platforms take down “explicitly” hateful content flagged by users within 24 hours. In June, a more watered down bill was adopted for various reasons. The original Loi Avia is said to be modelled on Germany’s strict NetzDG that was passed in 2017. When a German woman faced a slew of hate comments after she posted a photograph of herself with a dead fox and shotgun, the abusers were heavily fined. Hate crime all over the world has become common and the online version of it nearly everywhere is difficult to combat as it requires not treading on the feet of free speech and expression. What happened in India last week over The Ad is significant not just because it is about hate, but because it is about normalising hate. It was a jewellery ad. The accompanying video clip was nudging at communal harmony. But what happened was unprecedented. Offence was spun. The Ad was demonised. The outrage that followed would have befitted Hathras and so also the collective chant for corrective action, bullish and urgent. Hoods and isms clashed with no one but made a lot of noise nevertheless, till nearly choking on its own poison, illogic frothed at the mouth. Next, big names in shining armour leapt into a discourse that most definitely was better off whimpering in ignominy and rarefied social media air. The Ad was spiked and the trolls and their cheerleaders had most likely moved on in search of new jugulars, but by then a virtual threat had jumped platform and a retail store had to apologise for… nothing. The store location, Gujarat; more specifically a town called Gandhidham.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-131
18-10-2020||Opinion||Fleeting fame||Sir — Much has been said and written about a street-side food vendor, whose stall became famous after a food blogger and then some celebrities promoted it online. Now there are crowds — including politicians, actors and selfie-seekers — flocking to the stall and the fate of the vendor seems to have changed. But will this hype last? What will he do when the interest in his store wanes? As it is, many of those visiting the store are just taking pictures and not actually eating the food. Social media cannot be a replacement for social security provided by the State — something Indians do not have. Roshni Sen
Calcutta Sir — I absolutely agree with Asim Ali’s piece, “Shared trajectory” (Oct 17). The similarities between Narendra Modi and Lalu Prasad presented by Ali really changed my perspective of the current Indian political scenario. Perhaps Ali would agree that the narrative or the image of Modi that is presented is far superior than the real personality behind it. As a prime minister, Modi is not just a representation of himself, but also a reflection of the majority’s political thought process, which at present runs on jingoistic nationalism. Political rhetoric is used to spread this pseudo-nationalism amongst the youth; they are made to feel as if they are responsible for bringing a revolution. This fake nationalism incites stubbornness, megalomania, war-mongering and so on. Unfortunately, even the Opposition succumbs to this kind of attitude occasionally. In the meantime, India is still struggling to get electricity in a host of its remote villages. While fugitive capitalists have settled abroad and are enjoying an exuberant lifestyle at the cost of Indian taxpayers, the safety of women and children are at stake while the prime minister makes promises he cannot fulfil. Hirakjyoti Chakraborty
Calcutta Sir — Asim Ali will have to admit that Lalu Prasad can be criticized on many counts, but he is not responsible for why Bihar is underdeveloped. Bihar has seen the rule of many chief ministers, some of them were hailed for their statesmanship, progressive outlook and wisdom, but they all failed Bihar in terms of industrialization, creation of infrastructure and investment in health and education. Nitish Kumar has done well in his term, but even he has not been able to bring Bihar on a par with other states in the country. Prasad has withered a lot in his political career — the Congress holds a grudge against him because he decimated the party’s dominance in Bihar. He was challenged many a times by his own fellow socialist Lohiaite brethren, Nitish Kumar being a prime example. Apparently, former prime minister, H.D. Deve Gowda, allegedly let loose the CBI against him during his tenure, at a time when Prasad was one of the tallest leaders at the Centre. The present Bharatiya Janata Party dispensation in Delhi and the ruling alliance in Patna are hell-bent on destroying him politically. Many of his comrades have left him and are now in the Opposition camp. But he stands by his ideals. This is what separates him from Narendra Modi. Kamalini Mukherjee
Calcutta Sir — The fact that India ranks at 94 out of 107 countries in the Global Hunger Index, 2020, shows that there is a wide gap between boastful claims of the government and harsh realities on the ground. Even in Asia, India fares badly as far as human development indices are concerned. This is shameful given that even countries like Pakistan, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka have improved their record significantly. India became self-sufficient in food production with its hard-won Green Revolution. Yet, it failed at equitable distribution, causing crores of people to go to bed hungry. The accessibility to and affordability of food grains, let alone to nutritious food is still not available for many. Wasting and stunting among children, the indicators of acute and chronic deficiencies, point at continued failure in strategies of the government The coronavirus will worsen the scenario and add to these numbers significantly. D.V.G. Sankararao
Nellimarla, Andhra Pradesh||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-131
18-10-2020||Opinion||Bihar polls: all about direct, indirect and hidden alliances ||The upcoming Bihar assembly elections have generated much greater curiosity this time than ever in the past because of the multiple layers of intrigues and conspiracies that have blurred the normal fight between two straight alliances. There are direct, indirect and hidden alliances and unforeseen post-poll possibilities keeping both political players and observers confused. The capital’s political grapevine is abuzz with speculation about another somersault by an anguished Bihar chief minister, Nitish Kumar, who feels that the Bharatiya Janata Party has played a dubious game by using Chirag Paswan’s Lok Janshakti Party to harm the prospects of the Janata Dal (United). Insiders reveal that both Congress and Rashtriya Janata Dal leaders have been discreetly trying to read Kumar’s mind and even accentuate the sense of hurt among the JD(U) workers. The Congress and RJD leaders expect Kumar to walk out of the alliance in the post-poll scenario if the BJP refuses to make him chief minister. Conspiracy theorists are referring to the Maharashtra model, where the Shiv Sena did the unthinkable by embracing the Congress-Nationalist Congress Party alliance, and wonder why the BJP leaders did not learn any lesson from that debacle. Interestingly, the former Maharashtra chief minister, Devendra Fadnavis, who is seen as the key factor in the strained relations between the BJP and the Shiv Sena, is playing a key role in Bihar as well. The turmoil in the ruling alliance with the LJP’s exit may not be the last chapter in this edition of intriguing Machiavellian politics. One party that has managed to gain a toehold in the minds of Bihar’s voters in spite of being a complete newcomer to the state’s politics is the Plurals Party, founded by Pushpam Priya Choudhary, with the Greek mythological winged-horse, Pegasus, as its symbol. However, its name has not caught the fancy of the people. Educated last in the London School of Economics, Choudhary has declared herself worthy of the chief minister’s post. Dressed usually in black, she has been touring all over the state, and fielding candidates in almost all the constituencies in the upcoming assembly elections. Most of them are well-educated, earnest young men and women, but many of them are frustrated that the rural population cannot properly pronounce ‘Plurals’. “We have tried our best to teach the people, but they keep coming up with different pronunciations every time. At many places they just address us as ‘kariya kapra wali ki party’ (the party of the lady dressed in black). We just wonder if some Hindi name would have been more suitable in this state,” said one of the candidates. Another was worried about a situation in which Choudhary decides to sport some other colour. “And Shakespeare said naam mein ka ba [What’s in a name]. We can now answer him, naam mein e ba [This is in a name],” he spoke loudly. Rajiv Pratap Rudy and Shahnawaz Hussain used to be two high-profile BJP faces from Bihar. They were ministers in the first BJP-led Atal Bihari Vajpayee government. Not anymore, and without even having breached the unofficial 75 years retirement age set by the current Narendra Modi-Amit Shah regime. This criterion has seen many party stalwarts like LK Advani being edged out. Rudy is 58 and Hussain just 51. Their marginalization got highlighted recently when none of the two figured in the list of 30 BJP campaigners for the Bihar polls. While Rudy is a Lok Sabha parliamentarian now after having been dropped as a minister, Hussain does not even have that. Since he lost the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, he has been waiting on the margins. Hussain was offered a ticket to contest the Bihar polls from Bhagalpur, insiders said. Running for a legislative assembly seat after having been a member of parliament and a Union minister was no less than having salt rubbed into his wound. The pain of being in the wilderness had pushed Hussain to accept the offer, but he finally refused, according to whispers in the BJP corridors. Many, however, feel his refusal was owing to ground reports suggesting that he could lose. Politics is as much about man management as it is about taking the right decision at the right time. The Arunachal Pradesh chief minister, Pema Khandu, has yet again displayed his timely managerial skills by appointing as many as 22 members of legislative assemblies as advisers to assist ministers in the smooth functioning of the government and early completion of projects. Government observers feel that the appointments and allocation of additional portfolios to his ministerial colleagues suggest that Khandu was either under pressure or wanted to check any sort of power tussle by accommodating these MLAs in the ‘power structure’. The size of the council of ministers in the 60-member state assembly cannot exceed 15 per cent. And since the appointment of parliamentary secretaries could attract the attention and axe of the judiciary, as was seen last month when the high court of Manipur ruled the appointment of 12 MLAs as parliamentary secretaries unconstitutional, Khandu chose the adviser route, that too at ‘no’ financial cost to the state exchequer. The crowd waiting for the arrival of Nitish Kumar to address the election rally at Tarapur heard the blades of the helicopter and became excited. But the helicopter brought a virtual cyclone, destroying the tent erected for the audience. People panicked and the administration had a tough time preventing a stampede. During Kumar’s address, sections were busy discussing whether the contractor did a shoddy job despite taking money. “All the roads, bridges, embankments, drains and other infrastructure works suffer from this syndrome,” a voter quipped.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-131
18-10-2020||Opinion||People’s president||Rashtrapati Bhavan has long had a tradition of printing a brochure with the caption, President of India, Curriculum Vitae. Does a president need a CV? Not really. But the publication becomes useful when the Head of State is travelling abroad and his or her hosts need to know the basics about their distinguished guest of whom they have not heard much, if anything at all, from before. The length of the publication conforms to the length of the president’s career. But also to the depth of the Presidential Office’s anxiety to stretch that length to the farthest horizons of the reader’s credulous interest. This document in respect of K.R. Narayanan, India’s tenth president, contains but four meagre pages. My copy of it is now archival. Its stiff cover has aged, mellowed. The four pages inside have turned into a natural sepia. But in the making of this, as with anything that appeared over his name, President Narayanan was directly and intensely involved. It gives the date of his birth — 27 October, 1920. Nine days from now, he would have turned a hundred. The CV does not burden us with the further detail that another tradition gives his birthday as 4 February, 1921 after the account that his uncle, who escorted him to school on admission day, forgot — or did not know — the actual date and so just improvised and said ‘27 October, 1920’. It is, therefore, possible that he would have been 99 this year and not a full 100. Either way, the ‘story’ tells us everything about the fragility of life’s certitudes in an Indian village. Poverty, caste and dispossession in Uzhavoor, Kerala, in the early years of the twentieth century, made calendars paper things for a Dalit family. The journey from the hut where he was born and grew up in to Raisina Hill went through a tortuous path where many helped, many hindered, and many more simply ignored the intellectual aspirations of this son of a practitioner of traditional medicine. Until, that is, with scholarships from the Travancore Royal House that assisted his collegiate education in Kerala and then from the House of the Tatas which saw him through his study at the London School of Economics, they could ignore him no more. Lest it be thought this ‘journey’ ended in Rashtrapati Bhavan, the reader must know that it did not, for President Narayanan did not regard his lofty address as ‘an arrival’ or a culmination. He took the office and the responsibility as something that had just come his way in the much larger trod through life where fortune and misfortune beguile us by their reputations for power. And so the sheerness of his presidential CV’s size and the ephemeral haze over the date of his birth go to show that in his scheme of things, his experience of Indian society, politics and ethos in the larger arena of a changing world were far more important than the factoids of his career. A lesser man would have seen to it that any official chronicle of his life would have mentioned his conversation with Mahatma Gandhi on April 10, 1945 when the twenty five year old met (not without difficulty) him in Bombay’s Birla House to get his wishes before sailing for England to take up his study at LSE. And not just because the conversation was with the man it was with but because the young man’s sharp questions do him such credit, one of which, given below, fetching the future diplomat a nugget of an ‘External Publicity’ clue. KRN: How can a Harijan who goes abroad best serve his country and his community from abroad? MKG: He cannot serve the one without the other. Abroad you will say it is a domestic question which you are determined to solve for yourselves. It took the launch in London (1993) of a biography of Harold Laski for the then vice-president Narayanan to speak in public about his hugely successful stint of study for a B.Sc in Economics at LSE which he completed with a first class honours. “The Kerala people there,” he reminisced, “threw a party to felicitate me. And Krishna Menon was invited to be the chief guest. Leaning on his walking stick at the doorway Menon said to me, ‘So, Narayanan, I hear you have got a First. You know, some people get it by fluke.’ I do not know how but I managed to say, ‘Is that how you got yours?’” Narayanan learnt to protect, not flaunt, his sense of self-respect, exactly as he learnt to protect and advance without trumpeting India’s sense of its greatness. And he did that with a quiet elan that was his own. His speech at the banquet he hosted for President Bill Clinton on March 21, 2000 is a classic of plain-speaking. “As an African statesman has observed to us,” he said, “the fact that the world is a global village does not mean that it will be run by one village headman.” And he concluded the speech with a quote from, appropriately, an American philosopher, Henry David Thoreau, which only he, in the New Delhi of short-termist thought and action, could have thought of and set down: “It takes two to speak the truth — one to speak and the other to listen.” India in 2000 was different and yet not so different from what India is in 2020. In his Republic Day address in 2000, President Narayanan said something which resonates with our experience of migrant workers fleeing in panic from their extinguished worksites during the Covid-19 lockdown. “The unabashed, vulgar indulgence in conspicuous consumption by the nouveau-riche has left the underclass seething in frustration. One half of our society guzzles aerated beverages while the other has to make do with palmfuls of muddied water. Our three-way fast-lane of liberalization, privatization and globalization must provide safe pedestrian crossings for unempowered India.” In a public conversation with N. Ram on the eve of Independence Day, August 14, 1998, President Narayanan thought aloud on the scope of his high office: “...there is a subtle influence of the office of the President on the executive and the other arms of the government and on the public as a whole... (but) he can play it successfully only if he is, his ideas, and his nature of functioning are seen by the public in tune with their standards.” Describing himself as “a working President”, he spoke of the president’s influence and said, “You can call it moral authority” and then, with characteristic self-effacement, added “I don’t want to elevate it to such a position.” And yet that — moral authority — is what he had, and exercised without the slightest display of a personal ego at work. I started with the CV and must end with the same document. He ensured that the spare text has space yet for the First Lady’s interests and accomplishments over the decades. This was but right for Usha Narayanan, born to Burmese parents, was a remarkable life-partner of his. Prior to their going to Tokyo on a posting, Prime Minister Nehru had asked the young couple to tea. Turning to Usha, he asked how, being of Burmese descent, she viewed their prospective time in Japan. “Life is about healing hurts,” she replied, “We have to look ahead.” The former translator and broadcaster of news for the external services of AIR could not have put it better. Mrs Narayanan did not tell me, as she recounted this conversation in the August of 2000, what Panditji said to her in response. But we can be sure that he knew India was going to be well represented in Japan by this young couple that knew hurts, when it is helped, heals. If not, hurt seethes. The author was secretary to President K.R. Narayanan from 1997 to 2000||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-131
18-10-2020||Opinion||Glory unbounded||India is well on the way to redefining the word, ‘science’: high-flown statements of belief without proof. Unable to keep up with this advance, 400 scientists — no doubt behind the times — have endorsed a letter to the chairperson of the Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog asking how it has been ‘scientifically proven’ that keeping cow dung cakes at home reduces radiation. The Aayog was formed in 2019 to protect and promote indigenous cattle, and the chairperson has now claimed that a chip made from cow dung will guard people against radiation from cell phones. Being old-fashioned, the letter implies that science is based on evidence, not claims, so the scientists are asking for the relevant data supporting the chairperson’s pronouncement. But evidence is not the forte of the Bharatiya Janata Party-led dispensation. What its adherents declare should be accepted as the incontrovertible truth: anything that glorifies the majority community and the land it believes to be its own has a kind of supranatural truth that transcends the need for mundane evidence. The judge in the Rajasthan High Court who had said that the cow should be India’s national animal had also mentioned that peacocks are celibate; peahens become pregnant by swallowing the peacock’s tears. Old-fashioned scientists, however, resist swallowing anything. This is not the first time since 2014, when the Narendra Modi-led government came to power, that they are objecting to the parading of myth and fantasy as science. The most recent letter says that without evidence, the chairperson is propagating superstition and pseudoscience. Not only does that violate the Constitution’s direction to promote a scientific temper, but it also indicates a waste of public money when scientific research in India is suffering from scant resources. But the innocent cow is, for the Hindutva-minded, a vehicle of unfathomable virtues that data-minded scientists cannot plumb. It carries gold, whether in its milk, as the BJP chief of West Bengal claims, or in its urine, as claimed by researchers in Junagadh Agricultural University, is not yet clear. Pragya Singh Thakur said that a mixture of cow’s milk, urine and dung cured her breast cancer — till her surgeon, notable wet blanket, said she had had three surgeries for it. Scientists had sharply criticized the waste of public money and the propagation of unscientific traditional beliefs when the government called for proposals for research on ‘cowpathy’ under a funding programme to study cow effluents to produce medicines — for cancer or diabetes, for instance — and pesticides, shampoos, hair oil and floor-cleaners. But it is impossible for mere scientists, however many times they may object, to rain on the parade of those who declare that Gandhari’s offspring were born of stem-cell research, that Ganesha’s head proved that ancient Indians knew plastic surgery, or that the sage, Bharadwaj, directed the construction of aircraft. Glory be. Superstition, false history and the anti-scientific temper are obviously inextricable from the BJP’s brand of nationalism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-131
