19-10-2020||Opinion||Heroic tales of Frederick Walter Champion||Sir — It was an absolute pleasure reading Mahesh Rangarajan’s “The other hero” (Oct 12). As long back as in the earlier 1900s, the far-sighted Frederick Walter Champion’s photographic adventures to record and truly highlight the cause of the Indian tiger, among other predators, were path-breaking. This led to governmental recognition of the problems faced by these big cats and Project Tiger was launched by Indira Gandhi. The need to conserve fauna and flora cannot be overemphasized, more so now when we are faced with the prospect of recurring pandemics and natural calamities resulting from the wanton destruction of animal habitats, overconsumption and our ever expanding demands on natural resources. I wish the likes of Rangarajan to keep flagging these warning signs so that something can be done about them. Shibaprasad Deb,Calcutta Sir — I had the privilege of visiting the Jim Corbett National Park in Uttarakhand in 2017, and what a memorable trip that was. It was my first tiger sighting in the wild. I had known about the master hunter and later conservator and spine-chilling storyteller of the man eaters of Kumaon, Jim Corbett. But thanks to Rangarajan, I learnt that there was another conservator working behind the lens under the shadow of Corbett — Frederick Walter Champion, the little-known hero of the wild. After my visit to the tiger reserve, I came to know in a news report that a tiger had turned into a man-eater and that the half eaten body of a forest guide had been found. That was indeed tragic news and a rare one in a tiger reserve. I have also been to the Sunderbans where there are man-eaters in abundance but unfortunately I could not see one. Later I had been to the foothills of the Himalayas where I got to see a leopard in the wild but the tiger always eluded me. Until I got to see one in the Corbett Tiger Reserve. I owe this experience to my guide and jeep chauffeur whose thorough knowledge about the routes of the jungle and animal habits helped us get a sighting of the big cat. These people are no less than the likes of Corbett and Champion, who work on the ground with the animals. One would be pleased that even today conservationists like them exist who make tourists like me aware of the fact that the land belongs equally to wild animals and humans. It is we who venture into their territory and occupy their zone making them blood-thirsty. Let us let them live in their own habitat and let the ecological balance be. Alok Ganguly,Kalyani Sir — Mahesh Rangarajan’s piece was enlightening to say the least. The work of the likes of F.W. Champion needs to be highlighted because it holds extreme importance for the present crisis facing the ecology. Ronita Biswas,Bolpur Wasted bounty Sir — A new trend among vloggers is going to restaurants and challenging themselves to finish large platters of food. What, one wonders, happens to all the food that they do not finish? Moreover, why would a restaurant serve 100 dishes as one meal? Even a large group of people would not be able to finish this amount of food amongst themselves. At a time when thousands are going hungry, such wastage seems criminal. Rishi Pathak,Gurgaon||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-130
19-10-2020||Opinion||Scissor hands: A new era of genetics||The Nobel Prize for chemistry signals the ushering in of a “new epoch”. The CRISPR/Cas9 ‘genetic scissors’, discovered by Emmanuelle Charpentier and Jennifer A. Doudna, indeed have the potential of vast medical applications, from curing genetic diseases, detecting and treating cancers and HIV by blocking replication in human cells, bioengineering new crops and plants, eliminating malaria, to editing DNA in live human embryos. But as scientists embark on this “new epoch” of genetic engineering, past challenges — not only medical but also ethical — must serve as a warning. Any initiative to eradicate flaws in the physiological form must recall the grievous wrongs perpetrated by government-sponsored eugenics programmes in the United States of America, Canada and, most significantly, Germany. From 1909-1979, around 20,000 sterilizations took place in California’s state mental institutions under the guise of protecting society from the offspring of people with mental illness. This perverse obsession to purge imperfection was not very different from the Nazi regime’s experiments to create a ‘pure race’. Prisoners in concentration camps were forced to undergo horrific medical tests to realize this grand vision. The question of consent was, of course, sacrificed. The temptation of playing god for future generations, that too without the knowledge of long-term consequences, has proved to be irresistible to certain regimes. Yet there is also a strong case to not delay gene research given the suffering and death brought about by a number of single-gene disorders. Cystic fibrosis and Huntington’s disease can be cited as two examples. The challenge, therefore, is to find the right balance between medicine and ethics. Germany, it seems, has found a way by taking lessons from the past. Last year, a German Ethics Council, while admitting the benefits of gene editing, called for a moratorium on gene-edited IVF embryos until such a point that suitable guidelines can be established, including international monitoring procedures and governance structures. More than 40 countries have passed similar laws against human germline editing. Some others, such as the US, are trying to regulate covert research by controlling the purse strings. But regulatory mechanisms have their own limitations. Scientific discoveries evolve faster than progressive legislation; human gene editing is, therefore, unlikely to remain contained by regulatory limits. Its adoption, goaded by a market hungry for the wonders of eugenics, would exacerbate discrimination and conflict. Genetic heritage is a public resource. Neither science nor the State has the right to tweak it without representative consultation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-130
19-10-2020||Opinion||Poison ivy: India's communal ethic||The communal ethic, just like cancer, can be made to proliferate with ease. It spares none of the organs that constitute the body politic of a republic. New India seems to be a chilling example of such a metastasis. Three different but key spheres — business, security and health — witnessed yet another assault by the forces of bigotry recently. An advertisement endorsing the idea of interfaith marriage was forcefully dropped — the jewellery brand had to apologize for the commercial — because the projection of pluralism, the bedrock of Indian constitutionalism, apparently hurt the sentiments of the majority community. The army — its commitment to secularism, much like its pledge to bravery, is beyond reproach — was targeted next, with social media disseminating an outrageously falsified account of a ‘Muslim regiment’ — the Indian army has never had such a formation — refusing to take part in the war against Pakistan in 1965. Meanwhile, one of the top hospitals in Uttar Pradesh — arguably India’s most polarized state — is reportedly asking patients whether they participated in the Tablighi Jamaat conclave as part of its Covid-19 screening mechanism. It is true that these transgressions have not gone uncontested. A number of army veterans have written to the president, for instance, seeking redressal against the wilful falsification of the history and the dignity of this heroic institution. Two of India’s principal advertisement bodies have denounced the vilification of the commercial by vested interests. But it has to be admitted that the outrage against majoritarianism is yet to acquire a truly public dimension. If this were the case, India’s current regime, the alleged patron of such a deeply divisive agenda, would not have been re-elected with a brutal majority. The guardians of the Constitution — the courts, the media and other institutions — have, in the last six years, had their task cut out when it comes to defending constitutional principles given the unprecedented pressure that has been brought upon the fabric of inclusion. It cannot be said that they have carried out their responsibilities with distinction in every case. But institutional fidelity to the vision of India’s founding fathers is only one aspect of the unfolding challenge. Another formidable goal is to mobilize public opinion against these orchestrated depredations on cohesion. A divided people, history has shown repeatedly, only end up deepening the fault lines within the nation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-130
19-10-2020||Opinion||French allure: New Caledonia referendum||On October 4, New Caledonia voted to remain French by a majority of 53.3 per cent to 46.7 per cent. That’s hardly an overwhelming majority, but it was the second referendum in two years to reject independence in the South Pacific archipelago, so we may take it as a done deal. The odd thing is that almost three-quarters of the islands’ 2,70,000 people are not of European descent. They are ‘Kanaks’ (descended from the original Melanesian inhabitants), other Pacific islanders, or Asians, but a substantial proportion of them want to remain citizens of a European country more than 16,000 kilometres away. Yet it’s not unique. While the other powers of western Europe gave all their colonies independence more than a generation ago, France stays on not only in the South Pacific (New Caledonia and French Polynesia) but in Africa (Mayotte and Réunion), in the Caribbean (Martinique and Guadeloupe) and in South America (French Guiana). It does so with the approval of the local inhabitants, although nowhere are ethnic French people a majority. What is the mysterious allure of being French that persuades so many non-Europeans to vote in favour of living in ‘overseas departments’ of France itself? A large part of the allure is spelled M-O-N-E-Y. If you live in an overseas department of France, then you get a good, free education and a French level of public and social services. Per capita income in New Caledonia is ten times that in other nearby island nations like Fiji, Vanuatu, Samoa, and the Solomon Islands. It’s the same in the Caribbean. Guadeloupe and Martinique, each with around 4,00,000 people, have GDPs per capita of $25-27,000; the two nearest ex-British islands, Dominica and St. Lucia, are in the $7-10,000 range. And French Guiana has the highest per capita income in all of South America (albeit largely because it hosts the EU’s main spaceport). Most startling of all is the Comoros Islands, north of Madagascar. Three of the four main islands voted for independence in a 1974 referendum. The fourth island, Mayotte, voted to stay with France then, and chose full ‘overseas department’ status by a 95.5 per cent majority in another referendum in 2009. The proudly independent ‘Union of the Comoros’, one million people strong, has a GDP per capita of $1,400. Mayotte’s is ten times as high, and half of its quarter-million people are illegal immigrants from the other islands. The African Union still insists that Mayotte’s status is illegal, because it didn’t decolonize with the other islands, but the Mahorais aren’t interested, especially since the Union of the Comoros is also the world capital of military coups. They also don’t seem to mind that traditional Islamic law is now being replaced by the French civil code (or at least the female half of the population doesn’t). It makes perfectly good sense for a New Caledonian or a Réunionnais to trade in the doubtful blessings of impoverished small-state nationhood for the citizenship of a first-world country and access to all its benefits, without even having to leave home. And if you do want to leave home, you can move to France (as many do) or anywhere else in the European Union, for that matter. The real puzzle is: what’s in it for the French? It’s certainly not economic gain: the subsidies France pays far outweigh any profits it might get from privileged access to the limited resources of these small territories. The benefits for France are almost all psychological. Most other European empires were run as pragmatic business ventures. If the colonies are not turning a profit any more, perhaps because they are getting too expensive to control, then walk away and leave them to their own devices. France had a bigger emotional investment in empire, perhaps because it was in steady decline from being the greatest European power in the 18th century to a much humbler status today. It’s willing to pay for the privilege of having small bits of France in other continents. Who could criticise the residents of those places for taking advantage of this foible?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-130
19-10-2020||Opinion||Welcome to the ugly show: Trump vs Biden||The first presidential debate between Donald Trump and Joe Biden, his challenger from the Democratic Party, often descended to such a level that many commentators called it “unwatchable”. Chris Wallace, the moderator, also thought that it was “a terrible missed opportunity”. According to The Washington Post, the candidates interrupted Wallace or each other 90 times in the 90-minute debate, of which 71 interruptions were by Trump. Many viewers were surprised by the brawl-like exchanges. But were they really unanticipated? Four years ago, things had turned ugly during the first debate between Trump and Hillary Clinton in New York. The first presidential debate, between John F. Kennedy and Richard Nixon, drew over 66 million viewers out of a population of 179 million. An estimated 73.1 million people tuned in to the chaotic Trump-Biden face-off, down from the 84 million who had watched the first debate between Trump and Clinton in 2016. Yet, the Trump-Biden debate ranked as the second-most-watched event this year, behind only the Super Bowl’s roughly 100 million viewers. In spite of numerous attempts, Wallace, the Fox News anchor, failed to control Trump. One wonders what would have happened if there had been no moderator at all. The seven debates in 1858 between Abraham Lincoln and Senator Stephen A. Douglas — the precursor to today’s presidential debates — were held without a moderator. The candidates took turns to open each debate with a one-hour speech; the rival had one-and-a-half hour for rebuttal and, finally, the first candidate closed the debate with a half-an-hour response. In his 1950 book, Persuasive Speaking, the American author and an authority on public speaking, Robert T. Oliver, wrote: “Persuasion is the civilized substitute for harsh authority and ruthless force.” Has the culture of debating become uncivilized in this age of post-truth? The first presidential debate in American history, the one between Kennedy and Nixon in Chicago in 1960, had been moderated by Howard K. Smith. In it, neither of the two candidates had interrupted each other, hurled personal insults or questioned each other’s mental fitness or loyalty to the nation. Even as recently as 2012, the first debate between President Barack Obama and Governor Mitt Romney witnessed few disruptions: Obama interrupted Romney seven times, Romney returned the favour four times. Obama interrupted the moderator, Jim Lehrer, five times, whereas Lehrer was interrupted by Romney 12 times. However, things changed in 2016. The New York Times says that Trump interrupted Clinton 39 times while she interrupted him eight times in the New York debate. It was widely argued that interruptions were part of Trump’s debate strategy. It seems that his strategy has remained unchanged. Interruptions, a barrage of insults, bullying, and name-calling between two senior politicians were the chief highlights of the much-hyped Trump-Biden Cleveland show. Most people found it utterly tasteless. After the first debate between Trump and Biden dissolved into chaos, the Commission on Presidential Debates felt that “additional structure should be added to the format of the remaining debates to ensure a more orderly discussion of the issues.” Debate is a way of persuasion. The ancient Greeks called it the ‘science of rhetoric’. Plato was opposed to rhetoric in favour of dialectic, but his pragmatic student, Aristotle, defined rhetoric as the “faculty of discovering in the particular case all the available means of persuasion.” In his book, Post-Truth Rhetoric and Composition, Bruce McComiskey of the University of Alabama at Birmingham framed ‘post-truth’ within rhetorical theory, referring to the classic triad of logos, ethos, and pathos. Language has become purely strategic in this post-truth order. With the foundation of mutual respect eroded, the Trump-Biden presidential debates might be an occasion to reframe the theory of post-truth rhetoric.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-131
19-10-2020||Opinion||Remote control||The news broadcasting business is under the scanner, and on the face of it, it looks like we are at a tipping point for the industry. The Supreme Court and high courts are examining news broadcasts even as complaints and public interest litigations are being filed. Advertisers are speaking out on the tenor of news shows — something they rarely do — and suggesting that they will not put their ads on ‘toxic’ programmes. A Bollywood fraternity of 34 producers and four industry associations has filed a civil suit that seeks to restrain news channels from making derogatory and defamatory remarks against their members and conducting media trials. All this over the last two months. A TV ratings scandal has broken out simultaneously and a carefully nurtured media culture of dog-does-not-eat-dog is showing cracks. TV anchors are naming rival channels with alacrity in the rating scam. But are the scrutiny and the pushback enough to make TV news less toxic? And for how long? The Broadcast Audience Research Council, the TV viewership measurement body, has responded by suspending weekly ratings until the problems are addressed. There have been ratings scams before, but corruption has few permanent solutions. As for content and what drives it, understanding what was driving the Sushant Singh Rajput story helps locate where the problem really lies. Regulation cannot work if it is subverted by the government of the day, the ruling party, and the social media forces they deploy. The TV channels that have been identified as culprits are part of the strategy. So when the courts ask the government again and again why there is no regulation or why it is not working, what is getting missed is that it suits the government’s purpose to not enforce it. If the distinction between free speech and hate speech is getting blurred, that too suits the government’s purpose. Two pieces of research, which have emerged in recent weeks, establish the drivers for the frenzy the country has witnessed since an actor committed suicide. The first study called Anatomy of a Rumour: Social media and the suicide of Sushant Singh Rajput examined data from Twitter, YouTube, and an archive of debunked misinformation stories to locate patterns. They found that retweet rates on Twitter clearly suggested that those who commented benefited from talking about the case. It got higher engagement than other topics. More significantly, they found that politicians, in particular, began to change the course of the discourse by referring to the case as ‘murder’ rather than ‘suicide’. One of the authors, Joyojeet Pal, an associate professor at the University of Michigan, writes that although depression and mental health were central to the discussions right after the actor’s suicide in June, as time went by, conspiracy-related topics became more prominent and the Bharatiya Janata Party was much more aggressive than the Congress in discussing murder rather than suicide. Simultaneously, the Bollywood industry became a central focus of trolling, with the trolls declaring themselves nationalists. One piece of misinformation put out suggested a Pakistani hand and the presence of Dawood Ibrahim among Bollywood stars. TV stories were part of the ammunition. The study suggests that viewers were drawn in by the story of an outsider making it in the difficult world of show business before his tragic end and rewarded news channels for following this story. It also tracks Republic TV’s aggressive coverage following the conspiracy angle suggested by the ruling party, and the meteoric viewership ratings that it got. The Mumbai police and the Maharashtra government got their share of attention, which suited the BJP’s political agenda. “The local police was proposed as incompetent, or in cahoots with the cabal, the state government itself was presented as nepotistic and inimical to the interests of poor outsiders.” The researchers looked at online groups claiming to seek justice for Sushant Singh Rajput and found “a heady mix of ultranationalism, casteism, distrust of Muslims, and misogyny.” Their study also found that the parliamentarian, Subramanian Swamy, became the most popular Twitter handle in wordclouds of trolls. A second study gives a clear sense of the intensity of the in-studio pursuit of personalities. Two researchers filed an intervention application last week in the Sudarshan News case, which is before the Supreme Court. They used broadcasts by two of the anchors named in the Bollywood suit to document media trials. Their measurement of airtime in news broadcasts says that 65 per cent of the total debates conducted by Arnab Goswami (of Republic TV) in the six weeks from July 31 to September 15, 2020 and 69 per cent of the total debates conducted by Navika Kumar (of Times Now) in the 14-plus weeks from June 16 to October 6, 2020 were on the Sushant Singh Rajput death case in spite of Covid-19, a struggling economy, and the border stand-off with China. These are the same channels and journalists named in the Bollywood civil suit filed in the Delhi High Court last week for derogatory and defamatory remarks against their members. Neither of them attracted any regulatory attention from the laws that are already in place, including the Cable TV Networks regulation. In September, when the Supreme Court was looking at the Bindas Bol show on Sudarshan News, which was airing the series called UPSC Jihad, again there was no evidence of the Cable TV Act being deployed against the channel although the show clearly violated a number of its provisions. While Amul withdrew advertising from the show, the UP government did not. The information and broadcasting ministry has a history of resorting to arbitrary bans to penalize channels for specific offences. Neither Sudarshan TV nor Zee TV, which ran a series on different kinds of jihad earlier this year, has been penalized with bans by the ministry. But it did order a ban on two Kerala channels earlier this year for their coverage of the Delhi riots. It alleged that Asianet News and MediaOne TV’s coverage of the riots “could incite violence and pose danger to maintenance of law and order,” and accused both of siding with a “particular community” in their coverage. MediaOne TV was accused of improperly questioning the role of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, the parent organization of the BJP, in the violence. And Asianet of criticizing the role of the Delhi police in handling the riots. The ban was withdrawn after an outcry. So what price a pushback from advertisers or Bollywood, or criticism from the courts, when regulation is imposed or subverted according to what the government of the day wants? The author is a media commentator and was the founder-editor of TheHoot.org||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-131
