20-10-2020||Opinion||Landslide victory for Jacinda Ardern||Sir — The prime minister of New Zealand, Jacinda Ardern, delivered the biggest election victory for the centre-left Labour Party in half a century last Saturday, with voters rewarding the leader for her effective response in combating the Covid-19 pandemic (“Jacinda in biggest election victory”, Oct 18). With 95 per cent of ballots counted, the Labour Party held 49 per cent of the votes, far ahead of its main opposition, the New Zealand National Party, which managed to win only 27 per cent of the votes. Labour won an astounding 64 seats in a unicameral legislature of 120, the highest number held by any party since the adoption of the proportional voting system in 1996. This was a historic election in more ways than one with this year’s results being one of the biggest swings in the country’s electoral history in 80 years. This is a well-deserved win for Ardern who had brought about important legislative changes and exhibited immense grit in the face of numerous calamities that had plagued her first term in office. In a population of around five million, the country has so far reported only 25 Covid-related deaths. This is an immense achievement for any country, proving beyond a doubt that there could be no better person than Ardern to lead the nation during this time. Moreover, her swift response in implementing a sweeping nationwide ban on most semi-automated weapons last year in the aftermath of the terrorist attack on two mosques in Christchurch significantly contributed to her popularity. Ardern is truly the kind of leader that the world needs in this hour of crisis. Khushboo Ved,Calcutta Sir — In the final election debate, the prime minister of New Zealand, Jacinda Ardern, had proclaimed, “Real change requires steps that bring people with us. I stand by my record... I am not done yet.” It seems that the New Zealanders agree with that statement. Ardern, the youngest person to hold the top office in the country, formed a coalition government in 2017 but this time, in the 2020 elections, the Labour Party has been given a sweeping mandate with the opportunity of forming a single-party government in decades. However, a question that arises is whether the win is a result of the hard work of the party as a whole or a personal win for Ardern, whose decisive yet humble disposition has endeared her to the common people. In either case, the upcoming days will be crucial for the prime minister as she leads the tiny island nation through a pandemic and a rapidly polarizing world. Seetharam Basaani,Hanamkonda, Telangana Sir — Jacinda Ardern and the Labour Party must be congratulated for their landslide victory in the general elections in New Zealand last Saturday. Dubbed as “the Covid election”, Ardern had campaigned on her government’s success in eliminating community transmission of the virus which has caused just 25 deaths in a population of five million. The pandemic is one of a string of emergencies that tested Ardern’s leadership during a torrid first term after she rode to an unexpected victory in the 2017 polls on the back of a wave of support that many had termed as “Jacinda-mania”. Ardern has now cemented her position as New Zealand’s most popular prime minister in generations, if not ever. Saturday’s vote marked the first time any leader won an absolute majority since New Zealand adopted a proportional voting system and was also the party’s strongest showing since World War II. Ardern displayed both empathy and decisive action on gun control after the attack on two mosques in Christchurch in early 2019, but again found herself comforting a shocked nation when a volcanic eruption at White Island, also known as Whakaari, killed 21 people and left dozens more with horrific burns in December 2019. Now, as the prime minister assumes power for the second term, it remains to be seen how much further she is able to push her progressive ideals. S.S. Paul,NadiaJustice denied Sir — It must be acknowledged that the plight of the Dalit community in our country is truly deplorable; institutional complicity protects upper-caste criminals even in instances of caste-based atrocities (“Just so”, Oct 16). The findings of a study showed that cases of atrocities against Dalits are diluted by the administration from the time of registration of a crime to further legal proceedings. The incident in Hathras is a prime example of such mishandling. Authorities must urgently undertake measures to rectify the criminal justice system from top down. Benu Kumar Bose,Calcutta Name game Sir — It seems that the European Parliament is set to vote on whether to ban terms such as ‘veggie burger’ and ‘veggie sausage’ after meat industry lobbyists complained of “cultural hijacking” by vegetarian/vegan products leading to consumer confusion. The premise of cultural hijacking, at least in this context, is flimsy, as is the argument that people confuse vegetarian or vegan products as meat. As long as products are clearly packaged, the nomenclature is irrelevant. Vegan or vegetarian companies, like all others, should have the opportunity to name and market their products as they see fit. Bani Saha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-130
20-10-2020||Opinion||Chess moves: Centre's 'Naya Kashmir'?||Having built New India, has the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government at the Centre now begun building ‘Naya Kashmir’? The possibility — it has raised concerns within the political fraternity in Kashmir — cannot be dismissed. An amendment to the Jammu and Kashmir Panchayati Raj Act has led to the facilitation of direct election for members of the District Development Councils. Having divested Kashmir of statehood and, in the process, dismantled its political framework, the Centre is now keen to project this intervention as the restoration of a semblance of democracy. But are elections — the board members were nominated earlier — the only sign-post of a functioning democracy? It must be borne in mind that the amendment to the Jammu and Kashmir Panchayati Raj Act came in the light of an unprecedented realignment in the restive region’s political firmament. Several prominent regional parties — the Peoples Democratic Party and the National Conference are among them — decided to come together under the People’s Alliance to uphold the Gupkar Declaration. Among other demands, this charter seeks to restore Jammu and Kashmir’s status and rights that had been abrogated in August last year. Direct elections to the DDC could well be the Centre’s response to undercut the political potential of the People’s Alliance. Public endorsement of the revamped DDC, the BJP is hoping, would discredit the constituents of the People’s Alliance; the resultant vacuum could then be filled by India’s ruling party. Unsurprisingly, Kashmir’s parties view this move not only as an assault on regional autonomy but also as an attempt at depoliticization. The strategy to bypass the Valley’s legitimate political representatives — as many as six parties are in the People’s Alliance — to reach the people cannot be an endorsement of democracy. In fact, the chances of the polls to the development councils succeeding would have brightened if the Centre had opted for a process that prioritized consultation and consensus. A true democratic set-up cannot be run via remote control. In spite of their squabbling, Kashmir’s political parties have helped sustain democracy through a period of unprecedented turmoil. New Delhi cannot risk alienating these parties or, worse, watch as they turn rogue. That could deepen the crisis in Kashmir. The BJP’s Kashmir policy, as is the case with most of its policies, is riddled with inconsistencies and ideological blinkers. The price of this myopia could be steep.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-130
20-10-2020||Opinion||Dhaka model: India's growing poverty||The latest World Economic Outlook published by the International Monetary Fund makes projections for economic growth for 2020 and extends its forecasts till 2025. One piece of evidence being talked about is the estimation that India will become poorer than Bangladesh by 2025. The statistics are quite sobering. During the last five years, India’s per capita gross domestic product was, on an average, 40 per cent higher than that of Bangladesh. This, undoubtedly, is a significant difference. However, by 2019, India grew at 4.2 while Bangladesh grew at 8.2 per cent. Compare this with the figures for 2014 when India was growing at 7.4 per cent and Bangladesh at 6.1 per cent. India slid down while Bangladesh continued to grow at a brisk pace. This year, the pandemic will cause a 10.3 per cent decline (negative growth) in GDP in India, while Bangladesh will continue to grow at (positive) 3.8 per cent. It may be noted that very few countries are expected to clock a positive GDP growth this year. By 2025, India and Bangladesh will grow at rates that are pretty close according to the IMF: India at 7.2 per cent and Bangladesh at 7.3 per cent. However, looking at the levels of per capita income, Bangladesh will have a higher per capita income than that of India. Bangladesh will be at $2,756.11 while India will be at $2,729.24. There are some important lessons for the Indian government in these figures. First, even as Indian political leaders were busy comparing the nation with those of China, Japan and the United States of America and while the prime minister was promising a $5 trillion economy in five years, a small, neighbouring nation was forging ahead in economic terms. The Bharatiya Janata Party-led government has done all the wrong things possible as far as economic policies are concerned. A number of its slogans have come to naught. Second, the pandemic cannot be entirely blamed for the plummeting growth rate. The economic trends before 2020 were fairly discouraging. Indeed, India’s bilateral relationship with Bangladesh deteriorated substantially on account of rash comments made by the powers concerning illegal migrants from Bangladesh. In the light of the IMF data, it will be difficult for these hot heads in power to provide an economic rationale for Bangladesh’s citizens migrating to India. Unlike its bigger neighbour, Bangladesh, despite its many internal problems, has concentrated on economic reforms and export markets. It has also taken efforts to channel a part of its sizeable international remittances into productive investments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-130
20-10-2020||Opinion||Far deeper problem with the farm bills||Vijay Koreti’s problem is not that he can’t sell his paddy for a bumper price. The one-acre farmer’s problem is he can’t make enough money round the year from his land to meet his needs. Because he can’t find work to sustain his needs in his village in Maharashtra’s Gondia district, he must migrate every six months. In 30 years, the 39-year-old witnessed marginal improvements in his village, but most things remain unchanged. His father migrated. He does that too. Single-crop isn’t enough. How do the September “reforms” — the three acts that supposedly “liberate” a farmer — help the likes of Koreti? It is naïve to say the three acts would help small farmers. Anyone who has lived in a village for some time would get that. In the long run, they would replace one set of intermediaries with another, crush the age-old mandi and build food oligopolies. The three laws, passed without a debate, would alter the regulatory framework for farm trade and stocks; they won’t fix a gigantic small-farms issue. The claims are as good as the Union finance minister’s summer stimulus package. India’s poverty is deeply entrenched in rain-fed small farms. If you superimpose the map of rain-fed small and marginal farms on that of poverty, they’ll match. The agricultural census of 2010-11 tells us that almost 50 per cent of India’s total population consists of small farmer households, and 85 per cent of all farms are less than two hectares. Their income levels are low, in both absolute and relative terms, matching minimum subsistence wages in agriculture, the reason why millions migrate to cities. This farmer has been economically ravaged the most in the last 30 years. Markets, unfortunately, are not the solution. They could be a means of intervention. The Centre and state governments can’t wish away the problem or withdraw support from them, particularly when climatic aberrations are threatening to wreak havoc as they have across central India in the recent past. Millions of tonnes of standing grain crops, perishables, oilseed are gutted in the retreating monsoonal heavy rains. The three laws won’t be of any succour. Beleaguered farmers would now cry for a direct financial support. India’s Green Revolution was fuelled by a simple formula: quality inputs, remunerative price and guaranteed timely procurement. It helped the agriculture sector for decades until we began dismantling those foundational pillars and an unprecedented agrarian distress enveloped our countryside. A new deal has eluded the farm sector since then. For three decades, India has been clueless about what to do with farmers and farming — extend support or open it up completely for private players. In his tenure, see how even Prime Minister Narendra Modi has shifted his goalposts. In April 2014, he promised a minimum support price recommended by the National Commission for Farmers popularly known as the Swaminathan commission — 50 per cent over production cost. He buried that promise. And now his government is threatening to end the support price regime itself. Then, from the ramparts of the Red Fort, he spoke of doubling their income by 2022. With the second carrot, the peasantry forgot the first one. The prime minister moved on. Post demonetization, he told farmers to bear with him for a few days and that he would set everything right. Farmers bore the losses for a decision he himself does not talk about now. Today, he’s telling them, reduce dependence on agricultural produce market committees — sell anywhere to anyone, as if a farmer was desperate for this miracle cure to begin selling his produce from tomorrow for hefty profits. The market is one thing, remunerative price quite the other. The former is no guarantee for the latter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-130
20-10-2020||Opinion||The stakes are high||Crises represent danger, inflict losses that can be universal and yet disparate, and involve expenditures. They divert attention from other issues and priorities, often uncovering new or neglected issues, bringing them upfront by realigning priorities. Governments, societies or individuals thus seek opportunities and benefits in a crisis. For example, the global financial crisis of 2008, which elicited the first-ever multilateral coordination response that remains unparalleled, exposed lax financial regulations. This led to their subsequent tightening and strengthening for future shocks. Much before that, the East Asian crisis (1997) exposed banking and financial system fragilities and unsustainable exchange rate policies in these countries. This prompted consequent efforts to make them sound and resilient as well as a shift from pegged to flexible exchange rate regimes for future safeguard and response. Such patterns abound in history. The Covid-19 crisis is no different. This, too, has caused signal shifts and rearranged priorities all over the world. Specific to the pandemic are the catapulting of climate change and environment concerns to the global forefront. Strengthening public health infrastructure and systems has become another priority. Covid-19 has created remarkable opportunities for sectors, businesses and investments related to technology, digital, e-commerce, online, environment and so on that benefit from shutdowns and social distancing. It has accelerated technology adoptions and other fundamental transformations to indicate that post-pandemic economic structures may be significantly different. Because Covid-19 impacts lives and livelihoods together, colossal expenditures have raised global public debt to monumental levels. The recession it brings in its wake has, in turn, triggered changes that may be permanent to existing global production patterns and supply chains. In addition, a race-to-the-bottom for growth has entrenched de-globalization more firmly. These may not be all as the Covid-19 crisis is not over yet. In India, the advocacy to convert the Covid-19 crisis into an opportunity has been at its zenith through the pandemic. Commentary has pointed to the 1991 balance-of-payments crisis, in response to which sweeping structural reforms galvanized the economic environment and lit up investments, foreign and domestic. In comparison, the Covid-19 crisis is not only a potent health-economy cocktail but, in India’s case, is also layered upon an existing growth crisis described by a three-year-long slowdown culminating in GDP growth slipping to 4.2 per cent by March 2020. That has worsened matters and increased the pressure for reviving growth and investments. The government has not sat back. It has signalled some policy shifts and executed spectacular structural reforms last month in a bid to provide economic recovery and boost future prospects. The policy shift is an odd, inward-looking and export-seeking mix: one arm of the Covid-19 package series sharpens the protectionist trend since 2018-19 through steady increase in import tariffs. Now called ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’, this promotes self-reliance with tariff-driven endeavours to replace specific and cheap imports, encourages domestic production for home consumption and for export, and designates some products for a lead role. Other instruments range from preferential or reserved local-sourcing by changing public procurement rules to specific import bans, indigenization and expanded local content in defence, amongst other measures. Trade retaliation against China has added more force. This is coupled with a refurbished, reinforced impetus for domestic manufacturing and export. Notable measures here are the production-linked fiscal incentive of 4-6 per cent to eligible domestic and foreign manufacturers in targeted sectors, proactive courting of foreign firms to relocate and manufacture in India, and fresh efforts to integrate MSMEs in new and existing global supply chains. The second arm of ‘crisis-to-opportunity’ action is structural reforms in agriculture and labour markets. The government has opened up farm trade and marketing, formalized contract farming, and diluted its own restricting capability except in emergencies. Labour law revisions increase employers’ flexibility, simplify compliance procedures, and broaden coverage to different types of workers with changes to social security, industrial relations and so on. Intended to advance future growth prospects and create new investment opportunities, such reforms have been long sought as part of the second-round reforms following product market liberalizations of the early 1990s. These will bear fruit only a few more years from now — in the medium-to-long run. The Covid-19 crisis has also uncovered critical deficiencies and fragilities that have severely constrained the effective combating of the pandemic and the ensuing economic fallout. Two outstanding drawbacks are India’s weak fiscal and public health. The country’s underfunded, neglected public health infrastructure and its poor resource capacities have challenged quick and effective containment of infections. Extreme paucity of budgetary firepower continues to limit government spending to support the severest growth slide in India’s history and emergence therefrom. The International Monetary Fund, which presented its global output forecasts last week, re-emphasized that India’s direct fiscal stimulus, at less than 2 per cent of GDP, obstructs its emergence out of the forecasted -10.3 per cent contraction this year. The public health deficiencies, including raising health expenditures, are expected to be addressed by the Fifteenth Finance Commission whose report is due at the end of this month. That leaves fiscal fragility and using the Covid-19 crisis as an opportunity to reform public balances as was done in 1991. The aim should be similar: a structural overhaul of the public balance sheet to fortify it over the medium-term for stability and for future shocks. Public spending choices have so dangerously tilted towards current expenditures due to rising permanent claims of profligate subsidies that productive capital expenditures have been squeezed out. Public revenues have not risen at a matching pace, causing wider deficits and debt accumulation that now cripple government spending amidst the country’s worst humanitarian crisis. Current expenditures sorely need pruning and rationalization; the public spending mix needs rebalancing. A reputable medium-term plan spelling out how current deficit expansions will be cut back and debt sustainability achieved once post-pandemic growth has stabilized has a dual advantage at this point. One, a planned path to restore fiscal health and build solid fundamentals for future resilience imparts enormous confidence; it adds to the reassurance from above for structural reforms, especially in agriculture that has a direct bearing upon government finances. Two, it may even allow the government to increase current spending now on the strength of promised future betterment from a structural revamp and permanent space creation. The importance of structural fiscal reform can be better understood by the IMF’s assessment, which upholds that India is among the worst performing economies post pandemic because of the difference in the nature and size of the fiscal stimulus across countries. Another way of looking at this is that medium-to-long-term growth goal prospects, including structural reform gains in farm and labour markets, are weakened if recovery now is too slow and stretched — firms will hire even less, retrench more, while bankruptcy risks will rise, increasing the damage. It shouldn’t be forgotten that the financial resilience of households and firms was eroding for three years in succession even before the Covid-19 crisis. The stakes are high. The author is a macroeconomist||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-130
