21-10-2020||Opinion||Death of conscience||It is that time of the year again when Durga, the mother goddess, returns home. This year, Durga, the manifestation of strength (shakti), peace (shanti) and wisdom (buddhi), returns to take the place of a young Dalit girl — nineteen — perhaps a few years younger than her. The girl had gone to the fields in the Hathras district of Uttar Pradesh to cut grass which she would use to feed cattle, whose milk would be sold by her family to make ends meet. She was attacked, grievously wounded, denied immediate medical treatment and died two weeks later. In death, as in life, she was denied dignity, being cremated hurriedly in the middle of the night without most of her family around. Four upper-caste boys were arrested for her gang rape and murder. Shakti in Hathras isn't the strength of character that Durga represents, but the strength of one's caste. In the aftermath of the incident, sordid stories of caste divisions have emerged from Boolgarhi village where the incident took place. According to ground reports, Dalit elders in Boolgarhi still customarily stand up when upper castes pass; Dalit children in school are expected to clean the premises as well because of which many of them do not go to school at all; shopkeepers frequently tell Dalit customers to stand apart; cremation grounds are separate; temple entry, despite the solemn promises of the Constitution, is often prohibited for Dalits. To be Dalit is to be deprived of strength — to read books, to buy groceries at the local store, to pray to god in a temple, to be human. Shanti, in Hathras, is premised on this unequal social compact — of caste lines that cannot be crossed, hierarchies that must remain unchanged, and order that must be maintained, by violence if necessary. For the Uttar Pradesh government, this compact is maintained by the barrel of a policeman's gun. This is a time-tested script that privileges the need for order, retribution and security over dignity, empathy and humaneness. The threat to seize the property of anti-CAA protesters for voicing their dissent to a law, the 'encounter' killing of the gangster, Vikas Dubey, casting aside any illusion of the rule of law, and obstructing media persons and Opposition leaders from visiting the victim's family are telltale signs of a government that believes in the possibility of peace only by brute force. The Uttar Pradesh government is a particularly egregious example of a government that seems indifferent to the rule of law, choosing instead to do 'whatever it takes' to preserve the social compact. But it would be myopic to think that it is the only one. Such examples abound across the political spectrum in various states. The underlying factor, that makes such methods commonplace, is a design choice in the Constitution itself. The Constitution, as Sandipto Dasgupta has observed, may be usefully seen as a document drafted from the perspective of facilitating the management of conflicts by an administrative State. Consequently, an overriding concern of the drafters of the Constitution, discernible through many of their debates and reports, was the need to ensure law and order. This is why a chapter on fundamental rights of individuals has a detailed provision authorizing preventive detention of individuals; why widely-worded emergency provisions from the colonial-era Government of India Act, 1935 continue to find place in the Constitution while the document is conspicuously silent on trammeling wide powers of the police to search, seize and arrest individuals. The UP government may often defy the protections the Constitution has for citizens, but it is, like governments before and after it, the child of a Constitution that has special reverence for a strong State that ensures law and order. In Hathras, as in Hyderabad last year, and in Delhi in the aftermath of the rape and murder in 2012, it is the institutions of constitutional modernity — a free media and an impartial judiciary — that have often come up short. These institutions, which manifest the buddhi of India's constitutional vision, were the checks and balances that were supposed to tether lawless governments to the rule of law. But today, lengthy judicial processes appear anachronistic in an age of instant judgment. The tardiness of the regular criminal processes  — the Allahabad High Court under whose jurisdiction Hathras falls has 1,89,649 criminal appeals pending (and increasing every day) — means that in high-profile cases, the court can rarely do its own job of determining guilt expeditiously, let alone pull up shoddy investigation by a recalcitrant police. Even the most thorough investigation and expedited court process as seen in the Delhi gang rape case took over six years to be completed. In the Hathras case too, it is unlikely that the judicial process will be completed any quicker. This is simply not good enough today. At the same time, the challenges for the judiciary are not restricted to mitigating delays alone. No matter how quickly a criminal trial can be completed, it will never be quick enough to satiate public angst. What is needed instead is judicial decisiveness, demonstrating to the country that justice is being done. For a judicial system traditionally shy of publicity and used to operating in the opacity offered by legalese, this is an existential challenge. Particularly in cases with wide public interest, courts will have to think of writing judgments in simple language, translating judgments into vernacular languages, issuing official media summaries, and demonstrating a firm commitment to judicial rectitude through hearings. These are only indicative suggestions that it cannot remain business-as-usual. Courts will have to think long and hard on how to speak truth to State power under difficult circumstances. Such introspection is also the need of the hour for the media. With social media privileging hate and sensationalism over balance and nuance, mainstream media has largely taken the cue to become shriller and louder. In the Hathras case too, social media was rife with conspiracy theories on how the victim was in a covert relationship with one of the accused; several mainstream media channels alleged their own political conspiracies all of which have made the victim a political football to be kicked about for petty partisan gain. In this environment, no news appears to be an objective assessment of the facts any more. This leads to a further sealing of echo chambers that make truth-telling itself appear like a motivated enterprise. The rule of law is founded on the rule of facts. But when every fact the media puts out appears partisan, when courts are too slow and often timid, and when governments think of the death of a girl first and foremost as a political issue, the rule of law is dead. We might as well give it a dignified cremation, which would be more than what the victim received. I had ended my column last month with a question: "would Abhagi, a Duley , (from Saratchandra’s "Abhagir Swarga") have been able to fulfil her simple last wish of a cremation with dignity in our modern constitutional republic?" I had hedged my response saying there wasn't an easy answer. Only a month later, it's become crystal clear that I was wrong. Durga is Abhagi today. Let us bow our heads this year, not in reverence, but in shame. The author is Research Director, Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy. Views are personal||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-129
21-10-2020||Opinion||Revising legal age of marriage of girls||On Independence Day, the prime minister had announced that his government might raise the legal age of marriage of girls from 18 to 21. A high-level panel looking into the average age of motherhood, efforts to lower maternal mortality rates, and the health and nutritional status of young women had been appointed, and its report would help the government fix the ‘right’ age of marriage for women. The prime minister repeated the promise last Friday. The panel’s job is certainly important. Raising women’s age of marriage would do away with gender discrimination since men can marry legally only at 21, allow girls to continue studying and enhance women’s participation in the workforce. Why does minor marriage continue in India in spite of laws against it? The report, Young Voices: National Working Group, based on consultation with 2,500 young people, says that the causes of minor marriage lie in poverty, traditional ideas about marriage and the desire to control female sexuality in a male dominated system. These cannot be addressed by a change in legal age of marriage. Instead, poor families afraid of dowry — another outlawed evil — would tend to get their girls married quickly, while elopements with bleak consequences, including honour killings, would rise. The remoteness of law from lived experience can be seen in the spurt of child marriages during the pandemic when economic stress increased. The prime minister has proudly cited the fact that the gross enrolment ratio of girls has overtaken that of boys for the first time as an argument in favour of raising girls’ age of marriage. Yet a recent report shows that in the 15-29 age group — education becomes optional after 14 — only a little above 25 per cent of girls are engaged in learning activities. In January, a report from the Right to Education Forum showed that 40 per cent of girls aged 15-18 are not attending school and 30 per cent have not seen a classroom. The lowering of the school education budget from 4.14 per cent in 2014-15 to 3.40 per cent in 2019-20 seems peculiar given the government’s declared objectives. Social workers’ reports claim that it is the absence of facilities for secondary education that often lead to early marriage, not the other way round. But the prime minister will know what is best.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-129
21-10-2020||Opinion||Grave danger: Covid spread during festivities ||Sir — The article, “Testing times” (Oct 15), by Swapan Dasgupta has rightly highlighted the pitfalls of ignoring Covid-19-appropriate behaviour during festive times. Durga Puja is no doubt the biggest festival for Bengalis but this year, given the untamed virulence of the coronavirus, there is utmost need for caution. Festivals come and go, but one should not forget that human life is more important — going to crowded markets unless there is an urgent need is ill-advised. The pandemic is still here, and there is every possibility that the virus will spread further on account of lack of precautions such as wearing masks and maintaining social distance. At the end of seven months, a lockdown fatigue seems to have set in, leading to an open defiance of preventive measures by people across states. In light of this, the dubious claim of the Bengal chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, that the virus will be put under lockdown during Durga Puja appears to be meant only to ingratiate herself with the masses. In these extraordinary times, a chief minister should lead from the front and make sure that people adopt proper precautions. Next month, another festival, Diwali, will be upon us, and in all probability there will be crowds in the markets again. One should be open to change according to changing circumstances. One needs to be patient, at least for this year, because once the vaccine arrives, everyone will again be able to participate in festivities with gay abandon. Aditya Mukherjee,New Delhi Sir — One agrees with Swapan Dasgupta when he points out that without maintaining strict protocol the Covid-19 situation in Bengal will only worsen. Given how flocks of people were out on the streets since Dwitiya, a grave crisis seemed to be looming over the state. As such, the Calcutta High Court’s directive to not allow people inside pandals is welcome. But one wonders if this will be of any practical help. People will still crowd the streets around pandals. Perhaps nothing can be done unless people begin to understand the risk they are taking with themselves as well as with their fellow citizens. Some people use the plight of those whose livelihoods depend on Puja celebrations as an excuse to go out and enjoy themselves. Would not donating money directly help the needy more? Jashita Ghosh,Calcutta Sir — Swapan Dasgupta’s article provides a thorough analysis of how the festive season could exacerbate the devastation already caused by Covid-19. However, one would like to believe that state administrations have learnt a lesson from the missteps in Kerala, where the celebration of Onam worsened the situation. A well-planned execution of government regulations and public awareness can prevent the spread of the virus during the festive season to a considerable extent. For instance, pandals in Silchar, Assam, are not to allow entry to more than 30 people at a time. Some Puja committees in Calcutta have decided to introduce ‘drive-in’ darshans, where pandal-hoppers can get a glimpse of the idols without having to alight from their cars. In spite of all their hardships, the people are expected to be aware of the norms and prioritize human lives. Pratyush Nath,Jorhat, Assam Fresh start Sir — It is heartening that the floating market in Patuli that was ravaged by Cyclone Amphan earlier this year was reopened on Saturday. After its inauguration in 2018, with 100-odd boats and around 200 hawkers, the floating market became one of Calcutta’s most talked-about projects. But it gradually lost its sheen. The cyclone caused further damage to it. The floating market, a new concept in India, can become immensely popular if it is maintained and regulated well. Lessons learnt from the past should be used to make the project a grand success this time. Khokan Das,Calcutta Twisted logic Sir — Political leaders in India seldom fail to amuse. Recently, a leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party began protesting against feeding beef to tigers in the Guwahati zoo. When asked for an alternative, the leader suggested that sambar deer from the same zoo be used for the purpose. These animals, however, are listed as ‘vulnerable’ by the International Union for Conservation of Nature and are protected under the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. It appears that the BJP has taken its food politics to a different level. Ecological balance seems to matter little before its zest for cow protection. Rajashree Das,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-129
21-10-2020||Opinion||Voice of reason: Calcutta HC bans pandal entry||The judiciary can always be relied upon to be cool and reasonable even in this age of unreason. The Calcutta High Court’s directive disallowing visitors from entering pandals during Durga Puja this year is a perfect example of the courts’ ability to blend pragmatism with a humane vision. The judgment, in fact, underscores the seriousness of the health challenge that confronts Bengal and India in the form of Covid-19. The ruling came close on the heels of the World Health Organization warning against any institutional complacency in the battle against the virus. The strictures passed by the Calcutta High Court — a limited number of organizers and the priest will be allowed inside the premises while pandal-hoppers will be kept at bay — would send a strong reminder not only to the administration but also callous citizens to not to let their guard down. This order, along with the earlier judicial pronouncement that mandates Puja organizers to spend the lion’s share of the government grant on hand sanitizers and other protective equipment, shows that the courts have, time and again, been at the forefront among institutions committed to bear the mantle of public welfare. The Calcutta High Court must also be complimented on its magnanimity. It has stated unequivocally that its intervention should not be viewed as a tacit acknowledgment of the ineffectiveness of the measures that have been implemented by the state government to contain the epidemic thus far. This objectivity is especially important given the partisan nature of the political atmosphere in the state. What the judiciary seems to be suggesting is that the battle against Covid-19 is a collective responsibility and every stakeholder — the government, administration, people and even the political Opposition — has a duty to do its own bit to mitigate the crisis. There is some concern that the order has come a bit too late in the day and that smaller Pujas may find it difficult to implement the rules. These reservations should not deflect attention from the far bigger responsibility of doing as much as possible to ensure that Bengal does not go the Kerala way: the laxity during Onam has led to a significant spike in the southern state’s Covid-19 load. The court has done what is necessary. Honouring its noble objective is a shared responsibility. Neither citizens nor the government of the day should forget that.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-129
21-10-2020||Opinion||Prepare for turbulence with global warming||If we want to stay within 1.5 degrees Celsius of global warming, there are just about three decades left for ‘Energy Transition 4.0’ to culminate in ‘net zero’ emissions. Transition from wood to coal took over a century, from coal to refined oil products took about three decades, and from refined oil to increased reliance on natural gas has taken another four decades. All previous transitions were driven by economic considerations but ET 4.0 needs to balance energy security and access, decarbonization and economic development. Decarbonization of power-generation, which accounts for about 40 per cent of the total energy CO2 emissions, might occur sooner than later due to favourable levelized cost of electricity using solar photovoltaic, pace of deployment, and political support for the transition. For instance, NextEra Energy, which owns NextEra Energy Resources, the world’s largest operator of wind and solar energy projects, has surpassed ExxonMobil in market capitalization. In India, LCOE of solar is now 14 per cent cheaper than coal-fired power. Riding on several policy initiatives like the waiver of Inter State Transmission System charges, solar power capacity in India now is 30 GW. India is also planning to replace retiring coal-fired power plants with renewable generation. Most parts of the country receive between 4 and 7 kWh per sq. m per day of solar radiation. India’s solar energy potential is estimated to be about 748 GW if only three per cent of wasteland area is covered by Solar PV
modules. Private investors are shying away from bidding for coal mines; 15 of the 38 coal mines on offer in India did not receive bids. This might seem like a setback, but from a climate perspective this is good news since it reflects market sentiments and concerns regarding low margins and, possibly, the environmental consequences of coal mining and use of coal. Herein lies the challenge to ET 4.0, particularly in terms of energy security and access. To comprehend the challenge, let’s travel back in time to 1815. On April 5, Mount Tambora on Sumbawa island of eastern Indonesia erupted. After a lull in activity, a second eruption began on the evening of April 10 that lasted for a few days. Clive Oppenheimer in Eruptions that Shook the World mentions that “Tambora established a giant, stratospheric umbrella cloud covering an area of up to one million square kilometres.” About 30 megatonnes of sulphur were injected into the stratosphere by the eruption. The following summer, this caused such darkness during the day in Europe that Lord Byron composed the poem, “Darkness”, in July 1816. In northern Europe and northeast America, 1816 was the year without a summer, reporting unseasonal frost, snow and rain. It was one of the coldest summers in six centuries. The summers of 1817 and 1818 were also anomalously cold, and Europe and North America witnessed the worst famine in over a century during these years. The International Energy Agency estimates that renewable sources will overtake coal-fired electricity by 2025 and solar will be the new king of electricity markets. What if a Tambora-sized volcano were to erupt in an increasingly decarbonized Solar PV-dependent world? Is such an event likely? Cities are particularly at risk because of their population density and their dependence on power and water utilities, communications, transportation and public health facilities. If these are powered down due to low or negligible Solar PV power-generation, millions would be affected within a few days. Although no one knows when a volcano will erupt, there are means for forecasting eruptions and large-scale climatic events due to eruptions can take months to manifest. There are opportunities for preparedness for volcanic eruption-induced solar power-generation disruptions. Preparedness could be addressed through a Preparedness Market mechanism along the lines of electricity Capacity Market. The Capacity Market is a mechanism introduced by governments to ensure continued electricity supply despite more volatile and unpredictable renewable generation plants coming on stream. Under the mechanism, lack of generation by renewable generation plants does not compromise load-management capacity of the system. Participants are paid a per MW rate for the capacity they offer to the market and this capacity needs to be available when the grid manager makes the demand at any time during the contracted period. This encourages sufficient investment in reliable capacity to secure future supplies of electricity. For the Preparedness Market, this capacity could be fossil-fuel based coupled with mechanical or nature-based carbon capture methods for ‘net zero’ emissions. By offering fixed monthly payments to generators, it would provide valuable assured revenue for investors in new generation plants and achieve long-term security of supply. The Covid-19 outbreak is extracting a heavy social and economic cost due to the lack of preparedness. In case of volcanic eruption-induced solar power-generation disruptions in a decarbonized world, the cost will be far more severe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-130
