22-10-2020||Opinion||Govern with care: Bhagat Singh Koshyari's 'secular' concern||Sir — Law-abiding citizens of the country are unable to understand how a governor, the holder of a constitutional post, can question a chief minister’s administrative decisions by accusing him of being overtly “secular” (“Governor’s letter to Uddhav”, Oct 14). The governor of Maharashtra, Bhagat Singh Koshyari, appealed to the Hindutva credentials of Uddhav Thackeray while seeking the reopening of places of worship in the state. The chief minister aptly replied by reminding the governor that secularism is an inalienable facet of the Constitution. One wonders what might be the reason behind Koshyari urging Thackeray to open places of worship in Maharashtra when the Union health minister, Harsh Vardhan, had recently asked citizens to abstain from congregating in large numbers and to worship from the safety of their homes. It is highly unseemly for a governor to interfere or question the administrative decisions of the chief minister. In our school and college days, governors were never in the news. These days, however, several governors like Jagdeep Dhankhar and Kiran Bedi, among others, have been known to interfere with the working of the elected government. They have not only failed to fulfil their constitutional duties but their overt political stances have also raised questions about whether they have become mere stooges of the Centre, trying to undermine elected governments especially in states where the Bharatiya Janata Party is not in power. It is time that governors respect their constitutional position and retain the dignity of their office. Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee,Faridabad Sir — Even though Uddhav Thackeray’s decision to open bars, malls and restaurants, while keeping places of worship closed is questionable, the letter sent by Bhagat Singh Koshyari, was uncalled for. In India, the post of the governor is purely ornamental and he or she is expected to work in cooperation with the chief minister of the state, no matter which political party he or she belonged to before occupying the post. The accusations of turning “secular” are not unexpected. The Shiv Sena’s politics stands on catering to the demands of the Hindu majority. With its newly formed alliance with the Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party, the Sena has become far more muted in its Hindutva ideals. Whether this commitment to secularism is a result of an ideological compromise that the chief minister has been compelled to reach in order to retain his position within the alliance remains to be seen. Nevertheless, it must be admitted that considering the rapid spread of Covid-19 in Maharashtra, the Thackeray is right to keep places of worship closed longer. Leaders must continue to prioritize the safety of the people and not succumb to pressures. N. Viswanathan,Coimbatore Sir — It is worrying how in his letter to Uddhav Thackeray, Bhagat Singh Koshyari has laid bare his preference for the word “Hindutva” over “secularism”. Shockingly, the governor accused Thackeray of having “suddenly turned secular”. It seems that Koshyari is wearing two hats at the same time — one of a governor and the other of a Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh pracharak. These are mutually incompatible. This is a blatant disrespect of the constitutional role of the governor. Thackeray rightly reminded him that secularism is the bedrock of the Indian democracy. Furthermore, in his rush to appease the Hindu majority, Koshyari seems to have forgotten that Maharashtra has one of the highest infection rates in India. It is typical of the BJP to misconstrue the Maharashtra government’s decision to defer the reopening of temples for reasons of safety as an assault on Hindutva. This overrides the directive of the Union health minister, Harsh Vardhan, to worship from the safety of one’s home. All places of worship where devotees can congregate in large numbers pose the risk of spreading the contagion. It is time we prioritize public safety over religion. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — As with most institutions these days, the office of the governor, too, has been abused beyond the comprehension of the founding fathers of our nation. The letter sent by Bhagat Singh Koshyari to Uddhav Thackeray can rightfully be seen as an attempt to communalize the handling of the pandemic. Anita Mehra,Mumbai Race against time Sir — As the Arctic circle continues to warm at two or three times the global rate — summer ice may disappear by 2042 — emission reductions or renewable energy programs are no longer enough. The idea of alternative geo-engineering projects — this includes underwater sea walls and rewilding the tundra — have gained traction. But the fight against climate change must be a global endeavour — the Donald Trump administration alone has reversed almost a hundred environmental rules. Unless everyone understands the urgency of the situation, no amount of innovative methods will help. Alaka Sharma,Gwalior||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-129
22-10-2020||Opinion||Dark water: Lessons from Hyderabad floods||The waters are turning deeper, but are crucial lessons being learnt from their depths? This is an important question to ask in the wake of the floods in Hyderabad, which have claimed over 70 lives and caused significant losses to property. It is telling that the deluge coincided with a study by the United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction that found that India is the second-worst flood-affected nation in Asia which, in turn, accounted for 41 per cent of floods around the world. The changing climate is aggravating the risk; 79 per cent of disasters between 1970 and 2019 were related to water and weather hazards caused by climate change. The vagaries of climate cannot be controlled; neither does the solution lie in only strengthening existing disaster response systems. The focus must be widened to modernize urban planning. This is especially important in the case of India where more people are likely to inhabit cities than rural areas by 2050. Unsurprisingly, Indian cities — Hyderabad is one example — suffer from flaws in urban design and drainage irrespective of their topographical diversity. This is because urban planning and management have a long history of myopia and lackadaisical administrative attitudes. The consequences of this apathy are telling. Mumbai, Chennai and Srinagar, as well as cities in Kerala and Uttarakhand, have been wrecked by floods in recent years. Chaotic urban development, primitive drainage facilities, creaking infrastructure, population pressure and unabated encroachments upon natural drainage systems — Calcutta’s disappearing wetlands are an example — have exacerbated the problems. There is irrefutable evidence of negligence. In the case of Hyderabad, several reports and recommendations filed since the devastating floods in 2000 are lying unimplemented; a city development plan for Srinagar in 2017 chose to ignore the lessons from the floods only three years prior to that. This wilful disregard for public safety can only be attributed to a culture of impunity for the administration. The cost of the absence of accountability is being borne by cities and the people who inhabit them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-129
22-10-2020||Opinion||Twin problem: Enough food but severe hunger||India ranks 94 out of 107 nations on the Global Hunger Index 2020. At a cosmetic level, this ranking seems to be an improvement as India’s score on the index, which stood at 32.2 in 2010, is at 27.2 this year. The truth, however, is that the country has, year after year, been dealing with a “serious” level of hunger that has often put it behind its neighbours such as Bangladesh, Myanmar and Pakistan. This year has not been an exception either. It is clear from India’s consistently poor showing that severe hunger and undernutrition persist in the country, reflecting the misery of millions of citizens, especially those who live on the margins of the consciousness of the powers that be. This is not to suggest that there have not been efforts to bolster access to food; the National Food Security Act as well as special nutritional schemes for women and children — the ambitious mid-day meal programme is one example — are in place. But India cannot yet rest assured that it is a food-secure nation. The problem has some peculiar, but revealing, dimensions. India grows enough food and the days of grain import are behind it. Yet, vast segments of the population grapple with the lack of food. An astonishing 14 per cent of India’s population is undernourished while child wasting — a measure of children under 5 who are underweight for their height — has risen to 17.3 per cent. Hunger deaths, a shameful phenomenon that the authorities try to explain away as deaths from physiological causes, are thus common even though the nation’s granaries remain well-stocked. The unequal access to food must then be attributed to the perennial problems of corruption and leakages in the vast but also porous public distribution system. The challenge has ironically been compounded further by inefficient mass digitization initiatives to reduce such lapses: several studies claim that Jharkhand’s initiative to link Aadhaar with the PDS network ended up amplifying the exclusion of the most vulnerable. But scarcity is only one aspect of the problem. What makes India’s situation challenging is that hunger and malnutrition coexist with poor dietary habits, especially in food-surplus urban India. Adult obesity, consequently, is on the rise; the number of obese Indians increased exponentially from 25.2 million in 2012 to 34.3 million in 2016. To deal with this double-edged problem, the focus must shift to not only plugging the gaps in the food distribution system to bolster public access but also to educating citizens about consuming healthy — local, traditional? — food. This is crucial at a time when climate change — higher temperatures, drought, increasing levels of carbon dioxide and a rise in sea level — is expected to adversely affect food security, jeopardizing both the quantity and the quality of food supplies. In the absence of decisive policy interventions, malnutrition combined with unhealthy consumption could wreck India’s public health.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-129
22-10-2020||Opinion||A battle between divinities: Ram and Parashuram ||Politics in Indian democracy has been transformed into the politics of memory. Political mobilization of the public in a democracy like ours can be perceived as  a sustained effort of mobilizing the collective memories of social groups by creating linkages with symbols, icons and social metaphors. This reinvention of memory facilitates the mobilization of communities bound by such memorial ties. In this war of memory, historical memories, caste heroes and religious icons become the bones of contention among political groups. Collective memories, generated by mytho-histories or epics or both, forge bonds with communities. The myths also function as a reservoir of collective memory as they are told, retold, invented and reinvented across generations. The history of Indian politics would reveal that the 1990s ignited a bitter war of popular memories around religious symbols, caste heroes and community icons, especially in North India. Hindutva politics birthed the Ram Janmabhoomi movement that was based on mobilizing the memory of a mythical hero. This collective memory of Rama has been produced, over the years, through various productions based on the Ramayana and its myriad versions. Around the same time, in order to counter Hindutva’s reproduction of memory through religious symbols and myths, Kanshi Ram, who was then building the Bahujan Samaj Party — a Dalit-Bahujan political nexus — explored caste memories associated with Dalit heroes from folk sources. He not only identified with these caste icons but also reinvented them for mobilizing Dalit-Bahujan communities in favour of his politics. Most members in the Dalit iconography — Jhalkaribai, Uda Devi, Mahaviri Bhangin, Bijli Pasi — were reinvented by the Kanshi Ram-led Dalit Bahujan politics. He also reshaped minor characters — Shambuka and Eklavya in the Ramayana and the Mahabharata — to confront Hindutva meta-narratives. Kanshi Ram adopted oral, aural, visual and ritual strategies to disseminate memories attached to these icons, thereby producing narratives against caste dominance and religious inequalities apart from developing rituals of worship of Dalit heroes. These strategies contributed to making Dalit-Bahujan politics a formidable force in the 1990s. However, gradually, many of these symbols were appropriated by the forces of Hindutva by locating them within the frame of Hindutva. In so doing, they adopted similar strategies of appropriation of the memories associated with these icons. The BSP under Mayawati could not do much to reclaim their icons from this predatory appropriation by Hindutva. The politics in North India, especially in Uttar Pradesh, continues to proceed along similar lines. The only difference being now there is no visionary leader like Kanshi Ram who had a deep understanding of culture and collective memory as well as the ability to transform these into political resources. When the bhoomi pujan took place in Ayodhya, Rama was projected as an inclusive symbol and an icon of social justice. No political party is in a position to effectively counter the Hindutva narrative. But that does not mean that they want to leave the field barren and concede defeat. So Parashuram has been resurrected to contest the hegemonic influence of Rama. Parashuram is remembered as an epical Hindu character who preceded Rama. He is venerated among Brahmins as well as Dalits — Pasis in Uttar Pradesh are an example — as a warrior-rishi. But Parashuram is overwhelmingly revered by the Brahmins these days. To win their support, both Akhilesh Yadav of the Samajwadi Party and Mayawati have announced that they would instal a huge statue to consecrate the memory of Parashuram if they are returned to power. In the epic, Parashuram and Rama represent a continuum; they are not in conflict. But in UP’s politics, Parashuram would have to take on Rama to win the support of Brahmins who constitute around 13 per cent of the population and are said to be annoyed with the Yogi Adityanath government. It is difficult to predict whether Parashuram can brighten the electoral prospects of Opposition parties in UP. But a new war pitting a caste icon — Parashuram — against a religious icon — Rama — could well break out in the near future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-129
22-10-2020||Opinion||In memoriam||The perfectly normal process of getting to know another person is something each one of us has done hundreds, if not thousands, of times in our life, and a lot of it has to do with trying to discover if there are things about the other human being that we can relate to, or identify with, or enjoy, in short, trying to figure out who that other person is. Much of this process is, so to speak, midwifed by memory, which is also something we tend to fall back upon when trying to let someone else know who we are. The English philosopher, John Locke (1632-1704), put it rather neatly in An Essay Concerning Human Understanding (1689): “to find wherein personal identity consists, we must consider what person stands for;- which, I think, is a thinking intelligent being, that has reason and reflection, and can consider itself as itself, the same thinking thing, in different times and places; which it does only by that consciousness which is inseparable from thinking, and, as it seems to me, essential to it: it being impossible for any one to perceive without perceiving that he does perceive... For, since consciousness always accompanies thinking, and it is that which makes every one to be what he calls self... in this alone consists personal identity, i.e. the sameness of a rational being: and as far as this consciousness can be extended backwards to any past action or thought, so far reaches the identity of that person; it is the same self now it was then; and it is by the same self with this present one that now reflects on it, that that action was done.” This “extend[ing] backwards to any past action” in order to create, or confirm, or justify identity is something that is as true for the collective as it is for the individual human being. Yet, identity — as we know — is never simple, never something that can be “formulated, sprawling on a pin”, as T.S. Eliot put it; it is shifting, capricious, and needs to be constantly renewed if it is to be of any use. Important historical events, which have shaped the identity of a nation, or a people, or a community, need this constant interplay between what that nation/people/community is now and what it was then, when the event occurred. The consciousness of the collective is crucially dependent on how far back it can reach, how much it can remember, for, in a very real and fundamental sense, we are what we remember — but remembering is never an easy thing to do. These reflections were triggered when I recently had the opportunity to visit the site-specific installation/exhibition, Ways of Remembering: Jallianwala Bagh and Rabindranath Tagore’s Response to the Massacre, at the Portrait Gallery of the Victoria Memorial Hall, which had been inaugurated on March 2, 2020, but shut down shortly thereafter as a consequence of the Covid-19 pandemic. Conceptualized, researched, and curated by Sarmistha Dutta Gupta, and given palpable form by the show’s artistic director, Sanchayan Ghosh, Ways of Remembering gives one an immersive experience of the massacre before, during, and after Acting Brigadier-General Reginald Dyer ordered his troops to open fire on an unarmed crowd of children, women and men at the Bagh on April 13, 1919, killing at least 379, and injuring some 1,200 others. Using an eclectic array of techniques and incorporating documents, recordings (both audio and video), light, sound, shapes, forms and objects, the installation/exhibition invites the visitor to see for himself/herself not just what Jallianwala Bagh was then, and what it came to mean for the later history of the struggle to throw off the colonial yoke, but also to reflect on how an oppressive State justifies the murder of citizens in the name of maintaining law and order. In an act of profound, almost poetic, subversion, Ways of Remembering was designed such that none of the original exhibits of the Portrait Gallery — including paintings and larger-than-life sculptures of British nobility on raised plinths — had to be removed or shifted; instead, they were made part of the free-flowing, interactive process of the installation/exhibition itself. Showing “one of the worst atrocities in the global history of empire” in a grandiose edifice “originally designed by Lord Curzon to be a museum that could showcase the ‘achievements of the empire’”, as Jayanta Sengupta, secretary and curator of the Victoria Memorial Hall, puts it in his note to the catalogue of the exhibition took courage, not least because Ways of Remembering makes pointed reference to subsequent incidents of brutal State oppression of peaceful dissent. To try and describe Ways of Remembering in words is doomed to failure because the installation/exhibition quite literally envelops the visitor, from the huge blood-streaked map of undivided Punjab underfoot, to the vast flickering images projected on the wall, to the sounds that play on strategically placed speakers, to the charpoy with quotations from diverse sources woven into it (on which visitors can sit if they so desire), to the huge tapestry with the names of the massacre victims embroidered on it hanging above the entrance to the Portrait Gallery, to the monitors playing videos made specifically for the occasion (comprising interviews with scholars, the tour-guide of the Jallianwala Bagh memorial, members from the families of those who did or did not survive the massacre, and so on), to much else that I could not take in even though I spent several hours savouring the cornucopia of riches that make up the installation/exhibition. Rabindranath Tagore looms large, of course, and not only because of his letter of May 31, 1919, to Lord Chelmsford, the viceroy of India, renouncing his knighthood, where he had declared his “wish to stand, shorn of all special distinctions, by the side of those of my countrymen, who, for their so-called insignificance, are liable to suffer degradation not fit for human beings”. Visitors are also shown how Rabindranath had actively campaigned when visiting London the year after the massacre to keep alive the memory of the horror of Jallianwala Bagh among the ordinary public and members of the British Parliament. Perhaps more pertinently, the installation/exhibition reminds visitors that Rabindranath had not been in favour of erecting a memorial at the Bagh, as had been proposed by Gandhiji and the Congress in early 1920. As Dutta Gupta puts it, Rabindranath “disagreed with the idea of monumentalising memory and not with the idea of remembering per se”, something which inspired her to put together an installation/exhibition that would become “a facilitator for dialogues and exchanges that... stimulate reflections on the politics of memory”. The ongoing Covid-19 pandemic has deprived us, both as individuals as well as members of larger collectives, of much that is valuable, and I mourn the fact that this remarkable display will have been dismantled by the time you read this. However, efforts are on to try and preserve at least a part of Ways of Remembering in digital form, and one hopes that such a virtual afterlife will stimulate the kind of reflection and dialogue that its creators had hoped to stimulate, given especially that other Baghs are now crowding into our collective consciousness. The author is professor of Comparative Literature, Jadavpur University, and has been working as a volunteer for a rural development NGO for the last 30 years||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-129
