23-10-2020||Opinion||Nawaz Sharif’s scorching pace could get Imran’s wicket||The confrontation between the political class and the Pakistan army reached a tipping point hours after the massive show of strength in Karachi by the 11-party Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM) opposition alliance. The opposition rally had been held symbolically 13 years to the day after former prime minister Benazir Bhutto landed in the city and a bomb intended for her killed 200 people. Last Sunday’s rally was a huge success, and the government was clearly desperate to drive a wedge between the PDM’s leaders who have defeated the odds to come together. It began with the dawn arrest of Pakistan’s former prime minister Nawaz Sharif’s son-in-law Capt.(retd) Safdar Awan, spouse of heir apparent Maryam Nawaz. Safdar was dragged from the couple’s hotel room, hours after the rally. Within hours the murky story behind the raid surfaced. Reputed journalist Hamid Mir tweeted how the para-military Pakistan Rangers had forced their way into the Sindh police chief’s house at midnight and taken him to police headquarters where he was made to issue a warrant for Safdar’s arrest. The Sindh police chief and the entire police force have threatened to go on mass leave, though they’ve suspended this for the time being. Safdar’s arrest was clearly a clumsy attempt to split the PML-N and the Pakistan People’s Party (PPP), which runs the Sindh state government. In the event, it was such a ham-fisted operation that it backfired on its proponents. The PPP government in Sindh is already accusing the Karachi ISI head, Brig. Habib, of acting under the orders of Prime Minister Imran Khan’s trusted confidante, the ISI chief Lt. Gen Faiz Hameed. Most importantly, it reinforces the opposition’s charge that the army is playing an outsize role in all major political events for the worse. That’s always been an open secret but nobody dared to point a finger at the army as Nawaz has dared to do in the last few weeks. Seemingly impervious to criticism in the wake of the Capt Safdar debacle, it was the Chief of Army Staff Gen. Qamar Javed Bajwa, and not Prime Minister Khan, who called PPP chief Bilawal Bhutto Zardari, to discuss launching an inquiry. Gen Bajwa’s effort to step in and staunch public anger, is probably too little, too late. And he hasn’t been able to put the brakes on the opposition campaign to oust the Imran Khan government. On October 25, the PDM will stage its third mega-rally in the Baloch capital Quetta. Unless the army rolls out its tanks, the black and white striped flags of the powerful religio-politician Maulana Fazlur Rehman’s Jamiat-Ulema-e-Islam (Fazlur), will dominate the landscape alongside that of Sardar Akhtar Mengal’s Balochistan National Party’s green, white and red. Unlike previous alliances, this opposition group is not limited to the two mainstream parties, the PML-N and the PPP. The PDM, has tapped into the undercurrent of rage that consumes the Balochs, Pashtuns, Sindhis and the Urdu-speaking populace, and brought all their voices together on one platform.  On the stage at Karachi’s Bagh-e-Jinnah venue was Mohsin Dawar of the Pashtun Tahafuz Movement, whose youthful leaders have “disappeared” in targeted killings, their mutilated bodies left by the roadside, in a chilling message to those who criticise the army. Once at loggerheads with one another, this is a political opposition that for the first time, speaks for all of Pakistan. But Nawaz’s PML-N holds the high cards.  The party has the key to Punjab and it showed this by holding the first PDM rally in Gujranwala, the heart of the army’s traditional recruiting ground. Every second house here is either the home of a fauji or a Muslim Leaguer. This was challenging the army’s writ like never before. By choosing Gujranwala for the PDM rally Sharif demonstrated how adept he has become at stoking ‘People Power’, and how well, he understands the army’s weaknesses and his own strengths. At the Gujranwala rally, the three-time former prime minister, speaking from exile in London, held Gen. Bajwa personally responsible for his manipulation of the last elections and installing the “incompetent” Imran Khan, as prime minister. He also once again called out Gen Bajwa - to whom he had given a three-year extension - for the gross mishandling of the economy by Khan. This tapped strongly into the groundswell of public anger triggered by the rising prices of essential goods. The final twist of the knife was the calling out of Gen.(Retd) Asim Salim Bajwa, who was also Khan’s former media adviser, for corruption. It’s alleged that Asim Bajwa set up a fast-food chain in the US, Pakistan and the UAE by skimming money from the treasury. No details of the scam are now available on Pakistan media. There is a blackout of both Nawaz’ speeches, his televised address that marked the launch of PDM in September, and Friday’s evisceration of the army at the PML-N citadel Gujranwala. Besides that, no channel has aired the speeches by Mengal and Dawar and the others. Nawaz didn’t address the Karachi rally, but with no let up from either Bilawal, the Maulana or Maryam. Imran Khan, army chief Bajwa and Gen Faiz Hameed, the ISI chief, have clearly been put on notice. Some analysts in Pakistan are splitting hairs, saying the PDM is not attacking the army per se but the ‘Gang of Three,’ but there’s no doubt that the PDM will settle for nothing less than their ouster, the army’s return to the barracks and free and fair elections to elect a government of Pakistan’s choice. The next stop on the opposition’s calendar is a rally in Peshawar, followed by another in Multan on November 30. The grand finale will be when the opposition roadshow reaches Lahore on December 13. In January, barely 90 days after the campaign launch, the opposition is scheduled to converge on the capital, Islamabad Few expect the Bajwa-Imran-Faiz trio to buckle in the face of this political juggernaut. Insiders say that Imran Khan’s Pakistan Tehreek-i-Insaf party is exploring the option of imposing martial law, though the army is less enthusiastic about this course of action. The targeted killings and incarceration of opposition leaders and their kin against whom cases are being filed are an indication that the Khan government is set to continue on the same path. Even before the Karachi rally ended, the pro-government media began leaking the story that Shahbaz Sharif, the incarcerated brother of Nawaz, was willing to step in as prime minister of an interim government before fresh polls are called. The Nawaz camp was quick to deny any such overtures had been made, let alone accepted. The Sharif patriarch has in fact, come full circle. Picked by President Gen. Zia ul Haq to counter the rising popularity of Benazir, he has now had multiple run-ins with successive military putschists, that left him convinced the army has no place in civilian life. That Imran Khan is rattled is obvious. A few weeks ago he talked in public about how, during the last elections, a PML-N legislator had reached out to former ISI chief Lt. Gen (retd) Zaheer-ul-Islam and begged him to save his seat. Imran was trying to say that even PML-N legislators had sought the ISI’s help. But this turned out to be a self-inflicted ‘doosra’ because he was openly admitting the ISI’s role during the elections. Imran’s comment came after Nawaz had accused the army chief of fixing the polls. against him. The PDM, aware of the army’s dirty tricks, is working to a plan. Its leaders’ criticism of Khan’s – and India’s - mishandling of Kashmir and Gilgit-Baltistan, was to pre-empt the charge that Nawaz or the PPP chairman and former president Asif Ali Zardari are working at India’s behest. Both leaders attempted to forge a new India-Pakistan narrative that went against the army’s strategy of permanent war, but were thwarted by their respective military chiefs. With Nawaz’ Islamic credentials - like Maulana Fazlur Rahman’s – above reproach, and backed many say, by Saudi Arabia, the army has limited cards left to play. It’s no surprise the pro-establishment Jamaat-e-Islami has been tapped to hold rallies to counter Nawaz’s people power. Nawaz has openly charged the incumbent army chief with high treason so how can a compromise be reached? One possibility is that Imran will be the fall guy and be shown the door. But Gen Bajwa too is not in an impregnable position. It’s said that his extension after his three-year term ended, did not go down well with the next rung of generals. As the army stumbles headlong into uncharted territory, the 90 days in the run up to the Siege of Islamabad, will be crucial. (Neena Gopal is a South Asia analyst and author)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-128
23-10-2020||Opinion||Lamp lady: Jacinda Ardern's victory||The outcome of the parliamentary election in New Zealand was a foregone conclusion: Jacinda Ardern, the leader of the Labour Party, was expected to return to power. What has surprised the pundits, however, is the massive public endorsement for Ms Ardern and her policies. The Labour Party has won over 49 per cent of the vote — it has received the biggest ever mandate since New Zealand adopted the proportional representation system — and is expected to take over half the seats in Parliament. The electoral outcome can be explained by Ms Ardern’s decisive leadership and bold management of crises, be it the coronavirus pandemic or sectarian violence. Even as bigger, influential economies struggle with the virus — presidential-poll bound Unites States of America is an example — New Zealand has managed to keep its fatality rate remarkably low. Ms Ardern’s intervention in the aftermath of the terrorist attack in Christchurch was equally bold. She had no qualms about passing a legislation that targeted assault weapons. Compassion, equality, empathy and spirited public outreach have been the hallmarks of Ms Ardern’s political programme. Each of these elements has culminated in the creation of a fabric of inclusion that has received tumultuous public support. There, undoubtedly, is a broader message in Ms Ardern’s electoral triumph. Much of global politics, driven by schisms and antipathy towards minorities and other vulnerable constituencies, has turned vociferously shrill and insular. The ascendance of far-right leaders in several corners of the world is a testament to the failure of the liberal political project. But the victories of Ms Ardern in New Zealand and, now, the impressive performance of the socialist regime in Bolivia have ignited the possibility of the resurrection of the principles of accommodation, equality and freedom. Ms Ardern, even if she does not like it, could be christened the new messiah of liberalism. This, however, is not to suggest that her stint in power is going to be free of challenges. The virus may be down in New Zealand but it is not quite out; the economic costs of the pandemic have also been substantial. Ms Ardern, now saddled with greater expectations, cannot afford to slip on these battlefronts. Then, there is the worsening climate crisis, an issue that is central to Ms Ardern’s politics. It remains to be seen how Ms Ardern takes on these impediments. But any future assessment of her political legacy must concede that the lady charted a map for the possible return of liberalism by prioritizing public welfare over bigoted rhetoric.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-128
23-10-2020||Opinion||Deep void: Losing Kishore Bhimnai||Sir — The demise of Kishore Bhimani, the Indian commentator with a vast knowledge of cricketwhose commentary of Test matches on Doordarshan in the 1980s enthralled millions of viewers, was saddening (“Kishore Bhimani passes away”, Oct 16). Bhimani was commentating when Sunil Gavaskar became the first player to reach 10,000 runs in Test cricket, during the drawn match against Pakistan in Ahmedabad in 1987. As a writer on cricket, Bhimani was known to have been followed by British publishers during his heyday. He was also on air during the final moments of the famous 1986 tied Test against Australia at Chepauk. His death will leave a deep void in the world of Indian cricket commentary. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir —  For lovers of Test cricket in India, especially in the 1980s, Kishore Bhimani is a recognized voice. Both cricket and cricket commentary have changed over time; the renowned commentators of yore have been forgotten by the new generation of cricket fans who do not follow the game beyond the T20 format and the glamour associated with it. Bhimani’s style is sorely missed today. Rakhi Chakraborty,Calcutta Sir — The loss of Kishore Bhimani has deprived the cricketing world of one of the finest commentators, whose deep knowledge of the game and style of commentary in impeccable English set him apart. Bhimani was present at Chepauk, Chennai in 1986, where he commentated on the last bit of the Test between India and Australia. Incidentally, during this Test, I had the opportunity of interacting with him on the pavilion terrace. He showed great interest in the vibrant culture of the city of Chennai. Ranganathan Sivakumar,Chennai  Festive beats Sir — Durga Puja is incomplete without the sound of the dhaak reverberating through the para. Yet the dhaakis, who create this festive ambience, leave for their homes at the end of the celebrations with very little. It is likely that most of their villages have been ravaged by Cyclone Amphan this year. The pandemic must only have made things worse. They should be treated generously this year. Chandrima Das,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-128
23-10-2020||Opinion||Forced: Violence against women||The more things are supposed to change the more they remain the same. Countrywide protests and campaigns on occasions of the ugliest sexual crimes against women, changes in laws against such crimes, the insistence on the rights, dignity and autonomy of women seem to have barely made a dent on assumptions that encourage the belittling of women in an imagined but coercive kinship structure. A special leave petition before the Supreme Court has sought a direction to high courts and trial courts not to make comments during trials for sexual crimes or impose conditions when granting bail to the accused that would trivialize the suffering of the survivor. While the petition mentioned 12 such instances by different courts, the immediate occasion was the bail condition offered to an accused by the Madhya Pradesh High Court, that he visit the survivor with sweets, money — like a gift — and to exchange rakhis with the promise to protect her always. The desire to compromise displayed by institutions that are meant to deliver justice dilutes or even nullifies the gravity of sexual attacks. It gives perpetrators a sense of impunity, and sometimes, when the accused are brought to trial, leads to lighter sentences or even acquittal. Simultaneously, the survivor’s loss of dignity and autonomy is shown not to matter to society as long as a kind of spurious social order can be forcibly imposed by traditional relationship patterns — brother-sister or husband-wife. Gender-biased Indian society balks at penalizing the male in a sex crime. A rape accused in Odisha married the survivor during his bail in June, professedly with blessings from parents on both sides. Such ‘solutions’ are against the law, but are made possible because of the stigma surrounding the survivor. In a male- dominated shame culture, rape is the woman’s shame, not the criminal’s. The pressure, both social and economic, on the survivor’s family should they have to provide refuge to a raped girl, may prompt courts, the police, not to speak of panchayats and neighbours for whom rape is hardly a crime, to encourage these marriages. The criminal gets off scot free. What happens within the marriage is nobody’s business: the destruction of the woman’s sense of self, of physical and mental inviolability, and of agency is something that society desires anyway.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-128
23-10-2020||Opinion||Hate can be a mirror in testing times||The pandemic has coincided with a regression that has amplified the worst tendencies in Indian culture and polity. Why should anyone care about the welfare of minorities under these trying circumstances? The answer is that this needs to be done. This is because a beleaguered minority might reflect the true intentions of a regime. The Muslim experience thus offers insights into the challenges that confront India today. Toxic myths There is now a well-entrenched idea that Muslims wage jihad and go to great lengths to harm Hindus. Some of these myths allege that Muslims encourage larger families to become the numerically dominant group in India or they engage in occupations to wilfully offend Hindu sentiments. It has even been suggested that Muslims fell ill intentionally during the Covid-19 pandemic in an attempt to spread the disease. The propaganda has been disseminated meticulously. But how do we explain a vast section of the population believing these canards? The answer may lie in ‘majority appeasement’. Here ‘majority’ implies a constituency — as opposed to numerical superiority — that is nurtured and protected by the regime in power because of its unquestioning allegiance to the ideology of the elected party. ‘Appeasement’, in this context, is a code for a model of electoral politics in which a group of people is responsible for stoking deeply-held insecurities so that the real problems of the nation remain unaddressed. The all-round economic devastation caused by India’s present rulers is an example of such a calculated chaos in which bigotry and hate-mongering are being used to deflect scrutiny of the failures in governance. Graded misery Liberal intellectuals, activists and journalists have protested against the gravity of the situation. For instance, when there was a bigoted media campaign vilifying Muslims for spreading Covid-19, they dubbed it reprehensible. But in their condemnations, they asserted that the anti-Muslim campaign in the media was meant to distract public attention from the ‘real issue’ — that of the plight of migrant workers. In creating these hierarchies of misery, they seem to have ignored a crucial point. Is the plight of Indian Muslims — social and economic boycotts, the impunity of those indulging in anti-Muslim violence, brutal police crackdowns, lynchings and other kinds of violence, discrimination and intimidation — not real enough? The disenfranchisement of Muslims in electoral politics has marked an era in which the baiting of minorities is a necessary condition. Those affected by this ‘chaos’ wish for the resurrection of the welfare State from the brink of death. But have they not been a silent witness to a repressive State shedding all its pretences as it went about brutalizing the powerless? We can only place our hope in history. For history has a way of defying the insidious calculations of ideologues intent on bleaching their transgressions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-128
23-10-2020||Opinion||Politics over pandemic in Bengal||It is a pity that after managing to control the rates of infection, recovery and mortality from the coronavirus reasonably better than five other comparable metropolises, Calcutta now appears determined to tease its fate during Durga Puja. When the coronavirus appeared in tiny numbers, knee-jerk, unplanned, nationwide lockdowns were clamped down with a lot of drama, with politics and image-building taking precedence. The social media was inundated with hate-filled messages targeting West Bengal’s special incompetence in combating the pandemic, ignoring the fact that most other states were floundering as well. There were whispers that deaths were being hushed up here. To prove this, morbid visuals of the corpses of ‘corona victims’ being flung around insensitively were pumped into our mobiles. It was obvious that a professional, well-financed campaign was underway to seize power next summer. Instead of rushing much-needed testing kits and protective equipment, the Centre sent inspection teams led by an about-to-be-promoted bureaucrat who, unfortunately, joined the chorus to savage Bengal’s initial efforts. The state’s containment strategy was not faultless but the data published by the Centre could not substantiate the charge that Bengal was India’s worst performing state in the war against Covid-19. Many, therefore, simply fail to comprehend why West Bengal is suddenly going lax on large gatherings and social mixing during the Pujas, thereby inviting disaster. The chief minister has also ramped up her ‘assistance’ to 36,946 Puja organizers to Rs 50,000, up from last year’s sum of Rs 10,000. This may cost a staggering 185 crore of taxpayers’ money so that grander pandals attract several thousands more — knowing well that this vicious virus thrives on crowds. The usual homilies about wearing masks and maintaining ‘social distancing’ have been dished out, but massive crowds of Puja shoppers sans masks surely indicate what lies ahead. The Calcutta High Court has, however, intervened and has mercifully ordered strict control over numbers of visitors at the pandals but large crowds roaming everywhere else would be equally vulnerable. It has also directed that 75 per cent of grants must be spent by Puja organizers on masks, sanitizers and protective equipment. There is concern regarding their distribution at the pandals as freebies invariably trigger genetically-driven scrambles. A couple of years ago, there were accounting issues regarding an estimated Rs 700 crore that the state government had given to ‘sports clubs’ over five years or so. Besides, government grants given to any one religion militate against secularism — the old haj subsidy being a case in point. We may also recall that the Indian Muslim community has, by and large, accepted the rigorous post-corona stipulations. During Ramazan this year, it did not insist on the usual bustling evening food markets. This faith was reconciled to the ban on massive congregations for namaz on Eid, even refraining from fraternal hugs, community meals and Muharram processions. Maharashtra, Goa and Karnataka, ruled by pro-Hindu parties, imposed stringent prohibitions on crowds during the Ganapati festival. Kerala, too, attempted to tone down Onam celebrations. It appears that Bengal could be a spoilsport and may be accused, with or without evidence, of giving fresh life to the pandemic. Politics has, however, its own bizarre compulsions. The prime minister, who had imposed a draconian lockdown and has reminded us again to avoid crowds during Covid 19, is now hell-bent on addressing public meetings in poll-bound Bihar. His election rallies will surely draw enormous gatherings and all his sage counsel on social distancing delivered theatrically on television is likely to be ignored. His teflon may succeed in deflecting the blame for spreading Covid-19 on someone else, but Mamata Banerjee may not be that lucky if hospitals here cannot handle the unprecedented rush in patients. Her compulsions are, however, different. To understand them, we have to go back to the 34 years when the Left Front ruled Bengal without any serious challenge. The Communist Party of India (Marxist)’s ‘local committees’ exercised a complete grip on localities. Their skilful sub-allocation of specific tasks to cells meant that every voter on the electoral roll was tracked. During elections, these local committees mustered not only supporters but also ensured that dead or absent electors ‘voted’ through proxies. Mamata Banerjee could dislodge the regime because she developed an alternative ‘grassroots’ — trinamool — response. She came up with a network of dedicated local-level field units, consisting of Puja-organizing clubs. These had been ignored by most Left parties that stayed away from religion — leaving, thereby, the only gap in their impregnable fortress. This vacuum was filled by Banerjee’s ‘clubs’ that took on the local committees and started responding actively to her calls for street-agitations and road blockades against the Left Front regime. Her model of agitational politics finally found its feet with the help of these local clubs, which provided her with a solidarity with local voters. She and her supporters also bonded through subaltern community feasts and soon enough many other deities were added to the calendar of celebrations. With an assured following, she could finally knock the Marxists off their perch. With another election round the corner, Banerjee has to recharge her support base during the festive season. For Modi, Didi and their flocks, it is now ‘payback time’ — corona be damned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-128
23-10-2020||Opinion||A citizen objects||My father was a brilliant metallurgist who worked for the Tatas. We lived in Jamshedpur and would go for long walks. He loved the forests around the city. I remember one evening as we walked, the Tata ‘mountains’ poured out their slag — molten and incandescent — as if the Tatas made sunsets. Then, a few minutes later, the Dalma hills lit up as the tribals burnt an area for jhum cultivation. Both were brilliant sights and my father watched entranced. He then said, almost cryptically, “Both have to survive. Justice is balance between the two.” For my father, Tata’s validity lay in the continuity of the tribe. It was a vision of a different world. When I heard of the Jesuit Father, Stan Swamy, I sensed here was a man who understood that vision, grasped why the tribes and the tribal way of life had to survive. People talk of the Jesuits practising conversion without realizing that many Jesuits have fought against conversion. What Jesuits like Stan Swamy preached was not to be converted to the fundamentalism of development, a world that destroys the margins. Stan Swamy at 83 represented that world, represented a hope that the tribal world and its imagination may survive. When the government arrested him for conspiracy, one realized that what they were arresting is hope and justice for the tribe as a way of life. It is sad, in fact ridiculous, that Stan Swamy should have been arrested under a tribal chief minister, Hemant Soren, who sat silent at first before the diktats of the Centre. The sadness of this regime, its mediocrity, comes from arresting men and women of conscience. It is not ideology one objects to but conscience and caring. I sensed this when I got a letter from Kobad Ghandy thanking me for a piece I had written. There was a quiet elegance to the letter, a matter-of-factness about jail. What he mourned was the death of his wife, who was busy as an activist in tribal areas. At that moment, I was wondering whether the word, Naxal, should be used to refer to people battling for justice. They seem more to be conscientious objectors fighting
for a different dream with the weapon of courage rather than destruction. The regime’s indifference to such idealism seemed perplexing. One has to ask if the best of our society, from Stan to Kobad, are in jail, how does one define the civic and the social? It looks more like an honour list than a roster of criminals. These people do not speak the rabid logic of Kanu Sanyal or Jangal Santhal. They talk of justice, suffering, without reifying revolution and they suffer quietly in jail without a murmur. Ghandy could have been my professor at the Delhi School of Economics. I wish a writer like Mahasweta Devi were around. She had an uncanny sense of hypocrisy, of calling the bluff of a regime like the current one. As the regime grows in power, one senses a Stalinism against the tribe. Kobad and Mahashweta were witnesses to such tyranny. Watching him speak one day, I realized the wisdom of a leading dissenter. He told me the only way one can be nationalist in the Modi-era is to be anti-national. It is anti-national to defend the life of a tribe, to protect craft as a way of thinking, to define caring as the essence of citizenship. Whenever the question of caring is raised in this context, people cite Mother Teresa. They accuse her of conversion. I remember when an official wanted to harass her, Jyoti Basu slammed him, saying no one can empathize with suffering and justice the way she can. Both Marxist and missionary understood caring was a cosmopolitanism that went beyond Marx and Christianity. Caring was an act of love, of compassion. In this sense, Sudha Bharadwaj cared, cared for the people she fought for. It is a strange regime that sentences her for caring. But then one has to realize that it is only government that does not care that can create the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and see Covid-19 as an Olympiad of death. In any real democratic country, we would be telling stories of Stan, Sudha and Kobad. Instead we harass them, telling an aspirational, mobile generation that caring is criminal. Even Kafka could not have produced the turn of phrase. Regimes for the past few decades have always produced the archetype of the Naxal they love to hate. In India, it is the poet, Varavara Rao. Rao carries his poetry and politics lightly. I remember the first time I met him. It was in Bhopal after the gas tragedy of 1984. He spoke of justice. Standing around him were tribals who carried shields with a strange tribal god. I discovered it was Stalin. Rao smiled, hinting that maybe the tribals understood and tamed the demonic in Stalin better than we did. Rao has been at every demonstration for justice. He cares that his poetry creates an oral language of caring. He is virtually saying my orality is my morality. My protest is my ritual of citizenship. It has an eloquence and an originality. Today, Rao is ill and the regime takes pride in arresting him because he cares too much. The word, humanitarian, or justice, does not seem to apply when we discuss such men. All of them have added a sense of civilization to their struggles. It is a strange society that criminalizes caring and justice. But present politics is more than a condemnation of virtues. Majoritarian democracy hates dissent because dissent celebrates the poetics and politics of difference. The arrest of Hany Babu from Delhi University exposes this. Dissenters and dissenting imaginations may be more committed to their institutions and see institution-building beyond law-and-order issues. As a wag put it, soon social service will be suspect; it will be conducted in jails. Dissent needs to be understood in the wider context of knowledge and democracy as a difference that sustains. A majoritarian regime has little sense of the university and its pluralism. As an institution, the university has been the first major casualty of a repressive and mediocre regime. In fact, one has to read a sense of plurality and debate into these issues. One does not have to agree with everything that is said, but one must understand the dynamics of dissent in keeping us plural and free. The sadness is ideology has completely destroyed both protest and scholarship. The merging of internal and external security has made dissent the first target of a securitarian regime. Two modes of dissent have suffered from this onslaught. The concerns for environment and for human rights. Both these issues have converged around the tribe as a way of life and thought. The fate of the tribe, the loosening of forest laws, all gets swept under the table of ‘urban Naxal’. The word, Naxal, threatens the tribal way of life. One needs to deconstruct it and understand the plural styles of Marxism, from Rosa Luxemburg to Teodor Shanin. We need a rethinking of scholarship here. The arrest of Stan Swamy and others raises these issues. It is time citizens and academics see these dissenters and scholars as arguments for democracy and sustain them. Politics without ethics is finally empty. The author is an academic associated with Compost Heap, a network pursuing alternative imaginations||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-129
