24-10-2020||Opinion||The goddess returns||India, to the wide-eyed visitor, could, for very good reasons, look like the land of ceaseless festivals. One such festival — the argumentative Bengali believes it to be the fairest of them all — has now graced this part of India. What makes Durga Puja truly unique is its ability to make a diverse set of forces — the religious and the secular, spiritualism and materialism, the community and the individual — coexist peacefully in a fascinating potpourri for a while. Where else but in autumnal Bengal can one see people engage in conspicuous consumption — even a virulent virus did not quite deter the Puja shopper — as well as unprecedented acts of humanitarianism? Several philanthropic entities lend a helping hand to the needy this time every year and the Year of the Pandemic has not been an exception. Where else but in Bengal would one see the committed, year-long atheist bow his/her head in reverence in front of a magnificent idol of the goddess in a poignant moment that fuses faith and temporality? The devi does make Bengal work in mysterious ways. Even Karl Marx, that original revolutionary, would have been mystified by this melting pot of contradictions. His followers had attempted to teach Bengal for over three decades that religion is the opium of the masses. Yet, Durga Puja continues to be an occasion that heightens public awareness of prevailing human conditions. Art and craft are central to this periodic emancipation. This year, some of the dominant social themes — these are the central motifs in the architecture of pandals — include the suffering of the constituency of migrant workers who lost their livelihood and, on some occasions, their lives on account of an uncaring government and its hastily imposed lockdown; elsewhere, Durga is seen exterminating the coronasur. Had it not been for Durga, the average Bengali could have remained afflicted with the frog-in-the-well syndrome eternally, thereby remaining oblivious to the suffering of others. The artisans, the men and women who breathe life into these novel ideas with the help of clay, cloth, bamboo and even lights, have suffered immensely this year with their businesses adversely affected by low-key celebrations. But saviours — human and divine — have come calling. There have been reports of several crowd-funding initiatives to raise money for them. Unfortunately, the change of heart that is brought about by the turn of season remains as ephemeral as the autumn light. Darkness returns with the devi’s departure as people return to their insular, toxic shells. There is legitimate concern that the political virus — Bengal goes to the polls next year — could snuff out the dimming flame of fraternity and communal harmony. The challenge, therefore, would be to retain the spirit of amity across all seasons. If Bengal can show India the way of achieving this rare feat, it would be the best way of honouring the goddess.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-128
24-10-2020||Opinion||Justice at last: Medussa at NY County court||A statue was unveiled in New York close to the New York County Criminal Court — a statue of the Greek goddess, Medusa, symbolizing the MeToo movement. This is the same court where Harvey Weinstein was convicted of two felony sex crimes. The seven-feet-tall bronze statue titled Medusa With the Head of Perseus is the work of the artist, Luciano Garbati. The latter wrote on Instagram, “The place chosen is not accidental, since there they judge cases for crimes related to violence against women. We are already in the final stage working on the last details of this sculpture that became a symbol of justice for many women.” It was inspired by the 16th-century sculpture, Perseus with the Head of Medusa, by the Italian Renaissance artist, Benvenuto Cellini, which is on display in the Piazza della Signoria in Florence, Italy. The new statue, however, reverses the traditional mythology and stands as a symbol of triumph for survivors of sexual assault. The statue depicts Medusa standing tall with a low, intense gaze, with a sword in one hand and the head of Perseus gripped in the other. According to the myth, the powerful god, Poseidon, raped Medusa, but instead of Poseidon being punished, Medusa was blamed and turned into a monstrous beast with snakes for hair, as well as a gaze that could turn men into stone. She was exiled and later hunted down by Perseus, and her head was displayed as a trophy. Garbati’s new venture was organized by the artist-led MWTH Project, in partnership with NYC Parks, and will be on view through April 30, 2021. Spooky affair Halloween is around the corner on October 31, and many Americans love immersing themselves in all things spooky, including skulls and haunted houses. The coronavirus, which is still raging through the United States of America, poses a challenge to people and businesses on how to get through the day safely. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, traditional trick-or-treating and indoor costume parties, indoor haunted houses —where people are likely to scream —are listed as “higher risk.” This year, the pandemic-approved concept is the Halloween drive-through where you go in your vehicle through a land of tombstones and pumpkins for about half an hour. The ‘Nights of the Jack’ in California is offering a drive-through on the ranch promising thousands of hand-carved, illuminated pumpkins. If you are into more immersive haunted experiences, the Highway of Horror in Chicago transformed a parking lot into a 90-minute-long terrifying experience starting October 15. First you watch a drive-in scary movie. Then you will be confined to your car for an hour-and-a-half, during which you will be spooked by zombies, demons and other ghoulish creatures prowling the premises, ready to jump, shake your car and spray fake blood against the windows. In the Bay Area, the Fields family have operated their haunted house, called the Pirates of Emerson, for 29 years. Their home was used to create the haunted house, a major attraction drawing in thousands of visitors. Now, they have converted their 10 acres into a drive-through haunted house.Plastic surgery New York has finally banned plastic bags for businesses. The ban was approved back in March but got held up due to Covid-19 as well as a lawsuit by plastic bag manufacturers. The lawsuit was struck down last month and businesses were given 30 days to prepare for this change, which went into effect on October 19. The New York State Department of Environmental Conservation said that New Yorkers use 23 billion plastic bags a year, 85 per cent of which ends up as landfill. Customers at stores will be charged five cents for paper bags and a dollar for reusable bags, but will have the option of bringing their own bags. Groups bringing forth the lawsuit said the ban would make them go bankrupt. The director of the American Recyclable Plastic Bag Alliance, Zachary Taylor, told The Associated Press that the ban was “unworkable” and it would be harder for smaller stores to acquire paper bags during the pandemic. The only exceptions are bags used for uncooked meat and fish, fruits and vegetables, prescription drugs and dry cleaning. Families who use food stamps will also not have to pay for paper bags. Last month, the New Jersey state legislature voted to ban both plastic and paper single-use bags, as well as polystyrene foam food containers, plates, cups, and utensils, rendering it the strictest plastic ban in the US. The ban would begin 18 months after the bill goes into effect, and the governor, Philip Murphy, is expected to sign the bill. Businesses that violate the bill will get a warning on the first offence, a fine of up to $1,000 for a second, and a fine of up to $5,000 for a third or subsequent offence.Shop smart This year, in spite of the pandemic, holiday shopping has started earlier than usual. People are resorting to online and nearby brick-and-mortar retail stores owing to Covid-19. According to a consumer survey, 61 per cent of shoppers plan to begin their holiday shopping before Thanksgiving, while 39 per cent are going to wait till after. Amazon has also announced it will release Black Friday deals early this year. Some large stores are using ‘pickup lockers’ for pre-ordered items so that a shopper can come and collect them without needing to communicate with an associate. Jewellery stores are even sanitizing their diamonds and rings. Given the economic uncertainty, and shortened family gatherings, this year shoppers are likely to buy fewer gifts as well. Shipping is also expected to take twice as long.Footnote Chicago, for the sixth year now, has been given an ignominious title: the US’s most rat-infested city. Orkin, an Atlanta-based pest control service, ranks US cities based on the number of new rodent treatments from September 1 to August 31 of the next year. The result is a list of 50 cities, with most moving up or down each time the list is updated. Rounding out the top 10 on Orkin’s list were Los Angeles, New York, Washington, DC, San Francisco, Detroit, Philadelphia, Baltimore, Denver and Minneapolis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-128
24-10-2020||Opinion||Damaging legacy||Four years ago, as the last American presidential elections were being held, I was asked to chair a talk in Bengaluru by Strobe Talbott. At that time the head of the well-known Washington think-tank, the Brookings Institution, Mr Talbott had previously served as deputy secretary of state in the administration of President Bill Clinton. In that capacity, he had played a crucial role in tilting America’s policy away from its traditional bias in favour of Pakistan towards a position more congenial to the interests of India. The talk of Strobe Talbott’s that I was scheduled to chair was to be held in the third week of November 2016. By then the presidential elections would be over. Hillary Clinton was the favourite to win. In the event she lost and, instead of coming to Bengaluru in a mood of jubilant anticipation, Mr Talbott arrived looking (and feeling) utterly crushed. In our conversation before the talk he spoke bitterly about the fact that a pathological liar had befooled the American electorate. I agreed with Mr Talbott that Donald Trump had told a lot of lies during his campaign. But, I said, he did utter, again and again, two words that were true. These were ‘Crooked Hillary’. Donald Trump had portrayed Hillary Clinton as the quintessential Washington insider, her past record replete with instances of networks used and abused, favours given and received. Four years later the situation is very different. It is now Trump who looks corrupt and compromised, as well as inefficient and incompetent. His gross mishandling of the pandemic has exposed his administrative weaknesses, while the evasiveness about his tax returns has cast doubt on his integrity as well. His abusive and misogynist ways have alienated a large number of women who voted for him in 2016. By just appearing to be a plain, decent man, one who will listen to the experts rather than foist his own nutty views on public policy, Joe Biden is (at the time of writing) the clear front runner in the race to be the next president of the United States of America. Democracies are meant to be governed in a collegial and collaborative manner. Donald Trump, however, is a vain demagogue, interested only in publicity and self-promotion. To be sure, there have been charismatic American presidents before, who presented themselves as larger than their office. They have included such figures as John F. Kennedy and Theodore Roosevelt in the 20th century, and Andrew Jackson in the 19th century. Yet none of them remotely approached Trump in their self-love. If Trump has not done more damage than he has, that is largely due to the resilience and inner strength of American institutions. The media, the universities, the defence establishment, the scientific community have by and large maintained their integrity. They have all pushed back, albeit with varying degrees of success, against his attempts to control and manipulate them to fulfil his own personal agenda. If Trump were to be defeated by Biden next month, then these institutions will all play a vital role in rebuilding America, in helping it heal the wounds within as well as in constructively reasserting its role in the world. Like the world’s richest democracy, the world’s oldest democracy, the United Kingdom, is also governed by a self-obsessed demagogue. Boris Johnson’s path to power was not dissimilar to Trump’s. Within his own party, he was seen as a dashing alternative to the dull, staid figure of Theresa May. The Conservatives won the general elections of 2019 in part because of the wit and intelligence of their leader and because his rival, Jeremy Corbyn of the Labour Party, was seen by many voters as a dogmatic (as well as humourless) socialist absolutely unfit to run the government. Compared to Donald Trump, Boris Johnson is perhaps more maverick than malign, an ambitious opportunist rather than a proto-racist with autocratic tendencies. It took the last year of Trump’s term for his weaknesses to be exposed; whereas the turning of the public mood away from Johnson has come rather sooner. His attitude towards the pandemic and the Brexit endgame has shown him to be more an incompetent bungler than a fascist-in-the-making. Meanwhile, Labour, having dumped Corbyn for a leader with greater intelligence and administrative ability, has also weakened the prime minister’s case. An increasing number of British voters now see Keir Starmer in more favourable terms than they ever saw Jeremy Corbyn. Within his own Conservative Party, there are those who say that the chancellor of the exchequer, Rishi Sunak, is more fit for the office of prime minister than Johnson himself. The next general election in Britain is three-and-a-half years away. Johnson being defenestrated by his party even before then remains a distinct possibility. But, as with Trump, whenever he goes, the damage he has done will be undone by the institutions he has degraded but not destroyed — such as the Parliament, the courts and, not least, the media. Indeed, for all his faults and fraudulent behaviour, history may judge that it was David Cameron who, by calling for a referendum on Brexit when one was not needed, hurt the UK far more than Johnson. Since 2016, the world’s richest democracy has been sought to be run into the ground by a demagogue. Meanwhile, the world’s oldest democracy is also currently misgoverned by a demagogue. So we come, finally and inevitably, to the world’s largest and most populous democracy, our own. Narendra Modi came to power two-and-a-half years before Trump; and a full five years before Johnson. He, too, is a demagogue, a politician who thinks he is bigger than his party and his government, and who will not shrink from using deceit and falsehood in order to consolidate his power. There are some ways in which Modi is similar to Trump and Johnson, but there may be more ways in which he is different. For one thing, he has been a full-time politician for far longer than they, with much greater experience of how to manipulate public institutions to serve his own purposes. Second, he is far more committed to his ideology than Trump and Johnson are to theirs. He lives and embodies Hindu majoritarianism in a much fuller (and hence more dangerous) manner than Trump lives white supremacy or Johnson embodies xenophobic Little Englandism. Third, in the enactment and fulfilment of his ideological dream, Modi has as his instrument the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, whose organizational strength and capacity for resource mobilization far exceeds any right-wing organization in the US or the United Kingdom. There is a final reason why Modi is more dangerous to the interests of his country than Trump and Johnson are to theirs. This is that the institutions of Indian democracy are so much weaker. Trump cannot command the Federal Bureau of Investigation to do his bidding, whereas Modi can direct our tax authorities and investigative agencies to do his. Sections of our judiciary seem to have lost their nerve; large sections of our media have certainly lost their spine. They are unwilling, or unable, to keep the prime minister in check, to hold him accountable for his errors and his excesses. In his desire to extend his lease on power, Narendra Modi is also much luckier than either Donald Trump or Boris Johnson. His luck lies in the unchanging nature of his Opposition. Trump will certainly find it far more difficult to defeat Joe Biden than he did Hillary Clinton. Keir Starmer is a more credible challenger to Johnson than Jeremy Corbyn ever was. On the other hand, despite suffering two humiliating defeats in the general elections of 2014 and 2019, despite the burden of nepotism and inexperience that he carries, and despite even his failure to retain the family pocket borough of Amethi, Rahul Gandhi is still being presented by the Congress as the prime ministerial alternative to Narendra Modi in 2024. All demagogues are bad for democracy, but some demagogues are worse than others. If Donald Trump loses next month, America may recover relatively soon from his depredations. Great Britain was shrinking into itself even before Boris Johnson became prime minister; his impact on the history of his country will turn out to be relatively negligible. However, the destruction that Narendra Modi can wreak, indeed has already wreaked, on Indian democracy is immense. It will take decades to repair. ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-128
