25-10-2020||Opinion||Wasted worship||Sir — The beloved Durga Puja of Bengal cannot start without the Nabapatrika snan, this involves nine types of plants bound together and bathed in the river. Yet, a festival that starts with the worship of a form of Mother Nature has become one of the most wasteful and polluting events in the Bengali calendar. Even this year, amidst the pandemic with smaller idols and pandals, the amount of plastic waste on the streets still seems to be overflowing. This is not to mention the sudden spike in light and noise pollution. How does kola bou feel about this, one wonders. Roshni Sen
Calcutta Sir — Pakistan’s political pot is boiling again. Eleven Opposition parties have come together to call for the ouster of the Imran Khan government. Public unhappiness over the performance of Khan’s government is running high over deteriorating law and order, rising prices and food shortages. Pakistani politicians criticizing the military when in Opposition is not new, but this time Nawaz Sharif, who is in exile in London, has done the unthinkable. In a speech delivered remotely to tens of thousands of people in a rally, Sharif accused the army chief and the chief of the Inter-Services Intelligence of “rigging elections” and installing an “inefficient and incapable group of people” in power. Beijing will be monitoring developments in Pakistan closely. It has invested billions of dollars in the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor. It remains to be seen what the military does to respond to this latest threat. Whether it calls for talks between the government and the Opposition parties to get the latter off the streets or whether it prefers to use force. Given its record, the second option is more likely, but this course of action may not be wise. One thing is for sure, Pakistan awaits more unrest. Shovanlal Chakraborty
Calcutta Sir — It is battle royale in Pakistan. On the one hand there are virtually all the Opposition parties with Nawaz Sharif and Maulana Fazlur Rehman in the vanguard of a motley crew. On the other hand there is the Pakistan army’s hand-selected prime minister, Imran Khan, and his allies who marshalled together to give him a wafer-thin majority in the National Assembly. The Opposition’s strength lies in public support. Sharif remains the most popular leader in Punjab, one of the strongest provinces in Pakistan. He also has strong pockets of support in the Hazara belt of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. Even in the worst of times, Sharif’s support base remained intact. What Sharif’s party lacks is street power. The party can get crowds out at rallies and in the polling booths, but its supporters aren’t exactly known for having a stomach for street fighting. This is where Rehman becomes a force multiplier. Rehman is one of the most pragmatic politicians; has never confronted the military. He understands power like few in Pakistan do and that is why he has always been open to accommodating the military. Until now, that is. Khan and the army should be wary. A.K. Sen
Calcutta Sir — It is no secret that there is something unique about M.S. Dhoni’s captaincy. For more than a decade he set one milestone after another in international cricket. But the Chennai Super Kings’ tame capitulation in this year’s Indian Premier League after languishing at the bottom of the points table has definitely demoralized countless fans. The last encounter against the Mumbai Indians was perhaps their worst performance ever in IPL history. They lost six wickets at the score of 30 and never really recovered from that. The team managed to post 116, but the Mumbai Indians won by 10 wickets. Although the CSK was without some of its star players, Dhoni’s captaincy left a lot to be desired; he seems to be at the end of his tether. The batting order looked rusty and Dhoni did not perform well himself. There is no doubt that under Dhoni, CSK was at the peak of its glory for the last decade. But it is time Dhoni stepped down as captain and let someone else take over the reins. Aditya Mukherjee
New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-127
25-10-2020||Opinion||A determined Kamal Nath is fighting bypolls like never before||The former Congress chief minister of Madhya Pradesh, Kamal Nath, has surprised the party with his hard work in the by-elections. He has taken it upon himself to whittle down the influence of Jyotiraditya Scindia — who pulled down his government by defecting to the Bharatiya Janata party with members of the legislative assembly loyal to him — in his fiefdom, Gwalior-Chambal. Although it is difficult for the Congress to claw back to power as it will have to win all the 28 seats to reach the magic figure, Nath is determined to ensure that BJP too fails to wrest the nine it needs to get a majority of its own. His target is to win at least 20 out of 28 seats, which will be a remarkable feat under the BJP regime. Nath is extensively campaigning in every constituency along with his former cabinet colleagues. While he has deployed all his resources for the bypolls, assigning specific constituency-wise tasks to different leaders, he has also deputed objective assessors from outside to leave no stone unturned in the Gwalior-Chambal region. So much so that the Maharashtra minister, Sunil Kedar, has been camping in Gwalior along with 40 experienced party workers from Nagpur for over a fortnight to monitor campaigning in every booth. Kedar himself visits every village in the area to take feedback and reports to Nath daily. The Congress never fights by-elections so seriously but Nath knows his political future depends on this outcome, setting the tone for the next assembly elections in 2023. The defence minister, Rajnath Singh, is one of the top campaigners for the BJP in the upcoming Bihar polls. Singh, who was clearly sidelined in the Modi 2.0 government after he had to vacate the home ministry for Amit Shah, seems to have regained some of his political heft. Insiders say he has won the trust of the prime minister, Narendra Modi. The PM consults him on most important political decisions and Singh also heads key government committees. Singh has been heard profusely praising the PM, commending his capacity to take risks. In Bihar, he has been backing these claims by citing the abrogation of Article 370 and the bhoomi pujan of the Ram temple. Singh is not alone; Nitin Gadkari, too, has been praising Modi excessively these days. This is strange since ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Gadkari had been airing indirect barbs at the current leadership of the party. Shooting from the hip never pays and the Assam minister, Pijush Hazarika, learnt it the hard way. He went after the Rajya Sabha member, Ajit Kumar Bhuyan, who had said that if literary luminaries like Syed Abdul Malik and Imran Shah can be Asam Sahitya Sabha presidents he sees no reason why another Muslim or All India United Democratic Front chief, Badruddin Ajmal, cannot become the state’s CM. Since the ruling BJP targets Ajmal for espousing the cause of ‘illegal foreigners’ (read Bangladeshi Muslims), Hazarika pounced on Bhuyan, saying that the latter is unmarried and “does not have to think about the future generations but I... can’t think about my future generations working under Ajmal.” Bhuyan responded by stressing on the unmarried bit, “He says I am unmarried so I cannot think about our future generations. It is fine. But while criticizing me he criticized prime minister, Narendra Modi, and chief minister, Sarbananda Sonowal [both unmarried].” Hazarika defended himself but it is always difficult to get past a self-goal. The Assam cabinet minister, Himanta Biswa Sarma, has urged the masses to observe Puja rituals at home to check the spread of Covid-19 and celebrate next year by which time it is hoped that the threat from the coronavirus will be a thing of the past. However, there are many on social media who have started questioning why huge poll rallies are being held for the Bodoland Territorial Council? Why are ministers and political leaders addressing massive meetings, why are they not wearing masks or maintaining do gaz ki doori (two yard distance) at such meetings to keep the virus at bay? But then who will tell them that while all Indians are equal, some are more equal than others. The growing influence of the All India Congress Committee general-secretary KC Venugopal has been sending shock waves in his home state where the Congress-led United Democratic Front is eyeing a return to power next year. While the leader of the Opposition, Ramesh Chennithala, has been trying to make himself the obvious choice for the chief minister’s chair, there were talks about the party high command air-dropping someone “very close” to the Gandhi family. Being the right hand of Rahul Gandhi, Venugopal is definitely sending chills to CM aspirants back home. The newly-appointed BJP national general-secretary, CT Ravi, seems to be too optimistic about his party’s fortunes in the southern states where he is the man in charge. The former Karnataka minister is certain that the BJP will come to power in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Kerala in the 2021 assembly polls. With not much presence in these places, only Ravi can explain how he plans to pull this off. Perhaps he is trying too hard to impress his bosses. Is this why he is also trying to learn Hindi? Ill-equipped to deal with BJP leaders from the north, Ravi has realized that neither English nor Kannada would work in his new role. Ironically, as minister, Ravi had launched Kannada classes for non-Kannadigas living in Karnataka. Ravi does not want a linguistic handicap to stymie his growth as a national leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-127
25-10-2020||Opinion||Trapped in history: but now rescued||Seized, looted, bought unfairly, stolen, smuggled out. Countries once colonized in Asia and Africa have long sought to rediscover the histories carried by their own cultural objects displayed in museums in Western countries. Museums in the Netherlands have now decided to return thousands of objects taken away from Sri Lanka and Indonesia, while India, too, has a few items it would like the Dutch to return. Restitution of cultural assets is not a new demand. A French art historian said that calls for such repatriation had first gathered force at the end of the 1970s. At that time, Western museums had resisted strongly. Now, however, the Black Lives Matter movement has prompted a change in attitude. The widespread desire for a post-racist society required restitution of cultural riches as one of its steps. The role of the Black Lives Matter movement in the fresh impetus to restitution is like a key that unlocks memories of all kinds of coercive power imbalances of the past — it functions like an image of colonialism. India has been asking for its objects back for years — especially from Britain. The United Kingdom, the United States of America and Australia have all been quick to return beautiful and valuable objects, antiques and images that they found to have been stolen and smuggled out of India in post-colonial times. But that is not the same as restoring objects looted by invaders or acquired by colonial rulers. In 2013, the British prime minister at the time, David Cameron, had said that he did not support “returnism” as that would empty British museums. He seemed unaware of the ironical light his comment threw on colonial practice. A former director of the Louvre, heading a French advisory commission on the return of cultural objects, said that the act would be one of solidarity and fairness. Certainly, repatriation would be a belated acknowledgement of the violence inhering in colonialism; it would also render hollow, by hindsight, the pretence of civilization’s ‘sweetness and light’ implied in the tranquil, labelled display of objects under glass in well-guarded museums. Satisfying the sense of rightness in, say, returning the Amaravati sculptures where they came from is indeed important, while it is also a further unravelling of the tangled skeins left behind by colonial rule, another step towards fathoming an experience that is both past yet never absent. That invasions, conquests, looting, colonial rule create restless histories of division and change that refuse to settle down — become absent — is best exemplified in the demand for restitution of the Kohinoor diamond addressed to Britain by not just India, but by Pakistan, Iran and Afghanistan as well. Will the United Kingdom be able to decide between the two claimants for Tipu’s Wooden Tiger, India and Pakistan, should it be inclined to return it? The past never fails to haunt the human race; it only finds new ways of doing so.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-127
25-10-2020||Opinion||Web of lies||Lately, I have been putting an embarrassing amount of thought into notions like jinxes and knocking on wood. The polls for Joe Biden look good, but in 2020 any hint of optimism feels dangerously naïve, and my brain has been working overtime in search of potential doom. I have become consumed with an alarming possibility: that neither the polls nor the actual outcome of the election really matter because to a great many Americans, digital communication has already rendered empirical, observable reality beside the point. If I sound jumpy, it’s because I spent a couple of hours recently chatting with Joan Donovan, the research director of the Shorenstein Center on Media, Politics and Public Policy at Harvard’s Kennedy School. Donovan is a pioneering scholar of misinformation and media manipulation — the way that activists, extremists and propagandists surf currents in our fragmented, poorly moderated media ecosystem to gain attention and influence society. Donovan’s research team studies online lies the way crash-scene investigators study aviation disasters. They meticulously take apart specific hoaxes, conspiracy theories, viral political memes, harassment campaigns and other toxic online campaigns in search of the tactics that made each one explode into the public conversation. This week, Donovan’s team published “The Media Manipulation Casebook”, a searchable online database of its research. It makes for grim reading — an accounting of the many failures of journalists, media companies, tech companies, policymakers, law enforcement officials and the national security establishment to anticipate and counteract the liars who seek to dupe us. Armed with these investigations, Donovan hopes we can all do better. I hope she’s right. But studying her work also got me wondering whether we’re too late. Many Americans have become so deeply distrustful of one another that whatever happens on November 3, they may refuse to accept the outcome. Every day I grow more fearful that the number of those Americans will be large enough to imperil our nation’s capacity to function as a cohesive society. “I’m worried about political violence,” Donovan told me. America is heavily armed, and from Portland to Kenosha to the Michigan governor’s mansion, we have seen young men radicalized and organized online beginning to take the law into their own hands. Donovan told me she fears that “people who are armed are going to become dangerous, because they see no other way out.” Media manipulation is a fairly novel area of research. It was only when Donald Trump won the White House by hitting it big with right-wing online subcultures — and after internet-mobilized authoritarians around the world pulled similar tricks — that serious scholars began to take notice. The research has made a difference. In the 2016 election, tech companies and the mainstream media were often blind to the ways that right-wing groups, including white supremacists, were using bots, memes and other tricks of social media to “hack” the public’s attention, as the researchers Alice Marwick and Rebecca Lewis documented in 2017. But the war since has been one of attrition. Propagandists keep discovering new ways to spread misinformation; researchers like Donovan and her colleagues keep sussing them out, and, usually quite late, media and tech companies move to fix the flaws — by which time the bad guys have moved on to some other way of spreading untruths. The media ecosystem has wised up in some ways: note how the story supposedly revealing the contents of Hunter Biden’s laptop landed with a splat last week, quite different from the breathlessly irresponsible reporting on the Democrats’ hacked emails in 2016. But our society remains profoundly susceptible to mendacity. Donovan worries about two factors in particular. One is the social isolation caused by the pandemic. Lots of Americans are stuck at home, many economically bereft and cut off from friends and relatives who might temper their passions — a perfect audience for peddlers of conspiracy theories. Her other major worry is the conspiracy lollapalooza known as QAnon. It’s often short-handed the way Savannah Guthrie did at her town hall takedown of Donald Trump last week — as a nutty conspiracy theory in which a heroic Trump is prosecuting a secret war against a satanic paedophile ring of lefty elites. But that undersells QAnon’s danger. To people who have been ‘Q-pilled’, QAnon plays a much deeper role in their lives; it has elements of a support group, a political party, a lifestyle brand, a collective delusion, a religion, a cult, a huge multiplayer game and an extremist network. Donovan thinks QAnon represents a new, flexible infrastructure for conspiracy. QAnon has origins in a tinfoil-hat story about a D.C.-area pizza shop, but over the years it has adapted to include theories about the ‘deep State’ and the Mueller probe, Jeffrey Epstein, and a wild variety of misinformation about face masks, miracle cures, and other hoaxes regarding the coronavirus. QAnon has been linked to many instances of violence, and law enforcement and terrorism researchers discuss it as a growing security threat. “We now have a densely networked conspiracy theory that is extendible, adaptable, flexible and resilient to take down,” Donovan said of QAnon. It’s a very internet story, analogous to the way Amazon expanded from an online bookstore into a general-purpose system for selling anything to anyone. Facebook and YouTube this month launched new efforts to take down QAnon content, but Q adherents have often managed to evade deplatforming by softening and readjusting their messages. Recently, for instance, QAnon has adopted slogans like “Save the Children” and “Child Lives Matter”, and it seems to be appealing to anti-vaxxers and wellness moms. QAnon is also participatory, and, in an uncertain time, it may seem like a salvation. People “are seeking answers and they’re finding a very receptive community in QAnon,” Donovan said. This is a common theme in disinformation research: what makes digital lies so difficult to combat is not just the technology used to spread them, but also the nature of the societies they’re targeting, including their political cultures. Donovan compares QAnon to the Reverend Charles Coughlin, the priest whose radio show spread anti-Semitism in the Depression-era United States of America. Stopping Coughlin’s hate took a concerted effort, involving new regulations for radio broadcasters and condemnation of Coughlin by the Catholic Church. Stopping QAnon will be harder; Coughlin was one hatemonger with a big microphone, while QAnon is a complex, decentralized, deceptive network of hate. But the principle remains: combating the deception that has overrun public discourse should be a primary goal of our society. Otherwise, America ends in lies. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-128
