26-10-2020||Opinion||The tempest||October has been quite a roller-coaster ride for political buffs in Pakistan. Last month, the Opposition parties made an alliance called ‘Pakistan Democratic Movement’. On October 16, the PDM held its first jalsa in Gujranwala, Punjab. Gujranwala being a stronghold of the Pakistan Muslim League (Nawaz), it was expected to be a show of power by the Opposition alliance. The chairman of Pakistan Peoples Party, Bilawal Bhutto-Zardari, was there as well as Nawaz Sharif’s daughter, Maryam Nawaz, Maulana Fazlur Rehman and several others. The former prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, addressed the rally through a video link. Earlier this month, the Pakistan Electronic Media Regulatory Authority had banned the broadcast of speeches, interviews and public addresses by absconders and proclaimed offenders on television. Thus, Nawaz Sharif’s speech was not shown on television. Despite the television ban, Nawaz Sharif’s aggressive speech was discussed by the prime minister, cabinet ministers and other members of the ruling party. The Gujranwala rally was seen as a successful event by the Opposition even though government representatives dismissed it as a failure. The PDM rally in Gujranwala set the tone for the anti-government movement. Two days later, the PPP hosted a PDM rally in Karachi, Sindh. The PPP rules the Sindh province. It was a grand show with a massive crowd. This time though, Nawaz Sharif did not address the rally. However, the success of the Karachi rally was marred by the arrest of Maryam Nawaz’s husband, Captain (retd) Safdar, in the early hours of the morning from their hotel room in Karachi. The arrest was due to a first information report filed against him for trespassing into the restricted area surrounding the grave of Quaid-e-Azam Muhammad Ali Jinnah and raising political slogans at his mausoleum. This was in violation of laws that prohibit political activities at the founding father’s mausoleum. Safdar’s arrest would not have garnered so much attention had it not been for the way it was carried out. Around seven in the morning, Maryam Nawaz tweeted that the police broke into the room of the hotel where they were staying and arrested Captain Safdar. The Sindh government denied any involvement in the incident and even the PDM leadership, including Maryam Nawaz, did not blame the PPP or the Sindh government. Rumours began about an incident regarding the Sindh police chief that led to the arrest of Safdar. Those rumours were reinforced when the police chief and many other officers submitted leave applications the next day. As a result, Bilawal Bhutto had to address a press conference asking the army chief to investigate what had actually transpired. The army chief ordered an immediate inquiry into the matter. The Sindh police then tweeted that the department is “immensely grateful to the Army Chief for realising the sense of hurt that prevailed within a uniformed force, and for promptly ordering an inquiry into the matter” and that the police chief had deferred his own leave and ordered his officers to set aside their leave applications for 10 days “in the larger national interest, pending the conclusion of the inquiry”. While all this was going on, some Indian media outlets took it upon themselves to spread false news about a civil war in Karachi after ‘clashes between the police and the army’. All of this was obviously untrue. There was no violence at all, let alone clashes between the two institutions. While Pakistani Twitterati had a field day mocking the Indian media for their absurd and baseless claims about ‘civil war’ and ‘clashes’, one wondered why some of these Indian media outlets chose brazenly not to report facts. One senior Indian journalist told the BBC that a quick study of Twitter handles tweeting this misinformation will show that most of them are supporters of or affiliated to the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party. It is unfortunate but understandable that media groups that are tilted in favour of the BJP or Twitter handles supporting India’s ruling party would be accused of spreading misinformation about Pakistan. Ethics or factually correct reporting are not really their priority. The PDM’s third rally took place yesterday, this time in Quetta. The Opposition rallies are gaining momentum but we still do not know what the end result will be. The Opposition says it will get rid of the government by the end of this movement in a few months but how it will achieve this goal is yet to be revealed. Some analysts say that the government is quite confident that it is not going anywhere; some others say that there is panic in the government ranks. But it is too soon to speculate. The government may be facing a tough time due to rising inflation and a slow economy but whether these factors lead to some sort of mass movement on the ground remains to be seen. The Opposition may be banking on public sentiment but whether the people themselves are ready for political instability is something that only time will tell. However, I do feel that civilian governments should complete their five-year tenure in order for democracy to be genuinely strengthened in Pakistan. The government should sit and talk with the Opposition and start a national dialogue. It would go a long way in helping Pakistan’s nascent democracy. On an aside, October 24 was World Polio Day. Pakistan and Afghanistan are the only two countries that are left with this preventable disease. It is time for us to put an end to all conspiracy theories related to polio and ensure that like the rest of the world and, more recently, like Africa, we too would be polio-free soon. Pakistan has been quite successful in dealing with Covid-19. We can hopefully be successful in eradicating polio in the coming years.  The author is a journalist based in Lahore; mehmal.s@gmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-127
26-10-2020||Opinion||The minority report: 'UPSC jihad'||A promotional clip by Sudarshan News, alleging that Muslims were conspiring to infiltrate the civil services, had gone viral in the recent past. A glance at cold statistics would discredit such a claim. Only 42 Muslim students were successful in the Civil Services Examination for 2019. There were 829 successful candidates in total, among whom Muslims constituted a mere 5 per cent. There was one Muslim candidate among the top 100.  This has, more or less, been the trend for the last couple of years. The figures of Muslim candidates who passed the exams for the years, 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015 are 30, 34, 38, and 36, respectively. The success rate — around 5 per cent — of Muslim candidates in recent years has drawn attention primarily because Muslim participation in the Union Public Service Commission examination and in India’s administrative services has always been abysmally low in terms of their population.  Muslims constitute approximately 14.2 percent of India’s total population. In some states like West Bengal, they form one-fourth of the total state population. Yet, their representation in the upper echelons of the administration is minimal. Bengali Muslims produced one IAS and one IPS officer more than 40 years ago. Even in the state-level civil services, the participation of Muslims is low. An analysis of the data of the last staff census would show that Muslim representation in government jobs in Bengal is around 6.08 per cent. The Sachar Committee documented the abysmal representation of Muslims in the civil services. One of the major reasons behind this is the bleak state of affairs in the higher education sector. Despite some improvement in enrolment and retention of Muslim children at the primary, upper primary and secondary levels, their participation in higher education appears to be miniscule. According to the All India Survey on Higher Education in India (2018-19), Muslim students constitute merely 5.2 per cent in this category. The figure is lower than that of scheduled tribes (5.5 per cent) and considerably less than scheduled caste representatives (14.9 per cent). Even though an additional year of study increases the chances of getting employment, the mean years of schooling is the lowest among Muslims. Success in competitive examination entails hard work and, often, multiple attempts. Economic constraints force Muslim youth to start looking for employment opportunities early. This, in turn, prevents them from spending time in clearing the multi-layered CSE. The Sachar Committee report had noted that “the most striking feature is the relatively high share of Muslim workers engaged in self-employment activity.” Hearteningly, the possibility of selection of Muslim candidates in the UPSC examination remains the same as any other social group. Based on the data provided by UPSC, the Sachar Committee said “While the small number of Muslim candidates appearing in the written examination of the Civil Services is a cause of concern, similar success rates are re-assuring. There is a need to improve Muslims participation in the UPSC competitive selection process.” Among several recommendations, the Sachar Committee ardently advocated corrective measures to ensure higher participation of Muslims in India’s premier administrative services, including the creation of an ‘Equal Opportunity Commission’ to ensure unbiased recruitment in government jobs. The findings of the Sachar Committee resulted in a churn. Educational stipends for Muslims increased during the UPA years. Many states, including West Bengal, provided scholarships and educational loans and a number of organizations — Jamia Millia Islamia University is one example — offered support in the form of coaching classes for UPSC aspirants from the community. Religious organizations run on zakat (charity) started residential coaching classes too. A masjid committee in Chennai, for instance, served as a model to set up IAS coaching centers; a couple of its candidates even qualified for government services. These improvements notwithstanding, the representation of Muslims, the largest minority group in India, is far from ideal in terms of their share of the population. The road ahead is fraught with challenges as the party in power seems to be averse to the idea of diversity and pluralism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-127
26-10-2020||Opinion||Bengali blues: Language in decline||The National Education Policy proposes to bring fundamental changes to the Indian education system. While the pros and cons of the NEP are being analysed, there are stakeholders who have expressed several apprehensions. Language and the medium of instruction in schools, for instance, are contentious issues. An examination of these concerns merits a glance at the linguistic map of India presented by Census 2011. The comparative speakers’ strength of the 22 scheduled languages reveals that Bengali is showing signs of decline. According to census figures, barring Hindi, which has shown a spectacular growth from 36.99 per cent in 1971 to 43.63 per cent in 2011, almost every other scheduled language, with the exceptions of Gujarati, Kashmiri and Manipuri, is on a downward trend. Bengali, the sixth most spoken language of the world, is shrinking. The percentage of Bengali-speaking people in 1991 was estimated to be 8.30 per cent of India’s population. In 2001, the figure dropped to 8.11 per cent and dipped further to 8.03 per cent in 2011. Census 2011 says that Bengali is the second most spoken language in India but its speakers are concentrated in three states and one Union territory: West Bengal (86.22 per cent), Tripura (65.73 per cent), Assam (28.92 per cent) and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands (28.49 per cent). Apart from these, Mizoram (9.83 per cent) Jharkhand (9.73 per cent), Meghalaya (7.84 per cent) and Arunachal Pradesh (7.27 per cent) have Bengali-speaking people too. A number of reasons can be cited to explain the rise in the number of speakers of a particular language. But there are critics who describe Hindi’s astonishing growth of 161 per cent between 1971 and 2011 as ‘linguistic imperialism’. The declining percentage of the speakers of other scheduled languages can be attributed to a faulty language policy, which promotes bilingualism that is a negation of the idea of a multicultural India. It is in this context that NEP 2020 with its multilingual formula becomes relevant. While acknowledging the power of languages, the Centre has proposed to promote multilingualism through NEP: “Wherever possible, the medium of instruction until at least Grade 5, but preferably till Grade 8 and beyond, will be the home language/mother tongue/local language/regional language. Thereafter, the home/local language shall continue to be taught as a language wherever possible. This will be followed by both public and private schools” (para 4.11). The endeavour to promote the mother tongue must be appreciated and its significance understood in a multilingual country like India. However, there exists a chasm between the goals and principles and the policies envisaged for attaining them. NEP 2020 proposes that “there will be a greater flexibility in the three-language formula, and no language will be imposed on any State. The three languages learned by children will be the choices of States, regions, and of course the students themselves, so long as at least two of the three languages are native to India” (para 4.13). NEP 2020 demands that state legislatures convene special sessions to discuss the policy and suggest amendments. Given the important role assigned to the states in the implementation of NEP 2020, state legislatures must exhibit the spirit of cooperative federalism and suggest remedial measures for rectifying the faulty language formula that endorses bilingualism. The Union government promotes Hindi with zeal while English flourishes because it is linked with livelihood. The space for all other languages will continue to diminish if the language policy is not suitably amended.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-127
26-10-2020||Opinion||Many lines: Poverty measured by income||A recent report brought out by the Union ministry of rural development claims that poverty should not be measured by the lack of a subsistence level of income alone. Subsistence income is usually estimated by the rupee equivalent of a certain basket of food that guarantees a minimum calorific intake per person per day. Economists are prolific in coming up with alternative measures of poverty. Contending measures thus abound. This particular report emphasizes the importance of including basic education, affordable healthcare, hygienic sanitation and shelter in estimating subsistence. These are issues on which there would hardly be any debate. Measurements would not pose a major headache either as ample statistics are available to include a number of socio-economic factors into a multi-dimensional estimate of poverty. There is nothing novel about this proposal. But there are a couple of important issues that need to be kept in mind regarding a multi-dimensional index. The first is that political and civil rights and liberties are essential for a decent life and are as important as any material condition of living. This is very much relevant in today’s world where liberties and freedoms are being systematically challenged and pushed back by the State. The poor obviously receive the hardest part of the stick, having very little voice and power to be heard. This point has been well-discussed by scholars like John Rawls and Amartya Sen. For instance, the right to practise one’s religion of choice is a right that contributes significantly to the notion of well-being. Well-being is the opposite of poverty, destitution and deprivation. This freedom should be granted to all, and particularly ensured for the poorest of the poor. The second aspect of the multi-dimensional poverty index is the need to focus on the distribution of poverty below the cut-off level for the index. The reason is simple. There should be an implicit ordering of the importance of basic goods whose minimum availability defines freedom from poverty. Public policy often distributes scarce resources thinly to people who are just below the cut-off level. When poverty is measured in terms of the ratio of people living below the poverty index, the approach of thinly spread resources among many results in yielding better statistics of success. Yet, the strategy actually worsens the income distribution below the poverty cut-off. It is better to focus on the poorest of the poor even if it does not reduce the headcount of people living in poverty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-127
26-10-2020||Opinion||Short-sighted: National Trust Act repeal||One of the biggest threats to the health of a democracy is the gradual dismantling of laws and institutions that protect the most vulnerable sections of society. Yet, this is what would happen if the proposal sent by the Union finance ministry to the Union ministry of social justice and empowerment to repeal the National Trust Act, 1999 — the plea is ostensibly part of a series of ‘austerity’ measures — were to succeed. The legislation was a millennium gift from the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government to citizens with intellectual disabilities, and had been hailed as a rare piece of progressive legislation by both the community as well as its patrons on account of its empowering provisions, especially its focus on the economic and rehabilitative challenges faced by this constituency. Under the act, the autonomous National Trust was created to look after the interests of people with autism, cerebral palsy and other kinds of mental challenges — a community that suffers a greater degree of invisibility and discrimination — by implementing schemes involving healthcare, insurance and shelter homes. Another key provision of the law pertains to guardianship, which recognizes that citizens with intellectual disabilities and developmental disorders need the life-long support of a guardian for decision-making, which is then enabled through the intervention of local committees. Little wonder then that the contentious proposal of repealment has drawn strident criticism from the special needs community as well as leading disability rights activists and groups. The plan, apparently, is to include all disabilities under the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016; this signifies a fatal form of myopia. Disability is a diverse spectrum of challenging conditions. Bringing every piece of legislation together — a typical bureaucratic urge to centralize — could lead to the exclusion of specialized protections. The NTA is an example of the latter. This, however, is not the first time that the Narendra Modi-led government is being accused of watering down crucial legislations. Earlier this year, it had proposed an amendment to the RPwD Act to decriminalize ‘minor offences’ against members of the disabled community, a move it had to withdraw in the face of stiff criticism. A similar pushback will be necessary in the case of the NTA which, if repealed, will leave the legal and economic protective framework for the disabled dangerously compromised.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-127
