27-10-2020||Opinion||Fair force? Women army officers||In February this year, the Supreme Court granted permanent commission to women officers of the Indian army. The initial deadline to implement this verdict — May 17, 2020 — is long gone, but the army is said to be dragging its feet over bureaucratic formalities on the matter. This procrastination may have prompted the Supreme Court to express its displeasure recently. The conduct of the executive has not been flawless either. Although the Centre gave its nod to permanent commission for women in all 10 branches of the armed forces in which they were serving in March 2019, this offer was not to be implemented retrospectively. Consequently, the fate of hundreds of officers still hangs in the balance. The court has also expressed its indignation on the kind of obstacles that seem to have been put on the path of empowerment and equality. Women officers aged 30-50 years with 10 to over 20 years of service experience are being made to compete with gentleman officers aged between 25-30 years for permanent commission. The issue here is one of parity in rank and honour. Why would a senior woman officer holding the rank of lieutenant-colonel have to learn the art of tactical strategy and train with a male officer of subordinate rank? Without a well-thought-out and sensitive policy that accommodates the special challenges faced by serving women officers close to retirement, the pledge of reform in the army would remain illusory. Why, for instance, can the State decree on permanent commission not be applicable to all women officers? Ageism in Indian establishments seems to intensify when it comes to women. It is a pity that the judiciary had to intervene yet again to set matters right. But this intervention should also be an occasion to highlight some of the skewed traits within the armed forces. Women form a minuscule 3.29 per cent of the Indian army personnel compared to an average of 11 per cent among Nato countries. There is no doubt that the Indian army needs to be more accommodating. The issue, unsurprisingly, is of a regressive sensibility. At a time when the United States of America and Israel have given deserving women combat duty, in India the top court has had to nudge both the army and the executive to adhere to the principle of fairness. Women’s ability is not the concern here. The deliberate obfuscation of merit is.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-126
27-10-2020||Opinion||Lost model: Bihar election campaign||Every electoral contest in India begins with tall promises by political parties. The Bharatiya Janata Party reached new heights — or depths — before the assembly elections in Bihar. The first promise on its manifesto is free vaccines for Covid-19 when they are available. In response to the Opposition’s outrage regarding the carrot of ‘vaccines for votes’ — what happens to the rest of the country? — the BJP said it was a policy to keep Bihar safe. The argument over whether the promise amounts to ‘bribery’, forbidden by the regulations of the model code of conduct put in place with the announcement of election dates, or a permissible promise in a manifesto is irrelevant. It is a question of ethics. Sticking to the letter of the model code’s regulations does not necessarily honour their spirit. Tejashwi Yadav, heading the Opposition’s Rashtriya Janata Dal, is running a fairly down-to-earth campaign based on development instead of the RJD’s usual representational one. He promises 10 lakh jobs, with a breakup of employment spheres, vacancies, new positions and of the funds necessary. In the National Democratic Alliance, Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal (United) promises skills development and women’s empowerment while the BJP has trumped Mr Yadav with 19 lakh jobs on offer, with special emphasis on the medical sector, which was given a boost recently by the founding of an All India Institute of Medical Sciences by the prime minister. The RJD’s ally, the Congress, has income-based promises, while the Chirag Paswan-led Lok Janshakti Party, against Nitish Kumar but clearly sweet on the BJP, promises a web portal where job seekers can contact potential employers. Bihar’s unemployment rate is alarming, and has worsened during the pandemic. This alone is enough to expose the populism behind the parties’ promises: if so many jobs are possible, why are people jobless? While the flouting of ethics is most flagrant in the BJP, none of the other parties is blameless. Neither is this the first time this is happening; it happens before every state and general election. Perhaps the model code of conduct should be made more specific regarding ‘corrupt practices’ and permissible promises. And perhaps political parties could be directed to release their manifestos before the announcement of poll dates. Manifestos are expected to be constructive and rational, not exercises in competitive populism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-126
27-10-2020||Opinion||Amused to death: TV news||In the 1930s, Germany’s most popular radio receiver, Volksempfänger (People’s Receiver), brought news and entertainment in the form of songs and dramas into German households. The Nazi regime got direct access to vox populi by controlling radio organizations and programming, transforming these into a formidable propaganda machine. When listeners got bored with the incessant propaganda speeches, the broadcasters repackaged the content to serve a dual purpose — keeping the masses entertained while indoctrinating them into a selective public narrative. Almost six decades later, the Tutsis invaded Rwanda, triggering a civil war. Here too, the radio became a powerful weapon to perpetrate one of Africa’s worst genocides. Radical Hutus created a radio station that constantly targeted Tutsis with vituperative and false statements. Broadcasters invocated historical injustices that were imposed upon Hutus by Tutsis. These instances may be extreme. However, they highlight the capacity of information technology and newer forms of information dissemination to delude masses and incite violence. History seems to be repeating itself, albeit in a changed form, with television now inflicting the damages caused by radio earlier. The media theorist and cultural critic, Neil Postman, says television-based epistemology makes “seeing is believing” pre-eminent, leading to the relinquishment of what Bertrand Russell called the “immunity to eloquence” wherein an individual can distinguish between sensuous pleasure or charm or an ingratiating tone of the words on the one hand and the logic of the argument on the other. Television-based epistemology has polluted the public discourse where emotional gratification takes precedence over rationality. A common thread in Indian news channels is the employment of theatrical techniques, augmented by animation and background music, to invoke prejudice. During panel discussions, cogent thinking, reasoning and speaking take a back seat. This not to undermine television as a medium of entertainment; the problem arises when content is packaged to entertain and divide. Furthermore, the chain of information relayed is inevitably disrupted by the ‘breaking news’ phenomenon. Ten minutes of reporting on, say, floods in Bihar give way to information on baby Taimur eating, walking or blinking or the food that Rhea Chakraborty ordered on Swiggy. Consequently, the ‘contradictions’ in the information become irrelevant as a test of truth or merit. Postman argues that such problems arise because contradiction needs a context and context needs continuity in an argument. Moreover, the assessment of the quality of television shows or debates is quantitative, with viewership and TRPs playing a decisive role. The sole responsibility of an editor or a host is, thus, to try and increase viewership. Television must be examined as an epistemology where criticism — media trials — is predicated upon the political affiliations of media houses. The culture of 24X7 television has perpetuated an information glut where news is packaged to entertain and distract and delude viewers. As Postman observed, we are “amusing ourselves to death”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-126
27-10-2020||Opinion||That sinking feeling about the economy||There is no reprieve from that sinking feeling, with a further contraction of 13 per cent of the economy in the second quarter as per the Quarterly Review of the Economy by the National Council of Applied Economic Research. The earliest it will converge at the 2019-20 level will be late 2022-23. After that, growing at 5.8 per cent in the long term, it is likely to catch up by 2037-2038. As per the QRE, services and industry have contracted 20.6 per cent and 11 per cent, respectively, when compared to last July. Exports and imports remain in the negative territory. Inflation lies at an elevated 6.6 per cent, beyond the band fixed by the Reserve Bank of India. This makes the RBI’s task of reviving the economy more challenging. The projection of government expenditure expansion is 11 per cent more, combined fiscal deficit at 12.8 per cent, with public sector borrowing expected to be 15-16 per cent of the GDP. This is likely to crowd out investment. Revenue realization is expected to come down by 20.66 per cent. Gross NPAs of public sector banks are likely to be between 12.5-14.6 per cent, and the credit flow is expected to decline further. Is the country, which believes it is its destiny to have a seat at the global high table, fading away with a whimper? Instead of being in denial, those in the establishment should have realized the gravity of the situation much earlier since industry and services sectors were contracting from 2017-18. Any recovery is going to be two-paced. If the K-curve is to be believed, the middle class and the poor will slide further, accentuating inequality and poverty. The economist, Rathin Roy, has tossed up some interesting figures. His data show that the figure of 100 million Indians who spur consumption has remained static since the aftermath of the global financial crisis. If consumption remains flaccid, where is the question of increased output and investment when capacity utilization in industry remains low at 55-65 per cent? Economic administrators had forewarned the low convergence stall and the non-reliability of permanent exceptionalism in India’s case. Successful transformation comes from manufacturing, which has not happened in India. The type of growth also matters. Some economists had put the share of good growth, which includes manufacturing, at 52 per cent in China against 32 per cent in India in 2015. India’s growth happened with low structural transformation, with labour moving from the low-productivity informal sector to the marginally more formal and productive sectors. Agriculture productivity is critical for human capital accumulation for those who move to the modern sector. This did not happen and it will haunt us now. Not only did we fail to provide the basic education necessary for structural transformation but we have also had to witness the shift in the human development frontier with artificial intelligence and technology favouring skilled manpower. India’s tragedy lies in its inability to tap into the vast reservoir of technically-trained manpower, converting them into entrepreneurs. If a large number of entrepreneurs with bank loans with collateral are allowed to set up industries, they can generate substantial employment. Rodrick & Subramaniam had diagnosed India’s growth story to be skewed in favour of incumbent businesses rather than being pro-market. We do not require huge outlays. Allow new entrepreneurs to create quality jobs every year. Give them the protection from tax or labour inspectors for 10 years, but on the condition that they would have to create jobs and pay taxes. The top tier, which had access to capital, has run out of ideas. It is now inclined towards labour-saving devices, artificial intelligence and cheap loans. This is the time for geotagging properties and bringing people’s wealth, including inheritance, into a database. For inheritance above 10 crore per person, an annual inheritance tax of 1 per cent can be collected. The law needs to be amended to make family trusts taxable and prohibit the creation of family trusts abroad. It is not innovation but encouragement of monopoly and crony capitalism that created this wealth. This will give the government the required funds for health and education. This is also the time for revisiting vanity projects. Countries that ride out adversities typically exhibit unconventional thinking and patience. If India can do this, it can have a future ahead of 2038. The author is former secretary, GOI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-127
27-10-2020||Opinion||Bricks must fall||When I went to the United States of America in 1979, to study in an undergraduate college in Vermont, I carried certain ideas and assumptions about the country. As a 19-year-old with reasonable reading in current affairs, I thought I had a balanced view of the US and its role in the world. I understood that American foreign policy since the Second World War had wreaked hell on many parts of the planet and added grotesque misery to the lives of millions of people. Yet, along with the strife and bloodshed, America had also exported some hugely positive ideas and attitudes. In the civil rights movement, in the widespread protests against the Vietnam War, in Nixon being forced to resign from the presidency by courageous reporting and federal agencies working with real independence to investigate their own president, the country had demonstrated that democracy and freedom of speech were not just theories to which one paid lip-service but principles that American civil society put into action. Coming out of a newly post-Emergency India, watching what was going on in neighbouring Pakistan and Bangladesh, not to mention Brezhnev’s Soviet Union and Deng’s China, what America and Western Europe offered was crucial to struggles for political freedom and equality all over the world. Along with the outspoken democracy were the host of things that today would come under the label of ‘soft power’: most important was the gift of jazz, blues and rock and roll that the States gave to the world; next for me came the fearless churning in my own chosen field of visual arts, where every few years some crazy new upheaval would challenge the set of practices that had gone before; then there was the sexual revolution, which I was yet to understand as actually being three connected revolutions, but which, in conservative, fear-ridden India, seemed like a magical thing — the idea that you could be completely open about your desires without worrying about parents, police, the State or any other moralizing big brother or sister. The America I ‘knew’ was, of course, the country as depicted in the news magazines, Time, Life and Newsweek, in the films, the music and the literature. A proper examination of the last three, at least, should have prepared me for the reality, but I made the elementary mistake of seeing the sophistication of the rendering far more than the things being rendered. Thus, I was waylaid by the spare and humorous aesthetics of rows of tomato cans screen-printed on a canvas, the panache and beauty of the camera movement and editing in the Hollywood and independent films, the hilarious lyrics and punchy musicianship of a song like Bob Dylan’s “Maggie’s Farm” rather than the reality of a man who ‘puts his cigar/ out in your face just for kicks/ his bedroom window/ it is made out of bricks/ (while) the National Guard stands around his door’. Once in Vermont, it took some time to understand that I was in one of the most free (as in non-mainstream) and yet one of the most conservative areas of the US. There and travelling up and down the east coast, moving between New York and Boston — two of the most cosmopolitan cities in the world — and small-town New Jersey and Virginia, it finally got driven home just how parochial and ignorant many Americans could be. Shortly after I got to Vermont, the hostage crisis in Iran began to take over the headlines. As news of Americans being held hostage in Tehran spread in the general consciousness, my first semester ended and I found myself spending part of my holidays in Washington, DC. Once, sitting with two American friends in a bar, some off-duty Marines at the next table began to stare at me. One of them leaned over and asked my friend something. Upon receiving the answer the muscular group of soldiers visibly relaxed and began to lift their glasses in our direction — “Indiaa! Awright!”. My friend told us that they wanted to know if I was “Airanian”, in which case they would have put me in hospital. On other occasions I tried asking people if they even knew where Iran was on a map and I realized they had no clue — their windows to the world were, indeed, made out of bricks. The America in which I lived between 1979 and 1981 dumped the ‘softie’ Jimmy Carter and elected an incompetent, B-grade actor called Ronald Reagan in his place. A precursor to Donald Trump and so many other ‘strongmen’ leaders of today, Reagan too specialized in performing the vesh of a leader rather than actually being one. It is his policies (or policies made using him as a vehicle) of favouring the already wealthy, the morally reactionary and enemies of the environment that have trickled down to the current times and turned into a toxic torrent worldwide. Yet, those same years of the late 70s and early 80s also saw the sharpening of the American feminist and gay rights movements, inspiring and linking up with similar movements across the world. That was the same period when the awareness of concepts such as ‘ecology’ and the ‘environment’ moved out of marginal campuses such as my college into the mainstream. History repeatedly teaches us not to take improvements of the human condition for granted. It also teaches us that you cannot locate the growth of freedom and social justice in any one place, that emancipation and equality require shifting cultivation around the globe, new or refreshed fields from which the impetus can be distributed. Today, when I read columns in Indian media that insist on seeing the forthcoming US elections only through the lens of what the results would mean for India vis-a-vis China or some other narrow economic focus, I find myself in vehement disagreement. It is critical for the well-being of this small planet of ours that Donald Trump, his coterie and the gang of ethics-free Republicans in the Senate be emphatically ejected from power by the American voters. Four more years of this man and the people who’ve been deliberately blind to his actions would be akin to an unchecked continuation of a raging wildfire that’s devouring the already denuded forests of humanity across the globe. Whether you believe in some higher power or are a firm rationalist, it’s time to pray that enough bricks have fallen out of walled-up American windows that not too long after November 3 we will see the back of this odious man.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-127
