28-10-2020||Opinion||Fool’s gold: Row over Tanishq ad||Sir — It is not surprising that supporters of the political right in India, who are offended by the very idea of communal harmony, were furious with the Tanishq advertisement which depicted a Muslim mother-in-law throwing a baby shower for a Hindu woman according to the customs in her culture (“Poison ivy”, Oct 19). The response of the jewellery brand to the criticism, however, was disappointing. Secularism is still an integral part of the Indian Constitution, even though some forces are trying hard to reduce the nation to a ‘Hindu rashtra’. The notion of ‘love jihad’ — the advertisement was accused of promoting this concept — is absurd. Any two adults have the right to decide to marry one another; one wonders why a third party should be allowed to have a say in it. No political party should be allowed to polarize the nation along religious lines. Following the controversy, many interfaith couples in India decided to share the story of their lives on the internet — some of them were threatened by trolls. If the common people of India can have the courage to stand up to bullies and bigots, there is no reason why an established corporate should not be able to stand its ground.Ayesha Mehta,Calcutta Sir — One fails to understand what was wrong with the Tanishq jewellery advertisement to elicit such a strong response. Is there a problem with celebrating traditions across religious barriers in an Indian household? I found the advertisement beautiful. The company’s decision to withdraw it sends out a wrong message — as if such loving relationships as the one shown in the advertisement do not exist in reality. But that is not true. Such relationships do exist; the problem is that many do not inhabit that reality. Jubel D’Cruz,Mumbai Sir — The Tata-owned jewellery brand cannot be faulted for withdrawing its advertisement after being trolled on social media. Of course, nobody can justify the trolls threatening to boycott Tanishq or its parent company, Titan, for sending out a socially relevant message of Hindi-Muslim unity. But it was only expected that the company would put its business interests as well as the safety of its employees first. Chandan Kumar Nath,Guwahati Tall claims Sir — At a time when the entire country is facing the cruel onslaught of the coronavirus pandemic, it was quite uncharitable of the Union finance minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, to promise free vaccination to the people of Bihar as part of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s election manifesto. Of late, it seems that benefits are being considered solely for BJP-ruled states; other states are being turned a Nelson’s eye. If the BJP-ruled government at the Centre is interested in the welfare of the entire country, it should have announced free vaccines for every citizen of the country. How can a research involving taxpayers’ money be offered as an election bonanza only to a particular state with the intent of getting votes? Sitharaman should keep in mind that she is not the finance minister of just BJP-governed states but of the entire country. Tharcius S. Fernando,Chennai Sir — Nirmala Sitharaman’s announcement in Bihar is condemnable. Her promise involves healthcare policy and ethics. It is clear that politicians are more concerned with reaping electoral gains than moral principles. If such a proclamation had to be made, it should have been done by the chief minister of the state, not the Union finance minister. It brings to light the Centre’s lack of transparency with regard to decision-making. India has not yet released any guidelines related to the effectiveness, procurement, distribution or cost of the vaccine. In fact, vaccine trials in India are still under way. As such, the promise is premature, misleading and discriminatory. Venu G.S.,Kollam, Kerala Massive problem Sir — This month, a collision between two pieces of space junk — a defunct Russian satellite and a spent Chinese rocket part — was narrowly avoided. It could have created a cloud of debris, jeopardizing other satellites and spacecraft for decades. This is part of the larger issue of space pollution. An estimated 29,000 man-made objects are orbiting the earth already. Yet no mission to remove these has yet been launched. Further, the entry of private companies into space tourism is bound to increase littering. This must be addressed at once. Souparno Mitra,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-126
28-10-2020||Opinion||Without love: Rekha Sharma and love jihad||Hatred, like falsehood, is hydra-headed; the myths it generates are varied. The foot soldiers of Hindutva are well qualified to execute the acts of hate favoured by their ideology, the outcome of which is destructive enough. It is far more alarming when the myths are propagated by responsible office-holders. The chairperson of the National Commission for Women, Rekha Sharma, discussed with the governor of Maharashtra ‘the rise in love jihad cases’ in the state. Love jihad is a term that claims that men from the largest minority community seduce or ‘brainwash’ women from the majority community in order to marry them and convert them to Islam. The targeted hatred in the phrase drowns its absurdity; its force was exemplified recently when an advertisement for jewellery had to be withdrawn because it implied such an interfaith union. Yet the Bharatiya Janata Party admitted in Parliament in February that there is no evidence of love jihad. That did not stop Ms Sharma from bringing it up in an official discussion. Even though the NCW Twitter handle proudly mentioned this, it offered no data. Ms Sharma claims not to be against interfaith marriages per se, but there are apparently love jihad cases that need attention. Ms Sharma is not just any office-bearer: she heads the NCW. The idea of love jihad, apart from being vicious, baseless and against a particular community, is also an attack on the rights and autonomy of women. Women are seen here as the property of communities, ‘owned’ by either this or that ‘side’, without agency and without brains, so they can be ‘tricked’ into marriage. They are incapable of love or independence. It is not merely shocking but also painful that India should have someone who propagates hatred and demeans women as chairperson of its women’s commission. The national and state women’s commissions are supposed to defend women against the misogyny of Indian society, not enhance it. The NCW chairperson is nominated by the Central government; Ms Sharma seems to be the vehicle of its ideology and prejudices. More broadly, the incident shows up the flaws of the nominating system. A body that is meant to be investigative and critical should not have office-bearers whose interests and values coincide with those of the regime in power.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-126
28-10-2020||Opinion||Poll bugle: India's post-Covid elections||India’s electoral season is scheduled to begin after a hiatus necessitated by an unprecedented pandemic with the first phase of the elections in Bihar taking place today. The fate of over 1,000 candidates would be decided in the 71 seats that go to polls on this day. Some elements have remained unchanged on Bihar’s political map. Caste is the dominant factor with most political parties drawing their support from distinct ascriptive identities. Nitish Kumar, the Janata Dal (United) chief who is seeking to return to power for a fourth consecutive term, projects himself to be the messiah of Kurmis and Koeris, two communities that are also being eyed by Upendra Kushwaha of the Rashtriya Lok Samta Party. The Rashtriya Janata Dal, the JD(U)’s principal rival, continues to be powered by the Muslim-Yadav constituencies while the Bharatiya Janata Party, assured of the fidelity of the upper castes, is attempting to carve out a slice of the pie made up of other backward classes and Dalits. Apart from caste, Bihar’s politics also remains yoked to conservatism: only 114 contestants of the total number of candidates in the first phase are women. But this election is, in a sense, quite different from others. Lalu Prasad, Mr Kumar’s bête noire and a colossal and controversial figure in the state’s politics, is conspicuous by his absence. Tejashwi Yadav is leading the charge for the Mahagathbandhan and has, apparently, succeeded in creating a bit of a splash. The mantle of leadership has also passed in the Lok Janshakti Party with Chirag Paswan shepherding the outfit. This election could well be an acid test for this new generation of leaders. Another — perhaps the most striking — point of divergence has been the transformation in the relationship between the JD(U) and the BJP. In spite of repeated pledges — Amit Shah claimed that the National Democratic Alliance would form the next government with Mr Kumar at the helm — there are signs that the BJP is desperate to clip the wings of its ally. If it does perform well, as is being expected, the BJP could look at the LJP for some assistance, rendering Mr Kumar even more vulnerable. Assembly elections are an unreliable cipher for the national mood. But Bihar and India are thinking alike in one respect. Soaring unemployment, if the election manifestos are any indication, is a serious issue. Narendra Modi’s monumental economic failures at the national level has increased Mr Kumar’s burden in Bihar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-126
28-10-2020||Opinion||India-Taiwan: A courtship with consequences||What’s Tsai Ing-wen’s favourite Indian dish? If you’ve been following the Taiwan president on Twitter, you’ll know she loves chana masala and naan. Her favorite Indian drink? “#[C]hai always takes me back to my travels in #India, and memories of a vibrant, diverse & colorful country,” she wrote on the social media platform on October 15. It was neither a momentous day in India-Taiwan relations, nor a special occasion on New Delhi’s diplomatic calendar. It was a not-so-subtle cultural pinprick targeted at Beijing, meant to underscore the growing warmth between India and Taiwan at a time when both are in the midst of tense military stand-offs with China. Indeed, the past few weeks have seen engagements between India and Taiwan at an unprecedented speed, even as New Delhi continues to negotiate with Beijing for a resolution of their current border crisis in Ladakh. It’s both legitimate and understandable for India to utilize ties with Taiwan to send a message to China. But in any card game, overplaying one’s hand can prove dangerous. In recent weeks, three Taiwanese firms, including the electronics manufacturing giant, Foxconn, have announced plans to invest $900 million in India. Earlier in the year, when the Covid-19 pandemic broke out, Taiwan was among India’s first foreign friends to offer medical assistance — even though New Delhi does not formally recognize Taipei diplomatically. Under Beijing’s ‘One China’ policy — which India adheres to — all nations must choose between China and Taiwan as diplomatic partners. New Delhi, too, has reciprocated this recent warmth from Taiwan. Ahead of Taiwan’s National Day, October 10, the Chinese embassy issued a warning to Indian media houses urging them to refrain from publicizing the occasion and asking them to desist from referring to Tsai as the president of Taiwan since Beijing considers the self-governing region as a part of China. But the Indian foreign ministry publicly defended the right of Indian journalists and media houses to highlight Taiwan’s National Day. And on October 10, the street outside the Chinese embassy was plastered with posters celebrating Taiwan’s National Day. The posters bore the name of the Delhi BJP leader, Tajinder Pal Singh Bagga. Those posters would never have been allowed in the vicinity of the embassy without the government’s tacit approval: just ask Tibetan activists who have repeatedly been barred from protesting outside the Chinese diplomatic mission. Recent reports now suggest India is contemplating a trade deal with Taiwan. Those unconfirmed reports have predictably sparked criticism from Beijing. There’s nothing wrong in India and Taiwan courting each other. Even without China in the equation, the two have complementary synergies that could benefit both. Taiwan is an advanced economy with technological advantages — especially in electronics — that India could benefit from. India is a giant market that Taiwan would love to tap into a lot more. China’s growing friction with both Taiwan and India simultaneously has further catalyzed the motivation for Taipei and New Delhi to embrace each other more tightly. Beijing’s planes have in recent months engaged in multiple Top Gun-like manoeuvres with American jets — the United States of America is Taiwan’s biggest security provider — in the Taiwan Strait that separates the island from China. Beijing has also upgraded military exercises focused on retaking Taiwan. Meanwhile, India struggles to convince China to move its troops back from parts of Ladakh that the People’s Liberation Army has grabbed in recent months. There are no signs of their border crisis easing up. But for all the confluence in interests with Taiwan, India needs to be mindful of some difficult realities. There’s nothing worse than holding out a threat, either publicly or through ‘unnamed sources’, without having the ability — and the heart — to follow through. Already, some senior diplomats within the foreign ministry are trying to distance the government from the reports of a trade deal with Taiwan. The Narendra Modi government is indeed strengthening its military partnerships with other countries unhappy with China — Australia, for instance, will join India, the US and Japan in the next iteration of their Malabar exercises. But it also knows that at the end of the day, no amount of Taiwanese trade and investment can make up for what India could lose with China, one of India’s largest trade partners. For years — whether with the Dalai Lama and Tibet in the past or Taiwan now — successive Indian governments have needled China on its political weaknesses but then backed off when push came to shove. The economics of the relationship are a central part of that equation. Is the Modi government willing to forego that economic partnership? Does it have a backup plan? Is it truly ready — and not just in terms of rhetoric — for a military escalation with China? Sure, it has banned TikTok. But Taiwan and TikTok are not comparable for Beijing: one is central to its identity as China; the other an upstart app that’s useful but replaceable. In the past, the failure of Indian governments to go through with threats issued to China has bolstered Beijing’s conviction that New Delhi is a paper tiger. New Delhi needs to make sure that with Taiwan, it doesn’t bite off more than it can chew.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-126
28-10-2020||Opinion||Two faces||Dena Abramowitz is outraged. The dear lady from Wisconsin complained bitterly in a letter to The New York Times that her grandson is stubbornly refusing to wear diapers. Those abominable absorbents, in the precocious young man’s reasoning, are, Mrs Abramowitz writes, an infringement on his personal liberty. The grandmother has blamed the Republican governor of Oklahoma, Kevin Stitt, for her grandson’s premature enlightenment whose luminescence has made it difficult to spot that Stitt had made this point about masks, not diapers. Mrs Abramowitz’s wily grandson, as is perhaps de rigueur in Trumpamerica, merely tweaked the fact. Stitt, however, has an alibi: he was simply obeying his boss who had mocked masks and those who wear them — Joe Biden does — even as America lost over 200,000 lives to the coronavirus under his watch. “I think wearing a… mask as I greet presidents, prime ministers, dictators, kings, queens… Somehow, I don’t see it for myself,” Donald Trump confessed to the journalist, Bob Woodward, in Rage. The ‘anti-maskers’— a constituency of predominantly middle-income earning men who made up 60 per cent of Americans outside New York and Los Angeles till as late as June — like Stitt, may have taken their cue from the POTUS. The prevailing discourse on the mask argues confidently that the fabric meant to conceal identity has, ironically, revealed subterranean, strange contradictions in both the West and the East. In the United States of America, liberty finds itself at war with reason — its philosophical sibling — with the anti-mask brigade invoking the principle of individual freedom to contest rational voices imploring the country to emulate, in a manner of speaking, the Phantom. The East — the twain seldom meet — has been far more receptive to the mask. But this, the pundits sneer, need not be a manifestation of virtue. That obedient Japanese, Chinese and South Koreans have chosen to hide their face is being attributed to the East’s willingness to be pliant to power. Had the framework of liberty been more robust in the East, snorts the liberati in, say, New York, there would have been, or so the argument goes, bonfires of masks in Tokyo, Seoul and Hong Kong. Excited propositions based on binaries — West versus East — usually suffer from blinkered vision. The West’s claim of a virile bloom in civil liberty need not be founded on cold data. In a recent article in The New York Times (“How Democrats Won the War of Ideas”), David Brooks admitted that only 24 per cent of Americans called themselves liberal, while the dominant 76 per cent were inclined to be conservative or moderates in political temperament. The East isn’t as docile as is being trumpeted. Asia, Jordan Sand argues in his fascinating and concise cultural history of mask-wearing, remained discernibly unimpressed with the mask even after Manchuria had been ravaged by the plague epidemic in 1910. Japan, he writes, took to the mask during the 1918 influenza outbreak only because the nation was eager to embrace the currents of internationalism. Of late, the inception of the date-masuku — a culmination of the desire to project the surgical mask as a fashion accessory — has been possible because of a quirky transformation of aesthetics in Japan. Cultures slipping on or taking off the mask is, evidently, never quite simple. But few discourses would contest the proposition that the mask exposes — its revelatory powers are formidable — the complicity between civilization and conflict. A brief glance at the violent purging of mask-wearing traditions around the world shows that their demise is irrefutably linked to civilizational projects powered by Empires. The Selk’nam perished at the hands of European settlers, taking their masked traditions — the subject of Anne Chapman’s illuminating book — to their graves; the advancing Mongols laid to waste much of East and Central Asia, shredding indigenous rituals as well as their intriguing masks. Contemporary civilizational enterprises have been as predatory. The ferocious masks of the Nuo, a folk opera of Southern China, were condemned as ‘counter-revolutionary’ by Mao Zedong’s China; his comrades in Stalinist Russia had cast their dreaded red eye on Slavic mask-making entrepreneurship. At times, these transgressions relied not on physical but moral — theological — depredation. Hawaii’s Polynesian warriors were made to shun their masks made of plant fibre after they embraced Christianity. Could the antagonism to the masks of subjugated cultures stem from the primitive fear of, or a guilty fascination for, the masquerade? For the mask, unlike most other cultural contraptions, is a subversive prosthetic. It can, and has been, weaponized for its ability to perform two functions simultaneously: concealment of identity and impersonation. Ingenious subcultures have found a way to confound surveillance, ancient and modern, by keeping the boundaries fluid between the two countenances: consequently, it is not always possible to tell the face from the mask or the mask from the face. There is a line of thought that argues that the Commedia dell’arte, an early form of professional theatre that began in Italy in the 16th century, lent itself particularly well to dissenting political commentary by employing masks as signifiers of identity and stratification. Little wonder then that the Establishment has always wanted to unmask such performative traditions. In a rare moment of truce, both the Church and the State — the French Parliament in this case — thought the Commedia to be a polluter of the mind and the body. Yet, the mask survives. It provokes. It confounds the powers that be that are now designing retaliation with terrifying implications. Several companies are experimenting with algorithms that can neutralize the mask’s powers of evading traditional software employed for face-detection. The objective is, apparently, honourable: one San Francisco firm says that this kind of technology would ensure public compliance during the pandemics of the future. But how long does it take for such double-edged technology to get inducted into the global security apparatus and turn rogue? Not long, if the Indian experience is any indication. In March, Parliament was informed that the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Central government had agreed — eagerly? — to set up the world’s largest face-detection database for the Indian police. The other threat to the mask’s subversive gene comes from the virus that has, admittedly, resuscitated its popularity. As societies in the West as well as the East mask up to survive, the visor-veil-shroud is becoming a shared aesthetic, universal but also unexceptional. This gentrification could kill off the subversive mask, replacing it with a veneer on a face that, one fears, would be far more subservient. uddalak.mukherjee@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-126
