29-10-2020||Opinion||Dirty secret: India's 'filthy' air||Donald Trump’s remark about India’s air quality — he called it “filthy” — has evoked two kinds of reaction. Critics of Narendra Modi have said that Mr Trump’s statement is a testament to yet another of the prime minister’s ‘friendships’ gone sour. However unpalatable Mr Trump’s words might be to Mr Modi’s admirers, it cannot be denied that they convey a bitter truth borne out by data. The State of Global Air 2020 report, to cite just one example, indicates that air pollution led to the deaths of 16.7 lakh Indians, with over a lakh of the victims being less than a month old. Worryingly, research has also found a link between long-term exposure to poor air and Covid-19 mortality. India’s fight against air pollution is floundering on a number of fronts. The reasons for this failure vary from region to region but the principal concerns — unchecked industrial emissions, vehicular pollution and construction activity — remain unaddressed. In Calcutta, where 70 per cent of the residents were found to be suffering from some kind of respiratory disease according to a study, vehicular pollution has acquired lethal dimensions because public transport’s reliance on green technology remains negligible. This is only a part of the problem. North India’s air is seasonally poisoned by stubble burning in spite of an order by the Supreme Court to make seeders available at subsidized prices. It must be pointed out that in this case the availability of technology is not enough; the technology must also be made accessible. Debt-ridden marginal farmers — they form a large chunk of India’s agrarian workforce — cannot afford to either rent or buy seeders given their meagre resources. The absence of an affordable alternative to stubble burning has hardened the attitude of the agrarian constituency, facilitating the malpractice. This only goes to show that India and other developing economies need a consensual framework for the transfer of funds and technology from the developed world to improve air quality. Ironically, such a transfer is allegedly being resisted by Mr Trump’s country, stalling progress on climate negotiations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-125
29-10-2020||Opinion||Unfriendly jibe: Trump calls Asian countries 'filthy'||Sir — It was shocking to hear the president of the United States of America, Donald Trump, refer to the air quality of several Asian countries, including India and China, as “filthy” during the final presidential debate at Nashville, Tennessee (“Trump labels India ‘filthy’, puts ‘friend’ in a spot”, October 24). There have also been instances of the American media speaking ill of the environmental condition in India. While there is certainly much to be done to improve conditions in the country, it is nonetheless appalling to hear respected statesmen as well as foreign media speak with such malice. I have been writing in several Asian newspapers for the last two decades on various issues plaguing countries across the world. While strongly worded comments are welcome, as they should be, there is still a line between constructive criticism and blatant xenophobia. While one cannot expect much from Trump, it is hoped that American media houses, at the very least, would desist from making sweeping generalizations about developing countries.P. Senthil Saravana Durai,Mumbai Sir — Over the last few years, living in north India has become quite a health hazard. Delhi and its surrounding areas, including Faridabad, are covered in smog for the better part of the year. Environmentalists have been warning the government about the long lasting damage it is doing to the health of citizens, but not much has changed. Thus, while the comment by the American president, Donald Trump, that the air in India is filthy is in poor taste, it is not completely off the mark. The question is, will this ridicule spur the government into action? For years there have been cries by common citizens to put in place an effective but environment-friendly method of burning stubble. Unless the government acts on this problem, it should not be surprised if more such comments come its way. Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee,Faridabad Sir — Given that Donald Trump and Joe Biden represent starkly different political ideologies, it should not be difficult for American voters to make a choice between the two. Ultimately what matters is not the individual occupying the Oval Office, but the party that manages to get a majority. The Democrats, with all their problems, are still the best hope the US has. Perhaps it is too soon to rejoice, but this time it seems that the 2020 presidential elections might not end in disappointment for the liberal constituency. If the popular mood in America is anything to go by, a repetition of 2016 seems highly unlikely. It is becoming increasingly clear from Biden’s strong lead over Trump in the final stretch that the voters have made up their minds. Given his broader vision and inclusive politics, it is understandable that Biden has a strong support base among the black, Hispanic, Asian and other minority communities. Moreover, the Trump administration’s mishandling of the Covid-19 crisis has proved costly for the Republicans in the election year. Trump makes his aversion to religious minorities and women’s rights very clear. He is equally unconcerned about the welfare of the white American working class. Trump’s ascent to power in the US has been one of the biggest blunders in American history. And yet, the working classes continue to rally behind a man whose politics is far from being rooted in positive action. He has made innumerable objectionable comments over the course of his presidency. In a display that was deemed racist and misogynistic, he had called Kamala Harris, the Democratic vice-presidential candidate and Biden’s running mate, a “monster” and a “communist”. Is it then a surprise that Trump has labelled the air in India “filthy”? It is the second time in less than a month that he has been critical of India. Trump had earlier questioned the veracity of Covid-19 statistics released by the Indian government. It is high time he were voted out of power. Sanav Saha,Calcutta  Bleak future Sir — Five months after the death of George Floyd caused by police brutality, thousands of ‘Black Lives Matter’ demonstrators in the United States of America have been arrested, with many facing serious charges, including deportation and threats of life sentences. The BLM protests have brought out the failures of American democracy, with Donald Trump deriding peaceful demonstrations as a “symbol of hate”. The 2020 presidential elections will be greatly significant. Unless the US elects a president who is committed to democratic ideals, the country will descend further into anarchy. Rashi Gupta,Delhi Parting Shot Sir — The devastating fire in Moon House on Ganesh Chandra Avenue that killed two people is deplorable but not surprising (“Meter box blaze cuts off exit, kills 2”, Oct 18). Similar incidents had occurred earlier as well. The raging inferno at Stephen Court back in 2010 is just one case in point. Many buildings in the city stand right next to each other with hardly any gap in between. On top of that, electric meter boxes are more often than not crammed under staircases and have decades-old wiring. This is the situation in most of central Calcutta. There are hundreds of such buildings that violate basic safety norms. The administration has time and again failed to ensure that the situation is remedied. Khokan Das,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-125
29-10-2020||Opinion||Gagging Google for using marketing muscle||Regulatory authorities around the world have been deeply troubled by the concentration of economic power in private hands. They are uncertain about how influence peddling arising out of gigantic pools of wealth impacts policy-making in countries. The United States of America — the so-called land of opportunity and incredible wealth creation — has, on occasion, played the role of an iconoclast by breaking up giant corporations that garnered so much wealth and power that they stifled potential rivals and posed a threat to the spirit of free enterprise. The latest move by the US department of justice to file a lawsuit against Google for illegally using its marketing muscle to hobble rivals has raised the prospect of a possible break-up of the technology giant worth $1 trillion. It is still too early to say whether the lawsuit will succeed but it marks the first major crackdown on a big technology company since the unsuccessful attempt to carve up Microsoft back in 1998. Google accounts for nearly 90 per cent of all general search engine queries in the US. The justice department’s lawsuit contends that no one can realistically challenge Google’s dominance in search and search advertising. The question is whether that dominance is justification enough for breaking up the corporation. The US justice department is going down a very slippery course. It must be said that American regulators have achieved some success in the past when they sought to limit the power of corporations. In 1911, John D. Rockefeller’s Standard Oil was accused of using predatory pricing on the strength of its monopoly in the oil business. The oil behemoth was eventually broken up into 34 entities. But the irony is that two of the largest parts of the old Rockefeller empire — Exxon and Mobil — eventually merged in November 1999 and became one of the largest oil companies in the world. Similarly, Bell System was broken into seven regional companies — called Baby Bells — in 1982 after it agreed to a consent decree to settle a lawsuit that charged it with predatory behaviour. Google has been locked in a range of lawsuits around the world for anti-competitive practices and has had to fork out billions of dollars in penalties. The European Union fined Google $1.7 billion in 2019 for stopping websites from using Google’s rivals to find advertisers. There is one interesting development that comes out of the Google lawsuit. Reports suggest that Apple has started to show its own website search results when iPhone users tap queries on their home screen when using iOS 14. Google is the default search on an iPhone. If the lawsuit against Google blows up into something big, Apple may be ready to pick up the pieces from a fragmented, but hugely lucrative, search engine market.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-125
29-10-2020||Opinion||Storm season in Bollywood||A lot has been written about the Mumbai-based film industry vis-à-vis the death of Sushant Singh Rajput. What got completely ignored is the crisis faced by lakhs among the industry workforce. Production activities were brought to a complete halt on March 19 itself. Not less than three to five lakh workers from Mumbai’s film and television industry are now battling for survival. It is a matter of pride that Indian cinema has impressed hundreds of thousands of viewers all over the world. There are psychological, social and emotional reasons for identifying with Indian cinema. But these bonds have nothing to do with the harsh realities in the life of the industry’s workers. Since the lockdown was clamped, there has been no concrete word from those in power — be it the Central or the state government — on how to bring the industry back to pre-Covid productivity. The film industry is not a part of the organized or the unorganized sector. The majority of the nearly three to five lakh workers — only counting those in Mumbai — are at the mercy of their colleagues or fate. There is no reliable data on how many people work in Mumbai’s film and television industry; it has been estimated that as many as two million people depend on this unaccounted workforce. The Mumbai film and television industry comprises 32 trade bodies. They include associations of directors, producers, writers, technicians and support staff. Nominated representatives from these associations form the Federation of Western India Cine Employees, a sort of an apex body of workers. This is a platform meant to raise issues or grievances collectively with formal bodies of the state or with Central agencies. There are similar industries in many other Indian cities; they, arguably, are facing the same crippling crisis. A few production houses have shown courage in trying to resume work. But there are conflicting reports that they are facing intimidation from the authorities in the name of flouting Covid-19 guidelines. The daily output is another concern on the scale of the cost-benefit ratio. The veteran Marathi and Hindi film actor, Ashalata Wabgaonkar, succumbed to Covid-19, having caught the infection on the sets created outside Mumbai. Several members of the unit showed signs of being Covid positive. These developments have added to the alarm. The well-crafted noise of spectators’ shouts and hurrahs that have been seamlessly merged with live commentary during the Indian Premier League matches may be an example of the technological brilliance and the talent in the trade but these are aberrations at best. There seems to be no solution to the crisis at the moment. It is absurd to call this sector an ‘industry’. It is, in fact, a mix of fragmented creative determinations based on an ingenious amalgamation of talent from different fields in order to sell dreams for those who put money in them and want to make much more out of these dreams. The rest is a by-product of an illusion. Astonishingly, the process is perpetual in nature and the products churned out are equally astounding. What has been the hallmark of this trade — at least this was the case till the recent past — was the consolidation and the fusion of diverse passions and perceptions in a manner not seen in any other section of society. Neither caste nor creed is a concern here. This is a homogeneous society composed of versatile talents absolutely devoted to their cause and craft. It is pertinent to point out that the film industry — I am excluding the television industry deliberately — was and, to a great extent, still is the most secular entity to have emerged in post-Independence India. It was also one of India’s most cordial workforce. How many of industry disputes are languishing in Indian courts? I doubt if the figure will go beyond the two-figure mark. Alas, of late, the matrix has started showing signs of change. The harbingers are ironically being selected from the most vulnerable segments within this industry in collusion with those who have ulterior motives. The motive, in other words, is a subtle and clever imposition of a particular marque. It has taken more than a century to make Mumbai the Mecca of the Indian film industry. The annihilation of the soul of Mumbai’s film industry may not take that long. The allegations of drug abuse, nepotism, and nasty designs to kill budding talents are a sign of things to come.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-126
29-10-2020||Opinion||Battle stations||In less than a fortnight, by the afternoon of November 10 to be precise, the outcome of the Bihar assembly election will be known. There will be the usual flurry of momentary excitement as the political pundits assess the results and speculate on the likely consequences of the verdict both regionally and nationally. Without anticipating the mood of the electorate in a state which once had a reputation for violence and election irregularities — but has since redeemed itself quite dramatically — it would be tempting fate to suggest that the consequences of the assembly election may not be far-reaching. Yet, however routine, every assembly election is significant in a number of ways. The Bihar vote, too, will be no different and may offer some pointers to the next round of assembly elections in the summer of 2021, at least in the eastern state of West Bengal. The most significant aspect of the Bihar election that will impact national decision-making is centred on the poll process during the Covid-19 pandemic. With the vaccine still awaited, the health protocols are centred on the principle that human contact should be minimized as far as possible. This principle by its very nature goes against the functioning of electoral democracy that involves optimizing contact of political workers with voters. Additionally, unlike the West where campaigning has become more focussed on media and doorstep contact, Indian elections are conducted in a carnival atmosphere. Mass meetings, for example, have a significance not merely to communicate political messages to voters but the scale of attendance is also treated as a measure of public support, not least to entice undecided voters anxious to be on the winning side. In attempting to evolve fresh guidelines to cope with the challenges of Covid-19, the Election Commission had attempted to balance mass contact with social distancing. This was always going to be an impossible task and its success depended substantially on public awareness and political restraint. The experience of the campaign so far suggests that the faith in online meetings substituting outdoor mass meetings has been totally misplaced. Nearly all the political parties that had banked on virtual rallies have revised their plans and reverted to organizing carnivals. The images of public meetings addressed by the Rashtriya Janata Dal’s Tejashwi Yadav and the Lok Janshakti Party’s Chirag Paswan, for example, suggest that the fear of the virus has been subsumed by the desire to demonstrate the quantum of public support. Predictably, this has worked to the disadvantage of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the chief campaigner for the National Democratic Alliance in the state. As the host of the prime minister, the state Bharatiya Janata Party has had to make a more visible show of social distancing than its rivals. Consequently, in visual terms, Modi’s rallies which, in earlier years, have been the high points of election campaigns have been less spectacular. The BJP has had to compensate with rallies by Bhojpuri stars such as the Delhi parliamentarian, Manoj Tiwari. The next few weeks will indicate whether the widespread fears of religious and political festivals leading to a spike in Covid-19 infections are legitimate. Going by the experience of post-Onam Kerala, the concerns seem real and explains why the prime minister addressed the nation to advise utmost care and restraint as long as the pandemic persisted. In political terms, what will be significant is the impact of the pandemic on voter turnout. If, as is being suggested, the fear of the deadly virus becomes a deterrent to voters in the 50-plus age group, will that be inimical to the NDA or its opponents? Moreover, anecdotal evidence argues that Muslim communities are relatively less inhibited in the conduct of normal public life during the pandemic than other communities. If this principle translates to queueing before polling booths, there is a possibility that the strategic Muslim vote in Bihar will be far greater than its population share. This does not augur well for the NDA. A second feature of the Bihar election that has a larger bearing is the voters’ attitude towards incumbency in extraordinary situations. In the past, during elections held in moments of great national stress, such as conflicts with foreign powers, voters have been inclined to give resolute support to the governments of the day. In the recent past, as happened in the Uttar Pradesh assembly election of 2017, even an extraordinary measure such as demonetization led to voters supporting the move. This support was contrary to media reports that suggested a groundswell of anger against the economic dislocation caused by demonetization. In this Bihar election, interest will be centred on the way in which the economic hardships suffered by migrant workers — a very large number are from Bihar — will play out. Going by media reports, many of the development initiatives undertaken by the chief minister, Nitish Kumar, in the past 15 years are being overshadowed by the anger of migrant workers over difficulties experienced in the wake of the 21-day national lockdown in March and April this year. This is also borne out by opinion polls indicating that the NDA’s possible tally is being pulled down by a tide of anti-incumbency against the chief minister — as happened in Rajasthan in 2018 and in Jharkhand in December 2019. Certainly, the anger against the man who was in the past lauded for his sushasan (good administration) has created an awkward situation for the NDA and the BJP at the Centre. LJP’s Chirag Paswan has, for example, walked out of the NDA in Bihar but remains a committed supporter of Modi at the Centre. On the ground, a very large number of the LJP candidates contesting against the Janata Dal (United) nominees happen to be BJP rebels. The bush telegraph would have people believe that Paswan has been intentionally promoted by the BJP to bring Nitish Kumar down by a few notches and ensure that the BJP’s final tally exceeds that of its senior coalition partner. If this indeed happens and there is a fractured verdict, Bihar could be plunged into political uncertainty. Any possible uncertainty, in turn, could have an impact on political alignments at the Centre. After the Shiromani Akali Dal walked out of the NDA over the legislation on agricultural marketing reforms, there has been some gloating in Opposition circles over the systematic truncation of the ruling alliance at the Centre. If the NDA secures a clear majority in Bihar and Nitish Kumar resumes his role as chief minister, the impact is certain to be minor and manageable. At best, the induction of Paswan in the Modi ministry may be confronted by a JD(U) veto, leading to the LJP looking for other openings. However, in the event of a fractured verdict, the NDA is certain to experience a significant churning. Finally, the Bihar verdict is likely to have some impact on neighbouring West Bengal but only if the NDA registers a conclusive victory. The BJP is on an expansionist spree in its fight against Mamata Banerjee and needs powerful defectors from the Trinamul Congress to bolster its clout in south Bengal. An NDA victory could begin a rush to embrace the BJP before the year is out, a development that will leave the ruling TMC beleaguered and desperate to cling on to power. In Bengal, unfortunately, political realignments are invariably accompanied by violence on the ground. Unknown to him/her, the voter in Begusarai and Samastipur could, therefore, mould political behaviour in East Midnapore and Howrah districts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-126
