30-10-2020||Opinion||Fixed time: Fundamental right to bail||Bail seems to have become the exception rather than the rule in newsworthy cases. But the Supreme Court has said that the failure to produce a chargesheet within the stipulated period of 90 days — 180 days in the case of special laws — cannot be a reason to deny bail to an accused who has applied for it and fulfilled its conditions. This is one of the most important of recent rulings; it upholds the fundamental right to personal liberty enshrined in Article 21 of the Constitution. The court makes this connection. The law for bail was formulated under the umbrella of the Constitutional right, so the right to bail is not just statutory. In cases where the investigation is not complete, default bail, if applied for, would be permissible by virtue of the relevant section of the Criminal Procedure Code. This is the procedure of the law: if the prosecution cannot complete the investigation on time, the accused cannot be punished for it. The ruling came in the context of an appeal by a person accused of murder, whose application for default bail had been dismissed by the Punjab and Haryana High Court. The Supreme Court set aside the high court’s ruling. By emphasizing that an accused has an indefeasible fundamental right to bail, the ruling implicitly holds up to question the authorities’ habit of refusing bail. Recently, this has been blatantly displayed with regard to persons accused of offences under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and other laws: anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protesters, for instance, and activists, teachers, lawyers and writers arrested on suspicion of engagement in the Delhi riots or the violence at Bhima Koregaon. The Supreme Court’s ruling puts a damper on the delay of investigative agencies and the prosecution, which are sometimes believed to be complying with the wishes of the government. For example, the court put aside the Delhi police’s attempt to cancel the bail granted by the Delhi High Court to the anti-CAA protester, Devangana Kalita, who had been arrested for allegedly instigating violence through a speech. But will the ruling help the huge numbers of other undertrial prisoners? The poorer prisoners need awareness and lawyers, which will remain elusive unless the State shows a commitment to right the wrongs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-125
30-10-2020||Opinion||New twist: Bimal Gurung resurfaces||Sir — The resurfacing of Bimal Gurung, the founder of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, and his decision to extend support to the chief minister of Bengal may have serious ramifications for the politics of the state as a whole and, in particular, for Darjeeling (“Bimal back, supports Mamata”, Oct 22). Gurung had been absconding since September 2017, after the Trinamul Congress-led government slapped a number of criminal charges on him — including those under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act — following a prolonged violent agitation in the hills for a separate state of Gorkhaland. Snapping ties with the National Democratic Alliance, Gurung has claimed that Mamata Banerjee always kept her promises. This exposes his duplicity. In 2017, when the government gave a short shrift to the GJM’s demand for a written assurance that it would not impose the teaching of Bengali in Darjeeling, Gurung had claimed that the TMC government had made a number of promises to the residents of North Bengal when it came to power in 2011 but none of them was remotely near completion. Interestingly, when Gurung was on the run, the GJM broke up. The faction led by Binay Tamang allied itself with the state government and established itself at the helm of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration. Now that the ruling party in Bengal has welcomed Gurung’s support, it remains to be seen how the two warring factions of the GJM will be reconciled. Gurung, however, has emphasized that his party is not moving away from their demand for Gorkhaland; he has pledged to support the party which takes that demand forward. The question is whether Banerjee will yield to the demand and withdraw all cases against him in the hope that Gurung’s support will reverse the political fortune of the TMC in the hills. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — The dramatic appearance of Bimal Gurung after three years of hiding has created quite a stir. Gurung was not arrested as an offender. Rather, he was allowed to hold a press conference in Calcutta. Gurung’s proclamation that the NDA has not fulfilled the aspirations of the hill people — he has vowed allegiance to the TMC — shows that the chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, has been working to secure her position in the state ahead of the 2021 assembly elections. It is likely that there was a secret deal between Banerjee and Gurung, with eyes on upcoming polls. But the people of the hills, including Siliguri, are still unsure whether the demand for a separate state has been given up by the Gorkha leader or the chief minister has given him any assurance on the matter. Speculation on social media seems to suggest that the hill people are not ready to accept Gurung as a ‘surrendered’ leader. But the ultimate question is this: between Banerjee and Gurung, who has actually surrendered? Birkha Khadka Duvarseli,Siliguri Sir — After a prolonged disappearance, the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader, Bimal Gurung, has suddenly arrived in Calcutta and proclaimed to join hands with the TMC to bring back Mamata Banerjee to power in the 2021 assembly elections. Gurung has also stated his intent to continue his struggle for the creation of Gorkhaland. However, Banerjee has time and again asserted that Bengal will not be bifurcated. If Gurung knows that his demand for Gorkhaland will not be met, then his support for the TMC could simply be a bid to have the cases against him and his associates withdrawn. He must also have seen through the political games played by the Bharatiya Janata Party, which have now jeopardized his political career. It now remains to be seen how the TMC tackles him. Mrinal Kanti Kundu,Howrah Lessons unlearnt Sir — Only a few months ago, people were rejoicing over the fact that one positive effect of the lockdown was the stark decrease in pollution levels, particularly that of water bodies. Some of us were even hoping that given this second chance, people would live more responsibly — they would refrain from polluting lakes and rivers with effluents, garbage or plastic. But this appears to have been wishful thinking. With the recent festivities — Navratri, for instance — all awareness has clearly been forgotten. This year, once again, devotees dumped puja offerings into the Yamuna, making its condition worse. Urgent and systematic government intervention is necessary to prevent people from polluting the waters before it is too late. Reshmi Chakraborty,Delhi Step forward Sir — After expressing support for migrant communities and refugees as well as same-sex unions, Pope Francis has taken yet another progressive step: he has appointed Wilton Gregory, the archbishop of Washington, as cardinal, making him the first African American person to hold the position. This is an unprecedented decision, and must be appreciated by all, regardless of one’s faith or ethnicity. At a time when political leaders across the world seem to be trying to polarize the world along the lines of religion, race or gender, the pope’s gestures might go a long way in spreading the message of harmony and tolerance. Soumik Hazra,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-125
30-10-2020||Opinion||Pandora’s box: Land-rule change in the Valley||The Bharatiya Janata Party-led Central government is on record stating that the abrogation of Article 370, which provided the former state of Jammu and Kashmir with special provisions, was necessary because of two reasons. First, it would facilitate greater integration between the region and the rest of the country. Second, it would generate momentum for industry and development by doing away with provisions — only permanent residents were permitted to purchase land earlier — that the BJP deemed exclusionary. Integration as a principle is certainly a desirable objective. There can be no objections, at least in theory, to the idea of Indian citizens purchasing land or residing in any part of the country. But this right cannot ride roughshod over the anxieties of local communities concerning ownership. This is the reason why special provisions are in place in the Constitution to grant protection to the rights of property of local or indigenous people not only in Kashmir — always the focus of the BJP’s divisive narrative of privileges — but also in other states. Article 371(A) honours Nagaland’s customs on land transfer and ownership; Article 371(G) extends similar privileges to Mizoram; sale and purchase of land and property is regulated by Article 371(F) in Sikkim as well. This protective armour goes to show that the founders of the Constitution were sensitive to the need of integration being predicated on collective consensus rather than unilateralism. Of course the BJP’s comprehension of such wisdom is inadequate. This ignorance — an ideological wart — has been exposed, once again, by the Central notification permitting outsiders to purchase non-agricultural land in Jammu and Kashmir. The Valley, expectedly, is up in arms against the proposal, viewing it as an attempt on the part of the BJP to engineer a demographic shift. The absence of consultation with the people and their political representatives on such a sensitive issue has amplified their concerns. Interestingly, Hindu-dominated Jammu — a steadfast source of support for the BJP — is equally indignant: the Dogras are of the view that their identity is under threat. The resultant political churning, while being inimical to the BJP’s prospects, could be a rare occasion where Jammu and Kashmir are speaking in one voice. These developments reiterate the need for the framing of a national policy that would create uniform, equitable conditions for purchase of land while securing the rights of affected communities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-125
30-10-2020||Opinion||Price of farm reform||The prime minister, Narendra Modi, believes that the three bills on agricultural reform are essential for doubling farmers’ income by 2022. Some industrialists have compared the legislations with the liberalization of the Indian economy. It may, therefore, be useful to examine the experience of other countries that attempted to liberalize the agricultural market. The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act gives farmers the license to sell their produce to anyone they like. The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farms Services Act facilitates contract farming. The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance removes the cap on
agricultural commodity stock piling. Countries in East Asia, Europe and Africa had done something similar three decades back. Liberalization in agriculture led to a higher share of the private sector in these countries with some variations. While liberalizing the agriculture, these governments took such steps as intervening in price settings, reducing interventions through taxes and
subsidies, and ending government monopoly on the produce market by allowing private traders to engage in trade. Indonesia was the first country in South Asia to experiment with liberalization in 1968. Other East Asian countries followed suit. In the context of OECD countries, the World Bank and the International Food Policy Research Institute point to evidence of enhanced trade liberalization accompanied by a fall in agricultural support leading to a decrease in capacity — cotton being one example. This, in turn, led to heightened poverty because the rise in production was followed by a fall in prices. Neither were the results of liberalization favourable in sub-Saharan Africa, Central and Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union. However, East Asian nations witnessed a corresponding increase in GDP. China embraced the liberalization of agriculture in 1978 in a series of steps. China’s reforms reduced control over farm prices while maintaining a grip on institutions that supplied farm inputs and purchased output. Its success resulted from a sequential rolling out of liberalization in which price and market reforms were key components. Before liberalizing the market, China initiated baby steps with price and market reforms, setting up Rural Credit Cooperatives in the late 1970s to raise farm prices. Between 1980 and 1997, the ratio of agricultural export to agricultural GDP increased from 4.6 per cent to 9.1 per cent while the ratio of agricultural import to agricultural GDP barely changed. The liberalization of the agrarian sector led to income growth and a sharp rise in inequality in China. The latter, however, stabilized in the 2000s and is currently lower than that in India. Contrastingly, India’s economic liberalization has resulted in massive inequalities. The weakening of public sector institutions along with enhanced privatization has resulted in extreme commercialization and deep inequality. Market failures are not unknown in developing economies. The disinterest and inefficiency of private players when it comes to focusing on the complex grid of development based on labour welfare, poverty reduction, and the eradication of inequalities cannot be ignored. Hence, any endorsement of liberalization must be accompanied by unbiased reflections on the cost of such ‘reforms’.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-125
30-10-2020||Opinion||Unusual season||“Every evening our heartfelt desire was to sit around Thakurda and listen to stories. The whole day would be spent in studying, running small errands for our mothers and grandmothers, in school and in games. At dusk, we would spread a shower of learning all through the house by reciting our lessons very loudly... But for how long?... A little into the evening, all our uncles would leave... for their clubs or card games. That was our chance. We hurriedly put by our books. Now the head of the house was — Thakurda.” The translation is mine, from a story in Bengali in one of the Puja annuals for children from Dev Sahitya Kutir that constituted one of the many joys of the autumn festival in the past. They spilled over with stories, poems, plays — Bidhayak Bhattacharya’s plays about Amaresh were a must, even if you did not always like them — articles, adventures, historical episodes, discoveries, inventions, sporting achievements, myths, legends, fables, even picture tales or comics. Each hard-covered brick-like volume was a treasure trove, carrying something for everyone, from the child who has just learnt to read stories to the curious or dreamy older teenager. The thrill of receiving one was indescribable; it even had a special gift page where the loving aunt or grandfather could write your name. Each year’s annual had a different name and cover, every time a surprise. The contents on its glossy pages were meticulously detailed: first came a list of writers, and then the works themselves, under heads such as ‘Unpublished poem’, ‘Unpublished essay’, ‘Life story’ — one could be “Sri Ramakrishna and Michael” — or ‘Story’, ‘Long story, ‘Comic story’, ‘Comic poem’, ‘Animal story’, ‘Ghost story’, ‘Mystery story’, ‘Travel story’, ‘Thrilling story’, ‘Robber story’, ‘Devotional story’, ‘Hunting story’, ‘Magic’, ‘Science’ and so on, endlessly, leaving the young reader glowing in anticipation. That was one of the deepest pleasures of those Pujas forty or fifty years ago, the ‘heartfelt desire’ for new experiences even if from the pages of a book. Some of the greatest and most well-known writers of the time wrote for children, so adults were encouraging, maybe indulgent. I was unaware then that I was reading many works that I would later find were modern classics. The style of the contents seems delightfully quaint now, yet it offered a kind of basic idea of genres and moods although most children now would find such black-and-white compartments obsolete. The pictures would seem old-fashioned too, but the illustrators were quite brilliant, creating images and dramatic moments that would remain impressed on young minds. Who can forget the woman stretching out her arm through the kitchen window to a lime tree at the end of the yard while cooking for a visitor who faints as he realizes that she is a spectre? (A foreign hand? Behind the tale, that is.) The pictures, too, with their story title and caption — “The Skeleton”: “Hariharbabu said, ‘How did you know all this?’” — had their own contents column under heads indicating the number of colours: three, two or one. These volumes were clearly intended to delight and teach together; the enjoyment smoothed the way for the carefully woven moral values to sink in. Much of the material would be considered politically incorrect today: Thakurda longs for his hubble-bubble even after death, and Mukulrani, the narrator, is his favourite granddaughter because she dresses his tobacco exactly the way he likes it. The ghost’s repeated appearances overcome his son’s scientific incredulity and he goes to Gaya for the ritual to quiet the restless spirit. Gender roles are usually problematic, but surprisingly, not always so. In those decades following Independence, historical narratives and biographical sketches were also informed by nationalistic feeling. Stories and accounts of developments taken from the West opened up fresh horizons for the reader, while the fillers were substantial. One series of fillers, titled “Amar bani anlo jaara” or “Those who brought immortal words”, selected anecdotes from the lives of writers ranging from Homer, Chaucer and Shakespeare to Bjørnson and Tagore to present their works and times. “Golden accounts” described works such as “Walden”, Jane Eyre, Doctor Zhivago or the Mowgli stories, while “Gems and Pearls” offered quotations from ancient Indian texts with context and explanation. Meanwhile, there were other Puja numbers, too, of children’s periodicals such as Shuktara, Rang Mashal or Sandesh. No child could be blamed for believing these to be limitless riches even if she did not read them all. An addiction had begun. Pleasures keep changing even when the occasion for them remains the same. Not that the baroari Durga Puja has remained the same in spirit, presentation and funding sources ever since, supposedly, 12 young men, the baro iyars, began worshipping the deity outside the family home in the public arena. That was in the second half of the 18th century; there is a disagreement about the exact year. The pleasures then were probably rambunctiously different, even if Hutom of Hutom Pyanchar Naksha is taken with a fistful of salt. If fun fairs, jatras, ‘cultural programmes’ and the gorgeous array of street food during the Pujas nowadays hark back to the noisy carnivals of the earliest public pujas that, according to Hutom, bustled with jesters and buffoons, resounded with half akhrai and kabigan competitions, he sharpened his wit most on the absurd conduct of intoxicated patrons, their pride in masses of animal sacrifice and their grotesque taste in apparel. The Pujas allow many kinds of enjoyment even today. Aesthetic ingenuity — individual talents blossoming within tradition — created images made of buttons or nails or bottle caps for a time, leading on to ‘theme’ Pujas with their incredible pandals, amazing crafts and lighting, and marvellous illusions. Seniors unable to leave home have matched younger people in pandal-hopping courtesy their television for many years, and this time, with the pandemic forbidding crowds, it was even possible to offer anjali digitally. That apps offered all-round tours of each venue is a sure indication that the deity smiles on technological advance. Yet this time it was almost like a touch on a pause button. The Calcutta High Court’s strictures combined, possibly, with some apprehension of the damage Covid-19 can cause as well as the scarcity of transport thinned down crowds for most of the festive days. Defiant exceptions notwithstanding, the general impression was of a kind of sadness, so lacking in the usual uproarious goodwill that sweet shops had to scale down production. A sudden silence muffled the addictive frenzy — a mix of worship, pleasure, togetherness, dressing to the nines, competitive social media representation and admiration of idols, pandals and lights — that the festival generates nowadays. Even the dhaks seemed muted. Yet even in the pause, some other addictions tend to cling. In the misty past, there would come a season when the youngster graduated from the children’s Puja annual to the grown-ups’, the mysterious sharadiya number of adults’ periodicals. It was a joyful rite of passage, the perpetuation of a now unbreakable habit. That sharadiya number has not shed its allure for many, even if it has to be disinfected. The deity was kind enough to allow online orders this time for those unable to leave their homes. Irresistible temptation. Does the addict’s pleasure in continuity spring from memory or from the hope of happier seasons?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-125
