31-10-2020||Opinion||Left out: Suryakumar Yadav not in Australia Tour||Sir — The announcement by the chairman of the selection committee of the Board of Control for Cricket in India of the Indian men’s team for the tour of Australia in all three formats was both interesting as well as perplexing in parts. The tour starts with the first one-day international in Sydney on November 27 and will end with the fourth Test match in Brisbane, which is from January 15-19 next year. Rohit Sharma has been left out of the squad after sustaining a hamstring injury, and K.L. Rahul, the captain of the Kings XI Punjab for the ongoing season of the Indian Premier League, has been made the vice-captain for the limited-overs formats for the tour. Rishabh Pant has also been excluded from the white ball format owing to his poor run during the IPL, but has found a place in the Test side. Hardik Pandya has missed out on the Tests but will play in the ODIs and the Twenty20 matches. Mohammed Siraj, Varun Chakravarthy and Shubman Gill have all been included in the squad; while Siraj has got a berth in the longer format, Gill will play in both the ODIs and the Tests. Chakravarthy, known as the mystery spinner for the Kolkata Knight Riders, has made his way into the T20 side. However, many have expressed their disbelief after Suryakumar Yadav was ignored in the selection process. The right-handed batsman has been in sublime form for the Mumbai Indians, both during the previous edition of the IPL as well as during the tournament this year. He has notched up 283 runs at an average of 31.44 and a strike-rate of 148.94 in the matches he has played so far. He also has two half-centuries to his name, with a highest score of 79 not out. One does not know what else he needs to do to get picked for the national team, given that he has been performing during the IPL as well as the Ranji Trophy season. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — The former chief selector for India, Dilip Vengsarkar, has rightly said that the BCCI president, Sourav Ganguly, should investigate why Suryakumar Yadav was not picked for the tour of Australia. Even players such as Manoj Tiwary and Harbhajan Singh have been vocally critical about the selection committee’s inexplicable decision to exclude Yadav from all formats of the game for the upcoming tour. The batsman has been performing so well that the selectors had no reason not to pick him. He would have been a real asset to India while playing on the tough pitches Down Under. It is high time some transparency and accountability were brought to the selection process. Ganguly himself has borne the brunt of selectors’ prejudice during his cricketing career even though he was easily one of the best batsmen and captains Indian cricket has ever seen. He should take the matter seriously and find out why Yadav was not selected. Rishiraj Sikri,Delhi New warning Sir — In a welcome move, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has declared that those caught without a mask in public in Mumbai will have to sweep the streets if they are unwilling to pay the stipulated fine for the offence. It is a pity that such measures have to be resorted to; one would expect adult citizens to be more mindful of their own health and that of others during a global pandemic. Why must they be arm-twisted into complying with regulations that have been put in place for their own good? Nevertheless, one hopes that the new rule will have its desired effect. Sudeshna Koli,Mumbai Parting Shot Sir — At a time when coronavirus cases are surging in the United States of America and India, and countries such as France and Germany are going into lockdown again, it is remarkable that Taiwan has achieved a far more favourable record — it has marked over 200 days without a locally transmitted case of Covid-19. There are so many important lessons that Western Europe and large countries like India and the US can learn from a small nation like Taiwan. Donald Trump and Narendra Modi should really be ashamed of their failures to contain the crisis in their own countries.Malini Bose,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-124
31-10-2020||Opinion||Moon ahoy: Water on lunar surface||Much like the wise men and women who spout them, quotes are not blessed with immortality. Famous utterances, therefore, lend themselves to not only new interpretations but also to — some say sacrilegious — alterations. Now that an excited National Aeronautics and Space Administration has announced that it has found evidence of water on the moon, it is perhaps time to twist the famous words of Neil Armstrong — the First Man on the Moon — by a bit. ‘That’s one small drop of water, and one giant step for mankind’ could well be ushered into the Hall of Fame of quotations. The suggestion is not being made in jest. The discovery of the nectar of life on a lifeless satellite — some estimates say that the moon is hiding between 100 million tonnes to 2.9 billion tonnes of H2O — could be an occasion that is as momentous as the day of the moon landing of July 1969. In the course of these 51 years, humans, as is their wont, have managed to make the future prospects of inhabiting earth rather bleak. Depredations on the planet’s thinning natural landscapes and its finite resources brought about by burgeoning population, unregulated industrialization and, most conspicuously, competition among nation states have necessitated the framing of contingency plans to create new colonies in outer space. The possibility of Homo sapiens setting foot on distant planets — not just the moon — is no longer limited to the realm of science fiction. Advancements in science and technology, fused with the spirit of entrepreneurship among ambitious corporations, have the potential of transforming fiction into reality: for instance, SpaceX, Elon Musk’s private company, has set its eyes on the firmament. But this new reality could well be tainted by old antagonisms. Human enterprise, history is proof, has its own Achilles’ heel in the form of competition and conflict. Thus Nasa’s announcement of striking water on the moon has, unsurprisingly, been met with acrimony. The Russians, still smarting from their defeat in the Cold War, are on record saying that the Reds got to the precious liquid almost 50 years ago. This sparring could take on even more sinister forms. Space agencies in Europe and China are already nosing around for water on the lunar South Pole. The chances of bonhomie blooming during these expeditions are likely to be slim. Some countries are relying on diplomatic sleight of hand to convince others that they have struck a healthy balance between ethics and commerce. Australia is a case in point. Even though it is a signatory to the Artemis Accords — a pact in which member nations solemnly pledge to uphold the objectives of peace and fraternity during space odysseys — Canberra has had no compunctions about joining the treasure hunt for lunar resources. Science has reason to believe that the riches space offers to human civilization can surpass the proverbial king’s ransom. Energy, material resources, a home away from home, even contact with alien, advanced cultures — the largesse, greedy earthlings believe, are worth squabbling over. It is this myopic urge to possess, monopolize and exploit that led to the welcome demise of colonization on earth. The fate of man’s trek across the stars will not be different unless humanity learns to understand the difference between exploration and conquest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-124
31-10-2020||Opinion||Make amends: Haberdashers’ Adams sans Clive||At St Xavier’s in Patna, we inherited the English house system, so that those of who belonged to “Leopards” went around chanting, “Mighty Leopards”. For others, it was “Mighty Tigers” or “Mighty Panthers”. Once, while researching a piece on The Doon School, I was told (jokingly) by Karan Singh: “I belonged to Kashmir House — and I never got a decent meal there!” But in England, Haberdashers’ Adams, a high-achieving grammar school in Newport, Shropshire, founded in 1656, has just dropped Robert Clive as the name of one of its houses because of the manner in which he won Bengal for the East India Company. Britain’s colonial history is under scrutiny with the Black Lives Matter movement spilling over from America. I had a long chat with Gary Hickey, the school’s headmaster, who like Father Murphy of old, comes across as a very fair and decent man. He believes that the colonial history of the raj — and the Partition in particular — should be taught in schools which it isn’t because it is considered too controversial. I liked the way the case for and against “Clive of India” — a local man, born near Market Drayton in Shropshire on 29 September 1725 — was set out. The headmaster acted as Third Umpire: “We are persuaded that a name change for Clive House is the right step for the school. Making explicit our revulsion at the actions of historical figures is one way, amongst many, of reinforcing the message that racism has no place in our school or society. By renaming Clive House (after the war poet Wilfred Owen), we believe that we will be contributing, in a small but useful way, to recognizing and redressing some of the injustices inflicted on ethnic minority communities and their predecessors.” Dark secrets Unauthorized political biographies are hardly ever good news in England because authors tend to put the boot into their subjects. Tom Bower’s Boris Johnson: The Gambler is unsparing about the prime minister’s personal life. Lord Michael Ashcroft, former treasurer and deputy chairman of the Conservative Party, co-authored Call Me Dave: The Unauthorised Biography of David Cameron, which was not very flattering to the former PM. The contents of Ashcroft’s new biography, Going for Broke: The Rise Of Rishi Sunak, the first on the chancellor of the exchequer, remain under embargo until November 12 but the advance publicity says: “Michael Ashcroft’s new book charts Sunak’s ascent from his parents’ Southampton pharmacy to the University of Oxford, the City of London, Silicon Valley — and the top of British politics. “It is the tale of a super-bright and hard-grafting son of immigrant parents who marries an Indian heiress and makes a fortune of his own; a polished urban southerner who wins over the voters of rural North Yorkshire — and a cautious, fiscally conservative financier who becomes the biggest-spending Chancellor in history.” A friend who covers politics for a national newspaper tells me: “Ashcroft tends to bring out a biography a year of someone interesting. Rishi is talked of as a future prime minister but who is Rishi? He is seen as squeaky clean but we don’t know a lot about him.”Prized possession Opinion is divided on whether Joseph Mallord William Turner or John Constable was Britain’s greatest landscape artist. Anyway, a new exhibition, Turner’s Modern World, opened this week at Tate Britain. It comes as a surprise to learn that although Turner never actually visited India, he did four watercolours with Indian settings based on descriptions by eyewitnesses. Two of these have been included among the 160 paintings in the exhibition. They are The Fortress of Seringapatam, from the Cullaly Deedy Gate and The Siege of Seringapatam. The latter belongs to the Tate but the former is on loan from one-time Calcutta boy, Nirmalya Kumar, who has one of the finest private collections of the Bengal School. Kumar was with the London Business School and is now Professor of Marketing at Singapore Management University. “I acquired it from Sotheby’s New York in 2014,” he said. “After I acquired [it] I took it for examination to the Tate and showed it to David Brown, the Turner expert there. Around 1800 when Turned painted these, paintings of India were rather popular as Thomas and William Daniell had very successfully published their set of 144 aquatints on India called ‘Oriental Scenery’. Besides, the empire was starting to consolidate.” Kumar explained that over the decades Turner’s four Indian paintings “were mistakenly attributed to William Daniell (1769-1837). Only in the mid-1980s, when one was offered for sale at Christies, were they recognized as Turner originals.” Reign on Bhasha Mukherjee’s reign as Miss England has been extended because of the pandemic. Mukherjee, who thus becomes the longest-serving Miss England, has been working tirelessly on Covid-19 duties at Boston Pilgrim Hospital and Derby Royal Hospital. She says: “It’s hard to celebrate when you’re seeing Covid numbers rising in your hospital. We are right next to Nottingham which has the highest rate in the country so we have staff and patients coming between us and the hub of the virus.” Footnote Sir Geoffrey Boycott, 80, has not taken kindly to being dropped by the BBC as a cricket commentator after 14 years. He appeared to have Isa Guha in mind when he told a national newspaper: “They have sacrificed quality for equality. It is now all about political correctness, about gender and race. When you work for them you are wary and frightened of saying anything. It is a minefield out there and that is sad.” Incidentally, Boycott is auctioning off much of his cricket memorabilia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-125
31-10-2020||Opinion||Woman of steel||It was a blistering day in 1982. The ground of the Boys School at Harippad, an agrarian town in Alappuzha district in Kerala, and its surroundings were flooded with people braving the raging summer. Suddenly, the roar of an approaching helicopter was heard, which was immediately overwhelmed by the loud cheering of the crowd chanting, “Indira... Indira... Indira...” The enthusiasm of the crowd had hit a crescendo. As Indiraji alighted from the chopper and waved at the mammoth gathering, the effect was magical. That was my first glimpse of a Gandhi. I was 26, and it was the first time I was contesting an assembly election. Indiraji had come to campaign for me. I still cherish those fond memories of the charismatic leader who then spoke in a language of love and determination. When I left for Chennithala, my village, after the meeting was over, I had no idea that the event would turn out to be a milestone in my life; I also had no idea that Indira Gandhi would be instrumental in changing my destiny from then on. It was by chance that I became an active worker of the Kerala Students Union during my college days, and my rise up the organizational ladder was phenomenal. Though professionally trained to teach Hindi in schools in Kerala, politics and serving humanity have always fascinated me. I became president of the KSU in 1980 with the backing and blessings of Kerala’s Congress strongman, K. Karunakaran, fondly called ‘Leader’. And it was in those days that I started interacting with the national leaders of the Congress Party and its various feeder organizations, especially Rajiv Gandhi, who was in charge of the National Students’ Union of India and the Youth Congress in his capacity as general-secretary of the All India Congress Committee. I vividly recall that morning in 1982 when Karunakaran contacted me through emissaries while I was attending a KSU meeting at Koothuparamba in Kerala’s northern district of Kannur. ‘Leader’ conveyed the message that Rajiv Gandhi wanted to meet me in New Delhi immediately. I left for the national capital without any clue as to what would be discussed in the meeting. In Delhi, I met Rajivji at his small but elegant residence where there was nothing extraordinary to indicate that it was the residence of the son of the country’s prime minister. Rajivji, clad in blue jeans and a white T-shirt, was looking out of the window of the drawing room. He spoke to me very lovingly for a few minutes. The talk mainly included queries about my journey and accommodation as well as the organizational work in Kerala. Then, all of a sudden, he revealed to me his plan to appoint me president of the NSUI. “I know you can do it and I will be with you,” Rajivji said as he held my hands. He said he was confident about my ability to handle Hindi and English and to work hard to rebuild the organization across India. I was spellbound for a moment after hearing what Rajivji said. But soon I told him that I was ready to take up the task. Then he told me that he had already apprised Indiraji of the decision, which must be ratified directly between her and me. Until then, I had had no personal meetings with Indiraji; I had always watched her from a distance. Then Rajivji took me to Indiraji. He drove the car straight to her residence. When we reached her residence, Indiraji was about to leave for the airport to board a flight to the erstwhile USSR. She was in a hurry. The AICC general-secretary in charge of the party organization, G.K. Moopanar, was there at the residence. “Are you Ramesh Chennithala?” Indiraji asked me. I nodded my head. “I know. Rajiv has already told me about you. I’m happy that you are ready for the task,” Indiraji said. Then she told Moopanar to prepare my appointment order quickly. While the stenographer started typing the appointment order, Indiraji left for the airport, directing me to reach the airport with the typed appointment order for her signature. It was at the airport lounge that she signed the order appointing me president of the NSUI. I knew I was the personal choice of Rajivji for that crucial post — it was a time when he was initiating a big revamp of the NSUI and the Youth Congress. As directed by Rajivji, I travelled the length and breadth of India, revamping the NSUI. I had mainly focused on Central universities. It was in those days that we conceived the idea of organizing a huge student conference in Nagpur, Maharashtra, with an expected turnout of over half-a-million young workers of the Congress Party. Our idea was to make it India’s largest-ever youth meet. Even from distant Kerala, the southernmost state of the country, we chartered a train to carry over 1,500 party workers. The meeting was well-planned, and the preparations had begun well in advance. Great care was taken regarding food and accommodation for all participants. The announcement that the prime minister, Indira Gandhi, would address the concluding rally of the youth meet boosted the morale of the cadre considerably. Rajivji, who was present at the conference all the time, was ready to perform even humble tasks. However, right from the beginning, we noticed a sort of an unrest among a section of the gathering. Things started getting out of our control when a sizable portion of the assemblage started complaining about inadequate accommodation and food. I doubted that somebody was wilfully provoking unrest to defame the NSUI in particular and the Congress Party in general. When I shared my suspicion with Rajivji, he took a vehicle parked outside the conference venue and asked me to board it. We went to the office of the person in charge of Nagpur railway station, and from there he contacted the Union railways minister and requested him to help us by providing the available accommodation and catering facilities of the railways in Nagpur. With the railways schools, guest-houses and empty buildings being turned into accommodation facilities, and with the railways canteens serving food, the unrest among the participants subsided and the conference turned out to be a huge success. The AICC paid the railways for the food and the accommodation facilities. Indiraji reached the conference venue on the final day, and I welcomed her with a speech in Hindi. She congratulated me saying that a person from a non-Hindi-speaking state making a powerful speech in Hindi was a sign of national integrity and unity. Her vibrant speech infused a novel enthusiasm and vigour in all those present there. Years later, the Thakkar Commission, which investigated the assassination of Indiraji by two of her security guards, said there were several attempts earlier to assassinate her, and one of them was in Nagpur. There were wilful attempts to create unrest and assassinate her during the road show amidst chaos, the Commission said. Only then did I realize the gravity of the risk involved at the Nagpur event. Indira Gandhi was a noble soul with strong secular and pluralistic credentials. When the Intelligence wanted to keep the members of the Sikh community away from her personal security detail, Indiraji disagreed, saying that such a move would further alienate the community from the government, the party and the nation. At 9.20 am on October 31, 1984, when her bodyguard, Beant Singh, fired from his gun into her body, Indiraji would not have felt disillusioned or chagrined. By not avoiding bodyguards of a particular community, she had chosen to risk her life rather than endangering the unity of the nation and she had chosen to die for the cause of unity. She always stood for the unity, integrity, solidarity and amity of the nation. Communal and casteist feelings were alien to her. She was a leader with truly pluralistic perspectives. When the nation and its Constitution are facing threats from different sides, when a large section of society is being alienated in the name of citizenship, the memories of Indiraji are more relevant now than ever before. My humble homage to the fond memories of Indiraji. The author is a senior leader of the Congress Party and the leader of the Opposition in the Kerala legislative assembly||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-125
