05-04-2020||---||Ragi Khalsa was given VIP treatment: OP Soni||Amritsar, April 4As an audio clip of Padma Shri Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa, former ‘Hazoori Ragi’ of Darbar Sahib talking to his family members, hours before his death went viral on social media, the hospital authorities stated that in fact the patient was given “VIP treatment”.OP Soni, Medical Education and Research MinisterThe college at present is fully equipped. It has 400 PPE kits, 9,000 N95 masks, 1.25 lakh three-layer masks and 30 ventilators. Further purchases are being made daily and the stock is being built.In the audio, Khalsa, who had tested positive on March 31 and died at 4.30 am, was saying that no one attended to him for four hours. He said no medicine was given to him and if this continued he would commit suicide.After a meeting with officials, Medical Education and Research Minister Om Parkash Soni said, “After the patient was found positive, he was given VIP treatment and kept in a separate room instead of isolation ward.”He said doctors had given first dose of medicine and second was to be administered four hours later. Though there is no vaccine for the treatment of coronavirus patient but everything was done to save the patient.”He said as the patient went into a state of panic, his condition started worsening and ultimately became the cause of death. He said, “The college at present is fully equipped. It has 400 PPE kits, 9,000 N95 masks, 1.25 lakh three-layer masks and 30 ventilators. Further purchases are being made daily and the stock is being built.”Talking about the protest by nurses and paramedics regarding the non-availability of masks and PPE kits, he said as per the Government of India guidelines, these kits are to be given to only those who have to visit the rooms or wards where corona patients are admitted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ragi-khalsa-was-given-vip-treatment-op-soni-65722
05-04-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Panchayats can borrow money to feed poor: Amritsar DDPO||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 4Though the Rural Development and Panchayats Department of the state government issued a notification, asking village panchayats to withdraw funds to feed the needy, sarpanches of most villages said they did not have any money in their panchayat accounts.Gurpreet Singh Gill, Amritsar DDPOI have issued the direction to all block officers to convey the sarpanches that they can pass a resolution to borrow the money from any individual in the village. The gram panchayat will return the money by leasing out the land or by selling trees or by any other source of revenue.Sarpanches of villages are in trouble as most of the panchayats have already spent funds on village development projects. The panchayats have government grants but they are not allowed to use these grants for this purpose.Villagers are suspecting the integrity of sarpanches as they have heard the news that government has allowed the sarpanches and the panchayats to spend Rs 5,000 daily and up to the maximum of Rs 50,000.They have demanded that panchayats should be allowed to use the amount from the government grants.Vadala village sarpanch Daljit Singh, Gurbax Singh of Jalal Usman village and Tarsem Singh Laddu of Fatehpur Rajputan village has narrated the same story.Gurpreet Singh Gill, District Development and Panchayat Officer (DDPO), said, “The state government has ordered that sarpanches can spend Rs 5,000 per day out of the village panchayat fund to make arrangements for feeding poor. Most of the villages have sufficient amount in their panchayat funds. I have issued the direction to all block officers to convey the sarpanches that they can pass a resolution to borrow the money from any individual in the village. The gram panchayat will return the money by leasing out the land or by selling trees or by any other source of revenue.”The DDPO asked the sarpanches to pass the resolution to borrow money and keep the proper record with signatures of the person who provide them money without interest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/panchayats-can-borrow-money-to-feed-poor-amritsar-ddpo-65720
05-04-2020||Amritsar||‘Pray on Mahavir jayanti for peace’||Action sought against docsAmritsar: Sikh leader Baldev Singh Sirsa on Saturday lodged a complaint with the Police Commissioner seeking registration of case against several doctors for alleged negligence during the treatment of Padma Shri Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa, who died after contracting coronavirus two days ago. He named several doctors in the complaint and said a recording of the conversation between doctors and family members established that the doctors did not take the disease seriously, thereby leading to his death. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pray-on-mahavir-jayanti-for-peace-65717
05-04-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Without PPE kits, health staff in Amritsar hesitate to go near patients||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 4Senior officials hesitate to go near Covid patients due to the lack of personal protective equipment (PPE), which has resulted in poor medical services, said the staff at government medical college here.They said it was demoralising for junior doctors and other paramedical staff.Despite announcements by the state government and the local MP to issue funds for providing masks, sanitisers and PPE kits, the medical staff has been facing a shortage of protective gear.On Friday, nurses and other paramedical staff staged a protest to highlight the issue. “We are being told that except for doctors, no other employee needs masks and PPE kits in the isolation ward. This is discrimination as nurses have to give medicines to patients. Besides, they also serve them food,” a nurse said.Another nurse said, “Food for patients comes from the hospital kitchen. But, they never provide any utensils. They send packets of milk, which has to be boiled and served in glasses. We have been getting Rs9,000 per month for the past 12 years. We have been spending from our pockets to buy disposable utensils.” She asked why doctors could not provide masks and kits to the employees who were treating patients.The medical employees also complained that while the regular staff were reluctant to go near patients, the contractual staff members were forced to take care of patients without providing proper gear. Meanwhile, members of the Jago Punjab Organisation distributed masks and sanitisers among nurses on Saturday.At a meeting, Cabinet Minister Om Parkash Soni asked the medical college Principal, Medical Superintendent and senior officials to lead the fight against coronavirus, so that junior employees feel motivated. Soni asked the Principal to call senior doctors and instruct them to visit wards. “If we run away now, we will lose the fight,” he said.‘Hospitals face shortage of equipment’Tarn Taran: Dr Kashmir Singh Sohal, former state president of the PCMS Specialist Doctors’ Association and in-charge Aam Aadmi Party, in a press note issued here on Saturday, said that the doctors treating coronavirus patients were short of protective equipment. Dr Sohal said it was a matter of great concern that shortage of personal protective equipment was one of the key reasons that had led to doctors and healthcare workers getting infected in some places. He alleged that there was a shortage of ventilators and ICU beds in the state and the staff was forced to knock the door of courts for the required facilities according to the World Health Organisation norms. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/without-ppe-kits-health-staff-in-amritsar-hesitate-to-go-near-patients-65716
05-04-2020||Amritsar||PM’s call to light candles draws flak||The Dal Khalsa has termed PM Narendra Modi’s call to switch off lights and light candles and lamps at 9 pm for 9 minutes to fight the Covid-19 pandemic nothing but empty symbolism based on numerology.The organisation called upon the masses to not follow such sermons that amount to stupidity and non-seriousness. Declaring that they reject Modi’s PR stunt, party spokesman Kanwar Pal Singh said: “People don’t need an event, they need hospitals, ventilators and testing labs to fight Covid-19, a livelihood package for daily wagers and migrant workers.” Failing to provide proper equipment, health kits, economic measures for the downtrodden and government’s assurance in case the virus further accelerates, the PM wants people to indulge in activities sans any logic. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pms-call-to-light-candles-draws-flak-65715
05-04-2020||---||Ensure teachers get paid on time, BEOs told||Amritsar, April 4The District Education Office has handed over the additional charge of six blocks to eight Block Education Officers (BEOs) to work out logistics to ensure that the salaries of teachers are paid on time.The district has 15 education blocks and 12 Block Education Officers, of which four retired from the office on March 31, 2020.“Due to their retirement, six blocks that came under their jurisdiction have been handed over to the eight officers as additional responsibility. This has been done to ensure that the salaries of staff are not delayed and efforts being made to carry out the implementation of logistics planned due to Covid-19 shutdown,” Deputy DEO Rekha Mahajan said.In a meeting conducted via videoconferencing, Mahajan also directed the block officers to carry out survey in their respective blocks about the popular mode of digital media communication. “This is being done to carry forward our plan to start pre-primary and primary classes through digital media. We have already charted out plans with teachers to reach out to students. I have also taken up the matter of some private schools demanding fee from parents during lockdown with the Deputy Commissioner,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ensure-teachers-get-paid-on-time-beos-told-65714
05-04-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Amid Covid scare, sanitation workers in Amritsar continue to perform with dedication||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 4Sanitation workers of the Municipal Corporation (MC) have been performing their duties with dedication amid the Covid scare. Despite a shortage of manpower, they have been making all-out efforts to clean streets, sewer lines and lift garbage.The MC has 1,700 regular sanitation workers against the sectioned 2,300 posts. However, 123 employees have been outsourced through private companies. Besides, around 500 workers of a solid waste management company have been engaged in door-to-door collection of garbage. MC officials said the sanitation workers had been working round the clock.Dr Ajay Kawar, Municipal Health Officer, said, “We have outsourced 172 workers for spraying sodium hypochlorite solution in all 85 wards. Two persons have been assigned the task of disinfecting a single ward. Besides, our workers have been performing their duties at hospitals where suspected Covid patients have been quarantined. We don’t have any shortage of staff and sanitation workers have been doing very well.”Vinod Kumar Bitta, an office-bearer of the Safai Karamcharis’ Union, said, “The MC has not recruited regular sanitation workers for the past several years. We demand the recruitment of workers on a regular basis. Moreover, they have been performing their duties while putting them at risk. All of them need safety equipment while working at hospitals.”MC Commissioner Komal Mittal on Saturday shared cakes and cookies, prepared by a local private school, with workers. She also praised the safai karamcharis for their services toward society in this time of crisis.Relief efforts on: NGOs donate Food to needy, ventilators to hospitalsAmritsar: Continuing with the relief efforts and providing food to the needy, the Voice of Amritsar (VOA) distributed 200 bags of ration in Anngarh, Gate Hakeeman and Pulhari Gurdwara. The volunteers of VOA collaborated with the police to reach out to the needy as relief efforts have picked up pace in the city. Sarbat Da Bhala Trust, another non-profit organisation donated two ventilators each to government hospitals in Amritsar, Nawanshehar, Tanda and Gurdaspur. Cabinet Minister OP Soni along with DC and Commissioner of Police received the ventilators on Saturday as they addressed various issues to combat Covid-19 effectively in the city. Dr SP Singh, head of the Trust said the non-profit organisation would distribute N-95 masks and PPE kits to health workers and doctors working to treat Covid-19 patients in the coming days. “We have ordered 2,000 PPE kits and 2,000 N-95 masks to be given to doctors, nurses and other staff. We will do everything possible in our capacity to contribute towards this fight against the pandemic,” Dr Singh said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amid-covid-scare-sanitation-workers-in-amritsar-continue-to-perform-with-dedication-65713
05-04-2020||---||Controversial Shiv Sena leader Sudhir Suri arrested in Amritsar||Amritsar, April 4Controversial Hindu Shiv Sena leader Sudhir Suri was arrested by the rural police for making communal and objectionable remarks against the Tablighi Jamaat community on a social platform here on late Friday evening.The case was registered following an anonymous complaint received in the complaint box for allegedly hurting the sentiments of people and thereby creating law and order problem.SSP, Amritsar rural, Vikram Jeet Duggal, said he made some objectionable remarks on his Facebook account. The matter was investigated by Jandiala SHO Rashpal Singh and a case under Sections 115, 153-A, 295-A and 505 (2) of the IPC was registered against him. Subsequently, he was nabbed from his residence.He was produced before the duty magistrate on Friday evening and sent to Hoshiarpur jail. Ranjit Singh, personal assistant to Suri, however, termed it as a false and fabricated case. He said the said Facebook account did not belong to Suri. “How can the police register an FIR on the basis of a suggestion box complaint and without proper investigation?” he asked, adding that the police did not even bother to record the statement of Suri. He said it was a fabricated case to harass him and his family members.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/controversial-shiv-sena-leader-sudhir-suri-arrested-in-amritsar-65712
05-04-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Boy with intellectual disability reunites with family in Delhi||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 4The Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities, under the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, rescued Javed (19), a Delhi resident with intellectual disability, from here on Friday.Anjlee Agarwal, working with the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, who is leading the Disability Inclusive Action Collaborative on Covid-19, said the DEPwD approached the state government during the current lockdown.Javed is the son of Lukmaan, a rickshaw puller from Mayur Vihar. He went missing a few days ago. His father, through an NGO, informed the DEPwD on Friday that his son was stranded in Amritsar.The DEPwD and the National Trust took up the matter with Punjab State Commissioner for Persons with Disabilities and Shivdular Singh Dhillon, Deputy Commissioner, Amritsar, to trace the boy and make necessary arrangements for bringing him back to his home in Delhi. With the help of the district administration, District Child Protection Officer, District Social Security Officer and local police, the boy was traced and shifted to his home by a Punjab Police vehicle in Delhi on late Friday night itself.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/boy-with-intellectual-disability-reunites-with-family-in-delhi-65711
05-04-2020||PK Jaiswar||Pandemic brings forth humane side of cops||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 4When a large number of NGOs and individuals are helping the needy in these testing times, many heart-warming stories of cops are also surfacing, where they are seen serving the poor and destitute.Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill, CP‘Cops working 24x7’The police force works 24X7 to ensure the implementation of curfew restrictions and avoid spreading of the deadly virus in the population. The cops are now instrumental in providing relief material to the poor and deprived people alsoThey are providing food and medicines to the needy by even spending from their own pockets. People may criticise them for not giving them liberty from going on roads. But they are braving rising hot conditions on roads to keep people safe from this deadly virus that has claimed thousands of lives all over the world.An elderly couple in Thatha village was in utter disbelief, when cops knocked their doors after knowing about their plight. The couple was living with their two grandchildren in a two-room house, where they had kept a couple of buffaloes also, which was their only source of income. “The lockdown dwindled our income while we were short of food after a couple of days of the curfew,” they said. It is now a routine for Constable Jaswinder Singh, a police officer deployed in the village, to visit them and ask for anything they need. The constable provides them with grocery and vegetables.In the same village, the cops found a lonely elderly lady Dipo. “I was completely moved to see her plight and immediately decided to do something for her,” said Harpal Singh, SHO Lopoke police station. “I make it a point to visit the village on a regular basis to take care of her,” he said.“These are just two instances from a village. My men are going beyond their call of duty for helping people in need. In Manwala area, a village police officer Sharanjit Singh took an elderly woman to hospital and provided her medicines after spending money from his own pocket,” said Vikram Jeet Duggal, SSP, Amritsar, Rural. Similarly, another cop helped a family whose newly borne child needed immediate care. The cops took them to hospital and ensured his proper treatment.ASI Jaswant Singh distributes ‘langar’ to the needy on a daily basis since the imposition of curfew restrictions. He spares time from his lunch break for the purpose. He appealed to the people in his village to prepare food which he could distribute among the needy on the road. “Many people came forward and contributed their bit in this effort,” he said. Similarly, inspector Neeraj Kumar, SHO, Rambagh police station, is distributing ration in the areas belonging to economically weaker sections of society. “I urged people in my contacts to arrange grocery for the poor in these testing times,” he said.These incidents have brought forth the humane face of cops who otherwise remain in news for all wrong reasons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pandemic-brings-forth-humane-side-of-cops-65710
