06-04-2020||---||After 4 days, Vallah mandi reopens||Amritsar, April 5The vegetable market at Vallah was reopened after a gap of four days considering the need for fresh vegetables and to address the problem being faced by vegetable growers.Earlier, the district administration had allowed the market to operate on all days of the week. But on April 1, the commission agents who act as a link between growers and retail sellers, had stopped the operations.The huge rush at sabzi mandi had triggered the move as a large number of people had visited the place in addition to hundreds of vegetable shop owners and rhehri walas.As a result of the move, farmers were unable to sell their produce and had appealed to the administration to resume work at the mandi or allow them to sell their produce in the city on their own. The administration has now allowed the mandi to operate from Monday to Friday. The mandi would remain closed on Saturdays and Sundays.Lakhbir Singh Nizampura, president, Vegetable Growers’ Association, said: “It is a welcome move and would help farmers and consumers as well. The general public should avoid coming to the sabzi mandi as it gets crowded and then everybody faces problem.”Meanwhile, the district administration is also issuing daily retail prices of vegetables to check overpricing by some shopkeepers during the ongoing lockdown.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/after-4-days-vallah-mandi-reopens-66382
06-04-2020||How should the police deal with curfew violators?||Joint efforts can help mitigate Covid||Deploy more police personnel, set up nakasIn the evening when police personnel come for patrolling in our lane, people who unnecessarily stand on the road run inside their houses and the street becomes empty. But the moment the cops go away, they again come out of their houses to walk and cycle. They start talking to each other in groups. This shows the lackadaisical attitude of the people towards the ongoing curfew. The authorities need to deploy more police personnel who can do round-the-clock patrolling even in residential areas. Besides, the police must install checkposts at the entry points of residential areas. Even during the relaxation in the curfew, only people with genuine issues must be allowed to step out, along with those who supply essential items. Essential item suppliers who give their curfew passes to others and people who defy curfew orders must be penalised. Their vehicles must be confiscated and a case must be registered against them.Simran SidhuAdopt humane attitude towards publicRecently several videos have gone viral on social media in which police personnel were seen beating up curfew violators. Are the police dealing with ultras, anti-social elements or hardened criminals? We all need to keep in mind that the curfew has not been imposed in apprehension of any law order and order problem. The step has been taken to contain the spread of the coronavirus. Instead of merciless beating people, and posting such disgusting videos on social media, the police should adopt a soft and humanistic attitude towards the public. Physical punishments given by cops to people have certainly brought a bad name to the police who are otherwise doing a good job. As pointed out by the Chief Minister, action of the police is nullifying all good work being done by them during these difficult times. Public should also keep in mind that restrain is mandatory to protect ourselves and remain healthy. We should also understand the gravity of the situation and extend a helping hand to the police force by following safety guidelines. We must all show self-discipline and not try to not violate the curfew restrictions. Our safety lies in saving ourselves from Covid by observing social distancing.Pursharth JoshiPolice must counsel curfew violatorsCurfew has been imposed across the state to contain the spread of Covid. But the way the police handled those who violated curfew has made people angry. The government must understand that the curfew was imposed all of a sudden and it has caused a disruption in the daily routine. All major countries of the world have been affected by the coronavirus, but in no other country people have been thrashed by the police to keep them indoors. First of all, people need to understand that this extreme step has been taken for their safety and to break the chain of Covid. In the interest of their personal safety, people must obey government directions and not to try to move out as far as possible. Even if someone defies curfew orders, there are several legal means. Youngsters who violate the curfew restrictions can be detained at police stations for a day or so. Legal proceedings can be initiated against those who repeatedly violate orders in this regard. Brutal thrashing of people is not acceptable in a democratic set up under any circumstances. The police should be directed to adopt a counselling and convincing strategy to handle the situation.NK GosainDeliver essential items on doorstep of peopleIn this hapless situation, we all need to follow government instructions. We do not try not to come out of our houses unnecessarily because this will create a problem for the police to control the situation. Moreover, we will put everyone in danger. People must follow social distancing norms and contact grocery stores, vegetable vendors and others for the supply of essential items on the doorstep. We must sanitise your main door time and again and avoid touching the face more frequently. While staying indoors, we should do something productive which we always wanted to do in our life. This is the best time to enhance our self in any particular field. Make the best use of time and if possible try to donate some money according to the needy. If one doesn't know how to help them, he or she should contribute towards he PM's Relief Fund online.Gautam AggarwalFind alternative ways to deal with violatorsIt is not police personnel, it is the government which is beating up the public in disguise. It has failed in educating, training and supervising them. They are on duty even for longer period without any rest. As they are also human being, fatigue and frustration is natural. As beating up anyone is illegal, so they should find certainly other ways to deal with curfew violators.MP SharmaQUESTIONWhile the state government and the district administration have been putting in all-out efforts to ensure the safety of the public by asking them to stay indoors, liquor vends in many areas in the district are selling booze in violation of the curfew? How can the administration stop the sale of liquor during curfew? What steps can be taken to ensure effective implementation of the curfew?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to btitribune@gmail.com or post it to Bathinda Tribune, SCF-117, Opposite Harchand Cinema, Goniana Road, Bathinda, by April 12.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/joint-efforts-can-help-mitigate-covid-66381
06-04-2020|| ||Sarpanch hurt in firing, 2 arrested||Amritsar, April 5Two persons, including the sarpanch of Jania village, sustained bullet injury, when two notorious criminals fired at the police and people while trying to escape from the spot. The victims have been identified as Sikanderbir Singh, the sarpanch and Sahib Singh. They were rushed to the hospital. Both suffered bullet injuries on their legs. The accused identified as Kudda and Kishan were nabbed by the Jandiala police and residents of Jania village from the spot. Gurinderbir Sidhu, DSP Jandiala, said both victims were out of danger. However, their statements were yet to be recorded. He said both accused were wanted by the police in a couple of cases including in an incident, in which they had fired at a constable last year. Residents had set up a naka on the outskirts of the village to restrict the entry of outsiders in view of novel coronavirus pandemic. They stopped some youth from entering the village. On this, they got enraged and started abusing villagers at the naka. Sarpanch Sikanderbir Singh was also there. The youth called their accomplices Kudda and Kishan, who came on a bike. On getting the information, a patrolling police party also reached the spot. DSP said on seeing the police and people, the accused tried to escape from the spot but their bike skidded. Finding themselves surrounded, the two fired several gunshots, which hit Sikanderbir and Sahib Singh. The people nabbed them and handed them over to the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sarpanch-hurt-in-firing-2-arrested-66379
06-04-2020||PK Jaiswar||Now, police using drones to check curfew violations||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 5The local police have now started using drones to keep a check on offenders violating curfew restrictions. The cops started surveillance in Sultanwind area on Sunday.Despite clear instructions from the Punjab Government and district administration, people were still violating restrictions with impunity. The police have started registering FIRs against those who are venturing out of their homes without any emergency situation.On Sunday, the Division B police used drones in Sultanwind area for checking violations. SHO Gurwinder Singh said it was observed that people were roaming and grouping outside their houses in streets and when the police arrive, they enter their homes to hoodwink the team. Not only this, when the police team leaves, they come out again.“With drones, we will be able to see those, who are violating restrictions and ban orders issued by the district administration. Though the drones used would be able to keep an eye up to 2 km, we would use the same in 200 to 250 metres,” he said. Violators would be identified and cases would be registered against them.Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill said: “Drones will be used in other parts of the city also. He said violators will not be spared. Whatever we are doing, we are doing for the safely and health of residents and they should understand this.”The Amritsar rural police have also launched drone surveillance. SSP, Amritsar rural, Vikram Jeet Duggal said: "The police have launched the system from Baba Bakala subdivision today. It will be used in other villages and subdivisions as well."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/now-police-using-drones-to-check-curfew-violations-66378
06-04-2020||---||59 booked for violating curfew||Amritsar, April 5Though a majority of people stayed indoors in view of the accelerating spread of Covid-19, some still came out of their houses.Those who failed to give satisfactory reasons for their travel were booked by the police. In the past 24 hours, 59 persons were booked for violating curfew in the district. Most of the cases were registered in rural areas. A total of 46 persons were arrested by the police, but were later released on bail.Amritsar (Rural) SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal said the police impounded around 30 vehicles for curfew violations. “We have been repeatedly appealing to the people to not come out of their homes except in cases of emergency. Many do not comply with the instructions and venture out unnecessarily. We are taking strict action against them,” he said.Meanwhile, according to the Union Health Ministry, the total number of Covid-19 cases crossed the 3,000 mark on Sunday. Over 70 have died from the disease across the country. In Punjab, 68 cases have been reported, of which six have died.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/59-booked-for-violating-curfew-66377
06-04-2020||Amritsar||Two booked for misleading admn||Cop booked for taking bribeTarn Taran: The Patti police on Saturday booked head constable Harjinder Singh attached with Narinder Singh Dhaliwal, SDM, Patti, under Sections 7.13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act and 269 of the IPC. Inspector Ajay Kumar, SHO, Patti, said a case had been registered on the basis of a video circulated on the social media in which he was seen taking bribe to issue curfew pass by the SDM office. He said the accused policeman had not been arrested as yet. OCMan killed in road accidentTarn Taran: Major Singh (42), a resident of Mattewal (Kairowal) village, was killed in a road accident on the Tarn Taran-Chabal road here on Saturday. The city police have registered a case under Sections 304-A, 279 and 338 of the IPC against the motorcyclist allegedly responsible for the accident. The police said Major Singh was coming back from Tarn Taran on his motorcycle when another bike hit him from the rear. Seriously injured Major Singh was admitted to the local Civil Hospital. He succumbed to the injuries at the hospital. The accused fled the spot. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-booked-for-misleading-admn-66376
06-04-2020||---||Covid-19 hits pause on sports activities||Amritsar, April 5Various sports activities have been hit due to the curfew imposed to check the spread of coronavirus pandemic in the state. Grounds are locked and no sports activity is allowed. Gandhi ground and Guru Nanak Stadium, known for athletics, wrestling stadium in Gol Bagh have not witnessed any practice session of budding sports persons.Guru Nanak Dev University offers infrastructure for various sports disciplines such as astroturf ground for hockey, swimming pool, football ground, velodrome and archery. However, all these grounds are lying unused as students have left for their native places.Officials of the Sports Department said sportspersons too are advised not to come out of their homes for any practice session. They said sportspersons have been hit by the lockdown as they find it difficult to keep up with their practice and workouts being indoors. Majority of sports require body touch which enhance the chances of spread of infection.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-hits-pause-on-sports-activities-66375
06-04-2020||Charnajit Singh Teja||Sanitation staff seek insurance cover||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 5On the demand of Municipal Corporation (MC) employees, Commissioner Komal Mittal has written to the Local Government Department to give an insurance cover worth Rs1crore to the employees working against the spread of coronavirus.Earlier, in a memorandum to the Municipal Commissioner, the office-bearers of the Municipal Corporation Employees’ Talmel Dal had demanded to give insurance cover of Rs1crore to every employee on the pattern of Delhi Government.Vinod Kumar Bitta, president Safai Mazdoor Union, said: “We have met the Commissioner and asked her to provide an insurance cover to sanitation workers, as they are working under high risk. In case of some untoward incident during the pandemic, the families need financial support.”They claimed that sanitation workers were worried about their health. “They are working along with suspected patients, who have been isolated and quarantined. The Delhi Government announced insurance cover of Rs1crore for sanitation workers. It will help them as they are worried about their families. The Punjab Government should also provide a cover of Rs1 crore on the pattern of Delhi Government,” Bitta said.The MC Commissioner has written to the Local Government Department at Chandigarh about the demand of sanitation workers and asked to issue instructions in this regard.The MC sanitation workers are working on the forefront to keep the city clean and prevent the spared of the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sanitation-staff-seek-insurance-cover-66373
06-04-2020|| ||Curfew brings behavioural change in stray dogs, cattle||Amritsar, April 5 Stray dogs and cattle roaming freely in the city have become violent due to lack of food. Though, no dog bite case has been reported since the imposition of curfew, cops on curfew duty and persons distributing food items are observing behavioural changes in dogs. A large number of dogs near fish market were depended on meat shops and vendors. Now, the markets have been closed and dogs are roaming the streets.However, some good Samaritans are also feeding them. Parkash Singh, a local resident, who feed stray dogs, said, “The dogs are territorial animals. They don’t leave their territory otherwise. But in search of food when they enter in other territory, they become more violent to prevent attacks”. Nitin, another resident, said, “We have to take care of stray dogs and cattle in these days. Earlier, they used to get enough food from the roadside eateries, vends, dhabas and meat shops. Now, the markets are closed and people staying indoors, the dogs are not getting food which led to change in their behavior”. Even stray cattle, especially cows, are not getting enough fodder. Some gaushalas in the city making arrangements for the cows but a large number of animals can be seen roaming on roads.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/curfew-brings-behavioural-change-in-stray-dogs-cattle-66372
06-04-2020||---||Quarantine camps to be set up in 63  localities||Amritsar, April 5As the three-week lockdown entered its 12th day on Sunday, the district administration announced a decision to set up quarantine camps in 63 localities to prevent the spread of Covid-19.The Deputy Commissioner, Shivdular Singh Dhillon, said the camps would be set up in those localities that house a significant number of homeless and migrants and would provide boarding and lodging facilities. Some of the finalised localities include Hari Pura, Kishan Kot, four localities outside Lohgarh Gate, three localities outside Lahori Gate, Guru Nanak Pura, Guru Arjan Nagar, Maqbool Pura, Gawal Mandi, Annagarh, Jagdamba Colony, Gurbaksh Magar, Sunder Nagar and Vijay Nagar.Ward-level teams formed by the Municipal Corporation would provide food, water and other essential commodities to the people at quarantine centres. The administration has appointed nodal officers and zonal officers to supervise the camps. The Commissioner of the Municipal Corporation, Komal Mittal, would be the overall in-charge of the quarantine centres.SGPC offers inns for government medical staffAfter the paramedical nurses and supporting staff of the Government Medical College protested against the mismanagement and scarcity of accommodation, the SGPC today spared Mata Bhag Kaur Niwas for the same.SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal said the doctors and nurses who have been performing their duty round-the-clock to take care of Covid-19 patients could stay at our inn.“We have already prepared the rooms that would exclusively be for the on-duty medical staff. Besides, we have also made arrangement for their food,” he said.The SGPC has spared 300 beds and 10 ventilators which could be utilised in case of any emergent situation at Sir Guru Ram Das Medical College and Hospital. It had also offered inns to accommodate Covid-19 suspected persons under quarantine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/quarantine-camps-to-be-set-up-in-63-localities-66370
06-04-2020||---||Five patients shifted to private hospital from GMC||Amritsar, April 5At least five coronavirus positive patients, admitted to the Government Medical College here, were shifted to Fortis Escorts, a private hospital, here on Sunday.The families of these patients were apprehensive that they would not get proper treatment at the government hospital, after which they approached the senior state functionaries.Those shifted include deceased Ragi Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa’s aunt, his associate in the jattha Darshan Singh, Darshan’s wife, son and grandson.Earlier, in a phone call to his son hours before his death, Nirmal Singh had alleged lack of proper treatment. A recording of the same was later circulated widely on social media and people blamed the government for the lack of treatment facilities. On Sunday, Darshan Singh, too, made a similar statement and recording of the same was also widely circulated.Even before the current crisis, the general public had lost faith in the government health facilities. Most people prefer treatment at private hospitals and clinics even if they are costly.The district has so far reported eight positive cases and one death (Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa). The wife of Jaura Fatak-based tailor, who is a positive case, too, has tested positive. However, her confirmatory test reports are still awaited. The tailor had no history of foreign visit but had admitted to have known Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa. However, he had stated that he had not met Khalsa for a long time.Civil Surgeon DR Prabhdeep Kaur confirmed the development and said if the family members of the remaining patients too made such a demand, it would be considered. She said: “The government is fully equipped to deal with the situation. However, it is still not clear that the expenses at the private hospital will be borne by the government or the patient himself.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/five-patients-shifted-to-private-hospital-from-gmc-66369
