07-04-2020||Tarn Taran||Scribe booked for fraud||Debt-ridden farmer ends lifeTarn Taran: A mentally disturbed and debt-ridden farmer, Gulab Singh (54) of Raspulpur village, committed suicide by consuming some poisonous substance at his native village. The deceased consumed the poisonous substance on Saturday and was admitted to a private hospital and died after he was discharged from the hospital. Relatives of the deceased said Gulab was under debt and was disturbed over decreasing source of income amid the Covid-19 pandemic. He was also disturbed due to some family tensions among his daughters and their in-laws. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/scribe-booked-for-fraud-66843
07-04-2020||Amritsar||‘Covid leaves Indian students stranded in foreign countries’||Amid the coronavirus pandemic, Indian students studying overseas on student visas are undergoing hardships and are at the receiving end due to lockdown in Australia, USA and other countries, said Congress leader MK Sharma in a communiqué to Minister of External Affairs Subrahmanyam Jaishankar.“Indians are doing their level best to control the spread of the pandemic,” he said. He said there was an urgent need to think about Indian youth studying at foreign colleges and universities.Lakhs of youth are studying in countries including Canada, USA, Australia and European countries on student visa. A majority of these countries were focusing on safeguarding their own citizens and announced that visitors and international students may go back to their respective countries, he said. The Ministry of External Affairs should chalk out a plan for the safety and protection of these students.He claimed that he had spoken to many students there and found that due to the lockdown, they were not getting work and facing a tough time in meeting their expenses. Moreover, it’s not possible for them to come back to their native country. He said the government must take a note of the plight of these students and collect feedback from Indian embassies stationed at the capitals of these countries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-leaves-indian-students-stranded-in-foreign-countries-66841
07-04-2020||---||DTF opposes move to deliver ration at homes of students||Amritsar, April 6After the government asked teachers to deliver ration at students’ homes, members of the Democratic Teachers Front (DTF) opposed the move. DTF president Davinder Singh Punia said teachers were asked to deliver grains to the houses of each student. Terming it an exercise in vain, he said he feared that teachers could also catch coronavirus infection due to this practise.DTF district president Ashwani Kumar Awasthi said the government was unable to release scholarship to students coming from SC, ST, backward classes, minorities and impoverished background. On the other hand, it was keen to provide ration to students, he said. They called upon the government to take back its decision.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dtf-opposes-move-to-deliver-ration-at-homes-of-students-66840
07-04-2020||Amritsar||Four booked in firing incident||The police have booked four persons in connection with a firing incident in which two persons, including Jania village sarpanch Sikanderbir Singh, were injured on Sunday.Though villagers had nabbed two persons who are wanted in a couple of cases, including that of murder bid, the police said they were yet to be arrested officially as they were admitted to hospital. The police said the suspects would be arrested when doctors declared them fit.The suspects have been identified as Sukhwinder Singh, alias Kudda, Kishan Singh, alias Kishan, Gurpeet Singh and Joban, all residents of the same village.Sukhwinder and Kishan were nabbed by villagers on the spot. Besides attempt to murder, they were booked for violating the curfew restrictions.According to information, residents had installed a naka on the outskirts of Jania village to restrict the entry of outsiders in view of the Covid pandemic. They stopped Gurpreet and Joban from entering the village. On this, they got enraged and started abusive language against the villagers at the naka.Sarpanch Sikanderbir Singh was also there. Thereafter, the suspects called their accomplices Kudda and Kishan, who came on a bike. After getting information, a patrolling police party also reached the spot. Jandiala DSP Gurinderbir Sidhu said on seeing the police party and people, the suspects tried to escape from the spot, but their bike slipped. Finding themselves surrounded, the two of the suspects shot several gun shots, which hit Sikander and Sahib Singh. Thereafter, the villagers nabbed them and handed over to the police.3 prisoners booked for assaultTwo prisoners were booked after they attacked an inmate inside the jail complex here on Sunday. The suspects were identified as Harpreet Singh of Ekroop Coloy and Sahil of Kirpal Colony.The jail authorities confiscated an iron pipe and a piece of iron from their possession. Balwinder Singh, Assistant Superintendent, Central Jail, said the duo had an old enmity with the victim. He said finding an opportunity on Sunday, Harpreet attacked Ravinder Singh, leaving him injured.Meanwhile in another incident, the jail staff confiscated an iron grill from Daljit Singh, alias Rajbir Singh, of East Gobind Nagar in the Sultanwind road area here. Officials said the inmate broke an iron grill and attacked a prisoner, identified as Surinder Singh. Two separate cases under Section 52 of the Prisons Act were registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/four-booked-in-firing-incident-66837
07-04-2020||Amritsar||Heavy rain, hailstorm worry farmers||The district received heavy rain and hailstorms late on Sunday evening, resulting in panic among farmers, who are readying for the harvest of the wheat crop. Farmers said they were waiting for the government to begin procurement of wheat. “The crop is fully ripened. It will be ready for harvest by the next week. The hailstorm has will result in lower yield as grains get washed down from the platns,” said Jagseer Singh, a farmer.Vegetable growers are worried that crops such as watermelon, muskmelon and cucumber that require less irrigation would get heavily affected from the Sunday’s rain. Kuljit Singh, a farmer from Malawali village, said: “Hailstones were quite big and continued falling for almost 10 minutes.” He said small vegetables directly hit by the high-velocity hailstones have suffered heavy damage. He said farmers are already worried about how to manage the required labour during the harvest as the government has been asking the people to maintain social distance. — TNSWheat crop hit in Tarn TaranTarn Taran: Wheat crop on thousands of acres in the district suffered heavy damage from hailstorm and high-velocity winds late on Sunday night. Bhikhiwind and Chohla Sahib were the worst-hit blocks. According to information, Chohla Sahib, Pakhopura, Munda Pind, Karmunwala, Gharka and Rattoke villages in the Chohla Sahib block and Veeram, Pahuwind, Poohla and Sur Singh villages in the Bhikhiwind block were affected the most.According to a report prepared by Chief Agriculture Officer Kuljit Singh, some villages such as Chohla Sahib, Gujarpura, Gharka, Pakhopura and Mundapind have suffered 100 per cent damage. Singh said the report would be forwarded to the district administration. Kanwalpret Singh Pannu, the state convener of the Kisan Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, has sought compensation for the farmers. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/heavy-rain-hailstorm-worry-farmers-66836
07-04-2020||Amritsar||Impoverished families claim being left out||People from impoverished families, residing in slum localities and industrial areas, claim they were not receiving ration released by the government.They alleged that ward leaders preferred their party workers over others. They said those residents who have political links were supplying ration to their party workers and sympathisers thereby ignoring their needs.Anil, who earns livelihood by whitewashing, said he was unable to earn after the imposition of the curfew. Scared, people were reluctant to let outsiders enter their homes in the present circumstances, he said.A resident of Inderpuri, he said he came to know of a mohalla leader distributing supplies to their favourites in the locality. He said his locality leader had direct access to influential leaders and people also approach him at the time of disputes in their families and neighbourhood.Ramesh Kumar, a resident of Dhapai, said he earned a living by working as an artisan at a power loom. He said he is paid per metre cloth manufactured. Since the power loom was closed immediately after the announcement of the lockdown, his earning had come to a naught.Rajesh Honey, former president of the district unit of the BJP, accused the Congress leaders of ignoring families aligned with the saffron party, Akali Dal, Left and AAP while distributing ration supplies. He said the Congress party workers and even sympathisers were preferred instead.He said such complaints were constantly pouring in including the one from Muslimganj, Mustafabad and other areas of the city.He said his party leaders were getting meals cooked and distributing it among the needy on their doorstep.He said BJP district president Suresh Mahajan, with the assistance of the management of Shivala, was distributing meals, while his other party leader from Chheharta area Manish was distributing meals in his area. Rajesh had engaged six staff members in cooking meals and distributing it in different localities for the past 11 days.Amarjit Singh Asal, a Left leader, said people stuck in focal points and other industrial areas were those who were waiting for ration supply. He hit out at those living in slums and hoarding ration without sparing a thought for the needy in their neighbourhood. He condemned the attempts to play politics during corona pandemic.Jatinder Sonia, president of the District Congress Committee (urban), vociferously denied the allegations. She said the entire distribution of ration supply was transparent. She said the district administration approached SHOs, who further contacted councillors to identify those who were in need of ration in their areas. Councillors make lists and beat officers cross-check it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/impoverished-families-claim-being-left-out-66832
07-04-2020||Amritsar||Amritsar residents seal entry points to keep virus at bay||Amid the rising Covid threat, many city residents are sealing their areas and barring entry of outsiders by installing makeshift barricades. They rue that people were not following the curfew guidelines seriously and were continuing to defy the restrictions despite repeated notifications by the government and the administration.District Development and Panchayat Officer Gurpreet Singh Gill said people from rural areas were religiously adhering to the call of curfew to stop the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. He said out of 840 villages in the district 250 villages had isolated themselves. He said youth squads from these villages had sealed the entry and exit points of their villages and medicines and fodder in these villages were supplied by the police.Fatehgarh Sukkarchak village Sarpanch Pardeep Singh Ladda said two vegetable vendors and a fruit vendor had been permitted to sell their merchandise in a village. Several committees have been formed at village-level to effectively implement isolation of the areas.Civil Surgeon Dr Prabhdeep Kaur Johal said people related to essential services and jobs should strictly abide by precautionary measures recommended to avoid any infection. “People must practice social distancing at their offices and shops,” she said adding that it should be practiced at essential items’ shops, banks and other such public places to prevent the spread of the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-residents-seal-entry-points-to-keep-virus-at-bay-66830
07-04-2020||Amritsar||Sanitation workers honoured for their services in tough times||Acknowledging their services in this time of crisis, members of the Mohalla Sudhar Welfare Committee and police personnel on Monday honoured sanitation workers with garlands made from currency notes.Sanitation workers have been collecting garbage from several wards.Distributing free ration to them, the members clapped for them. “We have never been recognised for our efforts like this before. It felt good to earn respect as we too have been working round the clock along with several other professionals during the curfew,” said Rajbir Singh, a sanitation worker of the MC. He said they had been given masks and gloves by the department for their safety while working.Raman Malhotra, president, Mohalla Sudhar Welfare Society, said their volunteers had been visiting several localities to distribute essential items among workers who collect garbage. They work hard to serve society.Kot Khalsa SHO to get special award for serving deprivedThe state government has announced a special award for policemen who have come forth and have been serving the deprived by going beyond the call of duty during the curfew imposed to contain the spread of coronavirus.Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill on Monday said DGP Dinkar Gupta had selected Kot Khalsa SHO Sanjiv Kumar for the award for his services during the curfew. The SHO was even riding a rickshaw to supply food to the deprived in slums of the Kot Khalsa area. The Police Commissioner said such awards would motivate the policemen for continuing the yeoman services with more zeal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sanitation-workers-honoured-for-their-services-in-tough-times-66829
07-04-2020||Amritsar||Amritsar medical college orders 5,000 PPE kits||Lok Sabha member Gurjit Singh Aujla visited the hospital and interacted with employees to mitigate the fears of health employees working at Government Medical College, who complained of the non-availability of face masks, sanitisers and PPE kits.Aujla said an order for 5,000 PPE kits has been placed and it would be made available within one or two days. He said all employees — doctors, nurses, paramedics — working at isolation and emergency wards would be provided with the safety gear.“It is only after the tests are conducted, that we get to know that a patient is positive or negative. The fears of medical staff are genuine and will be addressed,” he said.As the employees of different cadres were raising their issues, a female employee asked the MP to refrain his party’s MLAs and minister from getting duties of some people cancelled. Earlier too, it had been reported that ‘resourceful’ employees were trying to stay away from duties during the present crisis and contractual or junior staff were managing the affairs.Aujla said a fair duty roaster would be prepared, wherein all employees would have rotational duties. Addressing the contractual nurses who are at the forefront of medical emergency and have been earlier denied N95 masks and PPE kits, Aujla said, “After the crisis is over, I will personally take up their permanent employment issue with the government and ensure that their services are regularised.”On the questions being raised upon the sincerity of the management, despite the government allocating funds in purchasing enough masks and PPE kits, Aujla said earlier procurement procedure was cumbersome and it resulted in some delays.The general public’s faith in government hospital had gone down with deceased Hazoori Ragi Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa and other patients’ audio recording regarding the treatment they received, which came out in public domain. At least five patients had yesterday preferred treatment at a private hospital instead of GMC. Now, it remains to be seen if the government will be successful in winning the trust of the general public or not.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-medical-college-orders-5-000-ppe-kits-66828
