08-04-2020||Tarn Taran||Youth dies of drug overdose||UK, USA plan special flightsAmritsar: The USA and the UK governments have arranged two special flights for their nationals of Indian origin to take them back to the countries. Shivdular Singh Dhillon, Deputy Commissioner, said embassies of these countries arranged two flights to evacuate 300 Britons and the Americans. These flights will take off to Delhi from where they will board different flights to their countries. TNSDrones watching Curfew violatorsTarn Taran: The police on Sunday started the use of drones to check curfew violations in the district. Deputy Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal said the district police keeping in view the ongoing curfew violation on a large scale had sought the permission to use drones to keep a watch on curfew violators. The police operated drones in Patti and Bhikhiwind towns today. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youth-dies-of-drug-overdose-67017
08-04-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||‘Aware of risk involved, but someone has to remove garbage from roads’||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 7Angrej Singh, a sanitation worker of the Municipal Corporation (MC) from Chheharta, removes garbage piled up in streets and roads with the help of his tractor trolley. He, along with three other persons, is responsible for the cleanliness of roads and streets in Zone 6 of the area.Angrej Singh, MC sanitation workerMy family is worried about my health. I deal with garbage daily. Even authorities have imposed a curfew outside. My son told me that if you get infected, then the entire family will be infected. I am aware about the risk involved but someone has to remove garbage from roads, so I am here. We are doing our best and have trust in god that everything will get normal soon.Angrej starts off his work at 8:30 am by visiting all streets and roads in his area. The pandemic made his work more hectic, as everyone is now concerned about hygiene. "Generally, we make one round of dumping ground at Bhagtanwala to dump the trolley of garbage collected from roads. But after the pandemic, officials have told that cleanliness is the only prevention of stopping its spread. So, we have decided to contribute more hours to clean the city. Now, we are working for seven to eight hours and make three rounds to the dumping ground," he said.Despite all odds, Angrej is working amid Covid-19 threat without fail despite opposition by his family members. "My family members are worried about my health. I deal with garbage daily. Even the authorities have imposed a curfew outside. My son told me that if you get infected, then the entire family will be infected. I am aware about the risk involved but someone has to remove the garbage from roads, so I am here. We are doing our best and have trust in god that everything would get normal soon," said Angrej Singh."We have all safety equipment which is required to deal with garbage. Residents, NGOs and the government are supporting and have provided us with the masks, gloves and sanitisers. People are recognising our services in this situation. The government should provide insurance cover to all sanitation worker," he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/aware-of-risk-involved-but-someone-has-to-remove-garbage-from-roads-67013
08-04-2020||PK Jaiswar||A blessing in disguise for author Dev Dard||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 7“For the past many years, I have been shuffling around the activities of my school and in Janvadi Lekhak Sangh programmes. This lockdown has come as a blessing in disguise for me, as I have found time for my hobbies,” says Dev Dard, managing director of a private school in Islamabad area, who is also a noted Punjabi author.Dev Dard, noted Punjabi author, numismatistIn the past two weeks, I have categorised the coins as per their era. The period also gave me time for my cacti collection. I had a collection of around 1,000 cacti, which has sadly reduced to only around 400. I wish to maintain the same. During the period, I did grafting of cacti plants, which gave me immense satisfaction.RsHe is a numismatist and has an innumerable collection of coins. He is an ardent lover of cacti plants and an antique collector as well.“I was hardly finding time for my hobbies as various activities in my school and programmes of the organisation kept me busy. Besides, I am also a part of a programme for a Canada-based Radio — Punjabi Duniya, based on history and heritage, that demands a lot of research,” he said.Dard has six galleries of historic coins, antiques and hand-written manuscripts on the school premises apart from a few in the house.“In the past two weeks, I have categorised the coins as per their period, including Mughal era, Durrani dynasty, Sikh period,” he said, adding that he also cleaned and maintained the antique galleries.He claims he has a collection of lakhs of coins, which is apparently one of the largest in the country. Besides, he also has a proud collection of Tad Patra (hand-written) manuscripts, which he claimed is the largest in the northern part of the country. He also has a collection of Indian Folk Art such as nakkashi or metal embossing.“The period also gave me time for my cacti collection. I had a collection of around 1,000 cacti, which has sadly reduced to only around 400. I wish to maintain the same. During the period, I did grafting of cacti plants, which gave me immense satisfaction,” he pointed out.“Of course I also spent time with my family, which was missing in the recent past. I wake up around 4am and it allows me to spend enough time with my family,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/a-blessing-in-disguise-for-author-dev-dard-67012
08-04-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Jan Dhan a/c holders in Amritsar queue up outside banks||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 7Not caring two hoots about social distancing enforced to prevent the spread of Covid-19, a large number of women Jan Dhan account holders were seen lined up in front of bank branches to withdraw money on Tuesday.They came out of their homes after learning that Rs500 had been credited to the account of Women Jan Dhan account holders.Branches of banks did not deploy any officials to at least direct the account holders to follow the social-distancing norm.As a precaution, gates of banks were closed and its holders were let in only after duly carrying out the checks of banking documents and availability of funds in the accounts. The rest of them were informed to wait for the funds to arrive.Bank officials said Women Jan Dhan accounts were being issued Rs500 under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY) in view of the ongoing 21-day countrywide lockdown. They said there were more than 20.39 crore account holders under this category and it would take some time for the amount to reach in each account.Meanwhile, corona related death of Jaswinder Singh, a retired Superintendent Engineer of the Municipal Corporation and refusal of his family to accept his body caused panic among residents.Consequently, less number of people and movement of vehicles could be seen on the road as compared to Monday.People took utmost precaution to remain indoors. Police officials were seen deployed at crosses and intersections, keeping a watch on curfew violation.Meanwhile, residents of Guru Teg Bahadur Nagar, Mall Mandi area, were irked at the government for not taking note of garbage lifting in localities. They showed non-lifted heaps of garbage during the pandemic.Parminder Singh, Vinay Aggarwal and Bittu Walia, all residents of the locality, said the Improvement Trust established residential locality was nobody’s baby. They said neither the Trust nor the MC employees ever came to lift the garbage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jan-dhan-a-c-holders-in-amritsar-queue-up-outside-banks-67011
08-04-2020||Amritsar||Woman accuses cops of decamping with cash||A woman has accused three cops of thrashing her and decamping with cash and jewellery from her house in Mata Ganga Ji Nagar locality on Tarn Taran Road falling under the Sultanwind police station here.The police station officials said a report was being prepared and would be submitted to higher authorities for further necessary action.The CCTV camera footage has also come to light in which cops were seen entering the house when the woman identified as Sandeep Kaur refused to open the door.Sandeep said the accused manhandled and dragged her on the floor. She said several days ago, the Sultanwind police had booked her husband Kuldeep Singh, two sons Daljit Singh and Baljit Singh on murder bid charges. She said while the court granted bail to Daljit Singh, her husband and Baljit were still at large.She said the police usually visit their house to find them. But she always told them that she did not know their whereabouts. She said on Sunday around 7am, three cops came outside her house and repeatedly knocked at the door. When she did not open the door, the cops jumped from the wall to gain entry into the house. She alleged that they threatened her and asked her to convince the duo to surrender before the police.She said the accused opened the almirah and took out Rs60,000 cash and gold ornaments from the house. She said when she tried to raise an alarm, the accused thrashed her and fled from the spot. She even accused the officials of Kot Mit Singh police of inaction. She said they threatened her and asked to lodge an FIR against unidentified persons.Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill said the matter was being probed and appropriate action would be taken in this connection. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-accuses-cops-of-decamping-with-cash-67010
08-04-2020||---||Junior doctors, nurses in Amritsar confront Cabinet Minister OP Soni||Amritsar, April 7Junior doctors and other employees confronted Medical Education and Research Minister Om Parkash Soni, after he paid a visit to the Government Medical College on Tuesday.Om Parkash Soni, Medical Education and Research MinisterWhy are we holding these long meetings if we are not serious? We are very much serious and making all efforts to streamline things. The employees’ union should stand with the hospital in fighting the problem at this time.Earlier, he held a meeting with Principal Secretary DK Tiwari, Lok Sabha member Gurjit Aujla and other senior functionaries of the Health Department. When Soni visited the college after the meeting, the representatives of various cadres were ready with their demands.As Soni equated junior residents to soldiers fighting the enemy, a junior resident quipped by saying that at least soldiers have equipment while they were fighting this battle bare-handed. The doctors also accused the senior doctors of staying away from seeing patients saying only junior doctors were exposed to the threat.Nurses also said arrangements for their stay should be made near the hospital, as when they visit their homes, they expose their children and elderly parents to the threat. They said if they do not have to go home during the emergency at least their families would stay safe.The representatives of Class IV workers and other sections also demanded safety equipment. Soni said all efforts were being made to ensure the safety of the employees and proper treatment for patients. He said safety kits were being provided to all.Taking to the employee union leaders, Soni said he, too, was a politician but this was not the time for politics. “Why are we holding these long meetings if we are not serious? We are very much serious and making all efforts to streamline things. The employees’ union at this time should stand with hospital in fighting the problem,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/junior-doctors-nurses-in-amritsar-confront-cabinet-minister-op-soni-67009
