11-04-2020||---||NGO requests Prasar Bharati to telecast academic programmes||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 10After reports that several private higher educational institutions have requested DTH service providers to telecast study material, city-based educator Kulwant Singh Ankhi has urged the authorities to adopt a similar approach in the state.Ankhi, who is also the patron of an NGO, Amritsar Vikas Manch, has written to the Director General, Doordarshan, and officials of Prasar Bharati in this regard. He has requested them to start telecasting programmes related to the syllabus of all classes for the lockdown period. He said most private and some government schools have begun online teaching, but many students are facing issues as their families are unable to buy them smartphones."The e-classes are being held through various applications and tools, but not all parents have the money to buy their children smartphones. The exposure of primary and middle class students to smartphones will affect their health," he said.He added that channels such as DD Bio Science, DD Economics, DD Chemical Engineering, DD Social Sciences, DD Mathematics, DD Physics, DD Chemistry, DD Higher Secondary and a private channel, TV School, telecast programmes on general studies. “But the content is not in line with NCERT books, which are taught in all schools across the country.”He said as several schools in many states aren’t affliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education, a separate channel for each board be started to cover all students across the country.Meanwhile, the District Education Office is already exploring the option of televised classes for schools affiliated to the Punjab School Education Board as a survey is being carried out to solicit suggestions from students. “The survey is being conducted to know the feasibility of such a plan. If most students watch the televised classes, it will definitely have better reach and results,” said Rekha Mahajan, Deputy District Education Officer, Amritsar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ngo-requests-prasar-bharati-to-telecast-academic-programmes-69701
11-04-2020||Neha Saini||Defying odds, they deliver essential items on doorstep||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 10Surinder Bhatia and his partners, who run a grocery store in the Lawrance Road area, have been working under the Covid crisis and facing challenges to deliver items on the doorstep. They have been doing it ever since the lockdown was announced.As most of the cities face demand-supply chain disruptions for essential service due to the lockdown, neighbourhood grocery stores have turned primary service providers. But that comes at a cost. “Every day, we have been exposing ourselves to the risk of infection as we have been delivering goods on the doorstep of residents for 15 to 20 times. It is not just the risk of infection, but insensitive behavior that people have towards us, may be due to the fear of Covid,” said Surinder. The 52-year-old runs the store and delivers items, along with his son Rajat Bhalla (30) and Ashu Sharma (34), who manages the store.“We open our store at 7 am and start providing items on the doorstep till 2 pm. In the evening, we work from 4 pm to 6 pm. We have been working with minimal staff,” said Ashu.Subjected to insensitive behaviour at times, Surinder said, “People throw money at us to avoid any contact when we deliver items. No one asks for even water. It is rude, but what can we do? We have been doing our duty and its okay as they are scared.”He added that they have been skipping lunch daily due to the home delivery business. “The business has halved while our efforts have maximised. It is a tough time for our business,” he said.“We have made sure that we do not have a stock shortage. We get orders from across the city and from people, including elders who are in need. So, we do not skip or cancel deliveries from our side. We also give the option of paying later for the delivery,” said Ashu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/defying-odds-they-deliver-essential-items-on-doorstep-69700
11-04-2020||---||90 percent city sanitised: Mayor||Amritsar, April 10The Municipal Corporation is constantly spraying sanitisers to protect residents from the spread of coronavirus, claimed city Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu here on Thursday. He said fire tenders were put into service to spray sanitisers at all 85 wards of Amritsar city and now, these were spraying sodium hypochlorite solution in residential colonies to prevent the spread of coronavirus."Two persons have been deployed in each ward and they are spraying the solution with spray pumps in narrow streets. 90 per cent sanitation work is complete and the remaining will be completed soon," the Mayor said.Rintu expressed his satisfaction over the work being conducted by the MC staff. He said a team of health wing, including Dr Yogesh and Dr Ajay Kumar, under the leadership of Commissioner Komal Mittal, has been working round the clock for sanitation."For the first 10 days, our teams were working in two shifts. Spraying work started from 6 am till 10 pm. Sanitary Inspector and Chief Sanitary Inspector have also made a big contribution towards carrying out the work. People are being made aware of the spread and prevention of coronavirus. They are being asked to stay indoors. Our efforts will be beneficial only if people stay inside their homes," Rintu said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/90-percent-city-sanitised-mayor-69699
11-04-2020||---||Public places to be sanitised regularly||Amritsar, April 10Continuing with their drive to sanitise public buildings and places, the authorities sanitised the Guru Nanak Dev Hospital premises on Friday. Dinesh Bassi, Chairman, Amritsar Improvement Trust, and MP Gurjeet Aujla visited the hospital to check the facilities and arrangements in isolation wards.Aujla said protective gear and equipment were being given to the hospital staff and health workers who were attending Covid patients.Besides, the MP said the sanitation drive would be carried out after every three-four days in the hospital and public places. “Since there are Covid patients in the isolation wards of the hospital, every protocol and procedure is being followed to keep the doctors and health staff safe. The sanitation drive is carried out to ensure that patients who visit OPDs for the emergency services do not get exposed to the risk of infection. Ventilators have been arranged for patients,” he said, adding that people must comply with the lockdown restrictions and stay indoors.“The government is trying to protect people. All essential services are being provided on the doorstep. The Chief Minister has announced extension of curfew till April 30 and the people must obey it and stay safe,” said Bassi.Meanwhile, the SGPC also carried out a sanitation drive by spraying sodium hydrochloride at various places that come under its jurisdiction.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/public-places-to-be-sanitised-regularly-69698
11-04-2020||---||Release salary of health  staff, cops: Chhina to government||Amritsar, April 10Senior BJP leader Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina on Friday hit out at the state government for not releasing the salaries of the health workers and police personnel on time. He said these employees were frontline warriors, fighting a tough battle against the coronavirus.He said instead of encouraging them in tough times, the state government was holding their salaries of the last month. He made an appeal to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to release the salary of the staff as the denial of the same would demoralise them.He said the staff, fighting deadly Covid-19, were risking their lives and those of their families and we all are duty bound to help them but the state government is dithering away from even its basic obligation. He also took a dig at Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal who publicly stated that the government was not spending money to help poor people as there were enough donations available for them from public.“Is the state government being run on the donations received from people. Besides donations, the government is duty bound to spend the earmarked money for poor sections of society,” said Chhina, adding that the CM must intervene and put his house in order as such statements were demoralising and speak volumes for the government’s neglect.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/release-salary-of-health-staff-cops-chhina-to-government-69697
11-04-2020||Amritsar||Police take out flag march in Lohgarh||With cases of Covid-19 due to alleged community spread being reported, the city police took out a flag march in the Lohgarh area of the walled city here on Friday.The police teams were headed by Deputy Commissioner of Police Jagmohan Singh. He said the aim of the flag march was to stop people from stepping out of their houses. It was seen that people came out of their houses and roamed streets and sat in clusters while children were witnessed playing in the streets.“As the fear of community spread is increasing, we urge the people to stay indoors and stay safe. Stern action would be taken in case anyone is found roaming on roads and streets without any valid reason,” said the DCP. He said if the people would continue to step out of their homes unnecessarily, the purpose of curfew imposed by the Punjab government would be defeated.He said till now around 150 cases were registered by the city police for traffic violations. As many as 46 persons were arrested in the city and in its rural areas for allegedly violating curfew restrictions. They were later released on bail.According to information, the rural police arrested 26 persons in 19 cases of curfew violations and 16 vehicles were impounded while the city police apprehended around 20 persons under the similar offence on Thursday.The police and the district administration have tightened the noose and even did not allow vegetable and fruit vendors to move on the main roads. They were found selling vegetables and fruits only in streets. Another aspect that cropped up during curfew restrictions was that many persons who were involved in other professions had started selling vegetables. Meanwhile, DCP Jagmohan distributed dry ration to around 150 persons near the Gate Khazana area here. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-take-out-flag-march-in-lohgarh-69696
11-04-2020||Amritsar||Give insurance cover: Chemists||The Punjab Chemists’ Association has urged the Punjab Government for providing insurance cover to chemists under the Central Government scheme for health staff, including doctors, nurses and paramedical, who treat Covid patients. Earlier, the association had also appealed the Prime Minister for the same.Association president Surinder Duggal on Friday cited a letter of state Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal and pointed out that there were 24,500 chemists in the state along with other staff serving the state by supplying medicine to people under high risk conditions. He said these people are on potential risk of contracting Covid-19 infection.He said there were around 8.5 lakh chemists in the nation, along with their staff, who were serving the nation in this hour of crisis by supplying medicines to people on the doorstep. The association requested the government for providing insurance cover to registered chemists of the border state along with their staff with immediate effect. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/give-insurance-cover-chemists-69695
11-04-2020||Amritsar||Many throwing precautions to wind||The social distancing norm, which is adopted to prevent the spread of the coronavirus, is not being complied with properly by two-wheelers as one can see pillion riders on them in the city. Similarly, customers and shopkeepers hardly follow the norm. Kulwant Singh Ankhi, a social worker, said social distancing was not being followed religiously in the town.One can easily witness violation of the social distancing norm by many residents. A majority of the two-wheelers were seen having double and even triple persons sitting behind them. “Most of them are youngsters. They have not taken the issue seriously, which could pose a threat to lives.”Ankhi said as their families failed to make their young wards to follow the norm, the government must prevail on bikers and motorists to adhere to the norm.Kanwar Pal Singh Bittu, spokesperson for the Dal Khalsa, said to contain the spread of the pandemic, there was a need to strictly maintain social distancing, besides testing labs, ventilators and other equipment to fight Covid-19.Similarly, protection of health workers, nurses and doctors, who are on the frontline to fight the deadly virus, is another area of concern as the lack of PPE kits has created fear in health workers and society. Customers and shopkeepers hardly follow the norm at the Vallah vegetable and fruit market and grain markets like Daal Mandi, Atta Mandi, Swank Mandi and others. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/many-throwing-precautions-to-wind-69694
11-04-2020||---||SGPC distributes safety kits among mediapersons||Amritsar, April 10Amid the coronavirus threat, the SGPC distributed safety kits, including sanitisers, gloves and masks, among mediapersons here on Thursday. SGPC vice-president Rajinder Singh Mehta said, "Like police personnel, doctors, medical staff and mediapersons have been risking their lives by performing their duties in the field. The mediapersons have been apprising the people at home of developments during the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of Covid. It was a small gesture from the SGPC to recognise their services by provided them safety kits." he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-distributes-safety-kits-among-mediapersons-69693
11-04-2020||---||Ahead of harvesting season, farmers get relaxation in curfew||Tarn Taran, April 10Amid the ongoing lockdown and speculations that it might be extended, the district administration has given relaxation in the ongoing curfew to farmers and farm labourers for wheat harvesting.The farmers and farm labourers can work in fields from 8 am to 6 pm. The administration has also allowed shops of agricultural machinery's spare parts to operate in the day. The relaxation has also been given to combine harvester operators and mechanics.As a large number of combine harvester operators move to Rajasthan and other states for harvesting wheat crop, the administration has also asked such operators to contact block agricultural officers in their areas.DC Pardeep Sabarwal said the state government had given passes to 447 combine harvester operators in this regard. He said more passes would be issued if operators demand these.The DC added that efforts were being made to ensure social distancing when wheat produce would reach the grain market. He said as compared to 59 procurement centres in the district, the administration had planned to double the number of grain markets.Sabarwal said sanitisated tunnels were being prepared in eight big grain markets in the district so that everyone entering the market could be disinfected. He said the procurement of wheat would start from April 15 and all arrangements would be completed by that time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ahead-of-harvesting-season-farmers-get-relaxation-in-curfew-69692
11-04-2020||---||Councillor’s son among 3 hurt in clash||Amritsar, April 10Three persons, including son of woman councillor Shinder Kaur, were injured in a clash over the distribution of ration at Sultanwind village here on Friday. The injured were rushed to a hospital while police have started a probe into the incident.Those injured have been identified as Heera Singh, Raj Kaur and councillor’s son Satnam Singh.Perneet Dhillon, SHO, Sultanwind police station, said investigation was under way and appropriate action would be taken in this regard.Heera Singh told the police that they were short of ration for the past few days and similar was the story of several other residences in the area. He said for the past two days they had been calling the helpline for help.Heera said on Friday Satnam Singh, along with his supporters, reached his house and said that the ration was given to them and he wanted to probe it. He said Satnam forcibly tried to enter his house but they opposed to it. This led to a clash and stone pelting among them in which Satnam was also injured.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/councillors-son-among-3-hurt-in-clash-69691
11-04-2020||Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran: People shun social distancing at sabzi mandi||People don’t seem to be taking seriously the advice to maintain social distance as hundreds of vegetable growers, commission agents and consumers gathered at the sabzi mandi here on Friday.Around 1,000 persons visit the mandi on a daily basis. According to sources, around 500 vegetable growers from more than 25 villages of the area come here to sell vegetables to around 30 commission agents, who further sell these to nearly 500 retailers.Though some police personnel were deployed at the place, they appeared helpless in convincing the people to maintain social distance. One a few persons at the mandi were seen sporting masks.MK Sharma, a commission agent, said the policemen have been urging the people to maintain social distance, but the advice was not being taken seriously.SDM Rajnish Arora said the issue was already in his notice and he has issued “last warning” to the commission agents and other traders. He said if they continue violating the norms, the administration would divide the mandi into four parts to manage the huge crowd at the place and enforce norms to prevent the spread of Covid-19. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-people-shun-social-distancing-at-sabzi-mandi-69690
11-04-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Mass screening of residents from today||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 10The Municipal Corporation (MC) is going to start mass screening of residents with infrared thermometers from April 11 onwards. Initially, health wing teams would conduct the screening of two localities on Sultanwind Road with the help of ANM staff.The city Mayor, Karmajit Rintu, said, “We have chosen areas where deaths and Covid-19 cases have been reported. Under the pilot project, we will knock the doors of 11,000 houses and screen around 50,000 persons. Then, we will make a pan-city plan to screen all 12 lakh city residents.”The administration and MC officials believe that they might trace some positive cases during the screening process. The results of the screening would also help the administration to give relaxation in curfew and quarantine some specific areas. The administration had already quarantine some of the areas. The locality where Ragi Nirmal Singh used to reside and Krishna Nagar, where two positive case were found, would be priority of the administration“It is the better way to know the ground reality. Otherwise only those persons who came in contact with coronavirus positive patients are being screened and quarantined. We will get a micro plan tomorrow and screening would start on Sunday,” said a health official.Mayor Karmajit Singh Rintu stated that before the start of the screening, a training session of the ANM staff would be held tomorrow. The health wing teams would visit every door and check the body temperature and other symptoms of residents. The data would be prepared for further analysis.The MC has been gearing up for screening of all the residents. “The screening reports will help the administration to give curfew relaxation and quarantine some specific areas of the city,” said a health official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mass-screening-of-residents-from-today-69689
11-04-2020||Gurbaxpuri||Dr Karanjit Singh stays in touch with patients over phone||Tarn Taran, April 10Dr Karanjit Singh, who retired as Director, Health and Family Welfare, Punjab, two years ago and a child specialist, has been looking after his patients over phone during the curfew.These days, he wakes up at 5 am and after doing light exercises and taking care of kitchen garden, he goes for bath. Thereafter, he recites and listens to the Gurbani. He said he prays for the welfare of humanity at this time of crisis.“At 10 am, I start attending my patients over phone. I prescribe them medicines through video calling,” says Dr Karanjit. To beat boredom during the lockdown, he reads newspapers and medical journals. Besides, he writes for newspaper on medical subjects. Dr Karanjit also likes to read and write short stories.“One may agree or not, but the lockdown is not good for many, including labourers. But, it is safe to stay indoors at this time and I have made up my mind accordingly. I keep myself busy whole day. I help my wife in the kitchen and play carom board with her,” he said.His son and daughter-in-law, who are medical specialists, are settled in the US. He said, “Sometimes, we miss our children as they have been performing their duties in the hotbed of Covid. We encourage our children to serve the ailing patients. However, we are still worried for them as they treat patients in the ICU.” “As I am an amateur photographer, I like to click photos of chirping birds and flowers in my garden,” said Dr Karanjit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dr-karanjit-singh-stays-in-touch-with-patients-over-phone-69688
11-04-2020||---||Subdued Gurpurb festivities in Amritsar||Amritsar, April 10Amid the Covid threat, the SGPC has initiated ‘akhand path’ dedicated to the 400th anniversary of Guru Teg Bahadur at Gurdwara Guru Ke Mehal. The year-long occasion was started off in a subdued manner in the presence of a handful of officials.Earlier, it was on the agenda of the SGPC to mark the occasion that was scheduled for next year with fervour but it was cancelled in the wake of Covid.Devoid of sangat, those present on the occasion included SGPC senior vice-president Rajinder Singh Mehta, chief secretary Dr Roop Singh and eight other officials. Dr Roop Singh said the bhog of akhand path would be held on April 12.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/subdued-gurpurb-festivities-in-amritsar-69393
