13-04-2020||Amritsar||7 nabbed with heroin, weapon||Youth killed by brother-in-lawTarn Taran: Sukhchain Singh (22) of Mehndipur village was murdered by his brother-in-law (sister’s husband) at Asal Uttar village, 45 km from here, on Saturday night. The suspect, Harmesh Singh, has been booked under Section 302 of the IPC by the Valtoha police. According to the police, deceased Sukhchain, along with his father Chhabba Singh, had gone to see his sister and her husband, Harmesh Singh. Harmesh used objectionable words for his wife, to which Sukhchain objected. They entered into a fight and Harmesh attacked Sukhchain with a sharp-edged weapon, resulting in his death. The suspect fled the scene. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/7-nabbed-with-heroin-weapon-70335
13-04-2020||---||Blast suspect’s kin seek bail||Amritsar, April 12The family of Malkit Singh alias Shera, who was arrested in the Tarn Taran blast case, has sought interim bail for him from the Punjab and Haryana High Court.According to his family, Malkit is a patient of juvenile diabetes (diabetes mellitus type 1) and has been undergoing treatment for the past around seven years. At times, he has to remain in the ICU. They said Malkit had to undergo treatment at PGI Chandigarh and so they have requested the High Court to grant him interim bail.Malkit was arrested by the Punjab Police under the Explosive Substances Act. The blast had claimed two lives and injured one. The case is being investigated by National Investigative agency.Malkit’s brother Ravinder Singh alleged that the jail authorities were ignoring repeated directions of a trail court to give proper treatment to Malkit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/blast-suspects-kin-seek-bail-70334
13-04-2020||PK Jaiswar||He works 24X7 to keep people safe||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 12"Today, I am having my breakfast at 3.30pm. Now, you can guess how we are working round the clock and trying not only to keep people safe from the coronavirus but also provide relief material to needy persons," said Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) Sushil Kumar, who is a nodal officer of the drive against Covid launched by the police."I have been attending distress calls even at dead of night to provide any type of help to the caller," said the ACP, who is also the incharge of the rapid response team. "Whenever I get a call of any suspect, I have to arrange a medical team, along with a police team, to pick up the person for screening and put him in home quarantine or the isolation ward," he added.Being the nodal officer, he does all correspondence regarding Covid with the headquarters. Besides, he also has the responsibility of verifying the identification of air passengers."My team and I had verified the credentials of around 1.2 lakh air passengers so far. We have to prepare lists of local residents after looking into their travel history. Besides, we have to medically examine them when they arrive in the holy city," he said.The ACP also had the responsibility of two areas - Mohkampura and Vallah. He has been visiting door to door in the area to make people aware of the cornovirus. Apart from this, he looks into their grievances and needs. Recently, when a person in the Amarkot area tested positive, the entire area was contained so that people do not come out of their houses in the curfew."We started screening of around 638 houses having around 2,000 family members. On Sunday, we checked around 123 houses. We have to complete the screening in three days," he said, adding that they don't have the time for some rest.Since the curfew was imposed, he has been performing his duty round the clock. "When I go to sleep, I start planning for the next day's work. This is how it has been going these days. In the busy routine, I hardly find time to meet my family members. I reach home around midnight and leaves for the work around 7am," the ACP added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/he-works-24x7-to-keep-people-safe-70333
13-04-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Covid effect: Industrialists, traders stare at mounting losses||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 12Milkmen are a disturbed lot as they are not getting a lucrative price for milk in the city. Following the lockdown, the dairies are closed. The milkmen from nearby villages, who used to sell them milk, are not getting customers. Even if they get customers, they are not getting a profitable price.Davinder Singh, a milkman, said, “We used to collect 400 litres of milk from my village and sell it to three separate dairies in the city. I used to sell milk having 5 per cent fat content at Rs 40 a litre to the dairies. Now, all dairies are closed and no one is buying milk at this rate.”Some milkmen have started selling milk in streets but they have to compromise on price. Kuldeep Singh, a resident of Nangali village, said, “We park our vehicles on the roadside in colonies and call residents for milk. We get customers but they do not pay more than Rs 30 a litre. We are paying between Rs 22 and Rs 30 to farmers in the village. Our profit margins have come down during the lockdown. Even we have reduced the collection of milk from milk farmers as we do not have a market.”Milk farmers in villages are also facing a tough time during the curfew. They are not getting cattle feed and other products from the market. Even some farmers say that feed dealers are fleecing them. Moreover, milkmen are now getting their milk at less rates, say Rs 5 to Rs 10 less than what they used to get before the lockdown. Co-operative firms and private dairies are also not buying their milk.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-effect-industrialists-traders-stare-at-mounting-losses-70331
13-04-2020||---||Control room helps woman deliver baby||Amritsar, April 12The 24X7 dedicated control room set up to help people in distress during the ongoing curfew helped in saving life of a pregnant woman. The DC said she delivered a baby boy at a hospital. ADC Himanshu Aggarwal said a person called up the control room and gave information about a pregnant woman in need of medical help. He said the matter was brought to the notice of the Indian Medical Association which immediately arranged for medical services at a private hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/control-room-helps-woman-deliver-baby-70329
13-04-2020||Neha Saini||For this thespian, his treasure trove of books comes in handy||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 12Practising social distancing, thespian Kewal Dhaliwal has been spending time in the company of some classics. From reading Kumar Gandharwa to Kaalidas to Sohni Mahiwal, he spends his day ideally in his treasure trove - his library.“I feel it is time for some introspection. One should focus on how we can enrich ourselves before this crisis ends and we get back to our lives once again," he said. Dhaliwal has been reading Mughal history and theatre classics. His recent read includes Red Maize by Danesh Rana, an engaging read about Kashmir."I have decided to read about subjects that according to me have depth and inclined to stage productions. Reading is something everyone must invest in these times. We must learn a few things from the current crisis, including a change perspective and shift towards building a humanitarian and culturally-rich society. The Covid crisis should teach us humility and simplicity," he said.Amid concerns that theatre artistes and fraternity will suffer due to Covid, Dhaliwal, who is also the president of Punjab Sangeet Natak Akademi, said the government and cultural agencies would need to chalk out a plan after the crisis was over."I feel that this field, like many others, will need a relief package from the government. It is indeed a concern that the theatre community of artistes and production workers will find it hard to recover after it. Theatre is a mass medium but it still struggles to be a profitable medium as compared to the competitive entertainment industry. Besides, if the pandemic is over, people will still hesitate to come out and watch plays that too in large numbers, posing an economical stress on the fraternity. It is bread and butter for folk artistes, who will struggle to find an audience," he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/for-this-thespian-his-treasure-trove-of-books-comes-in-handy-70328
13-04-2020||---||One held for murder attempt, four booked||Amritsar, April 12One person was arrested while four others were booked on charges of murder bid after they attacked a youth over monetary dispute in the Krishna Nagar area falling under the Mohkampura police station here on Saturday.A case was registered following medical examination report and statement of mother of the victim identified as Manjinder Singh, alias Sonu.Those booked were identified as Daljit Singh, alias Jeeta, of Chaudhry Hari Singh Nagar, Bittu, Raju, Sanju and Sandeep. Daljit was arrested by the police.Surinder Kaur, the complainant, stated to the police that Manjinder had a monetary dispute with Daljit Singh. On Wednesday, he asked him to return his money which he lent to him. However, the accused refused to do so and entered into an argument with her son Manjinder. Surinder Kaur said she took her son inside the house and asked him not to enter into brawl.She alleged on Saturday when her son reached near Krishna Nagar street number 2, the accused attacked him with baseball bat and brutally thrashed him. She said she raised the alarm following which the accused fled away from the spot and she rushed her son to hospital for treatment.The police arrested Daljit Singh after investigation and booked his accomplices who were still on run. The police said the remaining suspects would be arrested soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-held-for-murder-attempt-four-booked-70327
13-04-2020||---||42 teams start screening of residents||Amritsar, April 12The district administration in collaboration with the Health Department and the Municipal Corporation on Sunday initiated the screening of residents in some areas where Covid-19 deaths were reported. A total of 42 teams have been formed for the purpose.Health wing teams visited residential colonies where Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa and former Superintending Engineer of MC Jaswinder Singh resided. The teams will identify the probable virus-affected people by checking their health condition.Lok Sabha MP Gurjit Singh Aujla, Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu, MLA Inderbir Singh Bularia, Deputy Commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon, Commissioner of Police Sukhchain Singh and other officials from the Jodh Nagari dispensary initiated the drive. The teams will conduct the screening 11,000 homes in Kangra Colony, Amarkot, Sundar Nagar, Antaryami Colony and Golden Avenue and it is likely to take three days.Speaking on the occasion, Lok Sabha MP Gurjit Singh Aujla thanked the district administration for its effort and said by checking the health of every resident of the area, the infected person could be treated and the spread of the virus prevented. Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said if a suspected patient was found, the rapid action team would immediately take the patient for the test. Five places had been selected for the test in these areas, where the testing teams would stay.MLA Inderbir Singh saluted the screening team members and said your noble work would be a great help to these areas because if a suspected patient was found, then he could be tested and if the test came back positive, the patient could be cured. Besides, the government would be able to prevent the virus from spreading to our family and neighbourhood.Deputy Commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon assured the teams of all kinds of assistance and said after finishing the screening in these areas, the teams would be sent to other areas and the work would continue till the virus was eliminated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/42-teams-start-screening-of-residents-70325
13-04-2020||Our Correspondent||11 deliveries during curfew at Posi Primary Health Centre||Hoshiarpur, April 12The Primary Health Centre (PHC) at Posi village, which is one of the hotspots of Covid-19, has also been providing necessary health services to village residents.During the curfew, as many as 11 deliveries were conducted and 1,200 patients were examined at the OPD of the PHC. The medical staff of the PHC has been performing their duties round the clock, besides regularly examining 1,161 persons, who have been quarantined at their houses in the area.Posi SMO Raghbir Singh said at the centre, a resident of Moranwali village had died and as a precaution, those who came in contact with him and his family members had been quarantined.He said despite this, emergency health services were being provided at the PHC. He added that it had been ensured that pregnant women do not face any problem.Besides, the PHC is being sanitised twice to eradicate the chance of infection. Besides, children have been given vaccination while maintaining social distance.Having a population of 1,77,432 people in the area that comes under the PHC, eight rapid response teams have been constituted. Posi is the only village where the maximum number of people (1,161) in the state has been quarantined. Praising health workers, DC Apneet Riyat said the 1,161 persons who had been quarantined were being monitored.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/11-deliveries-during-curfew-at-posi-primary-health-centre-70324
13-04-2020||Our Correspondent---||Man booked for recruitment fraud||Tarn Taran, April 12  The police on Friday booked Surjit Kumar of Padhari Kalan village for allegedly duping several people on the pretext of getting their wards recruited to the Army. A case has been registered under Section 420 of the Indian Penal Code. Mukhtar Singh, Surjit Singh of Manochahal Kalan, Amrik Singh of Tatle village and others, in their complaint to the police, alleged that about 10 years ago, the accused took money from them for getting their kin recruited to the Army. He had also defrauded people of other villages on the same pretext, they alleged. However, he neither got their wards recruited nor returned the money. When people started expressing resentment against the accused, he shifted his residence to Amritsar. The police said Surjit Kumar had been declared a proclaimed offender by the court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-booked-for-recruitment-fraud-70323
13-04-2020||---||Author Anurag interacts with readers through online session||Amritsar, April 12 In these days of social distancing, the Majha House on Saturday held an online interactive session with Anurag Tripathi, a Singapore-based banker-turned-author.  Anurag Tripathi completed his education from the Indian School of Business, Oxford. Following a career as investment banker, he wrote his first novel, a thriller, titled ‘Kalayug’ in 2017, which dealt with the art market. Presently, he lives in Singapore and during the session he talked about his second book ‘Dalal’s Street’. This book deals with the intricacies of the investment market and what goes on behind the scenes behind the numbers and figures we all see. The session was moderated by Dr Venus, Assistant Professor at GNDU. Anurag spoke about the difficult life choices he has made in his career. “It’s not very easy to give up a comfortable job and try your hand at something that is so prone to risk, making you vulnerable to financial losses. But there’s always the thrill of trying something risky. And the joy is doubled once you succeed; it can be very heady,” he said. Talking about his novel, ‘Dalal’s Street’, Anurag said the subject came naturally to him as he had spent years closely studying the market, getting the hang of it. “I’ve always loved telling stories. Telling stories came naturally to me and I just had this knack of keeping the audience engaged. Thus, writing came quite naturally to me”, he said.   Preeti Gill, founder, Majha House, said the online interaction was specially aimed at engaging the interested audience in literary activities. “We are living in very uncertain times and being safe is of paramount importance. But staying under lockdowns and curfews can be very frustrating due to lack of engaging activities. Therefore, we decided to go online in order to keep its members actively and constructively engaged. In the coming weeks, we will bring to our members more writers and speakers from India and overseas, who will be talking about books, writers, music and more,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/author-anurag-interacts-with-readers-through-online-session-70322
13-04-2020||---||Disinfecting of grain markets begins ahead of procurement||Amritsar, April 12 With a view to keeping the spread of Covid-19 at bay during the wheat procurement process scheduled to start from April 15, the local administration has started disinfecting the grain markets in the district. The administration on Sunday arranged the spray of sodium hypochlorite in the district’s biggest grain market, Bhagtanwala Dana Mandi, here. The district has a total of 56 grain markets. Lok Sabha MP Gurjit Singh Aujla, along with others, was present to supervise the spray process. He said all the grain markets in the district would be disinfected before the start of the procurement process. Disinfecting tunnels would also be set up at the entrance of all the grain markets so that all vehicles and persons entering the premises could be sanitized, he said. As thousands of farmers and workers visited the grain markets during the procurement season, it would be a difficult task for the administration to check the spread of the infection. To check a rush of people at the markets, the administration has come up with a novel method of issuing stickers to arhtiyas who would issue these to farmers. Only those vehicles which carry the sticker would be allowed to enter the markets. Officials of the district administration stated that only a limited number of sticker passes would be issued every day to keep a check on large gatherings of people at the markets. Besides, the arhtiyas would have to keep a check on the health of all their workers on a daily basis, and maintain a record. Aujla said the administration had planned to allow only the driver of the tractor trolley to enter the market and as such farmers would be appealed to abide by all the instructions. He said the government was committed to procuring each and every grain of farmers’ produce so that they did not face any trouble.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/disinfecting-of-grain-markets-begins-ahead-of-procurement-70321
13-04-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Only 1 case in last 7 days||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 12Next Week Crucial, Says Health OfficialIn the district, only one Covid-positive case has been reported in the previous week. While experts believe that the district’s containment strategy has worked well so far, they are also of the view that any laxity on part of the administration and residents could result in the reversal of gains. Health officials said people should continue to follow hygiene protocol, social distancing norms and lockdown orders seriously.The last case was reported on April 9, when a 23-year-old man from Jandiala Guru was found infected. The patient had returned from the UK in the third week of March. All his primary contacts, including members of his family, were immediately quarantined and their samples were taken. However, all of them have tested negative. The reports were received late last evening.The district has reported 11 positive cases till date. Of these, two patients — former ragi Nirmal Singh and former MC superintending engineer Jaswinder Singh died.In three cases, there is no travel history of abroad and even outside the state and these are believed to be cases of community spread. However, as the local authorities immediately sealed these areas and carried out the sanitisation process, no new cases have been reported so far.A health official said, “Jaswinder Singh had tested positive last Sunday (April 5). The case of the Jaura Fatak couple was reported two days before that. If we go by the 14-day incubation period, the next week is very crucial.”He said with door-to-door screening in these areas, the suspected patients would be identified and their treatment would start at an early stage. It would also help contain the further spread of the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/only-1-case-in-last-7-days-70320
