14-04-2020||Amritsar||Unidentified man found hanging||Two held with 100-gm heroinTarn Taran: A team of the local CIA staff led by sub-inspector Gurdev Singh arrested two persons with 100 gm of heroin near Kad Gill village on Sunday. The suspects have been identified as Manpreet Singh Manna of Nagoke and Sandeep Singh of Sheron village. They were on a motorcycle when the police party stopped them and during search 100 gm of heroin was seized from their possession. The Sadar police booked them under Sections 188 and 269 of the IPC and 51(B) of the Disaster Management Act. TNSGujjar milkmen find no buyersAmritsar: Gujjar milkmen are facing problems in selling milk due to rumours against their community. It is being alleged that members of the community are contaminating milk with coronavirus. Milk collection centres in the area have stopped taking supply from them. Even milkmen and dairies in the urban areas are not willing to get supply from them. Sukhdev, a milkman, said, “Even our regular customers have stopped taking milk from us." On the other hand, Simranjeet Singh, a diary owner, said: “We haven’t stopped any Gujjar from buying milk. But the demand for the same has come down.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/unidentified-man-found-hanging-71010
14-04-2020||Gurbaxpuri||Tarn Taran SSP Dhruv Dahiya always on toes for safety of residents||Tarn Taran, April 13These days, Tarn Taran SSP Dhruv Dahiya spends his most of time on roads in the district. He remains on field duty from 6 am to 8 pm. In the city, he covers all police stations and district headquarters to take feedback from police personnel working at the grassroots level.He often goes door to door to meet needy persons and to know their issues related to the availability of essential commodities. In Tarn Taran and Patti, he, along with police teams, takes flag marches twice a day. Moreover, the SSP takes out a flag march in rural area while covering police stations in the afternoon.Before the lockdown was announced, he had appointed 547 Village Police Officers (VPOs) to keep a watch on all villages. Elderly and youngsters, along with VPOs, guard entry points of their villages. Through the public address system, the VPOs have been apprising villagers of social distancing norms and urging them to stay indoors.On SSP’s instructions, various police officers meet needy persons to know their daily requirements such as ration. ASI Manjit Singh, incharge of the Doburji police post, said he had 150 packets of ration, which would be distributed among needy persons. Inter-district boundaries have been closed in Tarn Taran. Only vehicles carrying essential items on the national highway are allowed to pass.The SSP said, “Though police personnel are busy enforcing the curfew imposed to contain the spread of Covid, they work to maintain law and order. As many as 430 cases have been registered against 660 persons for violating curfew norms in the past 12 days.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-ssp-dhruv-dahiya-always-on-toes-for-safety-of-residents-71009
14-04-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Amritsar professor spends his time teaching Lahore University students online||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 13Prof (Retd) Balvinder Singh, who is a former head of Guru Nanak Dev University’s Guru Ram Das School of Planning, has been teaching students of the University of Management and Technology, Lahore, online in his free time during the ongoing lockdown period.He is also associated with the International Council on Monuments and Sites (ICOMOS). Besides, he has been sharing his knowledge and experience with fourth-year agriculture students of the University of Management and Technology of Lahore, Pakistan, through Zoom Cloud (meeting) technology on the request invitation of Prof Ayesha Mehmood Malik and Prof Najma Kabir from the Architecture and Planning Department of the university.Apart from reviewing research papers in the capacity as an editorial board member of different international journals, he is preoccupied in writing research papers as well.He has written a book, ‘Splendid Art works in Historic Sikh Shrines of India and Pakistan: Conservation Perspective’, and a research paper entitled, ‘Conservation of Architectural Heritage: Enabling Laws’ in the SPACE Journal of School of planning and Architecture, New Delhi.He starts his day with yoga asanas. After that, he watches live kirtan. During the lockdown, he gets time to spend with his family members, includes his wife and son. He also assists them in household chores.Prof (Retd) Balvinder is also in touch with his daughter, who is an assistant professor in the PGIMER, Chandigarh, and her family members.He is making all-out efforts to create awareness and asking his known ones not to fear. He is constantly in touch with his acquaintances in various government departments, friends and relatives.“I salute health workers, police personnel and sanitation workers who are in the frontline of this war against Covid. Waheguru bless my country from this threat,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-professor-spends-his-time-teaching-lahore-university-students-online-71005
14-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Navjot Sidhu gives PPE kits, masks to doctors, staff of Civil Hospital||Tarn Taran, April 13Former Cabinet Minister and Amritsar (East) MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu on Monday made visited the local Civil Hospital and gave personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, masks, gloves and sanitisers to doctors and the staff tending to Covid-19 patients.Sidhu appreciated the services of the frontline health workers. However, he himself was not wearing mask, though it has been made mandatory by the state government. No higher civil or police official, except Civil Surgeon Anoop Kumar, was there to welcome Sidhu.Though he was to reach the hospital at 10 am, he arrived earlier at 9:15 am and stayed there for around 15 minutes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/navjot-sidhu-gives-ppe-kits-masks-to-doctors-staff-of-civil-hospital-71004
14-04-2020||---||Shops sealed for overcharging items||Amritsar, April 13Deputy Commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon has warned shopkeepers of strict action if they are found overcharging customers at this time of crisis. Dhillon said on Monday a team of the District Food and Civil Supplies Department had conducted a surprise checking at various shops and three shops were sealed after these were found selling essential products at exorbitant prices.District Food and Supplies Controller Lakhwinder Singh said Getwell medico at Basant Avenue was fined Rs 2,000 for charging more than MRP. He said Guru Nanak Store in the area was sealed after it was found open without a curfew pass from the administration. The department also sealed a shop in Hyde market. Sehgal Trading coming in Ram Bagh area was fined Rs 10,000 as wheat flour bags weighed less than the mentioned weight. The entire stock had also been seized. The team also sealed Radha Swami general store on 100 Feet Road as it was also operating without a curfew pass from the district administration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/shops-sealed-for-overcharging-items-71002
14-04-2020||---||Martyrs of Jallianwala massacre remembered||Amritsar, April 13For the first time in history after the Jallianwala Bagh massacre in 1919, token tributes were paid to the martyrs by their descendants and residents as the bagh has been closed for construction and restoration work.Descendants of the martyrs and a few political leaders turned up at the place and remembered the unfortunate event. The government had planned to complete the beautification project before the 100 anniversary but the work got delayed and was recently stopped due to the Covid crisis.Sunil Kapoor of Jallianwala Bagh Freedom Fighters Foundation, who along with others paid tributes to the martyrs from outside the Bagh, said: “It was because of the sacrifices made by the people here that the country attained freedom. So, it is our duty to pay respects to the martyrs even though the country is going through a lockdown.”Lok Sabha member Gurjit Singh Aujla and Cabinet Minister Raj Kumar Verka also paid floral tributes to the martyrs. Speaking on the occasion, Verka said he was disappointed that the Bagh was closed on the important day as the government could not complete the project in time.RMPI activists pay tributesWhile paying tributes to the martyrs of Jallianwala Bagh massacre, the activists of the Revolutionary Marxist Party of India (RMPI) on Monday put up flags of their party at rooftops of their residences and demanded PPT kits for doctors, healthcare and paramedical staff besides class IV employees of Government Medical College and GNDH involved in the treatment of coronavirus patients.They also demanded food grains and other essential goods for poor strata and labour class people who were badly hit by this nationwide lockdown. The organisation demanded that the requisite PPT kits be provided to them as they were facing shortage and risking their lives while treating Covid patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/martyrs-of-jallianwala-massacre-remembered-70999
14-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Door-to-door health survey in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, April 13To keep the spread of the Covid-19 at bay, around 24,853 residents of 4,333 families in the Muradpur and Nanaksar localities were screened for the deadly virus on their doorstep here on Monday. Around 24 teams of the Health Department conducted the screening. Deputy Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal said it was a matter of great satisfaction that no Covid-19 suspect case was detected. The DC said 18,391 members of 3,221 families in Nanaksar locality and 6,462 members of 1,112 families in Muradpur locality were examined in the survey. The DC said in case any suspected case was noticed, the Rapid Action Team would be called to the spot for test and the patient would be taken in possession for treatment and kept in quarantine. A health survey of other localities in the town would be conducted in case the need arose, added the DC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/door-to-door-health-survey-in-tarn-taran-70997
14-04-2020||---||500 take part in GNDU workshop||Amritsar, April 13 Around 500 teachers, heads and scholars from around 20 states participated in an online workshop on Planning and Organising Research using Scopus and Mendeley, organised by School of Education (SOE), GNDU, Amritsar, under the scheme of Pandit Madan Mohan Malaviya Nation Mission on Teacher and Training (PMMMNMTT), Department of Higher Education, Ministry of Human Resource Development, Government of India, here on Saturday. Vice-Chancellor Prof Jaspal Singh Sandhu said in the wake of lockdown, the world is being forced to adapt and find ways to manage a completely remote workforce. “Updating the teachers and research scholars in the 21st century skills from a distance via technology is the best way to boost their productivity and make judicious use of this time,” he said. Prof Amit Kauts, Project Coordinator, School of Education, said sustainable tools, including technology, had become imperative in creating ‘research-rich’ schools and classrooms. “Teachers need to be equipped to interrogate data and evidence from different sources rather than just describing the data or trends in attainment. The priority for all stakeholders, including the government, national agencies, schools, universities and teachers’ organisations, should be to work together to create a national strategy for education and professional learning that reflects the principles of research-informed clinical practice.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/500-take-part-in-gndu-workshop-70995
14-04-2020||---||BJP-SAD delegation meets DC||Amritsar, April 13 Rajya Sabha MP and former state BJP president Shwait Malik held a meeting with Deputy Commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon here on Monday. They discussed preparedness and a strategy to be taken to check the spread of Covid-19.  District BJP president Suresh Mahajan, party secretary of Punjab Rajesh Honey, Shiromani Akali Dal district head Gurpratap Singh Tikka and Harvinder Singh Sandhu were part of the delegation. Malik informed that safety gear and equipment worth Rs 1.5 crore had already been ordered by him.  Malik discussed the plans to distribute food and relief material to needy persons as the MC had already started the distribution process through every ward. “MC Commissioner Komal Mittal is heading the team that is responsible for the distribution of relief material,” said the DC.  Besides, the DC apprised Malik of the arrangements, including the number of beds for Covid-19 patients, in the isolation wards in hospitals and other places. Malik also expressed gratitude to the corona warriors, including doctors, paramedical staff, housekeeping department, police and other government officials and employees, who are fighting the war by putting their lives at risk.  The Rajya Sabha MP laid stress on the awareness message against the Covid 19, urging people to maintain social distancing and refrain from venturing out of homes. “Stay away from rumours and trust the government agencies doing their jobs to manage things under the crisis,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bjp-sad-delegation-meets-dc-70994
14-04-2020||---||Anganwadi workers to distribute 10,000 masks||Amritsar, April 13Four days after the Central government advisory to use homemade face masks for protection from Covid-19, a bunch of anganwadi workers have pledged to make 10,000 masks to be distributed free of cost. The anganwadi centre at ward number 77 has turned into mask-making workshop, where anganwadi workers are making 500 masks a day.Virat Devgan, a volunteer on the project and son of ward number 77 councillor, has been taking care of the logistics involved. “After the government advisory that face masks are suitable for use at home and otherwise for general people, we gathered the anganwadi workers, who volunteered to make these masks for the families living in the ward. The N95 masks are recommended for doctors and health workers by WHO and these cloth masks that we are making are easy to use and safe. We have made 1,000 masks in two days,” he said.The masks will be distributed free of cost among the families living in the ward. Apart from a safety gear, the masks would also be carrying a subtle message of humanity and brotherhood. “We have used three colours for making these masks – saffron, white and green – signifying the Tricolour. During these times, it’s important for all to understand that this outbreak is not specific to any religion or community but we must all stand united in this fight,” said Virat. He said in the first phase of this social welfare initiative, they will be making 10,000 masks and later increase their output according to the demand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/anganwadi-workers-to-distribute-10-000-masks-70993
14-04-2020||---||Gang of robbers busted||Amritsar, April 13  The Amritsar rural police busted a gang of robbers by arresting five of its members here on Monday. The police also recovered firearms and sharp weapons from their possession. Those arrested have been identified as Manbir Singh and Harpal Singh, alias Khanda, both residents of Thatha village, Manpreet Singh of Bagge Kalan village, Harjit Singh, alias Gondar, of Tola Nangal village and Basant Singh of Jhanjoti village. The police seized a .12 bore pistol with four bullets, an air gun and sharp weapons from their possession. Vikram Jeet Duggal, SSP, Amritsar rural, in a statement issued here said as per a preliminary probe they were part of the Sunny Bharkila and Heera Jallad gang. Their arrest led to the solving of four cases, including that of a murder. During interrogation, they confessed that during a robbery, they had injured Ajaypal of Vaniyke village on February 19 this year. The incident occurred near Beharwal village. The victim had later succumbed to his injuries. The same gang had looted a car on the Majitha Road bypass on January 30. They also admitted to have stolen a car from outside a hotel on the Majitha Road bypass on January 31. He said the accused were wanted in many criminal cases in Rajasansi and Lopoke police station areas. Further interrogation was under progress in these cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gang-of-robbers-busted-70992
14-04-2020||---||Covid dampens Baisakhi spirit||Amritsar, April 13The festival of Baisakhi not only has a religious meaning but also deep-routed cultural importance attached to it.It was on this day in 1699 that the tenth Sikh master, Guru Gobind Singh, had established Khalsa. Though the event shaped the subsequent history of the region, the festival started being celebrated much before that day. For Punjabi peasants, it has always been a occasion for grand celebrations.However this year, due to the Covid crisis, the festive mood was dampened as the state has banned large gathering and has been advocating social distancing.Gurbachan Singh of Chabba village said: “Before the advent of paddy in the state, wheat was the major crop. The religious significance of the festival and the occasion being the time for farmers to harvest grains of the entire year made it an occasion for grand celebrations.” He said he was missing the razzmatazz associated with the festival. An elderly, Sukhchain Singh, said: “Around 50 years ago, Baisakhi marked the culmination of harvesting season and farmers would celebrate the festival after finishing all their works. Now with a change in cropping patterns, be it seed varieties or other factors, the harvesting begins after the festival.” He added that the festival still holds same significance for the rural population.Many farmers said earlier in these days, kadaddi matches and other rural sports on Baisakhi were much awaited annual events. “The decision taken by the government to impose curfew is in the interest of the people and we must abide by it,” said Kuljit Singh, another farmer, adding that his family cooked kheer at their home to celebrate the day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-dampens-baisakhi-spirit-70991
14-04-2020||GS Paul||11K houses in Amritsar under administration scanner||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 13The biggest challenge for the district administration and health teams is to trace the contacts of two men who do not have a travel history but still got infected with Covid-19. One of them has died. The administration fears community transmission if their contacts are not traced soon.So, the administration’s focus is on two areas — Chatiwind Gate in Sultanwind area and Krishna Nagar — from where the two cases were reported.Of the two patients, one —identified as Jaswinder Singh (65) — died on April 6. A resident of Chatiwind Gate, he was a retired Superintending Engineer in the Amritsar Municipal Corporation.The other patient, identified as Balbir Singh (67), is under treatment at Government Medical College here. He runs an embroidery shop in Krishna Nagar here.So far, Amritsar has reported 11 cases and two deaths.The district administration and the MC on Sunday started the screening drive from Sultanwind area and Krishna Nagar. The plan is to cover all 12 lakh residents of the city.DC Shiv Dular Singh Dhillon said, “Jaswinder’s primary contacts, included his wife and daughter, have already been examined. Their reports came out negative. His secondary contacts are being traced. Similarly, Balbir Singh’s contacts too are being traced. This is the reason that we started the screening drive from their areas.”About 11,000 houses in Sultanwind and Krishna Nagar have been identified. Around 50,000 persons are on the radar; they will be examined within three days.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said 10 fire tenders and 43 hand-spraying machines have been pressed into service.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/11k-houses-in-amritsar-under-administration-scanner-70642
