17-04-2020||Amritsar||Issuing of fake passes: 2 held||KCCS donates to covid fundAmritsar: Principals of 18 colleges and schools under Khalsa College Charitable Society (KCCS) contributed half of their month’s salary to PM-CARES Fund to strengthen the fight against Covid. Besides, this, Rs1.25 lakh was donated by the society, taking the total contribution to Rs10 lakh. Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina, secretary of the KCCS, said fashion designing departments of Khalsa College and Khalsa College for Women were making around 20,000 masks which would be handed over to the district administration. “The staff members have offered to donate their one-day salary to the state government for fighting Covid,” said Chhina, adding that the Khalsa College of Pharmacy would also donate 2,000 sanitisers. TNSTwo arrested in firing caseAmritsar: The CIA staff nabbed Vikas Malhotra and Ritik Malhotra, both of Khai Mohalla inside Lahori Gate, for allegedly firing in Waryam Singh Colony near the Gate Hakima police station on March 21. The incident had left four persons injured. The police have recovered a .32bore revolver and three live bullets from their possession. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/issuing-of-fake-passes-2-held-72372
17-04-2020||---||Govt teachers hold online summer camp for children||Amritsar, April 16Going an extra mile to engage children during the lockdown, government primary schoolteachers in the district have been organising a summer camp online. Several teachers, especially those posted in rural areas, have been posting do-it-yourself videos of art and craft, yoga and literary activities through social media applications. These summer camp activities are for students of Classes III to V.“The idea behind the online summer camp is to reach out to children with constructive activities while they are under the lockdown. We have been organising the summer camp for the past one week,” said Rajni Malhan, a teacher at Government Elementary School, Jandiala Guru.Like Rajni, several teachers have regularly been posting videos for children. “We dedicate one to two hours every day to yoga classes, storytelling sessions and art and craft activities. Not just the kids, parents are also giving a good response,” said Rajni.While facing some limitations like reaching out to students who do not have android phones, Rajni said they have also been instructing them through calls. “I have received two to three calls from parents who said I should dictate the process of making crafts over phone to them. It is good to see that parents are making an effort so that their kids can learn,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/govt-teachers-hold-online-summer-camp-for-children-72371
17-04-2020||Amritsar||Woman ACP distributes sanitary napkins||At a time when NGOs and other volunteers have come forward to help needy and underprivileged members of the community amid the national lockdown, Richa Agnihotri, ACP, PBI, OCCU & Narcotics, has also made her presence felt by doing her bit for women from poverty-stricken areas.Richa and her team has so far distributed 3,500 sanitary napkins in a door-to-door campaign. "It's one of the most basic essential commodities. Ration and other essential items are being distributed by many volunteers, but the distribution of sanitary napkins has not remained the focused area so far. Therefore, we took it upon ourselves to help the women in need," said Richa.She said they had distributed sanitary napkins in Mustafabad, Indira Colony and several other colonies on the Batala road. “These women do not have any means to get sanitary napkins, especially during the hour of crisis. Menstrual hygiene is very important. At least 3,500 napkins have been distributed so far and the drive will continue in the coming days,” she said.The police official said women were quite grateful while receiving the napkins. “It’s a taboo in our society to talk about menstrual health, leave aside buying a sanitary napkin. Also, with women staff and volunteers, these women do not hesitate while accepting these,” she adds.The mother of a two-year-old boy, Richa is also a qualified dental expert. She says it is part of her job to take every challenge head-on. “We have been working round-the-clock to reach out to people for their needs and it is part of our duty. My mother-in-law takes care of my son while I am in the field,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-acp-distributes-sanitary-napkins-72370
17-04-2020||Gurbaxpuri||Ex-DEO devotes maximum time to his favourite subject||Tarn Taran, April 16Piara Singh Talwar (70), a retired District Education Officer (DEO), has been enjoying his free time during the lockdown period. He has focused on keeping himself mentally and physically fit.He has inculcated the habit of watching TV and listening to radio in his granddaughters. He spends more than two hours with them. He has learnt using social media from where he gets information about various cultures. He also explores the Internet to read about Sikh history.The resident of Tarn Taran, who used to visit the local Darbar Sahib in the morning and in the evening before the lockdown period, has prepared a timetable to spend his day wisely. He said he had hardly found proper time for recreational activities with his family members. Talwar said these days, he had been devoting the maximum time to his favourite religious subject.Besides, he listens to the Gurbani and performs 'path' for three hours in the morning and evening. "I have been enjoying nature these days as I have planted different verities of plants in my herbal kitchen garden. I have also planted a sapling of peepal in a big pot. I walk at the roof top for one hour in the morning," he said. He said to stay fit, he stresses on balanced thinking and sits together with his family members in the day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ex-deo-devotes-maximum-time-to-his-favourite-subject-72369
17-04-2020||PK Jaiswar||Police tighten noose around curfew violators||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 16The police on Thursday tightened the noose around curfew violators and did not allow them to move on roads. The Punjab Government extended the curfew till April 30 in view of the Covid pandemic.Senior police officials on Thursday passed clear instructions that only those persons who would have curfew passes or those who provided essential services or those facing an emergency situation would be allowed to move on roads.People were seen pleading with cops to allow them but the police were demanding to show curfew passes. They asked the public to return home or else cases would be registered against them.DCP Jagmohan Singh said people should take the deadly virus seriously and stay home. He warned them against coming on to roads without genuine reason. “On Wednesday, a lot of people ventured out of their houses, it would not be tolerated. Strict instructions have been passed to the police to not show leniency towards them,” he said.Meanwhile, to check the deadly virus from spreading, the villages in the vicinity of the city have set up barricades at the entrance of their village besides the people have also blocked various streets in the city for restricting the movement of outsiders. Youths are deputed on these ‘nakas’ (thikri pehra). They question every outsiders before allowing them entry in the village or their area. Also, they were allowing only these vegetable and fruit vendors who usually come in the area, said District Village Development and Panchayat Officer Gurpreet Gill, in a statement here on today.Cabinet Minister OP Soni sent dry ration for around 1,150 families living in his ward. While the government provided the ration for 750 families, he with the help of his associates arranged essentials for around 400 families.In the meantime, despite the curfew restrictions and the presence of police personnel on the roads, unscrupulous elements continue to decamp with valuables from shops. Yashpal Mahajan, who rushed a garment shop at Katra Jaimal Singh area in the walled city, told the police that a nearby shopkeeper called him and informed that his shop was opened.He immediately rushed to the shop and found that unknown persons stole cash worth Rs 7-8 lakh from the cash counter, besides important documents. The examining of CCTV cameras revealed that the accused entered the shop on the intervening night of March 30-31. The police have registered a case in this regard. Earlier too, reports of burglaries have been lodged with the police during the lockdown period.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-tighten-noose-around-curfew-violators-72368
17-04-2020||---||Isolation ward to be set up in Ajnala||Amritsar, April 16The government has decided to set up an isolation ward for coronavirus patients at Sub-Divisional Civil Hospital, Ajnala. This was stated by Ajnala MLA Harpartap Singh during his interaction with medical staff at the hospital here on Thursday.The MLA also provided 50 PPE kits and N95 masks to the medical staff. He said to set up the isolation ward, the hospital would soon be equipped with a centralized oxygen supply system and air conditioners.He said the entrance of the isolation ward would be from gate number 1 and it would be cut-off from other areas of the hospital so that general patients did not come in contact with corona positive or suspected patients.PPE kits distributedThe city police on Thursday distributed around 20 personal protective equipment (PPE) kits among the cops. The Commissioner of Police (CP), Sukhchain Singh, said around 100 more such kits will arrive from Ludhiana soon. He said the kits would be used by the cops working closely with the patients infected with Covid.The CP gave said this while talking to mediapersons after inaugurating a disinfectant tunnel at the Ram Bagh police station here. He said the tunnel would be used to sanitise goods coming to the police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/isolation-ward-to-be-set-up-in-ajnala-72367
17-04-2020||---||9 procurement centres set up to ease rush at grain markets||Amritsar, April 16The district administration has set up nine temporary procurement centres at rice mills for the purchase of wheat under the public distribution scheme (PDS) during the current season. There are 54 regular grain markets in the district.The objective of setting up the temporary procurement centres is to reduce rush at the regular grain markets. Administration officials said the number of temporary procurement centres could be increased according to the need at a later stage.The wheat under the PDS will be purchased at a MSP of Rs1,925 per quintal. District mandi officials said procurement targets by government agencies, including Pungrain, Markfed, Punsup, Punjab Warehouse and Food Corporation of India (FCI), had already been fixed.The Deputy Commissioner has also asked representatives of all thegovernment procurement agencies to remain present at the grain markets and ensure that the procured grain is lifted at the earliest.Giving relaxation in view of the harvesting season, the administration has already allowed combine harvester operators to harvest fields from 6 am to 7 pm. The administration has also stated that at a time not more than four workers will accompany a combine harvester.In view of the demand for machinery, the administration has also allowed custom machinery hiring centres to operate from 6 am to 10 am. Farmers and farm labourers have also been allowed to leave for their farms from 6 am to 9 am. Meanwhile, the returning time has been fixed from 7 pm to 9 pm.Meanwhile, no wheat arrived at the grain markets in the district on the second day of procurement on Thursday. Agriculture experts have advised farmers not to harvest wheat fields unless the grains are fully ripen and the moisture content is within permissible limits. They said as procurements agencies would not buy grains with more moisture, the farmers would have to face trouble.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/9-procurement-centres-set-up-to-ease-rush-at-grain-markets-72366
17-04-2020||---||Migrant workers hit streets  after rumours of special train||Amritsar, April 16A large number of migrant workers of Ward Nos.15 and 18 started gathering in streets when two area councillors of the Municipal Corporation informed them that the government was arranging a special train for UP and Bihar here on Wednesday evening. The councillor of Ward No.18, Sandip Rinka, and Rambali, father-in-law of Ward No.15 councillor Pinky Devi, reportedly asked the migrant workers to submit their Aadhaar cards and mobile number to get seats in the train.A large number of migrant workers and their family members gathered in streets to get themselves registered for the train. Members of the Uttar Pradesh Kalyan Parishad intervened in the matter and asked the workers to maintain social distancing and not violate the curfew.Ram Bhawan Goswami, president, Uttar Pradesh Kalyan Parishad, said, “I immediately called the railway authorities and they cleared that no such train is being arranged and it is a rumour. Then, we have lodged a complaint with the Deputy Commissioner.”Advocate PC Sharma, RTI and social activist, also verified from his sources and filed a complaint to the DC.Activists of the Uttar Pradesh Kalyan Parishad pacified the workers and asked them to stay home. When they asked the MC councillors where did they get this information, they claimed that some police personnel asked them to collect the details of migrant workers.Councillor Sandip Rinka said, “It was wrongly interpreted information by some police employees. I have talked to the Police Commissioner in this regard. We have visited all the houses and told them to not believe in any such rumour. Migrants returned to their homes. I have uploaded a video on social media to inform the area residents that there is no such train going to be arranged for UP and Bihar.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/migrant-workers-hit-streets-after-rumours-of-special-train-72365
