19-04-2020||Jasvinder Kaur||The lost story of Made in Amritsar||Around 200 years ago, as Maharaja Ranjit Singh, aided by his legendary French generals, was consolidating his kingdom, the latter were introducing Europe to rich North Indian textiles. At the heart of this trade was Amritsar, the undisputed food capital of North India today, but a major centre for textiles in the distant past.Amritsar, for many centuries, has in one way or the other been associated with textiles, either as a producer or as a trading centre. In fact, it became a centre of production of shawls and was at the forefront of exporting them to Europe during Ranjit Singh’s rule.Kashmir became a part of the Sikh kingdom in 1819 after Ranjit Singh invaded it. Shortly afterwards, in 1822, Ranjit Singh hired men from Napoleon’s army — Jean-Francois Allard and Jean-Batiste Ventura — as his generals. By 1835, these generals were exporting shawls to Europe, and Amritsar had become the centre of the Kashmiri shawl trade.Weavers and dyers from Kashmir settled in the plains and hills of Punjab during this period. One of the factors that pushed them to do so was famine. As a result, Kashmiri colonies were established in places like Amritsar and Ludhiana in present-day Punjab and Nurpur and Tiloknath in what is now Kangra in Himachal Pradesh.Shawls made in Amritsar — jamavar or kani and amli — were of high quality. Writing in 1872, Baden Powell mentions that shawls from Amritsar were close in quality to Kashmiri shawls. The striped shawls were called jamavar or kitraz, and were popular in Iran and Turkey. These were made by the complicated kani technique. As these were used to make jamas, the word jamavar was also used for them. The amli shawls, on the other hand, were embroidered Kashmiri shawls.A complex weaveWeaving of kani shawls in the early 19th-century Kashmir was a slow and laborious process. A single shawl could take up to 18 months or more. Owing to their high demand, a method was devised to weave the shawl in pieces on two or more looms. This way, the shawl was made in much less time. These pieces were then handed over to the rafugar or darner. He would join them with such precision that it was hard to tell. William Moorcroft, an English explorer, mentioned this in his writing in 1821 and called it a recent innovation. He undertook a detailed study of the shawl industry between 1820 and 1823, and wrote an account that has been preserved at the India Office Library, now part of the British Library, London.Early 19th century saw the beginning of the amli or embroidered shawls. These were introduced in Kashmir at the instigation of Khwaja Yusaf, an Armenian, who came to Kashmir in 1803 as an agent of the Constantinople Trading Company. He saw a chance to produce the embroidered shawls in a much shorter time than kani or jamavar. Since these shawls didn’t fall into the category of woven shawls, he was also able to escape the duties levied on kani shawls. His company thus made huge profits and ushered in embroidered shawls. This also pushed the demand for plain pashmina shawls which were then used as a base for amli shawls.By the third quarter of the 19th century, the important centres of weaving plain pashmina were not only in Kashmir but also in Ludhiana and Amritsar, the holy city being a formidable manufacturer. At an art exhibition held in Lahore in 1864, shawls — pashmina, amli, and kani or jamavar — from Kashmir, Amritsar and Delhi were exhibited.Ever-expandingWith time, the shawl industry declined and the carpet industry came up to fill the gap. Trade in carpets rose partly on the ruins of the pashmina shawl trade. By 1911, Amritsar was exporting carpets worth Rs5 lakh; it picked up a steady pace after the Great Depression. Among other things made in Amritsar were different styles of embroideries. Powell, in 1872, writes about Lahore and Amritsar as the centres for gold embroidery or salma work. Amritsar was also producing some of the finest phulkaris, some of which were even exported to America.During the British Raj, the most important item of import were piece goods, and Amritsar was trading in silk and woollen cloth. Silk trade centre was located at Batti Hattan. It was later shifted to Katra Ahluwalia, which, in turn, became the centre of trading in piece goods. Sant Ram Reshamwala was one of the importers of silk from Europe.The fabric imported in early 20th century did not just include pure silk, but also artificial silk from Japan, Italy and France. It was cheaper and came in attractive colours. In the 1930s, majority of silk was imported from Japan, so much so that many firms from Amritsar opened offices in Japan. From Europe, cottons with European motifs like roses were imported.From Amritsar, the fabrics made inroads into other parts of Punjab. They became popular with women, who used them to make suits and dupattas. The designs, patterns and textures were different from what was available locally. Women here knew them by various names like Lady Minton (probably Lady Hamilton), Malaysia, Dil-ki-pyaas, Aap-ka-nasha, Do-ghorae-di-boski (probably from China), Shangai (probably from Shanghai). The most famous among these was the Do-ghorae-di-boski or double horse boski from China. The brand still sells on alibaba.com.Fashion fabricsIn Punjab, another interesting fabric that came from abroad and became very popular among women was the one used for making parachutes. Known as ‘parachute cloth’, it was not sold as continuous yardage, but in pieces. The stitched parachute would probably be opened up and sold in triangular pieces or chattrian (umbrellas) about 6-7 feet wide and 10 feet long.These were probably the surplus parachutes that were allowed to be sold after World War II got over in 1945. In the initial years of the war, the material used for making parachutes was silk. After America joined the war by the end of 1941, the Allies used parachutes made of nylon as they were unable to import silk from Japan.In Britain, there are many stories of women making their wedding dresses, blouses, petticoats with the RAF parachute material. These were white, lime green and sometimes orange in colour. It was, however, not an easy material to get as it was illegal to obtain it while the war was on. Even the used parachute had to be turned in to the authorities for investigation. Women in England used any material available to them during the war for their wedding dresses, whether it was parachute silk or blackout material, which had been duly bleached.Many of the fashion fabrics that were used by women in Punjab before India got Independence were used as a base for doing salma or gota work. Velvet, another popular fabric, was used not only for garments but also for palangposh (bedcover) or other household articles like cushions. All the fabrics sold during the British Raj were available at shops in big cities. And Amritsar, being a trading centre, played an important part in the textile trade and in distributing it to other parts of Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/the-lost-story-of-made-in-amritsar-73271
19-04-2020||Amritsar||Gujjars rue poor sale of milk||Members of the Gujjar community, primary vocation of which is rearing buffaloes and selling milk, are facing problems in selling milk due to rumours against their community.They have demanded the government to support them as no one is buying their milk. A delegation of the Gujjar community, led Lal Husian, member of the Minority Commission, met Beas MLA Santokh Singh Bhalipur and discussed their issues.The Gujjar leaders, including Sarmudin, Sipahyia and Hazoora, stated that nobody was buying their milk due to rumours on social media. They were unable to buy ration and cattle feed as their earnings had stopped.There are rumours that members of the community are contaminating milk with the Covid-19 virus. Milk collection centres in the area have stopped taking milk supply from them. Even milkmen and dairies in urban areas are not willing to buy milk from them.MLA Santokh Singh Bhalipur said, “Members of the community have been living with here for last several decades. Their contribution to the milk industry cannot be ignored. In this time of crisis, the government is with them. The issues would be sorted out soon.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gujjars-rue-poor-sale-of-milk-73226
19-04-2020||---||Poet Bakhtawar Mian shares his passion for penning down stories||Amritsar, April 18Bakhtawar Singh, an IAS officer and a Sufi poet, on Saturday interacted with an audience of people from various countries, including the USA, the UK, Dubai, Australia, and Pakistan during a special digital session.The session was a part of Akhar, a series of literary interactions with prominent Punjabi and Hindi writers, which has been curated by Prabha Khaitan Foundation.Bakhtawar Singh, who is popularly known as Bakhtawar Mian in the literary circle, shared his balancing act and his passion for penning down stories through verse while fulfilling the duty of an administrative officer.“As part of duty, I come across several ground realities that many have only heard of. My experiences and observations of work life have inspired me to pen down stories that people find relatable,” he said.Bakhtawar has written several books, including ‘Paar Chhena Toh Osda Dera’ and ‘Jogi Raavi Kinare Rehnda’. Prolific in Sufi poetry, Bakhtawar said he never loses touch with his spiritual self.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/poet-bakhtawar-mian-shares-his-passion-for-penning-down-stories-73225
19-04-2020||Amritsar||Gang of robbers busted, 4 arrested||With the arrest of four persons, the Amritsar rural police on Friday busted a gang of robbers who were involved in heinous crimes, including murder.Those arrested were identified as Hardeep Singh of Kammoke village, Akashdeep Singh of Sudhar Rajputa, Harbhej Singh of Chananke village and Mohabbatjit Singh of Nath ki Khuhi village.Amritsar (Rural) Senior Superintendent of Police Vikram Jeet Duggal said the accused were intercepted at a naka near the Vadala village turn in Baba Bakala. They were travelling in a car bearing a fake registration number (PB-08-DH-3916). During the checking, the police confiscated a .32 bore pistol with six cartridges from Hardeep Singh, a .30 bore pistol and two bullets from Akashdeep. He said four empty shells were seized from the dashboard of the car.Preliminary interrogation revealed that they snatched the car from outside a bakery in Ranjit Avenue on April 16. The police also recovered three cars and thee stolen bikes from their possession.Following their interrogation, the police also booked their seven other accomplices. They are Sukhjinder Singh, Arsh of Bagga village, Jobanjit Singh of Jodhe village, Tejpal Singh of Bagga village, Boxer of Vajeerbhullar villge and Shiva.The Senior Superintendent of Police said while Hardeep was involved in six cases, Harbhej was wanted in four cases. Hardeep had shot dead Sukhmanpreet Singh of Narangpur Butala village in February this year. Hardeep had also shot at Mukand Singh and Satpal Singh of Bal Sarai village in December last year. He had three more murder bid and arms act cases against him while he was also involved in snatching of a bike at gunpoint on the Jalandhar-Kapurthala road a couple of months ago.Harbhej had snatched a Breeza car from a couple from outside ‘In and out’ Bakery in the Ranjit Avenue area in February this year. He, along with his accomplices, had snatched a car from a petrol pump at Mallian village in Jandiala in January. Similarly, they had snatched another car from Jandiala in October last year.The Senior Superintendent of Police said further interrogation was under way and more recoveries and arrests could be made during the further course of investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gang-of-robbers-busted-4-arrested-73224
19-04-2020||---||Poultry, livestock farmers get additional relaxations||Amritsar, April 18Poultry farmers took a sigh of relief after the state government released curfew guidelines for use in agriculture and related activities like fishery, poultry farming etc.Satish Chandra, Additional Secretary, Home Affairs, stated in a communiqué to heads of all district administrations that there was no evidence that pets could transmit the virus to humans. So, technical staff of the Animal Husbandry, Dairying and Fisheries Department, veterinary officers, animal farms, semen stations, agricultural fodder production farms, labs and others have been given curfew relaxation from 9 am to 5 pm. Gaushalas, cattle pounds and their staff engaged in feeding, management, treatment, fodder harvesting, transportation, feed processing units, pharmacy factories and shops have been given relaxation from 7 am to 7 pm.Livestock and poultry feed suppliers, manufacturers, dry and green fodder harvesting, transporters, loaders and unloaders were exempted from curfew.Members of the Amritsar Poultry Association have welcomed the move to provide aid to livestock industry. They said demand for supply of eggs had grown in the local market.We have started receiving poultry orders from the Delhi-NCR region but there is shortage of suitable trucks to transport the material, the association said. They said the poultry farmers were hardly meeting local demand so the need for massive trucks for bird transportation never felt.They sought government’s assistance in arranging the fabricated trucks to meet the order to overcome the recession in the vocation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/poultry-livestock-farmers-get-additional-relaxations-73223
19-04-2020||Amritsar||Need cooperation from all to combat Covid-19 threat: MP||Congress MLA Rana Gurjit Singh handed over a modern sanitisation spray machine to the Amritsar Improvement Trust (AIT) to fight against Covid-19 here on Saturday. MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla, MLA Indbir Singh Bularia, Dr Raj Kumar Verka, Sunil Datti and Mayor Karmajit Singh Rintu were also present on the occasion.On the occasion, Dinesh Bassi, Chairman, Amritsar Improvement Trust, said the machine would cover 40 km per day and spray the solution on main roads of the city. The machine given by Rana Gurjit Singh will remain in Amritsar for four days. Twenty thousand liters can be sprayed daily with this machine. Dinesh Bassi thanked Rana Gurjit Singh for providing spray machine. He said from tomorrow the machine would start its work on city roads.“We need cooperation of all to make the state corona free. The state government is trying to end this and people should also cooperate with the government”, said MP Aujla. Bassi said even before this, the AIT was constantly conducting sanitation drive in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/need-cooperation-from-all-to-combat-covid-19-threat-mp-73222
19-04-2020||---||Writer interacts with kids at online storytelling session||Amritsar, April 18Paro Anand, the award winning and acclaimed writer, held an online session of storytelling to engage children from various parts of the world, including Amritsar and London, on Friday. The session was held in collaboration with Majha House and moderated by Nazi Puri, Amritsar’s official Book Fairy.Paro, who has 26 books to her credit, has written short stories and novels for both children and adults. She began the session by asking the kids about their favourite books and characters. She selected two stories for the session, ‘A Very Naughty Dragon’ and ‘The Lion and the Rabbit’.Paro said she had selected the stories on the basis of the age of the audience. “One was for small kids and the other one for children in the age-group of 8 to 13 years. Before the narration, it is important to focus on the words and emotions, It is important for kids to relate and engage with their own versions while we are doing this,” said Paro. She also performed stories, miming the actions of the characters and showcasing their different emotions.“This period of lockdown is difficult and taking a toll on all of us, especially the children. While adults can reconcile themselves to this situation with patience that comes with the age, children are more prone to frustration and mood swings as they find it difficult to channelise their energies. That is why Majha House organised a session, especially for children not just to keep them engaged for some time but also to reinforce the joys of stories and reading,” said Puri.Paro is a recipient of the Sahitya Academy Bal Puraskar Award in 2017 for her short story anthology, ‘Wild Child, and other Stories’. She was also invited to the Indian Conference at the Harvard Business School.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/writer-interacts-with-kids-at-online-storytelling-session-73221
19-04-2020||---||Sarbat Da Bhala donates PPE kits, N95 masks||Amritsar, April 18The Sarbat Da Bhala Charitable Trust, an NGO, donated 50 PPE kits and as many N95 masks to the rural police here on Saturday.Sukhdeep Singh Sidhu, adviser, Majha region of the organisation, said the cops along with health staff had been the frontline warriors in the fight against Covid-19 pandemic that had troubled many countries globally. He said, therefore, the organisation thought about doing its bit for these warriors.He said the organisation had recently distributed around 800 PPE kits and as many mask in the GNDH while PPE kits and masks were also given to city police. Amritsar SSP (Rural) Vikram Jeet Duggal appreciated the efforts of the organisation.Meanwhile, a private hospital has come forward for providing facilities to the rural cops by organising free OPDs and consultations, besides conducting lab tests at 50 per cent rate and free ambulance service for the cops.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sarbat-da-bhala-donates-ppe-kits-n95-masks-73220
19-04-2020||---||Farmers fear damage to crop as rain lashes city||Amritsar, April 18Intermittent rain during the last two days in the district has worried farmers as they fear that bad weather may result in damage to the crop which is ready for harvesting. They rue that it will further delay harvesting by four-five days.The farmers say that rain would increase the moisture content in grain and they would face difficulty at grain markets as the procurement agencies would not procure grains with moisture more than the permissible limit.The farmers say that in case it rains again in the coming days, it might cause trouble to them. “The showers at this stage are not good. Sometimes due to inclement weather conditions, farmers start panic harvesting of the crop to save losses. But it would create a problem in the present scenario when the government is already making plans to restrict the number of people at the grain markets,” said a farmer Jagtar Singh.Chief Agriculture Officer Dr Harinderjit Singh said, “The flattening of crop has been reported from some parts of the district. The rainfall received in the district ranged from 4mm to 6mm. It is scanty but would delay the harvesting.” He said no hailstorms were reported from any part of the district. The district had earlier too received rainfall in the last week and a loss of 1 to 2 per cent of yield could occur in the flattened crop fields.Dr Harinderjit said the government had also revised the timings for operation of combine harvesters. Earlier, the combine harvesters were allowed to operate from 6 am to 7 pm. However, as per the revised timings, the machines would be operated from 7 am to 8 pm. “The grains harvested in the early morning hours have more moisture content,” said the Chief Agriculture Officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-fear-damage-to-crop-as-rain-lashes-city-73219
19-04-2020||Amritsar||Wearing Masks compulsory: DC||Quarantined person bookedTarn Taran: Gobinda of Patti town, 25 km from here, was booked under Sections 188, 269, 270 and 51-B of the Disaster Management Act. The police said a Covid-19 suspect was kept under home quarantine, but he left home without completing his self-isolation period. OCMan ‘strangles’ wife to deathAmritsar: A woman was allegedly strangled to death by her husband for bringing insufficient dowry. The police have registered a case against the accused identified as Satnam Singh of Sarangra village. The deceased was identified as Rupinder Kaur (27). Mandeep Singh of Sakiyawali village and brother of the deceased said Rupinder got married to Satnam in 2016. At that time they gave household items and other goods as dowry. He said after marriage, the accused started harassing and assaulting her. Mandeep said on Friday he, along with his relative Paramjit, went to meet Rupinder. When they entered, they found Satnam strangling her. He said they rushed to save her, but she died, while the accused fled after seeing them. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/wearing-masks-compulsory-dc-73217
19-04-2020||PK Jaiswar||From 7 am till dusk, this ACP works for welfare of people||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 18Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) D Jatinder was in the field when he received information that a cancer patient needed blood at a private hospital. Without giving a second thought, he immediately went to the hospital and donated blood.Giving ration to 50 needy familiesAssistant Commissioner of Police D Jatinder has adopted nearly 50 families in his area falling in Islamabad and is providing ration to them from his own pocket. He proudly says: “Our (Punjab Police) motto is ‘Shubh karman te kabhun na taron’ (never deviate from doing a righteous deed), then how can we stay behind in these hours of global crisis. Our country and the state need us the most and we are doing what is needed and right.”Ever since the outbreak of novel Covid and the national lockdown, he is spending most of his time in the field ensuring law and order and helping and providing dry ration and langar to the needy.The police official has also adopted nearly 50 families in his area falling in Islamabad and providing ration to them from his own funds. As he remains on duty, his wife and brother arrange ration and distribute to these adopted families.“My family supports me in this effort. As I remain on duty, they have taken the responsibility of these families and are providing them all essential commodities,” he said.Besides Islamabad, he has been entrusted with the responsibility of ensuring law and order in the Kot Khalsa area, where most population comprised those belonging to the economical weaker section of society.“I start my day early. After daily prayers, I join duty at 7am. I have stored dry ration in my government vehicle which I start distributing early. Being a special branch officer, it is not difficult for me to know where residents need ration. Since the curfew restrictions, I have provided dry ration to over 2,000 persons” he claimed.After his duty gets over, the ACP makes rounds on his scooter and provide langar to the needy.Another important aspect he is taking care of is preventing the spread of rumours. “Only yesterday, there were rumours about ‘some special train arranged for migrants to take them to their native places’. It was an intelligence input and I immediately swung into action and made announcements via loud speakers urging people not to believe these rumours and move towards the railway station,” he said.On alternate days, he goes on night patrolling to check the movement of people.He proudly says "Our (Punjab Police) motto is Shubh Karman te kabhun na taron (never deviate from doing a righteous deed), then how can we stay behind in these hours of global crisis. Our country and state need us the most and we are doing what is needed and right."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/from-7-am-till-dusk-this-acp-works-for-welfare-of-people-73201
19-04-2020||Neha Saini||For her, it’s time to introspect & make the most of situation||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 18Actor and theatre artiste Anita Devgan is having a great time during the lockdown. She feels that this is the time to introspect and make the most of the situation.Enjoying her time with familyA popular face of the Punjabi film industry, Anita shares that there are a lot of things that she thinks about during these free hours that the lockdown has given them.“As a child, visiting a zoo used to disturb me a lot. Watching animals in the cage would hurt me. But now that we are all living under the lockdown, all those childhood memories have come to hit me hard. I think we all are feeling helpless like those animals in the zoo,” she says.An optimist, Anita and her husband, a national award-winning actor Hardeep Gill, are enjoying their time with the family. “Both of us had been working constantly for the past five years and we never really got our family time. So, this forced time off work is a good thing for us. We spend most of our hours reading, cooking, doing household chores and enjoying the company of our loved ones,” she said.Also, Anita says she is making the most of this time by taking care of her mother-in-law. “She is very old and I couldn't spend much time with her due to work. Now, I love cooking her favourite meals. I have even stitched a new dress for her,” she said.Before the lockdown, both Anita and her husband Hardeep were scheduled to travel to the UK for a film. “Several film projects have now been delayed due to Covid-19 pandemic. Also, we were supposed to work together on a theatre production, which may now further get pushed. But we are working on several scripts and researching for our debut home production,” says the actor.She does have a message for all: “I believe in the concept of 'chardi kalan', turning every adversity into an opportunity. So, I would suggest that only positivity will get us through this crisis. Also, always pray for those fighting on the frontline as they are the true heroes.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/for-her-its-time-to-introspect-make-the-most-of-situation-73194
19-04-2020||Tarn Taran||PPE kits, washing machine donated||Social organisations are coming forward to assist the administration in tackling the Covid-19 threat. Harcharanjit Kaur, the chairperson of the Tarn Taran Zila Parishad, on Saturday donated a fully automatic washing machine to the Civil Hospital.SMO Inder Mohan Gupta said the machine would be used to wash clothes of suspected Covid-19 patients kept at the hospital’s isolation ward.The Lions Club of Rayya Beas gave 30 personal PPE kits to doctors and staff tending to Covid-19 patients. DC Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal acknowledged the donors. He urged good Samaritans to raise awareness on the need of social distancing and washing of hands regularly. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ppe-kits-washing-machine-donated-73191
19-04-2020||---||143 held for curfew violations in 72 hours||Amritsar, April 18The police have arrested 143 persons in the holy city for coming on roads without facing any emergency situation in the past three days. The city police had held 80 persons and the rural police arrested 63 persons. All of them were later released on bail.The arrest of so many people shows that they are not refraining from coming out of their houses, putting their lives and those of others, including their family members, in danger.To contain the spread of Covid-19, the Punjab Government has extended the curfew till May 1. The state government and the Centre, besides the district administrations, have been urging the people to remain indoors and come out of their houses only when it is unavoidable or when they face an emergency situation.Before the extension of the lockdown period, a large number of people were seen on roads without any genuine reasons. This forced the police to enforce the curfew restrictions forcefully. Many commuters were asked to return to their homes and procure curfew passes before coming on roads. Besides, a number of roads, which were open to commuters, were barricaded.Senior police officials came on roads to supervise the arrangements and cops deputed on the chowks and roads.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/143-held-for-curfew-violations-in-72-hours-73190
19-04-2020||---||Residents to receive computerised calls||Amritsar, April 18The Municipal Corporation set up a Covid-19 control room at its head office in Ranjit Avenue here on Saturday. The aim is to save the city residents from deadly coronavirus in which computerised calls would be made to around 5 lakh households of the city.Toll-free Number for Covid-19 queriesThe control room has been established at the MC headquarter. The civic body has tied up with a private company for calling 5 lakh people through a software. The automated computerised calls will ask questions related to coronavirus such as information about their foreign travel history and health issues. All these questions have to be answered in yes or no.The information received during these phone calls will be coloured and divided into sections which would be marked as red, yellow, green and pink. If any symptoms are detected in any person, then requisite criteria would be adopted. As many as 20 teams would be constituted and sector magistrates would be appointed to cover the 15 lakh population of the city. Joint Commissioner Nitish Singla has been appointed as the nodal officer of Covid-19 control room. Apart from Singla, the employees of the Health Department and police administration would also monitor the development.If a person falls in unmarked zone, the information would be communicated to these teams, who will perform the physical verification and provide health assistance to the person. The calls were started today in which the voice over the phone would be that of Arvinder Bhatti in Punjabi language and it is expected that all calls would be made within the next 5-6 days.Mayor Karamjit Singh said: “Efforts being made by the administration will bear fruits if people cooperate. The correct result can be obtained if residents respond with correct information and healthcare can be made available as per their need.” Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said the MC was working to serve people round the clock and they were hopeful that citizens would soon be able to get rid of this deadly disease which requires full support of people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/residents-to-receive-computerised-calls-73189
19-04-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||No positive case in eight days||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 18A Covid-19 patient from Hoshiarpur, who was admitted to Government Medical College, was discharged here on Saturday after he tested negative in two consecutive test reports. The patient, identified as 65-year-old Harjinder Singh from Pensera village, was referred to GMC here on April 2 in a critical condition.Besides, good news is that the district has not reported any new positive case in the last eight days. The last positive case reported from the district was on April 9, when a 23-year-old person from Jandiala Guru had tested positive. In fact, the Jandiala Guru man, who returned from the UK, is the only positive case reported from the district in the last 11 days.Till date, two Covid-positive patients admitted to GMC have been discharged. Earlier on March 26, Punjab’s first Covid-19 case, a Hoshiarpur-based male patient who had returned from Italy, was tested negative for the virus and later discharged.However, at the same time, two positive patients — Hazoori Ragi Nirmal Singh (67 years) and former MC Superintending Engineer Jaswinder Singh (65 years) — had died during treatment at GMC. So far, the district has reported 11 positive cases. Apart from patients from the district, critical cases from other districts, too, are referred to GMC.Talking about the achievement in the 65-yr-old Harjinder Singh case, GMC Medical Superintendent Dr Raman Sharma said, “Apart from three healthy and nutritious meals a day, the hospital is providing eggs, fruits and milk to the patients. Besides positive attitude, willpower, too, plays an important role.” He said the entire team of doctors at the hospital had worked hard and provided the best possible care to the patient.The hospital authorities stated that they were equipped with 30 ventilators and around 200 beds. They stated that another set of 30 ventilators would be received soon. The hospital was fully prepared to create more wards in Covid stations and isolation wards if the need arose.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-positive-case-in-eight-days-73187
19-04-2020||Amritsar||No PPE kits, Amritsar medical staff threaten strike||Medical officers and pharmacists at dispensaries in rural areas today boycotted duties after media in Pakistan reported that two women among the 41 Pakistani nationals repatriated from India two days ago had tested positive for Covid.However, they resumed work later and said if they were not provided safety equipment by Tuesday, they would boycott all Covid-related duties.The employees said medical professionals from rural areas were assigned special duties at the International Check Post, Attari, airport, Golden Temple and Durgiana Temple as a part of rapid response teams to identify suspected cases.Leader of the Rural Pharmacy Officers’ Association Navjot Kaur said, “The pharmacy officers who had handled 41 Pakistani nationals are now worried as they did not have N95 masks and PPE kits with them. We are daily coming in direct contact with potential carriers at different places.” The pharmacists also said they were working on contract for the past 14 years and their services should be regularised.Dr Rahul, Rural Medical Officer, said, “The government guidelines say screening teams do not need PPE kits. However, when we go to different areas as rapid response teams, large number of people gather there. In view of the problems faced by ground staff, the policymakers must amend the guidelines.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-ppe-kits-amritsar-medical-staff-threaten-strike-72967
