20-04-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||This doctor keeps himself busy with reading medical literature to fight Covid||Tribune News ServiceBatala, April 19One of the Murphy’s laws states that when things get bad, they tend to get worse.Renowned surgeon Dr Satnam Singh Nijjar disdainfully brushes aside this adage. He admits that things on the Covid front are indeed bad, but in the same breath, he adds that they may not get any worse.There used to be a deluge which has now been transformed into a trickle. This has given me ample time to read. We practise medicine that our historical ancestors could only dream of and now, we have access to amazing state-of-the-art technology. Dr Satnam Singh Nijjar, surgeonWith the lockdown bringing this busy doctor’s life to a standstill, he has busied himself with ways and means to fight the scourge by reading medical literature assimilated from various sources. Once he arrives at a conclusion, he shares it with health officials.“I remind my fellow doctors that people let us into the most intimate aspects of their lives and they look up to us to help guide them through trying times like we have been facing now. This Covid is really a sensitive issue. The more we read, the more we will learn. Neighborhoods are wailing in fear and desperation. If now we do not lend a hand now, what is the point of being a doctor?” he questioned.In the pre-lockdown days, he kept himself busy by attending to patients at his private hospital, but things have changed now. “There used to be a deluge which has now been transformed into a trickle. This has given me ample time to read. We practise medicine that our historical ancestors could only dream of and now, we have access to amazing state-of-the-art technology. That is why, I can assure you we will find the vaccine,” he said.Nijjar recently donated an honorarium of Rs51,000, which he got in the past few months by virtue of being the chairman of the Gurdaspur planning board. He also contributed Rs50,000 to the Dera Baba Nanak relief fund started by Cabinet Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa.He agreed that the world was going through a period of crisis. “But whether we look at it as a crisis or as an opportunity to reshape our thinking depends solely on us,” he added.As a doctor, he urges everybody to follow the rules and sit at their homes. “It is a bit like asking, ‘Covid are you going to be naughty or nice to me?’ Obviously, it will sting people who do not follow norms while it will stay away from those who abide by the regulations,” he added.The curfew had played a spoilsport to some of his well laid out plans. “As the chief of the planning board, I had chalked out some plans but then Covid struck and that too with ferocious intensity,” he said.His one regret is when he sees people vying with each other to get publicity after distributing ration. “These people should understand that life in itself is one a big hotel whose name is ‘Hotel Karma.’ Here, there are no waiters to serve you. You get what you deserve. Getting involved in photo-ops is not going to take you anywhere,” he maintained.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/this-doctor-keeps-himself-busy-with-reading-medical-literature-to-fight-covid-73444
20-04-2020||Gurbaxpuri||Good Samaritans: Father-son duo adopts 300 families||Tarn Taran, April 19Former president of the local Municipal Council Jatinder Kumar Sood and his son Amandeep Sood have adopted 300 underprivileged families, including cobblers, barbers, tea stall owners and daily wagers, to whom they are providing packets of essential items since March 23. On some occasions, they also serve cooked food to them.As we all know that the world is fighting against the deadly disease, every responsible person should come forward to serve the needy. Jatinder Kumar Sood, former president, Municipal CouncilSood said since he remained the chief of the MC, he was aware about the location of needy families. He said they first prepared the list so that no family was left. The food packets comprised atta, sugar, pulses, rice etc. Sood said, “As we all know that the world is fighting against the deadly disease, every responsible person should come forward to serve the needy.”Besides, they are also helping the pensioners so that they could avail the benefit of Rs 500 being credited in their account for three months. The father-son duo is also extending all help to agriculturists.Amandeep has also took upon himself the task of sanitising vulnerable areas. They are also making people aware of the importance of social distancing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/good-samaritans-father-son-duo-adopts-300-families-73443
20-04-2020||Amritsar||Sheller owner sets up illegal grain market||A sheller owner was booked by the Beas police for violating curfew restrictions and his licence was cancelled after he was found guilty of setting up illegal grain market in his complex. The sheller was located in Sathiala village falling under Rayya market committee. The accused has been identified as Hari Shankar owner of Asha Agro Industry Sathiala.A resident had complained to market committee that Asha Agro Industry Sathiala owner Hari Shankar has set up an illegal grain market in his complex. He was weighing the wheat produce of a farmer after bringing it in his complex in illegal manner. Following this a raid was conducted by the market committee members and police officials. Finding the allegations true, the market committee members recommended for cancellation of sheller’s licence. The police had registered a case under Sections 188, 269 and 34 of the IPC against Hari Shankar for violating curfew restrictions. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sheller-owner-sets-up-illegal-grain-market-73442
20-04-2020||---||Indians stuck abroad seek help||Amritsar, April 19Indians stranded abroad due to the Covid-19 lockdown are looking at the Central Government to make arrangements for their return. They are airing their views and ordeal on social media platforms.Kiranjit Sandhu said: “I am an Indian passport holder at present staying in Adelaide (South Australia). After getting work visa of 489 days, I reached Australia on February 2 but did not get any job due to the restrictions imposed to check the spread of coronavirus and finding it hard to survive. My husband is stuck in Singapore. So I want to return to India.” Jayson Banga enquired about flight from Greece, Mandeep Singh from Frankfurt in Germany.Shivani Kaur is waiting for any flight from Gulf to India, Harry Singh is asking for flight from Dubai to India.Velly Dhaliwal is seeking flight from Malaysia to India.Surinder Dhaliwal is desperate to repatriate his two brothers stranded at Malaysia. Sushil Kumar is looking for flight from Sydney to India. People are airing their ordeal as they are stranded abroad with no support and finding it tough to procure ration and items of daily use.Shivdular Singh Dhillon, DC, said people stranded in other countries and wish to return visit official website of Indian high commissions in their countries and keep in touch with them for future communication.Officials at the high commission could only communicate their demands to the Indian government who can chalk out plans to press in special flights, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/indians-stuck-abroad-seek-help-73440
20-04-2020||Amritsar||DC: No relaxation for Ramadan||Official of Health Department attackedTarn Taran: Amarjit Singh, an official of the Health Department, was attacked in Shekhchak village, 12 km from here, on Saturday. He was sent by the department to recommend a village resident, who has recently returned after harvesting wheat in a neighbouring state, to remain in quarantine for 14 days. However, when he reached there, he was attacked by Ranjit Singh, said Amarjit. The police have booked Ranjit Singh. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dc-no-relaxation-for-ramadan-73439
20-04-2020||---||Sri Guru Ram Das institute begins rapid antibody testing||Amritsar, April 19The Sri Guru Ram Das Institute of Medical Sciences and Research, Vallah, has started rapid antibody testing with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)-recomended kits, said Dr AP Singh, dean of the institute.Dr Singh said the sensitivity of the test was 86.43 per cent, while specificity was 99.57 per cent and the test result could be obtained within 15 minutes with an accuracy of 91.61 per cent. He said the test would be used as an aid in the diagnosis of the coronavirus infection.“This test is based on the principle of capture immunoassay for determination of Covid-19 antibodies in human blood, serum and plasma. Antibodies can be detected as early as one week after the infection with slide difference between individuals and positive results indicate that the infection is with coronavirus,” he added.He said the institute had a designed special chamber for testing which could be performed with least human exposure following the concept of breaking the chain. The rapid testing kits were recently approved by the ICMR, which require minimal infrastructure and manpower. Talking about the immunity of general public, Dr Singh said, “It is not yet clear the duration of the immunity period after the Covid infection. The studies have indicated that people who survived the 2003 sudden acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) outbreak had antibodies in their blood for years after recovery. Both SARS and Covid-19 are caused by coronaviruses, but it is too early to say if Covid-19 will generate a similar immune response.”He said, “Reports also indicate that some people have been infected with the coronavirus twice, meaning these particular patients did not develop any immunity at all.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sri-guru-ram-das-institute-begins-rapid-antibody-testing-73438
20-04-2020||Neeraj Bagga||British Airways ferries back its 266 stranded nationals||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 19The British Airways on Sunday pressed in flight number BA9115C London Heathrow Airport (LHR)-Amritsar (ATQ)-LHR to ferry back its 266 nationals of Indian origin.Earlier also, British Airways operated flights between London and Amritsar on April 13, 16, 17, 18 and 19 and is likely to operate more flights to repatriate citizens in the coming days.The British, Canadian, Bhutanese and Malaysian governments operated many direct flights to repatriate their stranded nationals from Sri Guru Ramdas Jee International Airport after the imposition of lockdown in India and other countries to prevent the spread of Covid-19.Harjap Singh Aujla and Yogesh Kamra of the Fly Amritsar Initiative (FAI) said the FAI and the Amritsar Vikas Manch (AVM) have been seeking direct flights from the holy city to London and Vancouver for the past many years.They said: “Operating flights via Delhi will require employing two planes because it is a long route and an airline has to spend about Rs5lakh extra in flying to the national capital. Otherwise, only one plane is needed for direct flight. It takes nearly 7:30 hours to reach Amritsar from London and about 8:30 hours to reach London via Delhi. Besides, a direct flight will be helpful in exporting vegetables, flowers and fruits from Punjab and Himachal Pradesh to London. Thus, Amritsar airport will earn Rs10 crore annually with this rerouted flight.”They said the High Commissions of these countries were well aware of this fact. They demanded that direct flights be introduced from Amritsar to UK and Canada after the lifting of lockdown and revival of regular operations.Contact respective High Commission||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/british-airways-ferries-back-its-266-stranded-nationals-73436
20-04-2020||---||NGO hands over 50 infrared thermometers to civic body||Amritsar, April 19A local NGO handed over 50 infrared thermometers to the Municipal Corporation (MC) here on Sunday. Nearly 100 infrared thermometers were needed for post-screening testing in containment areas in the city. But in the absence of these expensive equipment, the tests were difficult to conduct. Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu had called upon various social organisations of the city to provide the equipment.Office-bearers of the Voice of Amritsar Dr Rakesh, Sinu Arora and Mandeep Singh formally handed over the thermometers to the Mayor at his office on Sunday.The Mayor said it was the time to serve the holy city and its people were well known for their service. “City’s social organisations are coming forward to help those in need. Apart from distributing ration among the needy, the Voice of Amritsar on Sunday hand over much-needed 50 infrared thermometers to the civic body. We appreciate their efforts,” he added.The Mayor said in the first phase, screening of residents was carried out by 42 teams of the MC and the Health Department in containment areas. In the coming days, 60 to 70 teams would conduct rapid testing of people living in about 800 houses in three containment areas of the city. In addition, the screening work would start soon in the walled city areas as well.He said the administration, the civic body and the Health Department were engaged in the service of the people round the clock and hopefully with their hard work, residents would soon get rid of this disease.Meanwhile, a soft drink distributer, Wave Beverage, gave around 7,500 bottles of soft drink and ration to the MC for their distribution among needy persons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ngo-hands-over-50-infrared-thermometers-to-civic-body-73435
20-04-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Agriculture Department to switch to direct seeding of paddy||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 19In view of a shortage of labourers during the upcoming paddy transplantation season, the district Agriculture Department has planned to decrease the area under rice cultivation and that too with direct seeding of paddy instead of transplanting.Of the total 2.17 lakh hectare cultivable land in the district, we plan to bring 1.44 lakh hectare under basmati with direct seeding as the preferred mode instead of transplanting. Dr Harinderjit Singh, District Chief Agriculture OfficerFarmers usually prepare a nursery of rice seedlings which are later transplanted in fields after puddling. Direct seeding techniques developed in the last decade are for use in certain rice varieties, especially basmati, where the initial growth is fast.Dr Harinderjit Singh, District Chief Agriculture Officer, said, “Of the total 2.17 lakh hectare cultivable land in the district, we plan to bring 1.44 lakh hectare under basmati with direct seeding as the preferred mode instead of transplanting.”This would not only solve the problem of labour shortage, but also help conserve water as direct seeding did not require water logging in the initial phase. “Even basmati varieties are sown late and by that time with the monsoon arrival, the dependence on ground water decreases,” he said.The department has also targeted to bring 6,000 hectare under maize, both for corn and fodder. “We plan to motivate farmers as if they went the traditional way, they would face a huge problem as most of the migrant work force which transplanted paddy is not available due to Covid pandemic this season,” said Dr Harinderjit Singh.The department has also planned to hold events at village levels to impart technical training about direct seeding techniques. “The farmers can plan well in advance and agriculture offices at block levels would provide them necessary assistance in shifting to the new crops and cropping patterns,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/agriculture-department-to-switch-to-direct-seeding-of-paddy-73434
20-04-2020||PK Jaiswar||Curfew is no deterrent for burglars in holy city||Tribune news ServiceAmritsar, April 19Despite the fact that there is a huge presence of police on roads in the holy city, thieves are conveniently doing their work and carrying out burglaries at their own will, it seems.The holy city witnessed four burglaries on Saturday. Residents, especially trading community, are at a receiving end, as country wide lockdown has already hit them badly.Suraj Chawla of Naraingarh area in Chheharta told the police that on the intervening night of April 17-18, unidentified persons decamped with gold jewellery after breaking open the almirah located in his mother’s room. He said he along with his father-in-law had gone outside on Friday for some urgent work and returned late in the evening. They saw that the almirah was open on Saturday morning. The miscreants decamped with two gold earrings, six gold rings and a gold bangle.In another incident, Deepak Kumar of Kale Ghanupur told the police that unidentified person entered his house and took away four sleeping mattresses, 10 ceiling fans, four tables, 10 irons, two home theatres and four dinner sets.Similarly, Pawan Kumar of Sharifpura area located opposite the interstate bus terminus told the police that he runs a pansari shop at DD Bhatia market. He said when he reached his shop on Saturday, he found that the shutters were broken. The thieves stole ghee and desi medicine from the shop. Meanwhile, another shopkeeper Raghav Bhardwaj of the same area said several unidentified persons took taken away goods from his confectionary shop at Hussainpura chowk.On Thursday, another trader Deepak Kumar said unidentified persons broke open the shutters of his shop at Bhagtanwala grain market and stole goods worth Rs90,000 and Rs4,200 cash from the cash counter.On Wednesday, Yashpal Mahajan, a garment store owner, complained to the police about burglary at his shop located in Katra Jaimal Singh area near Golden Temple. He said due to the lockdown, his shop was closed since March 22. He said on April 8, he got a call from nearby shopkeeper who informed him that his shop was open. He said he along with his son rushed to the shop and found that unidentified persons had stolen Rs7-8 lakh cash and important documents. CCTV footage revealed that the unscrupulous elements committed theft on late March 30 night.Many other cases of burglaries were reported with the police during the period.Jagmohan Singh, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Law and Order, said at present the priority of the police was to maintain law and order in view of Covid-19 pandemic, but the police were also investigating these cases. The accused would soon be put behind bars, he assured.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/curfew-is-no-deterrent-for-burglars-in-holy-city-73433
