22-04-2020||Tarn Taran||Poppy husk plants seized||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/poppy-husk-plants-seized-74358
22-04-2020||---||Four booked for smuggling heroin||Amritsar, April 21 The rural police have booked four alleged smugglers, active on the Indo-Pak border, in connection with the confiscation of nine packets of heroin by the BSF on the intervening night of April 14-15 from near the border village of Wara. No arrest has been made till now.Those booked have been identified as Mandeep Singh of Noorewal village, Surjit Singh, Tarsem Singh and Manga Singh of Dhupsadi village.Sub-Inspector Sukhjinder Singh, who is investigating the case, said it was informed that the four accused were allegedly involved in the smuggling of drugs and arms from across the international border and had links with Pakistan-based smugglers. He said the BSF had seized nine packets of heroin from near the barbed fence on the intervening night of April 14-15. The informer revealed that the drug consignment was smuggled on the directions of the accused.It was also informed that the accused had sneaked in another drug consignment on the same day. The gang was headed by Mandeep Singh, alias Bhundi.He said further investigation was under way and raids were on to nab the accused, who had been evading arrest. A case under Sections 21, 24, 29, 30, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act had been registered against them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/four-booked-for-smuggling-heroin-74357
22-04-2020||---||Army man booked on rape charge||Amritsar, April 21The Ajnala police have booked an Army man for allegedly sexually harassing a woman. The accused has been identified as Jasbir Singh of Dalla Rajputa village here. The victim was known to him as they used to study together.The 22-year-old victim told the police that the accused had lured her with the promise of marriage. She said the accused had been raping her for the past four years. She said whenever Jasbir Singh used to come home on leave he would call her at the residence of Sukha Fauji of Chak Dogra village as no one lived in that home.She said now he had declined to marry her on the pretext that his family members were not ready for their marriage. She said the accused was now threatening her with dire consequences in case she raised any hue and cry in this regard.The police said a case under Sections 376 and 506 of the IPC had been registered against Jasbir Singh and further investigation was under way. The medical examination of the victim would be conducted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/army-man-booked-on-rape-charge-74356
22-04-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||He ensures no one sleeps on empty stomach||Tribune News ServiceSujanpur, April 21“Good, better, best. Never let it rest. Till your good is better and your better is your best.”This seems to be the motto of SI Shohrat Maan who, in any case, looks more of a film star and less of a police officer.Maan is among 25 officials who have been selected for the coveted ‘Director General of Police Honour for Exemplary Sewa to Society’ award.The DGP has conferred upon him this honour based on “independent feedback” gathered by his office from the grassroot level.The cop, brimming with youthful exuberance, has policing in his blood. He is the son of Sulakhan Singh, DSP (Rural), Pathankot.On Day 1 of the lockdown, Shohrat was patrolling the area between Simbal chowk and Lightanwala chowk, where he saw some labourers wandering aimlessly. They were returning to their native villages in UP and Bihar from the neighbouring states of J&K and HP, had not eaten for days and looked tired and desolate.Taking permission from his seniors, Maan, a law graduate, roped in three NGOs and ensured not a single labourer would sleep on an empty stomach that day. For the next fortnight or so, the SI made certain that food was made available to them and even now, after the lockdown-2 has come into effect, he is still busy feeding them. The trickle, he confronted the first day, has now turned into a deluge and the NGOs are now busy feeding nearly 400 of them.“Pray for humanity first, then pray for yourself. My father always tells me being human is more important than being a human being. On the first day, I encountered some teething problems pertaining to the logistics of feeding nearly 400 persons. But then things slowly fell in place. I had a strong urge to help the migrants. When you aspire for a thing strongly enough in life, the elements will conspire to ensure you get it. I spoke to one NGO and by the end of the day I had three such groups working for me,” said Maan.The young man, whom senior officers claim is destined to go places, admits that it is going to be a long drawn out battle against Covid. “Disease is the greatest plague that can afflict humanity. It destroys religion, states and families. Any scourge is preferable to it. We have to fight it in unison,” he admits.After school, he got admitted in an engineering course but since mathematics was never in his scheme of things, his father pushed him in the world of law before he was selected in the police force in 2017.“Such stories are what keep the wheels of humanity moving. To me this young officer is a warrior. A warrior does not give up what he loves, he finds the love in what he does,” said SSP Deepak Hilori.Selected for coveted honour||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/he-ensures-no-one-sleeps-on-empty-stomach-74355
22-04-2020||Neha Saini||Confined to home, she misses live energy of literary events||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 21Like others, Preeti Gill, a literary agent and patron, Majha House, has not been spared by the lockdown. She said she was finding it difficult to cope with social distancing. Confined to her house mostly, Preeti spends most her time baking and curating literary events online.“I mostly try to remain positive about this entire situation that no one could comprehend. But once a day, I do think about normalcy as I miss engaging conversations and events. We have been doing a lot digital literary interactions lately, but you miss that live energy of a social event,” she said.These days, she has been engaging herself in a book or baking at her home in Delhi. She said the current crisis was a time to remind everyone of the things they took for granted.“My husband and I are at an age where being confined to home feels like a forced retirement, something that we do not want to do, but we have no choice. I try to spend time with my dog, talk to my children and my mother, who is 86 years old. We have been stuck in Delhi since the lockdown. She misses her home in Bhopal and has started writing poetry about ‘ghar wapasi’ as she misses her home,” she added.As an industry professional, Preeti said the lockdown had hit the publishing industry hard. “Most publishing houses are closed and no one is printing or releasing a book. Besides, no one is buying as these are not included in essential goods and services so no deliveries are happening. It is a tough time for us all,” she said.Trying to stay positive, she said, “Hopefully, it will all end soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/confined-to-home-she-misses-live-energy-of-literary-events-74354
22-04-2020||Amritsar||Online entries for exhibition invited||The Kausa Trust, Amritsar, is going to hold its annual edition of KT: Kala State Art Exhibition 2020. The art exhibition will have paintings, sculptures, drawings and graphics on the subject of Covid-19 pandemic.Brajesh Jolly, director, KT Kala, a gallery space that will host the exhibition, on Tuesday said the art initiative was being taken to ensure that creative activities continued despite the lockdown restrictions. “The exhibition is generally hosted in June and we are hoping that the lockdown will be lifted by then. We have invited entries from artists across Punjab through online submissions,” said Jolly. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/online-entries-for-exhibition-invited-74353
22-04-2020||Our Correspondent---||Anganwadi workers demand salary hike||Tarn Taran, April 21 On the call of Anganwadi Mulajazam Workers Union, Punjab, workers and helpers of the anganwadi centres held a protest from rooftops and balconies of their houses. They were carrying posters with different slogans in their hands.    Anoop Kaur Balehar, district president of the organisation, said the protesters were demanding timely payment of salary, insurance scheme for workers fighting Covid-19, release of last three months’   contribution, and a monthly salary of Rs 10,000.  Similar protests were held in Patti, Chabal, Bhikhiwind, Khemkaran, Khalra, Valtoha, Harike, Chohla Sahib and Khadoor Sahib.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/anganwadi-workers-demand-salary-hike-74352
22-04-2020|| ---||Norm of covering face with mask goes for a toss||Amritsar, April 21 The rule of covering the face with a mask has gone for a toss, as neither residents nor vegetable vendors are seen wearing it. Wearing a face mask in public places is mandatory and non-observance is a punishable offence. Yet, a large number of people venture out on roads in groups without wearing masks in the morning or evening.  Anil Vinayak, a resident of Ranjit Avenue, said: “Throwing norms to the winds, people are displaying a casual approach towards Covid-19 rules. The government must adopt strict approach towards violators as they can jeopardise the health of entire society.” “Is it not the laxity on the part of the law enforcing agency that even during the curfew, people dare to violate norms showing scant respect to norms such as social distancing and covering faces?” he asked.  In posh localities, people can be seen moving out along with their pets for a walk in the morning or evening.  Balram Kumar Sharma, another city resident, said: “The administration should start issuing challans on the spot. A majority of vendors selling fruit and vegetables are not covering faces with masks. They are discharging one of the most significant jobs by selling fresh farm produce at the doorstep of residents. However, they are not doing enough to protect themselves from coronavirus.”  He said violators were not understanding that changes in social norms were for their betterment. Police officials discharging duties at different nakas said violators indulge in verbal spat to justify their being out of their homes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/norm-of-covering-face-with-mask-goes-for-a-toss-74351
22-04-2020||---||Villagers come forward to prepare masks for needy||Amritsar, April 21   Several villagers in Muchhal village have come forward to prepare masks for the needy and poor. The police have roped in women, who know stitching, for the purpose. SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal said many residents had been preparing masks at present and they were planning to replicate the same in other villages. “Masks are a necessity at present and it is heartening to see people are coming forward to contribute to this cause,” he added. Jatinder Singh, a village police officer (VPO), said many volunteers in the village had come forward for the cause. He said they had provided procured cotton clothes to women involved in preparing masks. At a time when Covid is spreading its tentacles in the country, the state government has made mandatory to wearing masks. Due to shortage of masks, residents in the villages are mostly using handkerchiefs to cover their face. Jatinder said the masks were being made from cotton cloth. Residents have been urged to use extra piece of cloths lying unused for this purpose.  “Volunteers associated with the police in this fight against the coronavirus came forward and proposed to procure cloths. These masks would be distributed among poor and needy in the village,” he added. Similarly, at the gurudwara in Amritsar (Rural) Police Lines, employees of SAANJH Kendra and some devotees have started producing masks to be distributed among needy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/villagers-come-forward-to-prepare-masks-for-needy-74350
22-04-2020||Neeraj Bagga---||Construction labourers at receiving end||Tribune News Service Amritsar, April 21 Construction labourers have been suffering a lot during the lockdown as they have not getting any work and free ration.   Ram Sewak, a resident of Mohni Park, has been working as a construction labourer for the past 15 years. He has been involved in constricting homes, shopping malls and other architectural structures in the city. In all these years, his daily income has increased from Rs150 to Rs400. “I have never seen such a dry spell in my entire life. Can anyone imagine how to look after a family of four members without earning for the past one month,” he said. He is the lone breadwinner in his family, including wife and two sons. His 12-year-old son Shubham and 9-year-old son Ansh study in Class VI and Class II, respectively. He pays Rs800 as their fee in a private school. He pays Rs2,000 as house rent and power tariff. He said there was no change in their expenses, but he does not have any income. He added that he once received five-kg wheat flour, one-kg sugar and equal quantity of black gram. But thereafter, nobody visited his area for distribution of free ration. The police do not allow them to move out. Another construction labourer Naresh Kumar said he, along with two other labourers, was staying in an under construction building in the Sultanwind area. He said they were working and staying in the same building before the curfew. Since the work was stalled, they have been dependent upon people in neighbourhood and the owner of the construction site. He said they do not get enough free ration as the building is inside a street and away from the main road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/construction-labourers-at-receiving-end-74349
22-04-2020||---||Amid curfew, BSNL keeps its services open for customers||Amritsar, April 21 Amid the lockdown, Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) has kept its services opened ensuring seamless communication across the country. In the present Covid-19 pandemic scenario, BSNL, Amritsar, is committed to maintaining the optical fibre network, the mobile network, the broadband/ FTTH internet connectivity and all the leased line services of banks/ATMs and various customers, and state/Central governments’ hotlines and telecom network. Hemant Kumar Mahay, Principal General Manager, BSNL, Punjab, who joined recently, said during the lockdown period, BSNL kept the customer service centres opened from 11 am to 3 pm on the Albert Road, Ranjit Avenue, Guru Ravi Dass Marg, Katra Sher Singh, Atta Mandi and Tarn Taran while following the social distancing norm. The valued customers of BSNL can approach for any of the BSNL services, including the bill payment through cheque/cash, recharge of mobile, booking of new connections of landline/broadband/FTTH and getting new mobile SIM cards. BSNL has also provided a downloadable application “BSNL App”, which can be downloaded from playstore on the desktop/laptop or mobile to pay the bills and recharge/top up the prepaid mobile SIMs through customers’ computer or mobile. Since the start of the lockdown period, a control room has been operational from 10 am to 6 pm at the Amritsar BSNL’s office in the Ranjit Avenue area for addressing public grievances. The telephone number of the control room is 0183-2501919.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amid-curfew-bsnl-keeps-its-services-open-for-customers-74348
22-04-2020||---||Arrival of wheat begins at Bhagtanwala mandi||Amritsar, April 21 A few trolleys laden with wheat produce arrived at the Bhagtanwala grain market here on Tuesday. Officially wheat procurement had started on April 15. Wheat also arrived at the grain market in Majitha. Grain market officials said farmers should bring the fully ripened crop only. They said if the moisture content was more than the permissible limit, trolleys would not be allowed to enter the markets. District Mandi Officer Jaswinder Singh said, “Harvesting will pick up pace in a few days. We have been advising farmers to bring crop with moisture content less than 12 per cent.” He said arthiyas are also creating awareness among farmers in this regard. Amid the Covid pandemic, junior resident doctors at the Government Medical College have demanded a hike in their stipend. The junior resident doctors, who are at the forefront of the fight, have merely been getting Rs9,000 per month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/arrival-of-wheat-begins-at-bhagtanwala-mandi-74347
22-04-2020|| ---||NGO donates PPE kits to hospital||Amritsar, April 21 The Vishav Manav Ruhani Kendra donated PPE kits, surgical gloves and santitisers at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital here on Tuesday. Mayor Karamjit Singh received the kits and thanked office-bearers of the organisation.  “The state government has taken all possible steps to protect the people from the epidemic of Covid-19 virus and to provide health services, ration and other items of daily use. At the same time, economically competent people and various social organisations are also helping those in need”, the Mayor said.   On the occasion, the city Mayor said Amritsar is the land of gurus and saints and there are many great benefactors, who are delivering rations to the needy around the clock. “We hope that more social organisations will do their part to save humanity from the coronavirus in this difficult time,” the Mayor said. Mayor Karamjit Singh appealed to the residents that the Municipal Corporation and the district administration was working hard to serve the people and it was hoped that with our hard work and efforts we would soon be able to rid the city dwellers of this dreadful disease. He said all of us should follow the instructions issued by the Health Department to prevent the spread of virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ngo-donates-ppe-kits-to-hospital-74346
22-04-2020||Industry & lockdown||Government help must to alleviate business blues: Kochhar||The industry — both organised and unorganised sector — has been hit hard due to the Covid-19 outbreak, as residents have been forced to stay indoors till May 3. In an interaction with GS Paul, ASSOCHAM (Punjab) chairperson and director of one of Asia’s leading producers of paper Suneet Kochhar spells out the adverse impact of Covid-19 on the paper industry and plans to refurbish it in the near future. Here are the excerpts:How has Covid-19 hit the Indian paper industry?A loss of approximately Rs10,000 crore has been estimated during the Covid-19 pandemic-driven lockdown for the Indian paper industry that accounts for 4-5 per cent of the global paper production. The ongoing crisis will see the sale of paper plunging as demand from the packaging, education, corporate and print media sectors has come to a naught. Not only with the paper industry, it will be the same story with every industrial unit. At present, 80 per cent of the economy has come to a standstill.How do you cope with the prevailing situation?We have shut down our operations temporarily as far as newsprint is concerned. With a dip in circulation, many editions have seen a digital push and there is negligible demand for newsprint. We can only carry on with our cardboard unit, used for packaging. It is also not viable as transport freight, too, has escalated manifold.What are the hiccups in operating the units?We were told to ensure payment of wages to workers, irrespective of the fact that their services were being utilised or not. On the other hand, no thought was given to the fact that there is no income due to lack of demand and production. There is no relaxation in taxes. Rather delay for a small period is the only solace for industrialists.How about arranging labour and wages?My biggest worry is how will we arrange the April salary that amounts to several crores. The UK, Germany and the US governments have announced to shoulder the burden of workers’ salaries up to 70 per cent to give a relief to the industry. There is no such policy here. I have never seen such a crisis in my life and nobody would have anticipated this situation. It was cumbersome to arrange workers’ transportation keeping in view the social distancing norm. Generally, factories across the country were never designed to house workers on the premises.How do you see the situation post Covid-19?It is time to reset the business model as the manufacturing sector can face severe workforce crunch. In our unit, over 30 per cent of the skilled labour, that we had outsourced and engaged in technical duties such as wielding, operating boilers and machines, has left for their native places in UP and Bihar. I will hesitate to engage local operators.What, according to you, should be the governments’ role?The Centre and the state government ought to formulate a liberal policy like a one-time, one-month refund of GST to all units in April. This step will at least restore their work. Till the situation returns to normal, banks and public sector financial institutions can extend interest-free loans. Many industries in the state availed of medium-term loans. Their instalments can be deferred without penal interest. The burden of workers’ wages can be reduced by utilising the Employees’ Provident Fund (EPF) dues already in the governments’coffer.When do you expect it to get back on track?There is no possibility of recovery in this fiscal. We presume that it will only get back when a vaccine is developed. Otherwise, the Covid threat will force governments to extend the lockdown repeatedly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/government-help-must-to-alleviate-business-blues-kochhar-74345
22-04-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja ---||At Covid control room, 3,400 respond with incorrect info||Tribune News Service Amritsar, April 21 Only four of around 3,400 persons who were put on a list of people with health issues were found to be actually affected.  The list was readied on the basis of responses given by residents during automated computerised calls from a control room set up by the Municipal Corporation (MC) recently. According to information, around one lakh calls have been made in the past two days.  The callees were asked various questions, including foreign travel, and the answers were to be given in yes or no. Health Department officials found that most residents had submitted the wrong information by mistake. Nitish Singla, Joint Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, said: “Only four respondents out of one lakh were genuine. We have sent the circuit magistrate to examine them. Around 3,400 persons claimed that they had responded with wrong information by mistake. While, many must have done it by mistake, some mischievous may have done it intentionally. We urge the residents to listen to the call carefully and respond correctly.” On the basis of responses, the callees are assigned a colour out of four colours — red, yellow, green and pink.  The MC has constituted 20 teams and appointed circuit magistrates to examine the respondents with health issues. Mayor Karamjit Singh said: “Efforts are being made by the MC and they will bear fruit only if the people cooperate with us. We can effectively fight Covid-19 only if residents respond with correct information.” Around five lakh city residents would be called in the few days to zero in suspected Covid-19 cases and follow up with them, said officials of the MC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/at-covid-control-room-3-400-respond-with-incorrect-info-74344
22-04-2020||---||MBBS interns seek increase in stipend||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mbbs-interns-seek-increase-in-stipend-74343
22-04-2020||Amritsar||800 rapid tests in containment areas soon||The Health Department will now conduct 800 rapid tests in the containment areas of the city to check the spread of coronavirus. Earlier, the department and the MC had conducted the screening of 28,000 households in the containment areas. The Health Department got 800 testing kits for Covid-19 recently. More than 50,000 residents of those containment localities, where deaths were reported due to corona case, were screened with infrared thermometer last week. No suspected case was found during door-to-door screening. Now, the MC has initiated tele-screening and making calls to the residents to check health symptoms. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/800-rapid-tests-in-containment-areas-soon-74342
22-04-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill---||GMC staff leaders get show-cause notice||Tribune News Service Amritsar, April 21 At least four employees including a nursing sister, two lab technicians and a lab attendant at Government Medical College have been issued show-cause notices by the Department of Medical Education and Research for allegedly issuing statements to the media.  Notably, all four employees are leaders of the employees’ association at the college. They highlighted the issue of non-availability of PPE kits and N95 masks for the medical support staff at isolation ward and emergency block during the initial days of Covid outbreak. Sources at GMC said the department had issued show-cause notices on April 18, after which the local authorities issued instructions to the employees concerned on April 20. The employees have been asked to reply to the notice within 48 hours.  The department has also issued a show-cause notice to post-graduate student-cum-junior resident doctor of medicine department for not making efforts to get Covid-19 tests of four primary contacts of a positive case. Earlier, Medical Superintendent at the hospital Dr Raman Sharma, in a letter to principal Dr Sujata Sharma, had written about mismanagement and allegedly false media statement by a few employees. Acting on the letter, the principal had informed the Department of Medical Education and Research.  Meanwhile, employees’ association, Punjab Subordinate Services Federation, has criticised the department’s move stating that the employees, being leaders of the association, had informed the administration about the shortcoming in written as well as verbally.  Federation’s state president Satish Rana, general secretary Tirath Singh and others said the government should take back the notices.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gmc-staff-leaders-get-show-cause-notice-74341
22-04-2020||PK Jaiswar||Screening of cops begins in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 21Alarmed over the death of an Assistant Commissioner of Police, Anil Kohli, in the Ludhiana commissionerate, the Punjab Police have started the medical screening of the cops and the Amritsar police have roped in prominent private hospitals in this connection.Besides, the medical tests of those cops who are above 55 years of age would also be conducted in order to ensure their and other cops’ safety as they are fighting Covid-19 as frontline warriors.Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill said a questionnaire had been prepared in this connection, which is being circulated among the policemen. He said the cops should voluntarily come forward for their medical screening.He directed all the cops to fill the questionnaire carefully, which would be held in the proper screening of the policemen. He said if any cop was found to be having symptoms of the coronavirus, this fact should be brought to the knowledge of senior officials so that necessary steps could be taken for his and other cops’ safety.“The information gathered by the questionnaire would help in finding suspected patients among the cops and taking necessary steps so that it does not spread further,” he said, adding that ignorance or hiding facts about the symptoms would only aggravate the problem.He said a regular medical check-up of those who are above 55 years of age would be carried out and their tests conducted randomly.ACP Sushil Kumar, Nodal Officer for Covid-19, said there were around 255 cops who had attained 55 years of age and they were all being screened at a private hospital in the Green Avenue area. He said a mobile team of another prominent hospital was checking the cops deputed at the checkpoints while a medical team of another private hospital was screening the cops in the Police Lines.There were around 4,500 cops who would be screened in the process. The ACP said besides filling the questionnaire, a self-declaration was also being taken from them that they were not concealing any facts regarding their health.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/screening-of-cops-begins-in-amritsar-74340
