25-04-2020||Gurbaxpuri||Sabha pitches in to help needy in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, April 24While many manage to get essential items on their doorstep during the curfew, there are poor people who cannot buy items of daily use. In such a situation, several NGOs and organisations have come forward to make sure that the underprivileged do not face starvation.Since the lockdown (March 23), activists of the Chamunda Sewak Sabha, Tarn Taran, have been distributing essential commodities to weaker sections of society.Lalit Sharma of the sabha said at least 3,000 families had been given food kits so far. “We will continue to serve the needy till the situation is under control. Members of the sabha have been buying all items from their own money.”He said needy families from Gokalpur, Muradpur, Valmiki, Sachakhand Road, Bugha Road and other localities were being provided help. The contact numbers of all activists had been circulated in the town and surrounding areas.The sabha, actively involved in religious and social activities, has nearly 50 activists. Surinder Kumar Aggarwal, chairman of the sabha, said every year they organised bhandaras and religious congregations. The services of the sabha have also been recognised by the district administration.3,000 families given ration so far||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sabha-pitches-in-to-help-needy-in-tarn-taran-75675
25-04-2020||PK Jaiswar||Amid curfew, he is in touch with farmers & solves their problems||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 24At a time when life has come to a standstill due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Rattan Singh Randhawa, vice-president, Jamhoori Kisan Sabha, has been in touch with farmers on mobile phone and making efforts to resolve their issues.I have been in touch with farmers of around 60 to 70 villages. They contact me every day to tell their issues due to the curfew. As harvesting is going on, farmers have been facing issues in inter-state movement of combines. Farmers, who have their land across the barbed border fence, have also been facing problems in harvesting. Rattan S Randhawa, vice-prez, Jamhoori Kisan SabhaRandhawa, who is also the general secretary, Border Area Sangharsh Committee, said, "I have been in touch with farmers of around 60 to 70 villages. They contact me every day to tell their issues due to the curfew. As harvesting is going on, farmers have been facing issues in inter-state movement of combines. Farmers, who have their land across the barbed border fence, have also been facing problems in harvesting."He said where he could not directly intervene, he guided them. On a number of occasions, he personally intervened and talked to senior officials to solve the issues.For an instance, a BSF official was not allowing some farmers to go across the fence in view of the coronavirus threat even they were ready to follow social distancing norms and wear masks and gloves. The farmers' leader said he had to talk to senior officials in this case.He said farmers nowadays face power issues due to breakdown of transformers.Besides, he read these days to keep himself busy. "Due to activities of the union during the student life, I could not find times to read books, which was my primary hobby. The curfew, which is off course different from that of during terrorism times in the state, gave me times to read books. At that time, we used to carry out activities of struggle against terrorism. I have finished a book on the Jallianwala Bagh massacre by Prof Parminder. Besides, I read several foreign authors whose Punjabi translated books are available," he added. Randhawa said he was also trying to learn using social media.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amid-curfew-he-is-in-touch-with-farmers-solves-their-problems-75674
25-04-2020||Amritsar||Biz allowed, but electronics shop owners find no customers||The government has allowed electronics shops, fan and AC sellers and repair shops to resume their business in view of the summer season, but shopkeepers are finding no customers owing to strict curfew restrictions. Rakesh Kumar, an electrician in the Kot Khalsa area, said, “The government has allowed the resumption of such services, but it is of no use till the curfew is in place.  Our customers are calling us for repair work, but we can’t step out without curfew pass. To avoid any inconvenience, we have decided to wait till the curfew was lifted.”   Rajan, an AC seller, said, “ There is no point opening the shop and waiting for customers, when there is curfew. We have to send someone to install the equipment and address the complaints. Who will procure curfew passes for workers?” Meanwhile, small-time workers are repairing the devices and running their business.  Kala, an electrician on Majitha Road said, “We are getting calls from our old customers to repair their fans. We have to go outside to address the complaints.  The government should also consider it one of the essential services as no one can stay home without these in summer.”— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/biz-allowed-but-electronics-shop-owners-find-no-customers-75673
25-04-2020||PK Jaiswar||Hotels, marriage resorts volunteer to provide quarantine facility to cops||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 24Several hotels, marriage resorts and educational institutes have volunteered to provide the quarantine facility to policemen in case they develop any symptom of Covid-19. These will be known as district police quarantine centres.“Till now, we have selected 285 rooms in hotels, marriage resorts and educational institutes,” said Amritsar (Rural) SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal.The SSP said the objective of the initiative is to provide the home away from home facility so that policemen, who have been on the forefront in fight against the cornovirus, can get a homely environment during the time of the quarantine period.These rooms are attached with toilets and ideal for keeping the suspects into isolation during the quarantine period. “With this, we want to eliminate the risk of spreading the disease to their family members or acquaintances in case the reports come positive. It is only a preventive measure so that we will not have to run here and there,” the SSP added.“During quarantine, all arrangements such as providing masks, sanitisation, medication and other essential services will be made. Senior medical officers of the area will be taken into the loop for providing necessary medication to the suspected patients,” he said.The SSP said besides health workers, policemen deployed on roads and taking suspected patients from their residences to hospitals are most vulnerable to the infection. Following the death of a senior police official in Ludhiana, the Punjab Police have taken many steps for the safety of their jawans.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hotels-marriage-resorts-volunteer-to-provide-quarantine-facility-to-cops-75672
25-04-2020||---||Punjab govt procures 18,000 MT wheat from grain markets||Amritsar, April 24As many as 17,868 metric tonnes (MT) of wheat has been procured in grain markets of the district till the ninth day of procurement, out of which most of the procurement was done by the government agencies.Urban Development Minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria said due to climate change and late sowing of crop, the arrival of wheat in the mandis was still slow. He said as per the arrangements made by various departments, the farmers or labourers had not faced any problem till date. He assured that farmers and labourers would not face any problem in future too.During a visit to the grain markets of the Rajasansi constituency on Friday, he assured the farmers that government would procure every single grain of their crop. Farmers should bring their wheat on their turn and as per the coupons issued to them. He also appealed to the farmers and labourers to keep a distance and wash their hands thoroughly.On the occasion, District Food Supply Controller Lakhwinder Singh said till last evening 18,102 metric tonnes of wheat had arrived in the grain markets of the district out of which 17,868 metric tonnes had been procured by the government agencies. Of the 17,868 MT procurement, 4,754 MT was bought by Pungren, 6,077 MT by Markfed, 2,034 MT by PUNSUP, 3,207 MT by Punjab State Warehousing Corporation and Central Government Agency Food Corporation of India has procured 1,796 metric tonnes of wheat crop.Besides, Pungren has also procured 51,189 MT of wheat for public distribution in Punjab. He said the lifting of wheat was also going on and so far, about 55 per cent of the procured grain had been sent to the warehouse.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/punjab-govt-procures-18-000-mt-wheat-from-grain-markets-75671
25-04-2020||---||Four recover, discharged in Amritsar||Amritsar, April 24Apart from a fresh case being detected in Amritsar, there was some good news for holy city residents as four persons, who earlier tested positive, were discharged on Friday. They were put under observation at the isolation ward in Fortis hospital. Dr HP Singh, medical director of the hospital, said the four patients have recovered and were discharged.Three of them were relatives of Darshan Singh Raagi, who was a close contact of Padma Shri Hazoori Ragi of Golden Temple, Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa, who died of Covid.Those recovered and discharged are Darshan Singh’s wife Sukhbir Kaur, his son Palwinderpal Singh and grandson Taanbir Singh. Darshan Singh is yet to be released as his final reports were awaited. The fourth patient discharged from hospital was Gurmit Kaur, Khalsa’s aunt. Dr HP Singh said the reports of four patients who were discharged on Friday came negative twice.There are seven cases under treatment at present, of which six were admitted to the isolation ward of Government Medical College and Darshan Singh is at Fortis hospital. Inferior quality PPE kits, masks: probe ordered||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/four-recover-discharged-in-amritsar-75669
25-04-2020||Amritsar||6 held for firing, curfew violation||Wheat crop burnt in Khara villageTarn Taran: Standing wheat crop on half acre of land was burnt down in Khara village on Friday, 30 km from here, following an alleged spark in the electricity line passing over the fields. A short circuit is suspected to be the cause behind the fire. People from the surrounding areas came out to extinguish the fire. Iqbal Singh, owner of the wheat crop, said as he was readying for harvesting the crop the spark of power line burnt the crop. The Sarhali police reached the spot and initiated proceedings. OC2 mobiles seized from jail inmatesAmritsar: A day after five prisoners were held for a jailbreak bid, the Amritsar Central Jail staff on Thursday recovered two mobiles from two jail inmates, identified as Nirvail Singh of Gharinda and Lovepreet Singh of Ballarwal village in Ajnala here. According to Davinder Singh, assistant superintendent of jail, during the checking of room No.1 of barrack No.7, the jail staff confiscated a mobile with Sim and battery from Nirvail and a mobile with battery from Lovepreet. A case has been registered. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/6-held-for-firing-curfew-violation-75668
25-04-2020||Amritsar||Dentists in Amritsar working on the frontline||Twenty-five dentists have been working on the frontlines to fight Covid-19 and conducting tests at hotspots in city. Deputy Director (dental) Dr Sharanjeet Kaur said 25 doctors and paramedical staff had been deployed to conduct initial testing for Covid-19. “Our team has been actively testing in the Krishna Nagar area and other hotspots, collecting 236 samples in three hours. They are working under extreme weather conditions, even during peak daytime hours, going door-to-door or conducting tests in public parks as per instructions.” She said since the dental clinics at the hospital were closed down due to Covid, the dental doctors are performing their duty by working on the frontlines. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dentists-in-amritsar-working-on-the-frontline-75665
25-04-2020||---||Miscreants barge into house, hurt Amritsar couple before fleeing||Amritsar, April 24At a time when the curfew is imposed in the state due to the Covid-19 pandemic, two firing incidents have raised many eyebrows.Nine persons barged into a house in SBS colony on the Jhabal road and injured a couple, besides ransacking the house here on Friday.The police have registered an FIR in this regard and one of the suspects, identified as Gurjant Singh, was arrested by the police. Those booked in the case are Chiku and Ratan of Labour Colony, Shukha of Anngarh, Goltu of Bangla Basti, Sandeep of Labour Colony, Vipan, alias Bakra, and Sahil of Circular Road.The complainant, Sonia, told the police that due to the lockdown, she, along with her husband, got stuck at her brother-in-law Shekhar Singh’s house in SBS Colony. She said on Thursday, the accused knocked at the door and when her husband opened the door, the accused attacked him saying that they (Sonia and her husband) had informed the police about them. She said the accused injured her husband and fired a gunshot in the air before fleeing.The police have registered a case under Sections 323, 324, 336, 148, 149 and 188, IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59-A of the Arms Act against the suspects. The police said raids were on to nab them.Meanwhile, in another incident, several persons fired at one person in Khalsa Nagar on the Tarn Taran road here on Thursday.The complainant, Sharanjit Singh, said several persons were consuming liquor opposite his house. They were using abusive language and as he asked them not to do so, they got enraged and shot at him. He said he ran away from the spot to save his life. He said the accused also threatened him with dire consequences.A case of murder bid was registered, but no arrest has been made till now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/miscreants-barge-into-house-hurt-amritsar-couple-before-fleeing-75664
25-04-2020||---||Nuances of legal practice in online era||Amritsar, April 24The Department of Laws of Guru Nanak Dev University organised a webinar for students, faculty and members of the legal fraternity here on Friday.The theme of the webinar was ‘Nuances of Legal Practice in the Online Era’. The webinar was a detailed one-hour session about the scenario of digitisation of legal practice in the prevailing situation of the lockdown in the country.Dr. Bimaldeep Singh, associate professor, Department of Laws. was the moderator for the session. Bringing forward the importance of the digital platform for interaction among faculty members and students, his moot point was that the virtual has become reality now and this thing should be accepted and be made a part of life.The inaugural address was delivered by Rajive Bhalla, dean law, (Retd.), on the theme of the webinar. He shared his views on the changing scenario of law court rooms and its impact on lawyers and litigants.The next session of the online series is on ‘Role of Registry in Institution of Suit, Petition, Writ and Commissions Scenario for the Beginners in Online Practice’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nuances-of-legal-practice-in-online-era-75663
25-04-2020||---||145 cops donate blood in Amritsar||Amritsar, April 24The Covid-19 scare has adversly hit blood banks, which are facing a shortage of blood due to non-availability of donors in the city. The local police, along with a private organisation, organised a blood donation camp at a private hospital here on Friday.One hundred and forty-five units of blood were collected by the Global Peace and Transformation organisation. Senior police officials, including DCP (Law and order) Jagmohan Singh, DCP (Investigation) Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar, ACP (Detective) Palwinder Singh, ACP Sushil Kumar, who is also Nodal Officer appointed by the local police for Covid-19, were among the donors.The entire collection was deposited with the Guru Nanak Dev Hospital blood bank later on. Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill said the men in uniform were fighting Covid upfront and came forward to donate blood in these hours of crisis. He said the police force was prepared for any eventuality.Bhullar said they had come to know about the shortage of blood in hospitals. He said we talk with doctors about this and decided to donate blood while keeping social distancing. He said as per doctors the virus did not travel through blood to the donors to the patient.With curfew restrictions are on for past one month, the blood donors are not reaching the GNDH or other private blood banks for donating blood. Though the general demand of blood has also come down due to reduced number of road mishaps and selective surgeries but the hospitals still have to take care of those who are suffering from blood disorders, thalassemia, cancer patients, trauma patients and those women who requires blood transfusion following birth of a child.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/145-cops-donate-blood-in-amritsar-75662
25-04-2020||Amritsar||‘Wheels of Hope’ to celebrate unsung Covid heroes in Amritsar||An attempt to boost the morale of the frontline warriors and hail their selfless service during this time of crisis, a heartwarming initiative, ‘Wheels of Hope’, was launched here on Friday.Conceived by FICCI FLO, Amritsar chapter, and city-based businessman Shankar Malliram Kedia, a customised vehicle with a police band was flagged off from Red Cross Bhawan in the presence of DC Shivdular Singh Dhillon and Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill.The vehicle will make rounds of several key areas in the city, garnering applause for those involved in the frontline services. Besides, the police band will give a live performance with an aim to boost people’s morale.“It was of paramount importance to start the initiative by felicitating and acknowledging the administration and police personnel, who have been working round the clock for the implementation of the lockdown. We went around several places on Friday and celebrated the contribution of those who have been working tirelessly to keep us safe,” Aarushi Verma, chairperson, FICCI FLO, Amritsar.“Every individual, whom we met, had passion and inner desire to help the people around without worrying about themselves. Every thank you and a feeling of gratitude won’t do justice to the contribution that they are making. But that shouldn’t stop us from acknowledging, appreciating and applauding the real superheroes,” she said.The maiden tour of Wheels of Hope visited MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla and his wife Undleeb Roy Aujla, who was felicitated, along with members of NGOs, who are providing relief to needy families.Besides, the caravan also visited Cabinet Minister OP Soni’s residence and Government Medical College.“The scenario at the medical college was very touching. Every staff member is dedicated to serving the patients at the hospital. With a selfless attitude, every member was ensuring that the patients were attended to and made mentally comfortable,” said Aarushi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/wheels-of-hope-to-celebrate-unsung-covid-heroes-in-amritsar-75661
