28-04-2020||Amritsar||3 arrested for murder bid||The police have arrested three persons for a murder bid in connection with a 23-day-old incident. According to the police, the complaint was lodged on Sunday after attempts of two groups to reach a compromise failed.The suspects have been identified as Sukhbir Singh, Lakhbirpal Singh and Paramjit Singh, all residents of Pandori Waraich. Their fourth accomplice Damanpreet Singh is yet to be arrested.Complainant Satnam Singh said he was ploughing fields after taking land belonging to a shrine on a contract basis. The suspects wanted to grab the property and therefore, a dispute was going on, he alleged.The complainant added that on April 4, the suspects attacked him, leaving him injured. He said his family members got him admitted to hospital. The police have registered a case and said raids were on to nab the fourth suspect. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-arrested-for-murder-bid-77453
28-04-2020||PK Jaiswar||Fond of reading books, Vice-Chancellor of Guru Nanak Dev varsity working from home||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 27At a time when educational institutes are closed down due to Covid-19, Vice-Chancellor of Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) Dr Jaspal Singh Sandhu has been working from home.“The GNDU is one of the prominent institutions of the region. Therefore, it is important to continue to look after its day-to-day affairs. There are several issues that need attention. Therefore, I have been working from home. Recently, we have released an admission notice for academic year 2020-21,” said Dr Sandhu. He added that the university was the first educational institute to issue the admission notice for the next academic year.I love reading and I have been spending considerable time with books. During my student days, I used to have hundreds of collection of books. But the hobby was left behind due to the busy life. In the lockdown, I have been clearing my backlog of books. At present, I have been reading DIwan based on the life of Sir Salar JungDr Jaspal Singh Sandhu, Vice-Chancellor of Guru Nanak Dev University“After that, conducting examinations whenever the university starts functioning properly is the next target. On regular intervals, I hold meetings with the Register and the Dean (academic affairs) to discuss the issues of the university,” he said.Besides his academic achievements, Dr Sandhu is also known for his love for plants. He has a collection of cacti prominently Euphorbia milii plants. “This is what I like most apart from reading. I have around 30 different varieties of Euphorbia milii. Every day, I make a round of the university and enjoy the colours of nature. This does not only bring us closer to the nature but also gives us hope to move forward,” the Vice-Chancellor added."While taking a round of the sprawling green campus, I also click pictures on my mobile phone. It leaves me amazed when I see beautiful flowers. I have planted two rare varieties of passiflora also known as passion flowers or passion vine - one at my home and another outside my office on the campus. They have bloomed around two years after the plantation and these are so beautiful and eye catchy,” Dr Sandhu said.He said the curfew restrictions imposed to stop the spread of coronavirus have given them an opportunity to be with family members and live their moments.“I love reading and I have been spending considerable time with books. During my student days, I used to have hundreds of collection of books. But the hobby was left behind due to the busy life. In the lockdown, I have been clearing my backlog of books. At present, I have been reading DIwan based on the life of Sir Salar Jung I,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fond-of-reading-books-vice-chancellor-of-guru-nanak-dev-varsity-working-from-home-77452
28-04-2020||INDUSTRY & LOCKDOWN||‘Time to use unclaimed PF deposits’||IN an interaction with Neeraj Bagga, Kamal Dalmia, Director, Natraj Wooltax Ltd and Navneet Synthetic Ltd, both yarn processing units, which have been functioning from Old Focal Point since 1997, says that the yard industry too has been badly affected due to the lockdown. A popular product in fabric manufacturing, it is sold in markets of Delhi, Ludhiana, Jaipur, Varanasi, Kolkata, Bengaluru and Mumbai. Excerpts:How has the lockdown impacted the yarn industry?The lockdown has brought all activities to a grinding halt. So, our units are no different. All of us are sailing in the same boat of Covid-19. Yarn industry is a part of the textile sector. It begins from spinner, goes to yarn processing units further divided in yarn dying, doubling, twisting and spooling. Then weavers come on the scene who weave the fabric from yarn. Weaver is a big term which is further divided into circular knitting and warp knitting. Both these segments manufacture different patterns of clothes. Then appears farbic processing units and eventually garment manufacturers make shirts, trousers, women suits, kids wear and other varieties. So, the entire fabric manufacturing is a multiple handling job and no category can work in isolation. Hence, precautions for avoiding the coronavirus are very difficult to maintain.Do you expect any of your businesses to start running in near future?We are keeping our fingers crossed for the curfew to be lifted or at least restrictions eased for the industry from May 3.How are you dealing with releasing salaries?We had already paid salaries to over 250 employees for the month of March. For the month of April, we are looking at the guidelines of the Union Government. In case, the government does not come out with any financial aid, then we will certainly release some ad hoc funds to all workers and employees for the month of April.Has any of your major investments got deferred because of the lockdown?All our investment planning for betterment in the units is under the process and it will be implemented for survival. As they intend to upgrade machinery which will reduce power and water consumption.What have you learnt from lockdown as businessman?We learnt that everything is not in our hand as the entire world came to a halt due to the pandemic. So, the Almighty is great and faith in him has increased. We feel that fabric is no longer a necessity in the priority list of people. First of all, durability of existing fabric has increased and non-availability of surplus funds in the pockets of people would be another major reason. They will have expenses such as food, EMI, education, rent and conveyance on hand.Do you consider the current crisis as a challenge or an opportunity?Current crisis is a challenge, but it holds a promising opportunity in the long run for dedicated entrepreneurs.We feel that the future of India is promising as trust on China has eroded. Europeans, Japanese and G7 countries will gradually shift their industries out of China and India could be a destination to these units. Post lockdown, the government must offer incentives for setting up new industrial units.What are your expectations from the government?On the lines of lowering interest rate on the FDR, the government must curtail the rate of interest on the advances to the MSME sector. The government should expedite disinvestment process so that the fund so earned could be used for the MSME sector. It can help boost MSMEs. The government agencies like the Employees State Insurance Corporation ESIC and the Provident Fund Department have huge unclaimed and unutilised deposits with them. It is high time the government utilised these funds for the welfare of MSME workers as it was supporting the MGNREGA scheme. Pending refunds of the income tax and the GST should be immediately released. Instalments of the term loan, taken for upgrading machineries, should be deferred for at least a year. PSPCL should waive fixed expenses on power tariff of the industrial units for the lockdown period. The government must come out with a voluntary disclosure scheme and tax rate should not exceed the existing income tax slab to attract maximum disclosure.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/time-to-use-unclaimed-pf-deposits-77451
28-04-2020||Bikram Singh Majithia||‘My priority has been to arrange essential items’||I had also confined myself to the four walls of my house while complying with the medical guidelines. But I decided to jump the ‘curfew restrictions’ after I came across the video clip of a Majitha-based three-year-old girl saying that she did not have food and slept on an empty stomach as her parents could not get wages for three days.With the assistance of my village representatives, ward members and some of my friends from the civil society, my priority was to arrange essential items like flour, lentils, sugar, tea and cooking oil as the supply was totally disrupted due to mismanagement.The government needs to strategise its Covid-19 combat plan in an effective way. The cause of worry is that the death percentage rate in Punjab is among the highest in the country. Punjab has still not been able to streamline Covid treatment facilities in its hospitals and has failed to instill confidence in the health workers and frontline personnel, who do not have proper safety equipment. I arranged 500 Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits for medical personnel, arhtiyas, labourers and police personnel. Even for the basic sanitisation service, I arranged an automated sanitisation sprinkling machine on Monday only.I demand that the government should give an economic package to cover all those who lost their livelihood. Wheat growers should be given a minimum bonus of Rs 100 per quintal, potato and vegetable farmers and floriculturists should also be given direct cash benefit. Milk producers should be given a bonus of at least Rs 5 per litre.(As told to GS Paul)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/my-priority-has-been-to-arrange-essential-items-77450
28-04-2020||---||Arhtiyas want more time at Vallah mandi||Amritsar, April 27The district administration’s order to restrict the sale and purchase timings to four hours in the wholesale vegetable and fruit market at Vallah is resulting in congestion.Amrik Singh, a vegetable grower, said traders and growers were stopped at the entrance of the mandi and allowed to enter it only after 5 am, adding to congestion. It defeated the purpose of social distancing, he said.Amrik suggested that the mandi should be kept open from the midnight till afternoon. He said growers started arriving from the midnight and continued till early morning. Following this, wholesale traders entered the market.Vidhu Sharma, a commission agent, said the functioning time of the mandi should be extended to allow people enter the market while following social distancing norms. He said the police were not allowing all curfew pass holders to enter the market, as a result of which many persons failed to bid for fresh farm produce.Balbir Singh, a grower from Fatehgarh Sura village, said the arrival of a large number of people for a limited time period denied the growers a proper rate for their produce, besides defeating the very purpose of social distancing. He said ideally the administration should create conducive environment to sell the fresh farm produce as per the norms of Covid-19 pandemic to keep safe distance and cover face and hands.In reality, vegetable growers, arhtiyas (commission agents) and traders are working in congestion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/arhtiyas-want-more-time-at-vallah-mandi-77449
28-04-2020||---||Police act tough against curfew violators||Amritsar, April 27Acting tough against curfew violators, the police on Tuesday issued challans to vehicle owners.Sources said the live streaming of the prevailing curfew situation of the city, besides still photographs, were being provided to the Chief Minister’s office daily, indicating a close watch on the violation of curfew norms. For the purpose, drones were being utilised to get aerial views of a particular area.Arterial roads were also barricaded to prevent people from entering and going out of the city.Police officials not only issued challans to violators but also embarrassed them by offering cold drinks. Some of the violators were asked to say “they were enemies of society in front of the cameras”.As many as 100 jawans, six inspectors, two Additional Deputy Commissioners of Police and four Assistant Commissioners of Police (ACPs) were deployed to regulate the rush inside the mandi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-act-tough-against-curfew-violators-77448
28-04-2020||Amritsar||Pilgrims advised to stay home||School principal transferredTarn Taran: Reeta Gill, principal of the local Sri Guru Arjun Dev Government Girls Senior Secondary School, has been transferred on administrative grounds to Sahib Bhai Inder Singh Government Senior Secondary School, Shahbazpur (Boys), with immediate effect. The order to this effect was issued from the office of Secretary (Krishan Kumar), School Education, Punjab, on Sunday.The department said as complaints of financial and administrative irregularities against Reeta Gill were received, she was transferred. Ravinder Kaur, principal of the Shahbazpur school, has been transferred to the Tarn Taran school. OCTruck driver robbed of Rs11KTarn Taran: Four miscreants robbed a truck driver of Rs 11,000 near Dhotian village, 12 km from here. The victim, Amanbir Singh of Sultanwind (Amritsar), was on his way to Harike. When he got down from the truck near Dhotian village to check the air pressure in the tyres, four car-borne persons appeared on the scene with sharp-edged weapons and asked him to hand over his whole cash he had and other belongings to them. The driver ran away from the spot to save his life. The robbers got into the truck and took away the cash and other documents kept inside it. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pilgrims-advised-to-stay-home-77447
28-04-2020||---||2 women among five held for snatching cell phone||Amritsar, April 27The police on Monday arrested five persons, including two women, on the charge of snatching a cellphone. The police recovered a snatched mobile phone, a sharp-edged weapon and a car from their possession.The suspects have been identified as Jaswinder Singh, alias Jassi, of Preet Nagar Nangli Bhatha, Vijay Kumar, alias Jhony, of Batala Road area, Baljinder Singh of Preet Nagar, Parveen Kaur and her mother Manjit Kaur, both residents of Aman Avenue.Complainant Charanjit Singh told the police that he was coming towards Vijay Nagar on his bike when he received a call. He said as he was answering the call, a car came from the rear and stopped near him. Unidentified persons came out of the vehicle and pointed a sharp weapon at him. He said thereafter, they snatched his mobile phone and fled away.The complainant said he immediately informed the police and policemen from the Vijay Nagar police chowki examined CCTV cameras in the area. The car was captured in one of the CCTV cameras.Thereafter, a search operation was launched and the suspects were nabbed within hours.DCP (Investigations) Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar on questioning them, the police recovered the mobile phone from Manjit Kaur.A case under Sections 379-B (2), 34, 411, 414 and 201 of the IPC has been registered against the suspects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-women-among-five-held-for-snatching-cell-phone-77446
28-04-2020||---||Rural pharmacists postpone protest||Amritsar, April 27Rural pharmacists working under the Panchayat Department continued performing their duties after calling for boycott on Sunday. Expressing resentment over not getting regular jobs, they were protesting and demanding a pay hike as they have been working on the frontline during the Covid-19 crisis.“We have been given assurance by the government that our demands will be considered at a meeting scheduled to be held on April 30. We will wait till then and will decide our next course of action after that,” said Gurdeep Singh, district president of the Rural Health Pharmacy Officers’ Association. He said they had postponed their protest till April 30.Pharmacists working in rural areas have been assigned duties with rapid response teams. They were protesting against the government apathy towards their wages and employment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rural-pharmacists-postpone-protest-77444
28-04-2020||Neeraj Bagga---||Residents irked as holy city ‘excluded’ from Katra highway||Tribune News Service Amritsar, April 27 City residents are annoyed at the Capt Amarinder Singh’s government over the exclusion of the holy city from the proposed Delhi-Amritsar-Katra high-speed expressway.  Kulwant Singh Ankhi, a senior citizen, said the alignment of the expressway had recently been finalised by the state government. To their utter surprise, entire Amritsar district was missing from the alignment. In the Punjab portion of the expressway starting from Pathankot, it passes close to Gurdaspur and reaches Qadian, which becomes a major beneficiary. Then it reaches Bholath in Kapurthala district and further goes to Nakodar in Jalandhar district after crossing the Jalandhar-Kapurthala Road giving access to both Jalandhar and Kapurthala. From Nakodar also, there is access to Jalandhar. Then it goes to Phillaur and Ludhiana giving access to Ludhiana and Moga. From Ludhiana, it enters Malerkotla Tehsil for access to Malerkotla, it also passes through Sangrur Tehsil and Dhuri Tehsils of Sangrur District giving access to Sangrur town and Dhuri town. In Patiala district, it passes through Patran Tehsil giving a very convenient access to Patiala City.  Obviously, the biggest beneficiaries were a small town of Qadian, three tehsils of Sangrur, the home district of Cabinet minister Vijay Inder Singla and the CM’s town, residents said. Prof Mohan Singh (retd), another citizen, said: “As per the new plan, the biggest losers will be the districts of Amritsar and Tarn Taran.” He said if the PM comes to know, he would be unhappy at these changes. He wanted to link Amritsar with Delhi and Katra. “The essence of his favourite project is lost. These changes have been made without his consent,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/residents-irked-as-holy-city-excluded-from-katra-highway-77443
28-04-2020||---||Brave SI’s name adorns cops’ nameplates||Amritsar, April 27The city police on Monday replaced their nameplates with that of SI Harjit Singh, whose hand was chopped off by a group of Nihang Sikhs in Patiala on April 12.The cops also raised slogans of “Main Bhi Harjit” and “Main Bhi Punjab Police”.A nationwide campaign was started by Punjab Police DGP Dinkar Gupta terming the supreme sacrifice of Harjit Singh as a symbol of attack on frontline warriors — be it the police or health workers in the country. The DGP had also written to his fellows in the country and union territories to follow the same in order to express solidarity with all frontline warriors during the pandemic, the police officials said.Deputy Commissioner of Police, Law and Order, Jagmohan Singh said: “SI Harjit Singh has shown exemplary courage in the fight against unscrupulous elements during Punjab’s fight against coronavirus that has claimed thousands of lives across the globe.” He said the Punjab Police were standing with its every jawan making supreme sacrifices.“Our officials are feeling proud by wearing the badge of his name in place of their own nameplates,” he said.Harjit Singh’s hand was dismembered after a group of Nihangs, who came out on the road during curfew and broke a check point, when the cops stopped them. The Punjab Government has imposed curfew to break the chain of coronavirus infection by keeping residents in their homes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/brave-sis-name-adorns-cops-nameplates-77441
28-04-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||For Gurdaspur cops, UN medal winner leads the fight||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, April 27Many Distinctions To His Credit“I can do this, I thought. And even if I can’t, I have to.”This thought was uppermost in the mind of constable Hardeep Singh the moment he was asked to look after the needs of 36 PAP men who were lodged in the Dhariwal police station, a day after the lockdown came into effect.He is the winner of ‘The United Nations Medal’( 2008), when he had served as a member of the UN Peace Keeping Force in Congo.Hardeep rose to the occasion and not only provided succor to his colleagues, but at the same time he also decided to procure ration to feed scores of slum dwellers living nearby.Intelligence reports were quick to reach DGP Dinkar Gupta who, subsequently, decided to confer upon the ex-Army man the prestigious ‘DGP Honour for Exemplary Sewa to Society’.The constable dug deep into his resources to ensure his brethren take back fond memories when they return to their homes once the corona is reigned in.“Not only this, in these days of curfew when people do not move out fearing reprisals from cops, I regularly drive the ailing elderly to the civil hospital for treatment. Once I was taking a septuagenarian, suffering from a kidney ailment, when policemen at the checkpost stopped me. They told me I was ferrying my relative, which they said was nor fair, and reprimanded me. I had a hard time convincing them that the man was not at all related to me and that I was serving humanity in my own little way,” he said.Unknown to too many of his colleagues, Hardeep had served with the UN Peace Keeping Force in Congo in 2008 and that too with distinction.In 2000, while was posted as a havildar with 18th Sikh Regiment, he also shot dead two ULFA militants, one of them turned out to be an area commander known as Mintu Burman, whose name spelt terror for the locals in Nalbari district of Assam. Consequently, he was awarded the ‘Sena Medal’ by the Army Chief for “individual acts of exceptional devotion to duty.”In 2003, Hardeep underwent a rigorous month-long Commando stint in Belgaum. “This training taught me many things. One was that courage is not having the strength to go on, rather it is going on when you do not have strength,” he said.He was on cloud nine after being informed by SSP Swarandeep Singh about the DGP’s honour.While in Congo, Hardeep was given a piece of advice by his Commander that he is fond of quoting.“If you feel like losing everything, remember that trees lose their leaves every year and still they stand tall and wait for better days to come,” he recounts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/for-gurdaspur-cops-un-medal-winner-leads-the-fight-77440
28-04-2020||Neeraj Bagga---||Rendering yeoman service in the times of coronavirus||Tribune News Service Amritsar, April 27 Ever since the curfew was imposed post the coronavirus outbreak, the Maa Chintpurni Sewa Mandal is rendering yeoman service to society by providing cooked meals and ration supplies.  Its nearly 100 volunteers are not only distributing ration, but also helping aged and needy people during the lockdown.  Deepak Sharma, a volunteer, said volunteers of the 20-year-old organisation came together to pool in money to fund the drive. He said they thought of initiating the drive after their own families started facing difficulties in getting the essential items after the curfew was imposed. “So, we thought what would the condition of economically weaker sections in society be?” Amit Arora, another volunteer, said: “No amount has been fixed for volunteers in the organisation. They can contribute as much as they want to. Besides, neither any cook nor worker is hired to cook meals. Volunteers do this as per their capability. We started with a langar at various places of the city on March 25 and started distributing it daily to localities on the Majitha bypass road, Verka by-pass, Dhapai Road, Chheharta, Maal Mandi, Batala Road and Kalar village.” Sonu Sharma, a volunteer, said they cook langar for nearly 2,000 to 2,500 people every day on the Albert Road and then distribute it in the entire city. “We have distributed ration supplies to nearly 1,580 persons. A bag of ration supplies includes 5-kg wheat flour, three different kinds of cereals, all spices, 1 litre refined and mustard oil,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rendering-yeoman-service-in-the-times-of-coronavirus-77439
28-04-2020||---||5 cell phones, charger seized from jail inmates||Amritsar, April 27In yet another seizure, the Amritsar Central Jail authorities confiscated five mobile phones and a charger from five prisoners, including gangster Ankul Khatri of the Jaggu Bhagwanpuria gang and Sukhraj Singh, alias Raja, of Chak Pandori village, during a search operation on Sunday.Besides Ankul and Sukhraj, Jagmeet Singh, alias Jaggi, of Bhaggowal village in Gurdaspur, Sultan Singh of Esapur village and Shamsher Singh, alias Shera, of Bhaini Gill village have been booked.According to information, Sukhraj was arrested by the state special operation cell in July 2018 in connection with the seizure of over 14-kg heroin, while Shamsher was arrested in May 2015 in connection with the seizure of arms, narcotics and murder bid.The jail authorities had confiscated a mobile phone from Jagmeet in January this year as well.Assistant Superintendent Jail Ravail Singh said during the checking of room no. 3 of barrack no. 4, two mobile phones were recovered from Sukhraj and Sultan.He said on checking isolation ward 8, a mobile phone was seized from Ankul and during the checking of isolation barrack 4, cell phones were confiscated from Jagmeet and Shamsher.A case under Sections 420 and 120-B of the IPC and Sections 42 and 52-A of the Prison Act has been registered against them.Investigating officer Tejinder Singh said the prisoners would be brought on police remand to ascertain how they managed to get the prohibited material.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/5-cell-phones-charger-seized-from-jail-inmates-77438
28-04-2020||Gurbaxpuri||6 +ve cases reported in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, April 27Tarn Taran district, which enjoyed the green zone tag till today due to no coronavirus positive case being reported till today, reported five Covid-19 positive patients in a day here on Tuesday. The Covid-19 cases have put the district administration in a tight spot.All the patients were residents of the border village of Sursingh, 25 km from here. They had gone to Hazur Sahib (Maharashtra) to pay their obeisance. They had returned to village today in special buses sent by the state government. They fall in the 45-62 age group.SDM Rajnish Arora confirmed the positive report of the patients. They were part of the 35-group of devotees who returned in Punjab Roadways buses on Tuesday. The samples of these patients were sent to Government Medical College and Hospital in Amritsar. Their report was received in the afternoon and five of them were found Covid-19 positive. The patients had been admitted to the 100-bed isolation ward of the local Civil Hospital. The administration has sealed Sursing village.Besides, according to a report, one woman was found Covid-19 positive, who gave birth to a child in the Civil Hospital at Sursing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/6-ve-cases-reported-in-tarn-taran-77437
