30-04-2020||INDUSTRY & LOCKDOWN||‘Will turn challenges in shawl industry into opportunities’||Piara Lal Seth, managing director of Apollo Shawls, had established the unit way back in 1971. But since 1940, his family has been running a firm, Maya Ram Jiya Lal. Seth, whose firm manufactures and exports shawls, stoles and scarves, discusses the impact of the lockdown on the shawl industry in an interview with Neeraj Bagga.How has the lockdown impacted the shawl industry?The current period is vital for the distribution of samples among all local and international distributors. They give orders only after selecting the samples. In the trade cycle of the year, the industry in the summer phase obtains orders from hill states such as Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Jammu and Kashmir. Tourists flocking these states offer a good business to the shawl industry. But this time, it did not happen. Big firms such as Monte Carlo and Shoppers Stop also did not place any order this time. They saw samples, but did not place any order. So, the sale has totally been wiped out.Do you expect resumption of your business in near future?The entire shawl industry is inter-linked and no business is possible in isolation. As long as curfew remains, I do not see bright business prospects. In 2019, about 100 shuttleless looms with electronic jacquard, procured from Europe and Turkey, were installed in the border district and we had expected further expansion this year. However, it is no longer tenable.How are you dealing with issue of paying salaries to workers?We have already paid salaries to employees for March. For April, we have given them ration and salaries in instalments. At my unit, we feel that we earn due to sincere efforts of our employees and workers. So, they all are being looked after well in this time of crisis. If the government does not come out with any financial aid, we will mutually accommodate them.What is the role of online in your business?The online trade does not exceed more than five per cent in the profession. Being a designer item, dealers want to minutely look at the shawl before purchasing it.Have any of your major investments been deferred due to the lockdown?We have planned expansion in manufacturing and compliance for the export purpose in the unit this year. Now, this is not possible due to the lockdown.Do you consider the current crisis as a challenge or an opportunity?This will prove to be a challenge and we will convert it into an opportunity after two years. We are in the middle of the second month of the curfew. Country's GDP is expected to remain about 1.60 per cent this fiscal so it will be reflected detrimentally on our trade as well.What are your expectations from the government?Crude price came down drastically in the international market, but its benefits are not being passed on to micro and small industrialists. Prices of manmade fibres and yarns, monopolised by a particular company in the country, have not come down in sync with global crude prices. As a majority of the shawl industries fall in the micro and small segments, the government must waive 50 per cent of the GST for the current financial year and income tax returns on MSME units. Auditing of income tax returns for the MSME units with turnover of Rs10 crore should be exempted. The norm of no cash transaction above Rs10,000 should be raised to Rs30,000 at least. The government must introduce a special incentive scheme for the shawl industries in the border district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/will-turn-challenges-in-shawl-industry-into-opportunities-78225
30-04-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||His motto — to show positive side of policing||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, April 29Winning HeartsOver the years, the police force have, inadvertently or otherwise, developed a reputation of being rude. I want to change all this. One of the greatest victories you can gain over someone is to beat him at politeness. It actually is a sign of dignity. Politeness costs little and yields much.Jabarjit Singh, SHOGurdaspur city police station SHO Jabarjit Singh is one officer who has earned kudos not only from his seniors, but also from politicians and residents, which in itself is a compliment, because the last two are normally wary of speaking anything kind about cops.Last week, in what appeared to be a case of too many cooks spoiling the broth, as many as four NGOs could be seen distributing ration at one place instead of fanning out in the city, thus violating social distancing norms.Following an anonymous call, the SHO reached the spot within minutes. He booked at least six persons under Section 188 of the IPC (disobeying government orders).The rush at the grain markets also piqued him. He has now made a habit of reaching the mandi at 4 am and can be seen enforcing the social distancing rule, albeit politely."Over the years, the police force have, inadvertently or otherwise, developed a reputation of being rude. I want to change all this. One of the greatest victories you can gain over someone is to beat him at politeness. It actually is a sign of dignity. Politeness costs little and yields much," says the officer as he goes about the task of asking farmers to stand at least two yards away from each other.Around 9 am, his vehicle turns towards the Tibri road, where several banks are located. He asks his lathi wielding men not to be discourteous to anybody whatever the provocation may be."Things at the banks have improved ever since our Deputy Commissioner pulled up the manager of a nationalised bank. People now themselves maintain rules. However, there are others who get sadistic pleasure in flouting norms. The onus is on managers to bring a method to the madness. The thumb rule is to allow just 20 persons per hour inside the bank," he quipped.Impressed, PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar has given him an appreciation letter. So has local MLA Barindermeet Singh Pahra.The officer, at times, also enters the labyrinthine lanes to see if there any infringements. "Till yet I have imposed Section 188, IPC, on 29 persons. Whenever I make an arrest I switch off my mobile because I know I will be approached by somebody or the other," he says with a wry smile.In the evenings, Jabarjit supervises the distribution of ration to people living in slum areas near the railways station and the Kahnuwan road. "It is this stratum of society that needs to be looked after the most," he says.Indeed, if you want to test a man's true character, observe how he treats those who do not matter. Jabarjit scores a perfect 10 on this count.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/his-motto-%E2%80%94-to-show-positive-side-of-policing-78224
30-04-2020||Gurbaxpuri||Former veterinary officer gives online services||Tarn Taran, April 29“Being a veterinarian, the lockdown has not stopped me from carrying out my duties and taking care of livestock and dogs. These days, I have been providing free online services to people who have livestock and pets,” said Dr Narpinder Singh, who had retired as the senior veterinary officer from the Animal Husbandry Department 12 years ago.Before the lockdown, he used to deliver guest lecturers at awareness camps held for dairy farmers by the Dairy Development Department.He talks to people over phone to know their routine in the lockdown. Dr Narpinder said, "The lockdown has changed the lifestyle of people in many ways. Earlier, I used to treat pets, including dogs. Since the implementation of the lockdown, I have been giving consultations over phone."His day starts with a cup of tea and he listens to Hukamnama from Sri Darbar Sahib. After that, he talks to his kids and grandkids, who are in Australia, through video-conferencing."I am a great lover of nature and since the lockdown, my gardener visits for limited time. But, I spend my free time watering my lawn and looking after my plants. It helps me staying fit. I also look after vegetables and fruits in my kitchen garden. I am also good at cooking and I help my wife in the kitchen," said Dr. Narpinder."To relax my mind, I like to watch old movies and listen to old songs," he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/former-veterinary-officer-gives-online-services-78223
30-04-2020||Amritsar||26 booked for violating curfew||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/26-booked-for-violating-curfew-78220
30-04-2020||Sukhwinder Singh||‘Trying to ameliorate sufferings of have-nots’||I have donned the role of a social worker to ameliorate the sufferings of have-nots and needy in my constituency, housing over 2.5 lakh people. Each family has different nature of trouble.I helped a family of Romana Chak village to hospitalise a woman after she fractured her hip following a fall. I also reunited a family of Talwandi Dogra village with their less than 10-year-old kids, who got stranded at Malout. A kidney patient with sudden pain needed to be hospitalised at night. These are only some instances. Otherwise, my phone keeps ringing, ensuring me that I am in touch with my electorates.My mother Gurbachan Kaur contributed Rs10 lakh out of her personal savings. Likewise, my friends, well-wishers and I also contributed to the ration supply.Thanks to CM Capt Amarinder Singh for imposing the curfew before the Centre because of which the state had lesser number of positive cases than others.I made the challenging grain lifting in the harvest season a smooth sail by opening Bandala village's grain market after a gap of nearly three decades. So, farmers need not go out of the constituency. Before the grain-lifting exercise, the entire area was sanitised.Entire constituency, including 122 panchayats, was sanitised immediately after the imposition of the curfew. In my constituency, only one positive case was found in a returnee from England. All members of his joint family were screened and his entire locality was re-sanitised to ensure there was no infection.I pray to God to save humanity from the clutches of the novel coronavirus.(As told to Neeraj Bagga)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/trying-to-ameliorate-sufferings-of-have-nots-78219
30-04-2020||Neeraj Bagga||State godowns running out of FMCG products||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 29Clearing and forwarding godowns in the state, which are also called mother godowns, are fast running out of stocks of FMCG products, as no fresh supplies are being received from other states due to the curfew.Besides the holy city, there are godowns in Zirakpur, Ludhiana, Phagwara and Jalandhar. Anil Kapoor, the president of the Amritsar Distributors Association (ADA), said: “The mother godowns store FMCG products such as packaged snacks, soaps, toothpastes, ketchups, biscuits and other ready-to-eat packaged items for a month.He said with no fresh stocks coming from outside the state, the clearing and forwarding godowns were tottering on the brink of being declared dry.Kapoor said the major concern was that the companies had also ceased production. “So there is a fear that it may take some time in re-filling the stocks after the curfew,” he said.Adequate stocks of cereals, pulsesAnil Kapoor said there was no problem in stocks of cereals, pulses and lentils, despite the fact that most of them come from other states. Their rates were already 30 per cent higher than those applicable before the curfew, he said.On the other hand, wholesale dealers said the sale of cereals, pulses and lentils had come down in the market as a majority of people had stocked these products before the curfew and the low prices of vegetables had cornered the entire demand.The dealers urged the government to let shops open on alternate days. They said the police must enforce social distancing and challan violators. Manish Poddar, an entrepreneur, said even markets can be allowed to open on alternate days to streamline the traffic on roads.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/state-godowns-running-out-of-fmcg-products-78218
30-04-2020||Amritsar||GNDU teachers apprised of online learning tools||An online session on using G Suite, a set of various software and products by Google, to effectively and professionally conduct online lectures and evaluate submissions by students was organised by the School of Education of the Guru Nanak Dev University.  Around 240 teachers from the campus and affiliated colleges participated. Project coordinator Prof Amit Kauts said the programme was organised on Google platform, which is convenient for conference and online interactions. He said the purpose of the workshop, which was organised with the support of a team of Google for Education, India, was to orient teachers to use Google tools for education in both schools and universities. The session comprised demonstration of Google tools such as Google Drive, Google Classroom and Google Meet. Prof Balvinder Singh, prof-in-charge, finance, highlighted the need of e-platforms in administrative offices.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-teachers-apprised-of-online-learning-tools-78217
30-04-2020||Tarn Taran||Girl commits suicide over ‘harassment’||A 22-year-old girl allegedly committed suicide by consuming some poisonous substance on Wednesday. The city police have registered a case under Sections 306 and 34 of the IPC against Harmandeep Singh and his mother Kanwaljit Kaur, who are absconding. Sub-Inspector Maninder Singh, Investigating Officer (IO), said the deceased identified as Rajwinder Kaur and resident of Kajikot road, was a student of local Sewa Devi ITI.  The IO said the case had been registered on the complaint of Manjit Kaur, mother of the deceased. In the complaint, she said the accused Harmandeep Singh had been harassing her daughter on her way to college. The family had raised objection but the accused did not mend his ways.   Rajwinder Kaur consumed some poisonous substance last evening and was admitted to a local private hospital where she died on Wednesday.  — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/girl-commits-suicide-over-harassment-78216
30-04-2020||---||Students contribute their bit, make masks||Amritsar, April 29  Students of ITI Beri Gate made 4,000 masks and handed these over to the administration so that these could be distributed among frontline workers.  The staff and management of the ITI centre chipped in with resources including fabric for making masks.  Kirpal Singh, principal, ITI, Beri Gate, said: “It was unanimously decided by the students and staff members to participate whole-heartedly in the relief efforts. We asked students to work voluntarily. They made these masks as per the WHO guidelines and standard and these masks have been handed over to the administrative officials.” Students would make more masks as per requirement.  Meanwhile, nursing students at Khalsa College of Nursing have donated around 20,000 masks. The raw material was provided by KCGC as students volunteered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/students-contribute-their-bit-make-masks-78215
30-04-2020||---||Helplines post curfew issued||Amritsar, April 29 The district administration has issued helpline numbers for assistance of public after extension of curfew. The helpline numbers have been issued for any kind of medical and emergency-related services.  DC Shivdualr Singh said these numbers could be used to seek any help in case of health emergency. “We understand that the extended lockdown can be stressful for some people. So, we have issued a toll-free helpline number 18001804104. For any other health-related emergency, people can dial 104. The helpline will be available round the clock. To report any anti-social activity or for police support, residents can dial 112 and 108 for ambulance service.”   He said a control room has been set up to look after emergency requirements and it will operate round the clock. The contact numbers for control room are 0183-2500398, 2500498, 2500598, 2500698 and 2500798.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/helplines-post-curfew-issued-78214
30-04-2020||---||City NGO engaging people online to beat Covid blues||Amritsar, April 29 To turn the lockdown into a period of learning and opportunity, Phulkari, a non-profit organisation, is organising online multipurpose workshops with an aim to engage people in conversations and events.  With Phulkari X Covid 19 — a series of live social media interactions, focused on providing information, support and making viewers aware of the facts on current scenarios globally — Phulakri has held interactions with Mayor Kawaljeet Singh Rintu, Komal Mittal, Commissioner Municipal Corporation, who brought to light the steps being taken by the local administration to safeguard the public. Dr Santokh Singh, adviser to the Covid Coordination Committee set up by the Punjab Government, too, talked about the preparedness of Amritsar hospitals to deal with the pandemic. The online workshops not only engage people in information discourse, but also help entrepreneurs in getting their business going even during the lockdown.  “We have been providing community support by connecting it to a wellness coach, microbiologist, ayurvedic doctor, career councillor, business expert etc. We tried bringing in international perspectives, including former journalist Amitoj Singh from New York; Dr Sehajvir Madhok, treating Covid-19 patients in New York; two Italian citizens, who have shared live experiences from Milan and Naples. We want our audience to know all facts about this pandemic and deal with it as it is required and not get affected by rumours, misinformation and panic. Also, our purpose to host these interactions is to make people reach out to resources through digital medium,” said Praneet Bubber, founder-member, Phulkari.  They have also been sharing live upbeat sessions to kill the lockdown blues with mixologist Romi Purkayastha, celebrity chef Ritu Dalmia, Artroom Kolkata founder Ridhima Mundra, fitness expert Kitty Kalra and many others. The philanthropic wing of Phulkari, through ‘Help The Helpless’ campaign is working hand in hand with the government to provide relief by distributing dry rations, cooked food, sanitisation kits, PPE kits, thermal thermometers etc. wherever needed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/city-ngo-engaging-people-online-to-beat-covid-blues-78213
30-04-2020||---||Sanjoy Hazarika sheds light on ‘new normal’||Amritsar, April 29A lot of people have been probably asking about a term, new normal, during the lockdown, which has been extended again in Punjab.Sanjoy Hazarika, international director, Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative, threw light on it during an interaction with people through a digital event, ‘Ghaire Baire: The Home and the World’.The session hosted by Majha House centred around the subject of the lockdown and its impact globally. Besides, the session talked about cultivating and adapting to ‘new normal’ in the aftermath of Covid-19.Sunjoy said: “It is not important from where the coronavirus spread or who is behind it. The important thing is now that we all are geared up and are cooperating to minimise the damage done by the virus. Since the vaccine will not be available for the next few months, all we can do is to make efforts to prevent the disease. And by that we mean that the lockdown, whether complete or partial, might become the new normal for mankind.”When asked about how the pandemic had affected the common man, Sunjoy said the poor is the most affected.“Daily wagers, labourers and migrants are all going through situations we cannot even begin to imagine. It is sad that we, who are locked in our homes with access to food, phones and Internet, are complaining while no one is really concerned about the plight of the migrants. Can you imagine walking thousands of kilometers to reach your homes?” he asked angrily, questioning law and order arrangements in place across the country.“These people have to go without food and potable water for whole days. Who is looking after their rights and their welfare?,” he asked.During a conversation with Sunjoy, Preeti Gill, patron, Majha House, raised the question of the role of media during the lockdown.Sunjoy, who is a former correspondent with the New York Times, said, “The media always has a very important role to play, but it assumes a graver responsibility in times like these where people hunger for news, numbers and data. These should be shared without sensationalising the situation and politics of all sorts should be avoided.”He also talked about the innovative ‘Boat Clinic’, which is facilitating the lives and well-being of people in remote areas of the North-East. “The Boat-Clinic has been in place in North-East villages for the past few years. We are dedicated to bringing medicines and medical facilities to the people living by the river banks, who do not have access to such facilities.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sanjoy-hazarika-sheds-light-on-new-normal-78212
30-04-2020||---||25-yr-old woman infected at CHC?||Amritsar, April 29The 25-year-old woman from Lauhaka village, who tested positive for Covid-19, was probably in the wrong place at the wrong time, as five persons who returned from Hazoor Sahib were also screened at the Community Health Centre (CHC), Sursingh, on the same day of her delivery on April 25.With no history of travel, the pregnant woman from Baserke was spending her pregnancy days at her maternal village in Lauhaka, from where she was taken to Sursingh CHC for delivery. An official of the administration said: “She might have got infected at the centre, but we are not sure about it.”The officials had taken the sample of the woman before discharging her as a precaution. However, to the astonishment of the authorities, she tested positive and was later shifted to the isolation ward. The Health Department has now sent the sample of her newborn baby to the lab at Government Medical College Amritsar for testing, the report of which is awaited.Deputy Commissioner Pardeep Sabarwal said: “We have sent around 180 samples and reports are awaited.” He said no new case was reported from the district on Wednesday.After remaining in the green zone in the last three days, the district now has eight positive cases, seven of them being those who returned from Hazoor Sahib. When asked about the positive female patient, Sabarwal said: “It is not known yet as to how she acquired the infection.” He, however, confirmed that she was at Sursingh centre the day the five patients were screened. As all were asymptomatic, they were sent home initially.Returned from rajasthan, 107 passengers quarantined||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/25-yr-old-woman-infected-at-chc-78211
30-04-2020||---||Protest erupts as Amritsar dropped from e-way project||Chandigarh, April 29WAS TO PROMOTE RELIGIOUS TOURISMThe project was conceptualised to promote religious tourism by connecting two major shrines—the Golden Temple in Amritsar and Mata Vaishno Devi at Katra in Jammu & KashmirIt would have curtailed the travel time by at least 7 hoursA controversy has erupted over the proposed 575-km-long Delhi-Katra expressway as Amritsar has been dropped from the final plan of the Rs60,000 crore project approved by the state government and the NHAI .In the final plan, the expressway will be 60 km from Amritsar city. In the initial plan, this distance was 25 km and expressway was part of Amritsar district.The land acquisition process for the project was started in February in parts of Malwa and Majha.Congress MPs Gurjit Singh Aujla (Amritsar) and Jasbir Singh Gill (Khadoor Sahib) and Rajya Sabha member Shwait Malik (BJP) have said that leaving out Amritsar is a serious matter.Aujla and Malik have approached Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari to review the revised plan.Aujla said the initial plan was to connect New Delhi and Katra via Kharkhoda, Jind, Moga and Amritsar before the expressway was to merge into western peripheral Kundli-Mansar-Pawal expressway.In the three alignment options discussed by the Centre, there was no mention of Amritsar district. Only Patiala, Sangrur, Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Kapurthala and Gurdaspur were mentioned, the Amritsar MP said.Public Works Minister Vijay Inder Singla said: “The NHAI has opted for the shortest and viable route as the Delhi-Katra expressway is a greenfield project.”“The final plan provides the shortest and express connectivity to cities of Amritsar, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Sangrur and Patiala with New Delhi as well as with the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir. The alignment was finalised after a number of meetings among representatives of Union and state government, the Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, and the NHAI,” he said.Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal has claimed that a section of the Delhi-Katra expressway would pass through Amritsar district. The expressway would be split into two — one passing through Kartarpur (Jalandhar) and the other through Gurdaspur —before merging again. She said Union Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari had assured her that Amritsar was part of the project.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/protest-erupts-as-amritsar-dropped-from-e-way-project-78196
30-04-2020||Tarn Taran||Fearing spread, patient refuses to board rickety ambulance||The district administration has marked an inquiry after the video of an incident went viral wherein a doctor drove an ambulance to the residence of a suspected Covid patient and the latter raising hue and cry over the vehicle being “contaminated”.The suspected person was the primary contact of two positive patients reported from Khemkaran yesterday. The ambulance was sent by the Health Department to shift him to a quarantine centre. When the ambulance reached his home to pick him up, he refused to sit inside it and insisted that he would follow the health team in his own car.After he raised objections over the cleanliness of the vehicle, a department employee swept the ambulance with a broom. The doctor on duty had himself driven the ambulance after receiving instructions from the authorities to shift the primary contact of two positive cases to the quarantine centre. Locals said while the role of the doctor was appreciable, the failure of the government in dealing with such emergency situations was condemnable. They claimed that the ambulance was in bad shape and full of dirt which clearly indicated the government’s ill-preparedness in dealing with crisis.A health official said all ambulances in the district were rickety and had not been used for a long time. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fearing-spread-patient-refuses-to-board-rickety-ambulance-78189
